14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||India rejects China’s opposition to Venkaiah’s Arunachal trip||Amid continuing tensions between them in Ladakh, India and China on Wednesday exchanged sharp statements on Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu’s visit to Arunachal Pradesh. New Delhi said it “rejected” a Chinese statement “firmly opposing” the visit. On Wednesday, the Chinese Foreign Ministry issued a statement in response to a Chinese state media question on the visit, asking India to “stop taking actions that would complicate and expand the boundary issue”. Mr. Naidu, on a tour of the northeast, was in Arunachal over the weekend. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said it “reject[s] such comments”. “Arunachal Pradesh is an integral and inalienable part of India,” spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. “Indian leaders routinely travel to the State of Arunachal Pradesh as they do to any other State of India. Objecting to the visit of Indian leaders to a State of India does not stand to reason and understanding of Indian people.” Neither China issuing a statement on an Indian leader visiting Arunachal nor India responding to it was unusual in itself; what was new was the sharpness of the exchange, underlining the current state of ties, the lowest since 1988, with an 18 month-long LAC crisis still unresolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-rejects-chinas-opposition-to-venkaiahs-arunachal-trip/article36996847.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Punjab unhappy after Centre enhances powers of BSF||The Union Home Ministry has enhanced the powers of the Border Security Force (BSF) to “arrest, search and seize” within 50 km from the international boundary in Assam, West Bengal and Punjab. Such operational powers to the BSF, a Central Armed Police Force under the Union, will also be applicable to the newly created Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, according to a notification published in the Gazette of India on October 11.  Earlier, the BSF’s limit was fixed up to 80 km from the International Boundary in Gujarat and 15 km in Rajasthan, Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi criticised the move as an attack on federalism, and sought a rollback of the decision. The October 11 notification replaces a 2014 order under the BSF Act, 1968, which also covered the States of Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-enhances-powers-of-bsf-punjab-slams-move/article36996850.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||After dip in COVID-hit first quarter, investments recover||Investment activity rebounded sharply between July and September after a dip in the COVID-hit first quarter of the year, lifting fresh investment commitments in the first half of 2021-22 by 13.5% over pre-pandemic levels, as per Projects Today’s latest survey on fresh investments. The second quarter recorded around 15% growth in fresh investments compared to the previous quarter, with 2,669 new projects committing investments of over Rs. 3.84 lakh crore, spurred primarily by Central public sector undertakings and some private investments. Investments had declined sequentially by 18% between April and June as the second COVID wave triggered a lockdown, but the lifting of curbs enabled resumption of capex activity. While manufacturing investments saw a jump, infrastructure and irrigation investments fell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-dip-in-covid-hit-first-quarter-investments-recover/article36996851.ece
14 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Prashant Kumar Mishra sworn in as Chief Justice of High Court||Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra was sworn in as Chief Justice of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday at Tummalapalli Kalakshetram in the city. The oath of office was administered by Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan in the presence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy after the warrant of appointment by President Ram Nath Kovind was read out. Later, Mr. Harichandan and Mr. Jagan greeted the Chief Justice. Judges, Rajyasabha MP K. Ravindra Kumar, MP V. Bala Showry, Advocate General Subrahmanyam Sriram, Ministers Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Botcha Satyanarayana and officials attended the ceremony. Justice Mishra replaces outgoing Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and is the third Chief Justice of High Court of Andhra Pradesh. Earlier, he was Chief Justice of the High Court of Chhattisgarh. Later in the day, Justice Mishra, along with his family, visited the Kanakadurga temple and offered puja to the presiding deity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prashant-kumar-mishra-sworn-in-as-chief-justice-of-high-court/article36996844.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Check if hospitals fleeced patients, SC tells Govt.||The Supreme Court has decided to intervene in a plea seeking a mechanism to probe whether private hospitals fleeced desperate COVID-19 patients and their families, dragging them into financial ruin at the time of their dire need for medical care during the pandemic. A Bench, led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, admitted a petition to direct the Union Government to set up a mechanism to examine if private hospitals “overcharged” COVID-19 patients. The court issued notice to the Union of India, through the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, on a plea by Abhinav Thapar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/check-if-hospitals-fleeced-patients-sc-tells-govt/article36996848.ece
14 October 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Kanimozhi meets Patnaik, seeks support against NEET||Amid stiff opposition to the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) in Tamil Nadu, the DMK’s deputy leader in Parliament, Kanimozhi, met Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday, to seek his support to stop the Centre’s alleged interference in admissions to medical colleges set up by State governments. Ms. Kanimozhi was in Odisha as part of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s outreach to Chief Ministers of non-BJP States on the issue. She handed over the letter to Mr. Patnaik and explained to him the problems faced by students from rural areas and poor households in clearing NEET for admission to medical courses, a statement issued by the Chief Minister’s Office said. In his letter, Mr. Stalin drew Mr. Patnaik’s attention to the problems faced by students in clearing the NEET examination and also stressed on the need to make the examination inclusive, the statement said. Several candidates have ended their lives in Tamil Nadu over the years due failure to clear the nationwide entrance exam, prompting the State Assembly to pass a Bill to dispense with NEET and allow admission on the basis of Class XII marks to ensure “social justice”. While a delegation of DMK MPs met Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday, Ms. Kanimozhi was sent to meet Mr. Patnaik, who had earlier raised the issue with the Centre and stressed the importance of making national exams inclusive, including those for admission to the IITs and civil services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kanimozhi-meets-patnaik-seeks-support-against-neet/article36997023.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Implementation of gazette order on river boards put off||The implementation of a gazette notification issued by the Centre, empowering the Godavari and Krishna river management boards to resolve the water disputes between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, will have to wait, although Thursday, October 14, is the appointed day for it. The notification gives them the authority and powers in terms of administration, regulation, operation and maintenance of listed irrigation projects in the two river basins. Special Chief Secretary, Irrigation, Rajat Kumar said that the boards had submitted their action plan but it had to be studied in detail before consent could be given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/implementation-of-gazette-order-on-river-boards-put-off/article36997130.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Safe hands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/safe-hands/article36997020.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Congress demands Ajay Mishra’s dismissal||A Congress delegation, led by Rahul Gandhi, met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday and demanded the dismissal of Minister of State for Home Affairs, Ajay Mishra Teni, over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-demands-ajay-mishras-dismissal/article36997021.ece
14 October 2021||MANGALURU,||CM: NEP will empower younger generation||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that the National Education Policy (NEP) will empower the younger generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-nep-will-empower-younger-generation/article36997255.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Congress demands Ajay Mishra’s dismissal||A Congress delegation, led by Rahul Gandhi, met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday and demanded the dismissal of Minister of State for Home Affairs, Ajay Mishra Teni, over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-demands-ajay-mishras-dismissal/article36997282.ece
14 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||Rs. 3,600-cr. proposal for road repair||Minister C.C. Patil has said that a Rs. 3,600-crore proposal for repairing roads has been submitted to Finance Department for approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-3600-cr-proposal-for-road-repair/article36997111.ece
14 October 2021||MYSURU,||Public entry to Mysuru palace prohibited||The entry of public into the palace on Friday for Jamboo Savari during Vijayadashami has been prohibited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/public-entry-to-mysuru-palace-prohibited/article36997284.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Gati Shakti’ will boost infra projects: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday kicked off ‘PM Gati Shakti’, a national master plan for synchronising connectivity infrastructure projects across modes of transport, and said it will help India realise its dream of becoming the “business capital” of the world. Taking on “some political parties” for criticising infrastructure projects that he said were necessary for the country, Mr. Modi said, “The subject of infrastructure has not been a priority for most of India’s political parties.” “This is not even visible in their manifesto… despite the fact that it is globally accepted that the creation of quality infrastructure for sustainable development is a proven way, which gives rise to many economic activities and creates employment on a large scale,” he said. Referring to common instances of roads being built only to be dug up afresh for work necessitated by other utilities like water, the Prime Minister said there was a wide gap between macro planning and micro implementation due to the lack of coordination and advance information sharing as departments think and work in silos. This, he said, was leading to hampered construction and wastage of budget resources. Logistics hubs Citing the example of Dadri, where an integrated industrial township was coming up, the Prime Minister said India needed similar “plug and play” infrastructure so that investors could just come and begin working seamlessly. Like in Greater Noida’s Dadri, such an integrated township could be connected to the eastern and western dedicated freight corridor. For that, multimodal logistics hubs would be built alongside, which would have a state-of-the-art railway terminus, inter and intra-State bus terminus, mass rapid transport system and other conveniences. “By building these across different parts of the country, India could achieve the dream of becoming the world’s business capital,” he underlined. “Our goals are extraordinary and will require extraordinary efforts. In realising these goals, PM Gati Shakti will be the most helpful factor. Just as JAM [Jan Dhan, Aadhar, Mobile] trinity revolutionised the access of government facilities to the people, PM Gati Shakti will do the same for the field of Infrastructure,” Mr. Modi said.  Recalling his initial findings after taking over as the Prime Minister in 2014, Mr. Modi said he reviewed hundreds of stalled infrastructure projects and decided to put all projects on a single platform and tried to remove hurdles. Now, with a “whole of government approach”, the collective power of the government is being channelled into fulfilling the schemes by avoiding delays caused by coordination gaps. “Because of this, many unfinished projects are being completed for decades now,” he said, citing improved infrastructure outcomes in the past seven years across sectors, ranging from railway line electrification to gas pipelines, metro rail services and mega food parks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gati-shakti-will-boost-infra-projects-pm/article36996768.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Give jabs to children who need it most’||Children are extremely unlikely to develop complications, severe disease or death due to COVID-19, unlike even the youngest adult, and panic created by any bad outcomes in children can in fact be counterproductive for the entire paediatric vaccination process, according to experts. Speaking about the balancing benefits and risks of COVID-19 vaccination in children in India, Dr. Rajeev Jayadevan, vice chairman, research cell, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kerala, said age was the most significant risk factor for COVID-19 complications. The important question was whether the vaccination of healthy children was worth it just to prevent a few asymptomatic and mild infections for the first few months alone. “The short period of protection makes paediatric COVID-19 vaccination unattractive — when done for the purpose of preventing infection. The concept of ‘herd immunity’ is not valid any more for the virus, as sterilising immunity does not occur and reinfection/breakthrough infections are common,” he said. It did not make sense to vaccinate enormous numbers of children to prevent one rare complication. “We should prioritise children who need vaccines the most. These will be children with comorbidities, who are more likely to develop complications. An additional subgroup will be children who live with persons with cancer and immunosuppressed or elderly relatives — these children also may be considered for vaccination on a case by case basis,” he noted. There was a need to keep a careful watch for any vaccine-related complications that may arise in the sub-group. “Vaccines produce different complications in different age groups and we should watch this carefully,” he stressed. Doctors also emphasised that vaccinating all children would help control infection spread. Dr. Smita Srivastava, consultant, paediatrics and neonatology, QRG Super Speciality Hospital, Faridabad, said the virus affected any age group and vaccination was the only way forward. “By vaccinating children, we will be able to start schools in full strength.” Dr. Akshay Budhraja, senior consultant, pulmonology, Aakash Healthcare, said the move would be beneficial both for the child as well as those around them. “Children and adolescents are vulnerable groups and if the vaccine safety data is strong enough and we immunise them, it will have a big impact in reducing the transmission of COVID-19. This will be a major step as schools, coaching centres and sport centres are gradually opening. Since vaccination is yet to arrive for children and is at the trial stage, we need to see that we provide proper protection to them by giving them timely vaccination so that the severity of the infection significantly comes down even in case they end up contracting COVID-19.“||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/give-jabs-to-children-who-need-it-most/article36996783.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Congress delegation demands dismissal of Minister Ajay Mishra||A Congress delegation, led by former party president Rahul Gandhi, met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday and demanded the dismissal of Minister of State (MoS) for Home Affairs, Ajay Mishra Teni, over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, and called for an impartial probe by two sitting judges of the Supreme Court. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was part of the delegation, said that Mr. Kovind had “assured” them that “he would talk to the government about it today”. Though the Congress had written to the President, seeking time for a seven-member delegation, a five-member delegation eventually called on him. The delegation included former Defence Minister A. K. Antony, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and former Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, besides Mr. Gandhi and Ms. Vadra. They also presented a memorandum of facts about the Lakhimpur Kheri incident to the President. Probe sought Demanding an inquiry by two sitting Supreme Court judges, Mr. Gandhi said, “There cannot be an impartial inquiry and justice cannot be given till the time the MoS Home is sacked. This is the voice of not just the families of those killed but of all the farmers and this voice is being suppressed.” “The families want that the person who committed these murders to be punished,” he added. Ms. Vadra told reporters that the demands raised by her party reflect what “every right thinking person” would want the Central Government to do. “The message that this government seems to be sending is that you will not get justice if you are a poor person, Dalit, farmer or a woman. There is no justice or the rule of law for them. And if you are a leader of the ruling party, then the law doesn’t apply on you,” she told reporters after meeting the President. In the memorandum, the Congress said, “It is important to note that on September 27th, 2021, the day of the Bharat Bandh called by protesting farmers against the three black laws, Shri Ajay Mishra Teni, MoS Home Affairs, in a public function openly threatened the agitating farmers and even boasted about his dubious antecedents.” The Congress also noted that given that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including Uttar.Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, were making conciliatory statements towards the MoS Home, the situation would not change without intervention. Further, no police official would dare to fairly investigate the son if the father continued in his post as a Minister. “We call upon you as the custodian of our Constitution and the moral compass to this Government: to immediately dismiss Union MoS Home Affairs, Sh. Ajay Mishra Teni; to direct an independent judicial investigation by a Commission comprising of two sitting judges of the Supreme Court of India or the High Court,” the memorandum said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-delegation-demands-dismissal-of-minister-ajay-mishra/article36996745.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Start political process in J&K, says Karan Singh||Former Rajya Sabha member and Congress veteran Karan Singh said on Wednesday that the recent spike in violence in Jammu and Kashmir, resulting in the death of security personnel as well as civilians, underscores the importance of restarting the political process at the earliest. In a statement, Dr. Singh urged the Delimitation Commission to fix a timeline and not prolong the process of delimitation that involves redrawing the boundaries of constituencies. “While the L-G [Lieutenant Governor] and the U.T. [Union Territory] Administration are doing their best, this cannot be a substitute for a freely elected legislature and a full-fledged popular government,” Dr. Singh said. Free and fair elections “The delimitation process should not be unduly prolonged, and I would request the Commission to fix its own time schedule for completing the exercise. Once that is done and Statehood is restored to Jammu & Kashmir, the process of free and fair elections can begin resulting, hopefully, in a stable government within the next few months. This seems to me to be the only logical and practical way of proceeding,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/start-political-process-in-jk-karan-singh/article36996751.ece
14 October 2021||COLOMBO,||Gear up for cyberwarfare, Swamy tells Sri Lanka||Sri Lanka must gear up for cyberwarfare by augmenting its capabilities to meet the demands of 21st century national security, BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy said on Wednesday. Visiting Sri Lanka on Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa’s invitation for Navarathri celebrations at his official residence, Temple Trees, Mr. Swamy spoke at the Institute of National Security Studies – a think tank established under Sri Lanka’s Ministry of Defence. “National Security in the 21st century is not about advancing armies or aeroplanes flying above… and no country is big or small. All countries are superpowers or nothing, according to their preparation to meet cyberwarfare,” he stated, underscoring the need for countries to work out their objectives, priorities, strategy, and resource mobilisation that he termed the “four pillars” of national security. Responding to questions later, Mr. Swamy shared his perspective on the civil war, the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi by the LTTE; the current tensions between India and China and a “likely war” between the powers, and emerging geopolitical dynamics. On Indo-Lanka relations, he observed that Sri Lanka had got a “raw deal” from India since the Rajapaksa government came to power, and it was “sought to be corrected”. Earlier, Mr. Swamy called on President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and advocated a “strong, friendly relationship between Sri Lanka and India,” a statement from the President’s office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gear-up-for-cyberwarfare-swamy-tells-sri-lanka/article36996762.ece
14 October 2021||Bhopal,||Bull sterilisation plan in M.P. draws flak||Grappling with the issue of the rising number of “nikrisht sando” (unproductive bull), the Madhya Pradesh Government is planning to bring down their growing population through sterilisation. However, the BJP government’s decision has drawn backlash both from its own leaders and the Opposition. “In view of the continuing rise in the population of ‘nikrisht saand’ in the State, a sterilisation campaign beginning October 4 to October 23, 2021, will be organised,” said the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairy in its order issued on September 22. It will be done free of cost. There are an estimated 12 lakh unproductive bulls in the State, an official said  . The cattle one sees on roads, highways and sometimes raiding crops in villages are mostly male calves or cows that stop milking. Most of them are abandoned by their owners and illegal diaries after they cease to be of any economic value. Though there had been multiple government efforts, there were reports of starving bulls, cows and calves in different parts of the State. The previous Kamal Nath-led Congress government’s ‘model gaushala’ scheme came to an end with the fall of his government. The BJP government, led by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, was unable to release funds to develop model gaushalas. Bhopal MP Sadhvi Pragya Singh objected to the sterilisation campaign and is said to have spoken to Mr. Chauhan and Animal Husbandry Minister Prem Singh Patel. “This is not the first time such a decision has been taken. Even outside Madhya Pradesh, several municipalities and local bodies conduct sterilisation campaigns from time to time,” said Rajnish Agarwal, State BJP spokesperson. The Congress, too, has demanded immediate cancellation of the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bull-sterilisation-plan-in-mp-draws-flak/article36996778.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Oppn. slams Rajnath on his claim about Savarkar||Opposition leaders have reacted sharply to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s comments that Mahatma Gandhi had asked right wing leader Veer Savarkar to file a mercy plea with the British, pointing out that Gandhiji was still in South Africa in 1911 when Savarkar wrote his first application seeking clemency. At the launch of the book, Veer Savarkar: The Man Who Could Have Prevented Partition , on Tuesday, Mr. Singh said, “Generally, a prisoner has the right to file a mercy petition... It was on Gandhi’s suggestion that he filed a mercy petition..” Reacting to Mr. Singh’s remark on Wednesday, Asaduddin Owaisi, president of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, pointed out that Savarkar wrote his first petition begging for “leniency, mercy and promising to be a faithful servant of the crown” in 1911 just six months after getting to prison. Gandhiji was then in South Africa. Savarkar wrote again in 1913 and 1914 while Gandhiji wrote to him in 1920 in reply to a letter by him. Mr. Owaisi also questioned Mr. Singh’s claim that Savarkar defined Hindu as anyone for whom India was fatherland or motherland. Mr. Owaisi asked, “However, Savarkar, as a man of limited intellectual prowess, had actually defined Hindu as someone for whom India was the fatherland and holy land. In his view, India was not the holy land for Muslims and Christians and so they couldn’t be fully loyal to India. What is your view on this as Defence Minister? Do you subscribe to this theory?” Communisty Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that it is “preposterous rewriting of history”. “The fact is the RSS was never part of the freedom struggle. Often collaborated with the British,” he said. Communisty Party of India general secretary D. Raja called Mr. Singh’s claims a “factory of lies”. He tweeted, “Can the #RSS count how many mercy petitions Savarkar wrote when hundreds of communists suffered in Andaman with determination for the nation’s freedom?” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted, “Rajnath Singh-ji is amongst the few sober & dignified voices in Modi Sarkar. But he doesn’t seem to be free of RSS habit of rewriting history.” Senior Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Manoj K. Jha also came down heavily on Mr. Singh’s statements. In a tweet, he said, “Their ‘craft of history’ doesn’t follow rules of history ... No references.. No evidence .. Only ‘counter-factual imagination’.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oppn-slams-rajnath-on-his-claim-about-savarkar/article36996753.ece
14 October 2021||BOSTON,||Reports of coal crisis baseless: Nirmala||Amid reports of the ongoing coal shortage in the country, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman stressed that there is no shortage and termed these “absolutely baseless”, saying India is a power-surplus country. Ms. Sitharaman said Power Minister R.K. Singh went on record just two days ago when he said absolutely baseless information was floating around that there was probably shortage of coal, shortage of other inventories which would lead to a sudden gap in the supply-demand situation in the energy consumption. “Absolute baseless! There is no shortage of anything. In fact, if I recall the Minister’s statement, every power producing installation has the next four days’ stock absolutely available within their own premises and the supply chain has not broken at all,” Ms. Sitharaman said here at Harvard Kennedy School on October 12.  During the conversation organised by the Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and the Government, Ms. Sitharaman was asked by Harvard Professor Lawrence Summers about energy shortage and reports of reduced coal inventories in India. “There are not going to be any deficiencies which may lead to any shortfall of supply. So that takes care of India’s power situation. We are now a power-surplus country. We are also taking fairly good amount of risks to see what the basket of energy is available for India, how much is based on fossil fuel and how much comes from renewable and we are always looking at ways in which it can be shifted in favour of renewable energy. So the picture is not of short supply, but it’s also picture of newer components into the basket,” she said. In Bilaspur, Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday assured that there would be no crisis to meet the supply of coal for power generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reports-of-coal-crisis-baseless-nirmala/article36996772.ece
14 October 2021||Srinagar,||Security tightened in J&K to allay fears||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has worked out fresh elaborate security measures to address the fears of Kashmiri Pandits and non-local labourers working in the Valley, in the wake of recent killings of the members of minority communities by militants. “Strict vigil has been ensured. Security measures for migrant employees, Sikhs, Kashmiri Pandits and labourers, etc. have been tightened. Besides, Deputy Commissioners have also been paying continuous visits to the migrant colonies and accommodations in Sheikhpora [Budgam], Nutnusa [Kupwara], Tulmulla [Ganderbal], Hall [Pulwama], Matton and Vessu [Anantnag], etc.,” a Government spokesperson said after a meeting with the Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, on Tuesday. During the meeting, it was directed that “no migrant employee needs to leave the district or the Valley”. “Whosoever will be absent, shall be dealt as per the Service Rules,” the spokesperson stated. The order comes days after scores of Kashmiri Pandits and Sikh government employees sought a 10-day leave and abstained from their work due to the killings. ‘Secure zones’ However, the Divisional Commissioner impressed upon the officers “to preferably post these migrant employees in safe and secure zones instead of far-flung and vulnerable areas for the time being”. “Security forces and the police are keeping constant vigil of the security of minorities and outside labourers,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-tightened-in-jk-to-allay-fears/article36996837.ece
14 October 2021||Lakhimpur Kheri,||Ashish Mishra denied bail, two others in judicial custody||Two more persons were on Wednesday arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, while a court here denied bail to the main accused, Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister Ajay Mishra. Ankit Das and Latif alias Kale, who appeared before the Special Investigation Team (SIT), were taken into custody after questioning and produced in court, which sent them to judicial remand for 14 days, official sources said. With this, the total number of people arrested in connection with the mowing down of four farmers here on October 3 has gone up to six. While the police sought their custody for interrogation, their lawyer opposed it saying no recovery is to be done from them. Court reserves order The court reserved its order on the application for police remand of the two, they said. Senior Prosecution Officer S.P. Yadav told PTI that Mr. Ashish Mishra and his alleged accomplice Ashish Pandey moved bail applications on Wednesday but they were rejected by Chief Judicial Magistrate Chinta Ram. Mr. Ashish Mishra, who was arrested on October 9 by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) after 12 hours of questioning, was sent to three days in police custody from Tuesday. The court also remanded Shekhar Bharti, arrested on Tuesday, in police custody for three days. Police have now arrested six people in connection with the case. Mr. Ankit Das and Mr. Kale, who is said to be a close friend of Ashish Mishra, appeared before the SIT at the crime branch office in Lakhimpur earlier in the day on Wednesday. Mr. Das is the nephew of former Minister Akhilesh Das. On Tuesday, Mr. Das and Mr. Kale moved an application for surrender before the Chief Judicial Magistrate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ashish-mishra-denied-bail-two-others-in-judicial-custody/article36996749.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||14 new judges for HCs of Telangana, Kerala and Orissa||The Law Ministry on Wednesday notified the appointment of 14 new judges to the Telangana, Orissa and Kerala High Courts. Among those appointed, 12 are judicial officers (JO), one is an advocate, and one is a member of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT). The Department of Justice tweeted with the list of new appointments: “In exercise of the power conferred under the Constitution of India, Hon’ble President of India, in consultation with Hon’ble Chief Justice of India, is pleased to appoint the following Advocates and JOs as Judges of the following High Court.” While seven judges were appointed to the Telangana High Court, four were appointed to the Kerala High Court, and another three judges were appointed to the Orissa High Court. P. Madhavi Devi is an ITAT member who has been appointed as judge of the Telangana High Court. The other women judges who were appointed to the Telangana High Court include P. Sree Sudha, C. Sumalatha and G. Radha Rani. Other JOs appointed were M. Laxman, N. Tukaramji and A. Venkateshwara Reddy. In the Orissa High Court, while Mruganka Sekhar Sahoo has been appointed as a judge, two JOs, Radha Krishna Pattanaik and Shashi Kanta Mishra, have been elevated as judges. All the appointments are part of the recommendations made by the Supreme Court Collegium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/14-new-judges-for-hcs-of-telangana-kerala-and-orissa/article36996750.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Project tendering and contracts see a surge in Q2||Two critical indicators of actual capital spending — project tendering and project contracts — registered an impressive growth in Q2, rising by 52.7% and 19.33% respectively over the previous quarter, according to Projects Today’s latest survey. Fresh investments between April and September rose to nearly Rs. 7.19 lakh crore compared to Rs. 6.34 lakh crore in the pre-COVID year of 2019-20. The number of new projects fell by 11.5% in 2021-22 from the 5,503 new projects announced in 2019-20, indicating that the ticket size of the average investment has risen. “The small growth seen in fresh investment is not spread across major sectors and States,” the investment monitoring firm noted. Manufacturing investments were over three times higher than the first half of 2019-20 at about Rs. 2.79 lakh crore, while electricity was the only other sector to see an uptick in investments. Interestingly, irrigation investments, which had more than doubled year-on-year in the first half of COVID-hit 2020-21 to Rs. 40,075 crore, saw a steep fall to a mere Rs. 4,129 crore this year. This indicates a severe resource crunch in State governments. Though fresh investments by Central Government agencies recovered swiftly in Q2 after a 42.8% dip in Q1, overall fresh investments by the Government sector declined by 24.5% in the first half of this year, compared to pre-pandemic levels. On the brighter side, private fresh investment not only maintained its sequential growth seen since the second quarter of 2020-21, but also surpassed the pre-pandemic levels in the first half of this year by 48.9%. “As against 1,955 new projects worth Rs. 3,27,411.28 crore announced in H1/FY20, the first half of FY22 saw announcement of 2,012 new projects worth Rs. 4,87,633.95 crore,” the survey noted. Shashikant Hegde, director and CEO of Projects Today, told The Hindu that private sector investments are likely to keep growing, albeit at a slower rate. Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana, Karnataka and Odisha, the top five States for fresh investments between April and September, accounted for around half of the total fresh investments announced. Gujarat was far ahead of the pack with Rs. 1.32 lakh crore of fresh investments, followed by Maharashtra at Rs. 1.03 lakh crore and Telangana at a distant third with Rs. 55,670 crore of outlays. The growth in the first half of this year compared to 2019-20 was, however, mainly because of increased fresh investment attracted by States like Telangana, Odisha, Haryana, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-dip-in-first-quarter-investments-recover/article36996759.ece
14 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Duplicates from Nepal add to India’s Darjeeling tea worries||After years of countering cheaper teas imported from Kenya and Sri Lanka, the beverage industry in India has a new worry — duplicate Darjeeling teas brought in from Nepal. The Tea Association of India (TAI) has raised the red flag on Nepal-origin teas reportedly sold in the domestic market as the premium Darjeeling teas, thereby “diluting the brand image of Darjeeling tea and adversely impacting prices”. A concerted effort by the Tea Board along with the Customs, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) was needed to check the damage to the Darjeeling brand, the TAI stated in a paper on ‘Sustainability of Tea Industry in India’. The paper said a revised treaty on trade signed in 2009 allowed the free and unhampered flow of goods between India and Nepal. But that should not be the reason for overlooking certain regulations, members of the association said. Teas that were not FSSAI compliant should not be allowed in and there should be no relaxation in the testing parameters for the safety and health of Indian consumers, the paper noted. “The current trade between India and Nepal allows mandatory sanitary and phytosanitary certificates before products are allowed in the country. This should be strictly enforced and a notification may accordingly be issued,” the paper stressed. Duty-free import The TAI pointed out that allowing duty-free import of poor quality teas, primarily from Kenya and Sri Lanka, had been undermining the ‘self-reliant India’ and ‘vocal for local’ vision of the Narendra Modi-led Government. If that were not damaging enough for the domestic tea producers, Tea Board data records show that 23.43 million kg of the 60.35 million kg of teas imported in the last three years have been re-exported. “This underlines the fact that the remaining 36.92 million kg of imported teas have been sold in India in violation of the Food Safety Standard [Packaging & Labelling] Regulations, 2011,” the paper observed, seeking mandatory submission of all import and reexport details to the Tea Board. It also proposed a “robust rule of origin”, mandatory production of all sanitary and phytosanitary certification for all imports and mandatory checking of each consignment of imported teas according to FSSAI regulations. The TAI has sounded the Centre on the “depleted rupee balance” impacting payment for the Indian teas imported by Iran. “The Central Bank of Iran has for the past few months stopped releasing any INR [Indian rupee] payment for tea imports from the Vostro Rupee-Rial trading account as the rupee balance stands depleted. The situation is adversely affecting Indian tea exports to Iran,” the paper read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/duplicates-from-nepal-add-to-indias-darjeeling-tea-worries/article36996765.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘100 new Sainik Schools will admit students from 2022-23’||The 100 new Sainik Schools to be set up under public-private partnership will function in an exclusive vertical, distinct from the existing schools under the Defence Ministry, and admissions are targeted for the academic year 2022-23, according to a senior Ministry official. “Beginning from the academic year 2022-23, approximately 5,000 students are expected to receive admission in Class 6 in 100 such affiliated schools,” the official said. In the first phase, 100 schools are proposed to be drawn from the States, NGOs and private partners. On Tuesday, the Cabinet had approved the proposal for launching 100 schools to be affiliated with the Sainik Schools Society. The existing 33 Sainik Schools had an admission capacity of approximately 3,000 students in Class 6. In terms of support from the Ministry, the society would provide affiliation to private and government schools that qualify a certain objective criteria related to academics and infrastructure. The scheme envisages to provide an annual fee support of 50% subject to an upper limit of Rs. 40,000 per annum, for 50% of the class strength, subject to an upper limit of 50 students per year from Class 6 to Class 12, on a merit-cum-means basis. “Thus, initially the maximum expenditure on account of fee rebate will amount to Rs. 20 lakhs per class per school per year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/100-new-sainik-schools-will-admit-students-from-2022-23/article36996787.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||TOEFL in pen and paper format from Dec. 11||The Test of English as a Foreign Language, better known as TOEFL, will be available as a pen and paper test starting December 11. Registrations were now open in India, the Educational Testing Service (ETS), the test’s owner, announced on Wednesday. TOEFL is a standardised test that assesses a candidate’s speaking, listening, reading and writing skills, and is mostly used by universities to judge the English proficiency of applicants from non-English speaking countries. When TOEFL was introduced 57 years ago, it was initially a paper-based test, which was subsequently phased out in favour of computer-based and then Internet-based test formats that could be taken only at authorised test centres. After the pandemic broke out last year, the ETS also started offering an Internet-based test that could be taken using home computers, with online proctors. The latest version would have three components available in pen and paper format at the test centres. The speaking module must still be taken on a home computer with an online proctor within the next three days. ‘More comfortable’ “Adding this option to the portfolio caters to test takers’ unique testing preferences, especially given that many prefer, and are most comfortable with, a paper-based testing option,” said an ETS statement. The tests would be offered twice a month, initially in 18 cities across India. Candidates could apply up to two days before the test day. The price tag to take the paper-based test would be the same as that for the other two options, at $190 or approximately Rs. 14,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/toefl-in-pen-and-paper-format-from-dec-11/article36996790.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘1,183 oxygen plants commissioned so far’||The pending 41 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants, sanctioned under PM CARES, will be commissioned by the end of October, a senior government official said on Wednesday. Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra, who was tasked with overseeing the commissioning of 1,224 plants under PM CARES in May, said 1,183 plants located in government hospitals across the country had already been commissioned. All 736 districts of the country, from Ladakh to Andaman and Nicobar Islands, had been covered, he said. Using a “whole of government approach”, the process of installing and commissioning the plants had been completed in 108 days. The total cost of the plants was around Rs. 1,200 crore, he said. Mr. Mishra said 7,000 persons had been trained to operate and maintain the infrastructure. The preparation of the sites was carried out by the NBCC, the Central Public Works Department, the National Highways Authority of India and State Governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1183-oxygen-plants-commissioned-so-far/article36996786.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Iran discuss ways to fight drug trafficking from Afghanistan||Illegal production of drugs in Afghanistan has impacted Iran severely for several decades, the Embassy of Iran said on Wednesday. The statement came after Indian and Iranian officials held a virtual meeting on Wednesday following the largest seizure of heroin at the Mundra port in Gujarat on September 15. “[We] discussed and examined ways and means of mutual cooperation in fighting drug trafficking which accordingly resulted in some positive outcomes. It is for many decades that narcotic drugs production and organised drug trafficking from Afghanistan has posed a major threat to Iran, our region and to the world,” said the Embassy of Iran after the meeting. The discussion is important because of the seizure of around 3,000 kg heroin in the Mundra port managed by the Adani Ports, on September 15. The operation led to the largest drug haul in the history of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) . Initial reports had indicated that the containers carrying the substance originated from the Iranian port of Bandar Abbas. The National Investigation Agency has been probing the incident over the last several days. The drug haul also impacted Iran’s trade as the Adani Group declared that containers from Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan will not be handled at the port from November 15. “As an immediate neighbour to Afghanistan, Iran has also been significantly impacted by other developments in that country,” said the Embassy without elaborating. ‘Adversely affected’ Analysts and commentators, however, have pointed out that a large amount of narcotic substances that were with various narcotic producing groups in Afghanistan were made to disappear from the country as the Taliban took control of Kabul on August 15. It is yet to be investigated if the discovered drugs in the Mundra port were part of such a consignment that was sent out by active Afghan syndicates to prevent the Taliban from gaining access to them. The Embassy said Iran has been adversely affected by the U.S. presence in Afghanistan, which also coincided with a spike in production of drugs in the war-torn country.  The Embassy said, “Occupation of Afghanistan by foreign forces, infighting between various groups and severe poverty have all contributed to considerable rise of narcotic drugs production.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-iran-discuss-ways-to-fight-drug-trafficking-from-afghanistan/article36996764.ece
14 October 2021||Boston,||Sitharaman condemns Lakhimpur violence||The Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which four farmers were killed, is “absolutely condemnable”, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said, emphasising that there are issues of such nature happening in other parts of India equally which should be raised “when they happen and not when it suits others”. Ms. Sitharaman, who is on an official visit to the U.S., was responding to a question during a conversation at Harvard Kennedy School on October 12 about the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and the arrest of Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra. She was asked why there was no word on this from the Prime Minister, senior Ministers and why there was a “defensive reaction” when somebody asked questions about such things. “No, absolutely not... It’s nice of you to have picked up that one incident which is absolutely condemnable, every one of us say that. Equally there are instances happening elsewhere... India has issues of such nature happening in very many different parts of the country equally. I would like you, and many others, including Dr. Amartya Sen, who all know India, to raise it every time when it happens, not just raise it when it suits,” she said. “Due course of justice will also have a complete inquiry process to establish it,” she said. “And it’s not being defensive about my party or my Prime Minister. It’s being defensive about India. I will talk for India, I will talk for justice for the poor. I will not be mocked at. And if it is mocking, I will be defensive to stand up and say ‘Sorry, let’s talk on facts’. That’s my answer for you,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sitharaman-condemns-lakhimpur-violence/article36996755.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre enhances powers of BSF; Punjab unhappy||Though the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir that was bifurcated into two Union Territories in August 2019 was not mentioned in the 2014 order, references to it exists in a previous such amendment in 1973. The October 11 order specifically mentions the two Union Territories. The violations for which the BSF carries out search and seizure include smuggling of narcotics, other prohibited items, illegal entry of foreigners and offences punishable under any other Central Act among others. A BSF official said the amendment “establishes uniformity in defining the area within which the BSF can operate” as per its charter of duties, adding that this would enable improved operational effectiveness in curbing trans-border crimes. After a suspect has been detained or a consignment seized within the specified area, the BSF can only conduct “preliminary questioning” and has to hand over the suspect to the local police within 24 hours. The BSF does not have the powers to prosecute crime suspects. Channi slams move Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the move was an attack on federalism. “I strongly condemn the GoI’s [Government of India’s] unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately rollback this irrational decision,” he tweeted. In 2012, Narendra Modi as Gujarat’s Chief Minister had written to the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh opposing the Centre’s proposed move of amending the BSF Act, 1968, to give wide powers to the Central armed police force to arrest and search anybody in any part of the country.  Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa termed the decision “illogical.” “Policing in the hinterland is not the role of a border guarding force, rather it would weaken the capacity of the Border Security Force in discharging its primary duty of guarding the international border,” he said. The Shiromani Akali Dal also termed the Union’s move “the imposition of the President’s rule through the back door in nearly half of Punjab. This virtually turns the State into a de facto Union Territory. This devious attempt to place the State directly under the Central rule must and will be opposed,” said senior Akali leader Daljit Singh Cheema.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-enhances-powers-of-bsf-punjab-upset/article36996756.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||China’s oppn. to V-P’s Arunachal trip rejected||“As we have mentioned earlier,” Mr. Bagchi said, “the current situation along the LAC in the Western Sector of the India-China border areas has been caused by unilateral attempts of Chinese side to alter the status quo in violation of the bilateral agreements. Therefore, we expect the Chinese side to work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols rather than trying to link unrelated issues.” China’s statement came days after the latest round of military talks ended in a stalemate. The question to the foreign office on Mr. Naidu’s visit was posed by a state media outlet, in this case Xinjiang Television, suggesting the authorities wanted to make a statement on the issue. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said in response,“The Chinese government never recognises the so-called Arunachal Pradesh established unilaterally and illegally by the Indian side, and is firmly opposed to the Indian leaders’ visits to the area concerned. We urge the Indian side to earnestly respect China’s major concerns, stop taking any action that would complicate and expand the boundary issue, and refrain from undermining mutual trust and bilateral relations. It should instead take real concrete actions to maintain peace and stability in the China-India border areas and help bring the bilateral relations back on to the track of sound and steady development.” Border claims China claims up to 90,000 sq km in Arunachal in the eastern sector, while India sees China as illegally occupying 38,000 sq km in Aksai Chin in the western sector. Amid the latest reports of a face-off in Arunachal, the 13th round of talks on the still unresolved Ladakh crisis held between Corps Commanders on Sunday ended in an impasse. The Army, in a statement on Monday, said the Indian side made “constructive suggestions” for resolving the “remaining areas” while the Chinese military in a statement said India had made “unreasonable and unrealistic demands.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinas-oppn-to-v-ps-arunachal-trip-rejected/article36996757.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||CWC meet will discuss poll preparedness: Baghel||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) will be discussing the party’s preparedness for the forthcoming Assembly elections, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Wednesday. “There will be discussions on byelections, forthcoming Assembly polls and organisational matters,” Mr. Baghel, who has been appointed an All India Congress Committee observer for the Uttar Pradesh election, told reporters in Raipur. However, a section of Congress leaders wondered if the CWC would discuss the reports on the party’s dismal performance in the recently concluded Assembly elections in Kerala, Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Though a committee, headed by former Maharashtra Chief Minister Ashok Chavan, had submitted its reports in June, they have neither been discussed in any party fora nor made public. “Are these reports also going to go the A.K. Antony report way. So far, we have been great at brushing everything under the carpet, ” said a senior party member, referring to the report authored by A.K. Antony, who probed the reasons for the Congress’s 2014 Lok Sabha debacle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cwc-meet-will-discuss-poll-preparedness-baghel/article36996766.ece
14 October 2021||Srinagar,||Militant killed in Pulwama||A militant was killed in an encounter between security forces and hiding militants on Wednesday at Tilwani Mohalla Waggad in Tral area, Pulwama, the sixth such gunfight in the past two days. The police identified him as Sham Sofi, a “commander” of the Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM). Amid this development, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested four persons for their alleged links with The Resistance Front (TRF), which has claimed responsibility for the recent attacks in the Valley. Eight militants were gunned down and five security personnel lost their lives in operations in the Valley this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/militant-killed-in-pulwama/article36996838.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Check if hospitals fleeced COVID-19 patients: SC||“The issue which has been raised in the petition concerns a wide strata of society consisting of patients and their relatives who have been overcharged during the COVID-19 pandemic and the issue which has been raised would merit serious attention,” the Supreme Court underscored in its order. It pointed out that the complaints made included those by the families of COVID-19 patients who died. “We will set up some mechanism,” the Bench, also comprising, Justice B.V. Nagarathna orally observed. The petition was filed in public interest, the court noted. “Specific aspect canvassed in the petition is that during the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, patients had to take recourse to seeking medical facilities in private hospitals as a result of the inadequacy of the public health infrastructure and there were widespread complaints of overcharging of hapless patients,” it stated. The order said, “Families, including of those who did not survive the pandemic, have been brought to economic ruin, as a result.” The Bench highlighted Mr. Thapar’s reference to how local bodies like the Pune Municipal Corporation have already issued notice to private hospitals for overcharging patients and ensured refund of excess amounts charged. “A writ of mandamus is sought to the Centre and the State Governments to set up a mechanism for scrutinising and auditing the bills of COVID-19 patients who have complaints of being overcharged... Issue notice to the Union of India for the present, returnable in four weeks,” the court ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/check-if-hospitals-fleeced-covid-19-patients-sc/article36996758.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||No ‘sara’ in samsara||Samsara, or worldly existence, is replete with the most strange, unbelievable and even unacceptable events, is the critical observation of Janamejaya when he seeks clarification from Vyasa for many of his doubts in the Devi Bhagavata Purana. He is frank and extremely critical in voicing his misgivings about dharma and the way it has been upheld by even those who are honoured as righteous, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. He points out that his own ancestors Yudhishtira, Bheema and Arjuna have faulted from dharma on many instances. He feels that the Rajasuya yaga was done with the main intent to kill Sisupala and not with any noble aim. But actually this is not so in the context. The Pandavas had to build Indraprasta with great effort and of course with Krishna’s assistance. They had to conduct the Rajasuya yaga to establish their suzerainty. In the course of the ‘Agra puja,’ when Sisupala insults Him, Krishna, after giving a long rope, finally uses His Chakrayudha and Sisupala merges with Him. Likewise, he sees the many instances of adharma in the Mahabharata war that have clearly the Lord’s sanction. Even Bhishma, Drona, Kripa and Karna sacrifice their values when targeting the young and valiant Abhimanyu or Gatothkacha in the battlefield. They are only bent on winning. The dharmatma Yudhishtira known for his righteousness gives up his principles to bring about the fall of Drona. Jarasandha is killed by unjust means. Are not they wise enough to know that samsara has no real worth or ‘sara’ in this brief and ephemeral existence? Why did they not get the feeling that it is not worthwhile to compromise on dharma and win the battle? He is distressed by the dilution of moral values that has left dharma that is symbolically represented as a bull standing on just one leg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-sara-in-samsara/article36996773.ece
14 October 2021||Cuddalore,||NLCIL to ramp up coal production||State-owned NLC India Ltd. (NLCIL) on Tuesday said it will ramp up coal production to 10 million tonnes per annum from its coal blocks in Talabira, Odisha, from the current year to meet the rise in demand. The Talabira II and III blocks were allotted to NLCIL by the Union Government on May 2, 2016, under the Coal Mines Special Provision Act, 2015, for optimum utilisation of collieries for end-user plants, such as the Neyveli Talabira Thermal Power Plant (NTTPP) and the NTPL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nlcil-to-ramp-up-coal-production/article36996760.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sticky edible oil prices lead to duty cuts||In a bid to curb the persistently high inflation in edible oils, the government has decided to exempt crude palm, soya-bean and sunflower seed oils from customs duty, and slash the Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC) levied on their imports from October 14 till March 31, 2022. The customs duty on edible grade palm, sunflower and soya-bean oils is being virtually halved as well, from 32.5% to 17.5% for the same period, with no cess levied on their imports. A fresh intervention from the government was triggered by the high retail inflation in edible oils and fats of 34.2% for September, even as headline inflation cooled off to 4.2% and consumer food price inflation fell to just 0.68%. “The decision would help in reducing price burden on ultimate consumers amid the surging edible oil prices,” said Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY. Imports of crude palm, soya-bean and sunflower seed oils attract a basic customs duty of 2.5% and an AIDC of 20%. The customs duty has been dropped to zero till the end of March next year, while the cess has been reduced to 5% for crude soya-bean and sunflower seed oil. In the case of crude palm oil, the AIDC cess has been pegged at 7.5% instead of the original 20%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sticky-edible-oil-prices-lead-to-duty-cuts/article36996770.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Probe into Pak. national’s role in earlier blasts||A day after the arrest of a Pakistan national by the Delhi Police Special Cell for allegedly planning a terror attack in the city, senior police officers said the accused, Muhammad Ashraf, may have played a role in the 2011 Delhi High Court bomb blast case, in which 17 persons were killed and more than 80 injured. According to a highly placed source, the accused had “conducted a recce” of the High Court premises after contacting one of the suspects in the case, who gave him instructions to conduct recces at other spots with high footfalls in the city. “We showed him several pictures of the prime suspects in the High Court blast and he identified Gulam Sarvar, one of the prime suspects in the case,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-into-pak-nationals-role-in-earlier-blasts/article36996779.ece
14 October 2021||Mumbai,||Colleges in Maharashtra to reopen from October 20||All the colleges and universities in Maharashtra can conduct physical classes from October 20 and students must be fully vaccinated in order to attend, State Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant said on Wednesday. He made the announcement while speaking to reporters here. “All the non-agricultural colleges, State-run universities, deemed universities, self-financed universities and colleges affiliated to them can start holding physical classes from October 20. The teaching and non-teaching staff should complete their vaccination,” Mr. Samant said. “Only those who have taken both the doses can attend the classes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/colleges-in-maharashtra-to-reopen-from-october-20/article36997027.ece
14 October 2021||Jalandhar,||Punjab polls: Kejriwal promises to end 'inspector raj', red-tapism; redress industry's grievances||AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday promised end of “inspector raj” and “red-tapism plaguing the trade and industrial sector” if his party is voted to power in the Punjab polls. He stated this while addressing traders of Jalandhar after hearing their grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-polls-kejriwal-promises-to-end-inspector-raj-red-tapism-redress-industrys-grievances/article36997048.ece
14 October 2021||Aizawl,||Mizo minister rewards parents with most children, wants a baby boom in state||In a bid to encourage a “baby boom”, Mizoram Sports Minister Robert Romawia Royte distributed Rs. 2.5 lakh and mementoes to 17 parents boasting of having the highest number of children in his constituency of Aizawl East-II. Mr. Royte gave away the ‘first prize’ Rs. 1 lakh and a citation to Ngurauvi, a widow from Tuithiang locality, who bore 15 children, including seven sons.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mizo-minister-rewards-parents-with-most-children-wants-a-baby-boom-in-state/article36997026.ece
14 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Political push for bifurcating Meghalaya||The demand for bifurcating Meghalaya on ethnic lines has received a political push ahead of the bypolls to three Assembly constituencies. The Hill State People’s Democratic Party and the Garo Hills State Movement Committee on October 12 formed a panel for the demarcation of the boundaries of the two States that Meghalaya is envisaged to be divided into. One of the States would be for the Garos and the other for the Khasi-Jaintia communities. The HSPDP is a constituent of the National People’s Party-led alliance government in Meghalaya. The BJP, too, is a partner in this government. HSPDP president K.P. Pangniang said, “We want to clearly define and demarcate the boundaries of the separate states intended to be created for the Khasi-Jaintia and Garo people so that we do not face a problem similar to that of Assam.” The HSPDP and the GHSMC (a conglomerate of seven Garo organisations including a regional political party named Garo National Council) in July decided on a joint push for the bifurcation of the State. To release booklets “We will release booklets in local languages to justify our demand for the creation of a separate State for the Khasi-Jaintias,” Mr. Pangniang said. The GHSMC, in December 2018, revived the demand for a separate Garoland after several extremist groups had taken up arms for a similar objective. Former extremist leaders are part of this renewed movement. The Garo Hills region, comprising five of 11 districts and 24 of 60 Assembly seats in Meghalaya, is spread across 10,102 sq. km. According to the 2011 census, this region had 13.94 lakh people, compared to the 22.44 lakh spread across the Khasi-Jaintia Hills region covering 15,546 sq. km. In March 2014, the Assembly rejected a resolution for the creation of Garoland in the western region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/political-push-for-bifurcating-meghalaya/article36996788.ece
14 October 2021||Mumbai,||Centre misusing agencies like CBI, ED for political gains: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday launched an attack on the Union Government alleging that the Central agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation, Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax department and the Narcotics Control Bureau were being misused for political gains. Asked about the Income Tax raids on establishments of those related to Maharashtra’s Deputy Chief Ajit Pawar, the NCP chief told reporters, “In my 56 years of political career, I have never seen an Income Tax raid going on for six days. They were about to leave after a day and a half when the officials received a call asking them to stay inside. A total of 18 officials are raiding a house of two people in Kolhapur for six days. Let them do it. This is not the time to answer anyone. We will answer when the right time comes.” Taking the NCB head on, Mr. Pawar said the Mumbai police’s anti-narcotics cell had seized a larger quantity of drugs than the NCB. “Former Police Commissioner of Mumbai Param Bir Singh made allegations against Anil Deshmukh, who instantly decided to resign. But now this Singh is facing several allegations himself and he is nowhere to be found. Deshmukh’s house was raided for the fifth time. This must be a record of raiding a single house,” Mr. Pawar remarked. With regard to the recent violence in Lakhimpur-Kheri, Mr. Pawar said the Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra must resign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-misusing-agencies-like-cbi-ed-for-political-gains-pawar/article36996747.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Proposed policy may cut Alwar, Panipat from NCR||Alwar in Rajasthan, Panipat in Haryana and parts of Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh could be removed from the National Capital Region (NCR) based on a policy approved by the NCR Planning Board (NCRPB) on Tuesday, a senior Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry official said on Wednesday. At a meeting chaired by Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri, the NCRPB on Tuesday decided that the NCR delineation would be carried out based on the principle of 100 km radius from Rajghat in Delhi plus 1 km in each direction along major transport corridors like National Highways, expressways, State Highways and Regional Rapid Transit Systems. According to sources, Haryana, which was represented by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, had called for an even smaller radius. However, there was consensus on the 100 km principle. The official said there had been a view within the NCRPB that the NCR, which was created to ensure harmonious development in the region, had become “unwieldy”. The reduction in its size would lead to regulated transit-oriented development along the highways, the official said. The new boundaries would require a gazette notification and would be mentioned in the Regional Plan-2041 that was being drafted currently, the official said. The draft Regional Plan-2041 would be published by November. The draft, which was approved by the board on Tuesday, would be open to public comments for 30 days. The final plan would be notified by March 2022, the Ministry said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/proposed-policy-may-cut-alwar-panipat-from-ncr/article36996784.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||AI sale to Tatas against public interest: unions||A joint platform of 10 Central trade unions on Wednesday came out against the sale of Air India to the Tatas, saying the government’s move was akin to gifting the national carrier to the company. In a statement, the unions said the government sold Air India for an amount that was too low compared to “what has gone into building it up for decades”. The deal would mean that the government would absorb Rs. 46,262 crore of the Rs. 67,000 crore debt of Air India, but “the assets created by such debt will be handed over to the Tatas in lieu of only Rs. 18,000 crore”. The sale would be against public interest, they stated.  “This is a gift back to the Tatas on 75th year of Independence after its takeover by the government in 1948, followed by its nationalisation in 1953. Several lakh crore was infused from the national exchequer to expand its asset base, huge fleet of aircraft and properties, both in the country and abroad,” they noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ai-sale-to-tatas-against-public-interest-unions/article36996748.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI books ex-NPCC official and others on graft charge||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked a former National Projects Constructions Corporation (NPCC) Limited official and others for allegedly leaking information regarding price bids of other participants to help a company get a work contract related to Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Jalpaiguri, West Bengal. The official was identified as Raman Prakash Gupta, who was a deputy general manager in the NPCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-ex-npcc-official-and-others-on-graft-charge/article36996836.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||﻿Manmohan Singh admitted to AIIMS||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in New Delhi on Wednesday at 6.15 p.m. He had been admitted to the cardio neuro section of the institute. Sources in the Congress said Dr. Singh had a fever and had complained of weakness. He was being administered vital fluids and was stable, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manmohan-singh-admitted-to-aiims/article36996781.ece
14 October 2021||Mumbai,||Aryan Khan has role in illicit procurement, consumption of contraband: NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday opposed the bail application of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, stating that he had a role in the illicit procurement and consumption of contraband, and there was sufficient knowledge that he was in touch with certain persons abroad who appeared to be part of an international drug network for illicit procurement of drugs. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, for NCB, said before the special Narcotics Drugs Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court, “This is a responsible agency in the country. Drug trafficking is a very serious concern in society. Day in and day out, youngsters consume drugs at rave parties. It is affecting the nation.” Referring to WhatsApp chats, he stated that there was a specific reference to bulk quantity and that couldn’t be for one’s own consumption. Mr. Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant (also lodged at Arthur Road Jail) have known each other since 8-10 years and the contraband of 6 grams was found with Merchant. It was for their consumption and Mr. Khan knew of the possession. Therefore, as per the law, this would amount to conscious possession. The nature of the drugs for bulk quantity were all hard drugs. So far, 20 people have been arrested and four are drug peddlers. He contended that this amounted to conspiracy under Section 29 (punishment for abetment and criminal conspiracy) of the NDPS Act. Mr. Singh will continue his arguments on October 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aryan-khan-has-role-in-illicit-procurement-consumption-of-contraband-ncb/article36996791.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. asks assessees to pay property tax before Friday||The Greater Chennai Corporation has asked property tax assessees to pay the tax before Friday to receive a maximum incentive of Rs. 5,000. At least six lakh out of the 12 lakh assessees in the city are yet to pay taxes for the October 2021-March 2022 half-year period. Starting Saturday, assessees will not get the incentive for property tax payment for the second half of 2021-2022. The Corporation has asked assessees in the 15 zones to pay the tax before October 15 to get the 5% incentive. Late payment penalty Those who fail to pay the tax on time will have to pay 2% of the amount as penalty. The penalty is calculated as simple interest per annum of the total amount of property tax to be paid by the assessee. Owing to the launch of incentive scheme for property tax, the Corporation has reported an increase in the number of assessees. “Earlier, the property tax collection was around Rs. 2 crore every day. The average collection has touched Rs. 7 crore a day. Collection has increased by more than 200% because of the incentive. During the period between October 1 and 13, the Corporation Revenue Department has collected a property tax of Rs. 91 crore,” an official said. During the first 10 days of October, the Corporation had announced a total incentive of Rs. 5.94 crore for 1.37 lakh assessees, who paid the property tax in the 15 zones. A total of 4.01 lakh residents have paid the tax in advance for the second half-year before September 30. More than 50% of assessees in the 15 zones are yet to pay the tax for the second half year of 2021-2022. Over 1.9 lakh receipts of property tax assessees have been generated between October 1 and 13. Teynampet zone registered the highest amount of property tax collection during the period while Kodambakkam zone registered the highest number of receipts. The number of receipts and tax collection was the least in Manali zone. During the first 15 days of October 2020, as many as 94,900 assessees received the incentive. Officials said the property tax payment was poor because of the pandemic. This year, the civic body launched an awareness campaign about property tax payment among residents’ welfare associations. Meetings were organised with traders’ welfare associations as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-asks-assessees-to-pay-property-tax-before-friday/article36996904.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK sweeps the rural local bodies polls; counting still on||The DMK’s victory march in the rural local bodies polls in the nine newly created districts continued on Wednesday, with its candidates winning in most places, pushing the principal opposition party, AIADMK, to a distant second. The results were in contrast to the outcome of the local bodies polls held in the remaining districts (other than Chennai) in December 2019. Back then, though the DMK outperformed the AIADMK, the latter, which was in power, had put up a good show. As of 8.30 p.m. on Wednesday, DMK candidates secured 109 of the 153 district panchayat ward member seats and 876 of the 1,421 panchayat union ward member seats, as per figures available with the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission. The AIADMK trailed, bagging just one and 191 seats, respectively. As for elections to posts contested without party affiliations and symbols, the results of 2,692 of the 3,007 village panchayat president posts and 17,444 of the 23,211 village panchayat ward member seats were announced. Counting started on Tuesday morning at 74 centres. Over 31,200 officials were involved in the counting of votes and around 6,200 officials and police personnel were involved in security arrangements at the centres. The two-phase ordinary elections to fill up posts in Chengalpattu, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Ranipet, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Tirupattur, Vellore and Villupuram recorded a polling percentage of 77.9. A total of 79,433 candidates were in the fray for 23,998 posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-sweeps-the-rural-local-bodies-polls-counting-still-on/article36996932.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,280 persons test positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||On a day when 1,280 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, only Chennai and Coimbatore recorded 100-plus fresh cases and 23 districts reported no COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday. Some districts, including Chennai and Coimbatore, registered a small rise in fresh cases. There were 173 cases in Chennai and 145 in Coimbatore. In Chengalpattu, 98 persons tested positive and in Erode 82 cases were reported. There were 78 cases in Tiruppur and 63 cases in Tiruvallur. Namakkal recorded 62 cases. Salem and Thanjavur reported 58 and 55 cases respectively. Krishnagiri recorded 18 cases and Dharmapuri 27 cases. Seven districts reported fewer than 10 cases each: Ariyalur (6), Dindigul (7), Perambalur (2), Sivagangai (9), Tenkasi (2), Theni (5) and Virudhunagar (6). The fresh cases pushed the State’s overall tally to 26,82,137. The State recorded 19 deaths, taking the toll to 35,833. There were three deaths in Coimbatore while Dharmapuri and Thoothukudi recorded two deaths each. Chennai, Salem, Erode, Tiruppur and Namakkal recorded one death each. A 37-year-old man who was admitted to a private hospital in Salem on October 10 with complaints of cough and difficulty in breathing for five days and died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Another 1,453 persons, including 176 persons in Chennai, 143 persons in Coimbatore, 78 persons in Erode, 58 persons in Salem and 59 persons in Namakkal were discharged. This took the total recoveries so far to 26,30,654. The State’s active caseload dropped to 15,650. This included 1,835 persons in Chennai, 1,593 persons in Coimbatore, 1,141 persons in Chengalpattu, 930 persons in Erode, 815 persons in Tiruppur, 575 persons in Salem, 599 persons in Namakkal, 347 persons in Krishnagiri and 364 persons in Dharmapuri. As many as 1,38,772 samples were tested in the State. This took the total number of samples tested so far to 4,88,80,069.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1280-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tn/article36996948.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Process to trifurcate police commissionerate takes off||The Greater Chennai City Police Commissionerate is all set for trifurcation for “better administration and effective policing” of the ever-expanding and burgeoning metropolis with a population of over one crore. The process to demarcate the jurisdiction and allocation of personnel has begun. Additional Director Generals of Police and special officers M. Ravi and Sandeep Rai Rathore, who were posted for the formation of the new Tambaram and Avadi Commissionerates, held two rounds of consultation meetings with City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal. Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu has instructed the special officers to send a detailed proposal on the jurisdiction of police stations, bifurcation requests, if necessary, and the strength of personnel required for the Armed Reserve and other special units. While welcoming the move to trifurcate the commissionerate, many former police officers have pointed out that this administrative decision should ensure a robust crime control mechanism across the vast city equitably and effectively, as its limits continue to expand with emerging suburban localities. Retired DGP S.R. Jangid said the total population under the Greater Chennai City Police now was around 1.25 crore. “It is impossible for a single Police Commissioner to monitor policing in this entire area. The police receive 2,000 complaints on a day, and nearly 50% of the complainants may not be satisfied. For the sake of proper administration of both the public and the police personnel, the burden needs to be split,” he said. He added that people from far-off areas, such as Thirunindravur, Pattabiram, Peerkankaranai and Perungalathur, have to come to Egmore if they wanted to meet the Police Commissioner. Similarly, personnel will have to go to the Commissioner’s office for their service-related matters. Police administration should be accessible to the public easily and quickly, Mr. Jangid said. The types of problems in core urban areas are different from suburban and semi-urban localities. Retired DGP and former Chennai Police Commissioner R. Nataraj said there was already a set of guidelines for setting up a commissionerate. He said the Chennai City Police Commissioner should have the jurisdiction of the airport so that the city police can continue getting intelligence inputs. Similar commissionerates were created in other States. “It should have adequate manpower. Police stations located at the edge can be taken off, but core areas should be retained. You cannot make the Chennai Commissionerate a mere skeleton,” Mr. Nataraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/process-to-trifurcate-police-commissionerate-takes-off/article36996901.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for running online betting network||The Cyber Crime wing of the Central Crime Branch on Wednesday arrested a 25-year-old engineering graduate for running an online betting network and cheating several people of their money. After a long surveillance, a special team of police, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cyber Crime, nabbed the accused, who was identified as Harikrishnan of Kilpauk. He has been working at a star hotel in Mamallapuram. A few days ago, the police registered a case following a complaint from Vignesh of Choolaimedu who lost Rs. 87 lakh in placing bets with the network run by Harikrishnan. He alleged Harikrishnan was running online betting portals in the names of ‘Casino’ and ‘Live sports’. Many were addicted to online betting run by him. The accused cheated them after receiving the money. All betting was done on cricket and football matches held in India and abroad. He had an endless number of customers and received money from them online. He used to give money to the winners after deducting his commission. Of late, he either failed to pay the winners or showed them as losers in betting and made money by fraudulent method, according to the police. He was also a cricket bookie and cheated more than 35 persons, the investigation revealed. Police seized 193 grams of gold jewellery, Rs. 24.68 lakh in cash, 6 kg of silver articles, 10 mobile phones, other electronic gadgets and a high-end car. Harikrishnan was remanded in judicial custody after being produced in a court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-running-online-betting-network/article36996953.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Understanding needs of the consumer is the key to growth’||The third edition of Medianews4u’s ‘Straight Talk’, which was held on Monday in the city, had sessions with perspectives from brand owners and custodians focussing on the theme ‘Predicting Consumer Pulse and Pivoting for Growth: Lessons from the Pandemic.’ In his talk, A.D. Padmasingh Isaac, founder and chairman of Aachi Group of Companies, spoke about how research had revealed that consumers did not want ready-to-cook products but ones that would make cooking and life easier for them during the pandemic. Following this, he said they launched 30 products to suit their needs. “Understanding the pulse of the consumers has played a key role in the growth of our ventures,” said T.K. Chandiran, managing director, The Chennai Silks and Sri Kumaran Thanga Maligai. “The pandemic gave us all a good lesson to treat mother nature well. It is very important to be socially conscious as a company,” he said. T. Sivaram, managing director, Classic Polo, said, “While online sales contributed to 8% of revenue, it is a slice of the pie that is steadily growing. We are all set to increase our business through online modes.” Physical retail Speaking about a silver lining for physical retail sales in some categories, Vijay Vasanth, managing director, Vasanth & Co., said the offline business continued to dominate the revenue share. “Even manufacturers are in support of offline businesses as quality products with better warranty periods are sold in stores. The pandemic has brought up sales for many traditional retailers as sales of products, such as washing machines and dishwashers, have seen an increase,” he said.  While online sales contributed to 8% of revenue, it is a slice of the pie that is steadily growing T. Sivaram Managing director, Classic Polo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/understanding-needs-of-the-consumer-is-the-key-to-growth/article36996913.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy staff tries to end life after alleged abuse at work||A conservancy worker, who attempted to end her life three days ago following alleged harassment at work place, is recuperating at the Government Royapettah Hospital here. The woman, aged around 30, was engaged by the company Urbaser Sumeet for conservancy work in Perungudi zone. According to her husband, who is also a conservancy worker in the same zone, the woman was subjected to harassment by her male supervisor. She was subjected to verbal abuse and sexual innuendos, he said. He alleged that the harassment continued despite her complaining to the company’s administration a week ago. He said the representatives of the company visited her at the hospital only on Wednesday, after a section of co-workers raised the issue at the workplace. A representative of the company acknowledged that the woman reported the issue around a week ago before the suicide attempt. “She made the allegations and also threatened to commit suicide. We counselled her and sent her back while assuring a thorough inquiry. An inquiry was immediately initiated,” the representative said, adding that the supervisor was transferred to another division after the woman employee’s suicide attempt. The representative said a committee was investigating the issue, and appropriate action would be taken as per its findings. Two co-workers of the affected woman, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the supervisor should be terminated or at least suspended till the inquiry was over.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-staff-tries-to-end-life-after-alleged-abuse-at-work/article36996912.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||77 pharmacies across the State face action for over-the-counter sale of drugs||The Drugs Control Department has cracked down on over-the-counter sale of prescription drugs in the State. A total of 77 pharmacies across the State now face action for selling “habit-forming” drugs without prescription from a registered medical practitioner. Following specific information and through a special drive, the State’s Drugs Control Department found several cases of over-the-counter sale of prescription drugs in August and October. “We formed special teams across the State and conducted surprise inspections. We have initiated action on 77 retail outlets for sale of ‘habit-forming’ drugs without prescriptions from registered medical practitioners,” said K. Sivabalan, Director of Drugs Control Department. Drugs specified under Schedule H, Schedule H1 and Schedule X of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules should be sold only on the prescription of a registered medical practitioner. “We have booked these pharmacies under Section 65 (9) (a) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 and Section 27 (d) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940. This has provisions for both imposing fine and imprisonment for the offences. We have initiated action against these outlets,” he said. Officials found that prescription drugs such as tramadol, tapentadol, nitrazepam, zolpidem, alprazolam were sold without valid prescription. Mr. Sivabalan said such checks were conducted every month. “Every year, at least 400 cases are booked against pharmacies for various violations. Of these, nearly 200 cases are for sale of drugs without prescription,” he said. Some drugs were prescribed for patients with cardiac illnesses and psychiatric patients. “We cannot ask pharmacies not to stock up these drugs as there should be no situation in which these drugs are in short supply as they are required by patients. We will continue to keep a close watch on over-the-counter sale of such drugs,” an official said.  Drugs Control Department conducts surprise inspections at retail outlets||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/77-pharmacies-across-the-state-face-action-for-over-the-counter-sale-of-drugs/article36996944.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK accuses DMK of winning through the back door||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday accused the DMK of having carried out “unprecedented violence and atrocities” during the rural local bodies elections and said the party had “reduced the State Election Commission (SEC) into its puppet” to register success in the polls. In a statement, the two leaders gave an account of how their party had protested, from the beginning, against the way the elections were being held. When their party was in power, polls to the Assembly, the Lok Sabha and the rural local bodies were all held in one phase, but in respect of the nine districts, polling was sought to be held in two phases, against which the party had moved the Madras High Court. The SEC gave an undertaking to the High Court that it would hold the elections, as directed by the court. “Despite the SEC being an autonomous body, the DMK has unleashed large-scale violence during the elections and turned the panel into its puppet,” they said. Though the AIADMK took to the notice of the SEC the rejection of nomination papers of its candidates for two district panchayat wards and four panchayat union wards in Kallakurichi district, no action was taken. The panel also did not take any steps against the Collector of Ranipet district, Baskara Pandian, who, according to the Opposition party, sided with the ruling party. Referring to other instances of “irregularities” in Namakkal and Tirupattur districts, the AIADMK leaders said many agents belonging to the party were not allowed inside the counting centres. The media was also not permitted. So far, their party’s legal wing member, R.M. Babu Murugavel, has given seven petitions to the SEC. The party will establish before the High Court that “the DMK has achieved its victory through the backdoor”, they said. Thanking the party’s volunteers for having worked for the elections, the two leaders said “our [the AIADMK’s] vote has never been for the DMK.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-accuses-dmk-of-winning-through-the-back-door/article36996922.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu market to be mordernised||In a bid to address the problem of traffic congestion, the Koyambedu Market Management Committee (KMMC) plans to use real-time technology to regulate vehicle movement around the market. It would also deploy a team of former transport and traffic police officials for the purpose. This is one of the components proposed as part of modernising the market. The committee has also sought for a consultant to prepare a detailed project report for improving the infrastructure. On an average, the market receives about 50,000 visitors daily and nearly 15,000 vehicles, including trucks and two-wheelers, enter the market for loading and unloading produce. Traffic congestion is one of the long-pending issues in the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex, considered to be one of Asia’s largest hubs for perishable goods. Sources at the KMMC said the committee has called for applications from former officials to manage the daily vehicle movement, and the team would be finalised by the month-end. There are plans to use radio frequency identification systems to detect bottlenecks and also track vehicles. A boom-barrier system would also be launched as part of the efforts to decongest the market. Once the real-time technology is in place, only vehicles registered in the system can enter the market. Dedicated parking space will also be allotted for each market, sources said. Dedicated organic market As part of the modernisation efforts, the Koyambedu market may soon house shops for organic food products for which nearly 50,000 sq.ft. has been allotted. However, other factors, such as the number of shops and types of products, are under scrutiny. Solid waste management is another major challenge in the market that generates nearly 200 tonnes of garbage daily. Officials of the MMC noted that steps to streamline garbage collection were being taken. Efforts are on to convert vegetable waste into manure using nanotechnology on a trial basis. Similarly, the committee has also tied up with private firms and non-governmental organisations to convert flower waste into incense sticks. These pilot projects will be implemented on a large scale once they are successful. Increasing tree cover in the open space reservation land in the market is also on the cards, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koyambedu-market-to-be-modernised/article36996908.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Persons with disabilities emerge winners||R. Selvaraj, elected as a ward member in Keezhputhupattu, Marakkanam, in Villupuram district, in the rural local bodies polls, says he wants to lead by example. The 38-year-old is among the candidates with disabilities who have emerged victorious in the polls. Contesting the elections for the first time, Mr. Selvaraj said he won by a margin of 105 votes. “I had to put in a lot of effort to campaign and wanted to show the society that despite my disability, I am capable of taking the lead and making a difference,” he said. A member of the December 3 Movement, he was among 40 other members who contested in the elections as independent candidates. Mr. Selvaraj says his focus will be on improving basic amenities in his village. Issues to solve For another candidate, S. Bala Murugan, who got elected as a ward councillor from Thodarnthanur in Villupram district, the issues to focus on are largely similar. “Providing drinking water and improving the condition of the roads here is what I want to work towards,” said the 37-year-old, who contested for the first time and emerged victorious. As a person with a disability, he said the people’s support for him and his campaign was immense. For M. Govindan, 50, a candidate from Thoranampathi in Tirupattur, who has been elected a ward member, the opportunity to address the problems of the disabled persons in his village is a welcome one. “The pandemic has been a huge setback and many of them are facing livelihood struggles. There are several persons with disabilities who also have no homes. I hope to reach out to them and represent their issues,” he said. The December 3 Movement helped nearly 40 candidates contest in the elections as independent candidates. Leading by example “The victories of persons with disabilities in the elections means that they are capable of public life. While many other places are struggling to accept persons with disabilities as people, they have been recognised as leaders here in Tamil Nadu,” said T.M.N. Deepak, founder, December 3 Movement. Those who have emerged victorious are not only capable of fighting for their own rights as disabled persons, but will also take charge and address the concerns of the society at large, he said.  The pandemic has been a huge setback.... There are several persons with disabilities who don’t even have homes. I hope to reach out to them and represent their issues M. Govindan Ward member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/persons-with-disabilities-emerge-winners/article36996920.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Covers on freedom fighters released||The Department of Posts released special covers on freedom fighters and COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Wednesday. Under the theme ‘unsung heroes’, special covers on Captain Lakshmi Sahgal, Kuyili and Subramaniya Siva were released by K. Somasundaram, Director of Postal Services, Chennai city region, as part of the national postal week celebrations. Sahgal, who was born in Chennai on October 24, 1914, was a revolutionary of the Indian independence movement. The front cover photo for the special cover was provided by The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covers-on-freedom-fighters-released/article36996956.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 3 lakh ex-gratia given to kin of 32 police personnel||City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal on Wednesday handed over a relief of Rs. 3 lakh each to the families of 32 police personnel who died on various occasions. The money was given from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to the bereaved families of police personnel who lost their lives due to various reasons including ill-health. The relief was recently sanctioned to 32 police personnel who died in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Mr. Jiwal handed over demand drafts to families of the police personnel at Police Commissioner’s office in Vepery. Additional Commissioner of Police, Headquarters J.Loganathan, Joint Commissioner of Police, Headquarter, B.Shamoondeshwari were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-3-lakh-ex-gratia-given-to-kin-of-32-police-personnel/article36996963.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin launches work on temple jewellery||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday virtually launched preliminary works to melt gold ornaments in temples under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department and convert them into gold bars. He launched the work at the Karumariyamman temple in Tiruverkadu, Mariamman temple in Samayapuram and Mariamman temple in Irukkankudi. Ornaments in these temples will be melted and converted into bars. “As per provisions of rules governing the HR&CE Department, gold donated by devotees to temples has been converted into 24-carat gold bars since 1979,” an official release said. A total of 497.795 kg of 24-carat gold bars have been deposited in nationalised banks so far. Gold jewellery from nine temples, including the Dhandayuthapaniswamy temple in Palani, the Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple in Madurai, the Subramaniya Swamy temple in Tiruchendur and the Mariamman temple in Samayapuram, has been melted at India Government Mint in Mumbai. Earlier, the State government had appointed retired Supreme Court judge Justice D. Raju and two retired High Court judges, Justices K. Ravichandrabaabu and R. Mala, to head three panels to oversee the work to melt jewellery received as donation by temples into gold bars. The bars deposited in banks will generate revenue for the temples through interest earnings. HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, Secretary of Tourism, Culture and Religious Endowments Department B. Chandra Mohan, HR&CE Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran and senior officials took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-launches-work-on-temple-jewellery/article36996926.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on stroke treatment to be held||MIOT Hospitals and The Hindu will conduct a webinar on ‘Revolution in Stroke Treatment’ as part of the The Hindu Wellness Series on October 16 at 11 a.m. Shankar Balakrishnan, interventional neurologist, MIOT International, will be in conversation with R. Sujatha, deputy editor, The Hindu . A stroke is caused due to a blockage or bleeding of blood vessels, interrupting or decreasing the blood supply to the brain. When this occurs, brain does not get adequate oxygen. This may result in brain damage, long term disability or even death, according to a press release. Ischemic stroke and haemorrhagic stroke are two types of strokes. The risk factors of strokes evolve over time, and with each passing second, the oxygen-deprived tissues continue to deteriorate and die. Accuracy, speed and safety are crucial to save one’s life in such circumstances, it added. To participate in the webinar, register at:https://bit.ly/ 2YMNYCsor scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-stroke-treatment-to-be-held/article36996917.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Velumani objects to DVAC probe against him monitored by court||Former Municipal Administration and Rural Development Minister S.P. Velumani of the AIADMK has objected to a court-monitored probe into a case registered against him by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on August 16, ordered on the basis of Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) report that some private civil contractors benefited unduly due to injudicious analysis of corporation tenders during his tenure. In a counter affidavit before the Madras High Court, he said there was no need for a court-monitored probe since he was no longer a Minister. “The need to monitor the investigation does not arise in view of subsequent change in political scenario. I am no longer a Minister and even otherwise, I never had any nexus or access with the law-enforcing authorities to scuttle the process of fair and independent investigation,” his affidavit read. He further said that a court-monitored investigation would cause serious prejudice to his right of defence. “The continuation of this writ petition would create further prejudice to my legal remedies in as much as any legal forum which I approach would be awaiting the outcome of the present writ petition,” he said. The counter was filed in response to a writ petition filed by Arappor Iyakkam, an NGO, in 2018. The NGO had alleged several irregularities in award of contracts by Greater Chennai and Coimbatore Corporations during the tenure of Mr. Velumani and sought a direction to the DVAC to register an FIR against him and the corporation officials. It had also insisted upon a court-monitored probe. After the filing of the writ petition, the court ordered a preliminary inquiry into the complaint by the DVAC. The investigating officer filed a negative report in 2019 stating that there was no material to register an FIR. The then AIADMK government accepted the report and dropped all further proceedings in 2020. Nevertheless, after a change of regime in the State, the incumbent DMK government had chosen to register an FIR now on the pretext of the CAG report, the Minister complained. He also claimed that he was actually a victim of proxy litigation at the instance of his political rivals who were expecting the court to conduct a roving inquiry to pin him down. He contended that such a course of action was impermissible under law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/velumani-objects-to-court-monitored-probe-against-him-by-dvac/article36996949.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Data-driven strategies proposed to improve road safety in State||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras are developing data-driven strategies to enhance road safety in the State. On Wednesday, along with National Health Mission, the Institute’s Centre of Excellence for Human Factors and Safety Science at RBG Labs organised a day-long workshop to develop an action plan. Rise in road fatalities In 2020, the State had achieved a Sustainable Development Goal target by reducing deaths due to accident by 50%, but in 2021, there had been a steady rise in the number of road fatalities. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said coordinated knowledge sharing session among all road safety stakeholders in the State would be a pathway to continuously evolve successful road safety policies. The programme envisages long-term policies and strategies for an accident-free State. Short-term strategies to improve road safety and minimise road traffic accidents from November to January 2022, are on the anvil. Venkatesh Balasubramanian, faculty in-charge of Centre of Excellence for Human Factors and Safety Science, said roads were shared assets and the safety on them was a collective responsibility of all stakeholders. The stakeholders are expected to come up with action points and key performance indicators; and modalities for sharing and using the available data for collective action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/data-driven-strategies-proposed-to-improve-road-safety-in-state/article36996943.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gati Shakti portal will benefit Chennai port, says Chairman||To ensure better coordination between various departments and Ministries for implementing major infrastructure projects, a new portal ‘Gati Shakti’ has been launched. Speaking about how this will benefit the Chennai port, Chairman Sunil Paliwal said, “Take for instance, the connectivity to the port through the elevated corridor; since this will involve the Ministry of Defence, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Chennai Port Trust and the State government, the coordination will be better since the details of this project will be input in this portal, and the other departments will know what we are planning.” Similarly, the Ministry of Shipping and Waterways and the Government of India have been trying to give impetus to coastal movement of cargo from road and rail to shipping. “So, we have to provide these details in the portal. It will be in the radar of the railways too because we need their help for overhead lines, telecom and signalling work,” he said. A Memorandum of Understanding has been signed to develop a multi-modal logistic park at Mappedu, Tiruvallur, which will serve as a logistic aggregation and disaggregation point for cargo, and this will have rail and road connectivity. With a huge warehousing and cold storage facility, the park will facilitate cross-docking, custom clearance, testing facilities documentation, weighbridges and have a container stack yard, Mr. Paliwal said. A special purpose vehicle will be created by the Chennai Port Trust, NHAI and the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation. While the port will provide 121.74 acres, an additional 36.23 acres will be acquired by the NHAI. They will bear the cost of the road connectivity project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gati-shakti-portal-will-benefit-chennai-port-says-chairman/article36996965.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After three rounds of counselling, 55,378 seats get filled under TNEA||As many as 55,378 seats have been filled at the end of the third round of counselling by the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission Committee 2021. Of the 40,891 eligible candidates, 29,877 have filled choices and 23,716 candidates have been given provisional allotment. A total of 1,51,870 seats are available under single window counselling, and 1,39,033 candidates are eligible to participate. Quite a few candidates with high scores have participated in the subsequent rounds. In some instances, candidates with high scores have skipped higher rung colleges though they could have been easily allotted seats in these institutions. Senior faculty in government engineering colleges said the practice of blocking seats was checked by a former commissioner of Directorate of Technical Education who collected the data of medical counselling and denied seats to students who had applied for engineering. The faculty said some colleges would encourage students to take a seat under counselling knowing well that the candidate had no intention of getting admitted. “When the seat lapses, the self-financing college would fill it up through management quota,” the faculty said. Another issue could be that the candidates had not filled sufficient number of choices and hence had to participate in the next round as well. The parent of a candidate who participated in the first round said his son had chosen a branch of study and did not want to opt for other branches. “We should have filled more choices to ensure that he got a seat in the best college,” the parent rued. Lucikly for him during the provisional filling the candidate opted for upgrade and he got a seat in a branch of study closer to his original choice of biotechnology, the parent said. While candidates have patronised government engineering colleges in Bargur, Tiruchi, Erode and Dharmapuri, those in Tirukuvalai, Ramanathapuram, Panruti and Villupuram, have not found favour. College professors said the government had not made efforts to upgrade infrastructure or facilities in these institutions. Some of the colleges were in interior locations with poor access as well. On Wednesday, the TNEA began the fourth round of counselling in which over 41,000 candidates were participating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-three-rounds-of-counselling-55378-seats-get-filled-under-tnea/article36996961.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches portal for Revenue Administration||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday launched a portal for the Commissionerate of Revenue Administration and Disaster Management, containing details of various social security schemes, e-certificates and e-adangals, among other things. The portal has an English version as well (https://cra.tn.gov.in/). The portal has a webpage for the administrative needs of Deputy Collectors and those in the Revenue Department and a webpage to benefit village administrative officers looking for a mutual transfer between taluks and between districts. Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy, Revenue Secretary Kumar Jayant and senior officials were present at the launch.  The portal has a webpage for the administrative needs of Deputy Collectors and those in the Revenue Department and another webpage to benefit village administrative officers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-portal-for-revenue-administration/article36996924.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for murder of history-sheeter in Manali||The Manali police on Wednesday arrested two persons in connection with the murder of a history-sheeter. The accused were identified as Vicky alias Vignesh, 26, and Sathish Kumar, 27, of Chinna Sekadu. The police identified the victim as Kutty alias Rajasekar, 26, of Edapalayam, Manali. He was an accused in the murder of one Gopal from 2018 and had come out on bail. On Monday, he was consuming alcohol with his associates Vicky and Sathish. A quarrel broke out among them in which Kutty was stabbed to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-murder-of-history-sheeter-in-manali/article36996909.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamils being robbed of their work: NTK||Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) chief coordinator Seeman on Wednesday said around 70 lakh people “from outside” had received ration cards and enrolled as voters in Tamil Nadu. Claiming that Tamils, “if driven out from this land”, would have nowhere else to go, he said people should not rent out their space to “outsiders” in Tamil Nadu. The Tamil nationalist leader was addressing a conference organised by his party to commemorate Sankaralinganar, who fasted for 76 days, demanding that the erstwhile Madras State be renamed Tamil Nadu. The conference was attended, among others, by Venu from the Naga People’s Organisation; Paramjit Singh Khasi, journalist, Sikh Siyasid , Punjab; Badal Kanya Jamatiya, Tripura Makkal Munnani, Tripura, and Paramjit Mand, Dal Khalsa, Punjab. Questioning whether the “outsiders” would vote for parties in Tamil Nadu, he said, “I am in Tamil Nadu and I will eat what is available. Biharis are getting rice in ration shops. Can we do that in Bihar?” Reiterating his opposition to the MGNREGS, he said Tamils were being robbed of their work. “They say I am attacking the poor by opposing the income that they get for 100 days. An intellectual leader should make use of labour. How can you take people out of the labour market and keep paying them? How long can you pay them?” Mr. Seeman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamils-being-robbed-of-their-work-ntk/article36996954.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Antique idols, rare paintings seized||The Idol Wing CID on Wednesday seized antique idols, wooden artefacts and rare paintings from a commercial complex in the city. On receiving information that the goods were meant for export, a special team, led by Additional Superintendent of Police P. Ashok Natarajan, conducted a search on the ground floor of the commercial complex on Dr. Radhakrishnan Road, Mylapore, and found the items. The police seized five panchaloha idols of deities including Ram, Lakshman, Sita, Hanuman and Krishna, and five wooden artefacts depicting Narada, Dwara Balagar, Nandi, Krishna and a dancing woman. Four Thanjavur paintings were also seized. They were said to belong to Rajagopalan, who lives in the U.S. Superintendent of Police, Idol Wing CID, R. Ponni, said, “A case was registered by us in connection with the seizure. An officer has been appointed to take up further investigation.” The investigation revealed that a few people had tried to dispatch the rare antiques through a courier firm. Since the firm demanded an antiquity certificate, the items were taken back. Further investigation is on to trace those who attempted to send the items and ascertain whom it was meant for. The idols, wooden artefacts and paintings would be handed over to the Additional Special Court for Idol Wing cases in Kumbakonam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/antique-idols-wooden-artefacts-and-rare-paintings-seized/article36996911.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for killing his mother||The Kodungaiyur police on Wednesday arrested Sathish, 36, who, in an inebriated state, strangulated his mother to death. The police identified the victim as Amsa, 64, of Kodungaiyur. Sathish was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-killing-his-mother/article36996906.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railways nets Rs. 35.47 crore in fines||In a massive operation to check ticket-less train travel, the Southern Railway conducted intensive checking and collected a record fine of Rs. 35.47 crore from April to October 12. A total of 7.12 lakh cases were booked against commuters for violations, including ticket-less travel, irregular tickets, unbooked luggage and not wearing of face masks. A press release said the Chennai division’s contribution, which was Rs. 12.78 crore, was the highest among the Southern Railway’s six divisions. The Southern Railway netted Rs. 37 lakh in fines on Tuesday alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-nets-rs-3547-crore-in-fines/article36996918.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Honourable performance by PMK’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss said on Wednesday that more than 47 PMK members had won panchayat union member, panchayat president and panchayat ward member posts in the rural local bodies elections in the nine newly carved-out districts. He termed the performance “honourable and respectable”. In a statement, he said, “PMK contested alone because strong grassroot democracy will result in the development of the people. Nonetheless, considering the strength and work done by the PMK cadre, the results are not enough,” he said. “From the beginning of the filing of nominations, until the counting of votes, the State apparatus followed the ruling party’s diktats. In many places where the PMK would have won, the results were changed,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/honourable-performance-by-pmk/article36996923.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Put pressure on Centre over Cauvery’||The AIADMK coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, on Wednesday said farmers of the delta region had been pushed to an “unfortunate situation” by the attitude of the Karnataka government on the release of Cauvery water. In a statement, he condemned the government of the neighbouring State for maintaining “silence” on the directive of the Cauvery Water Management Authority in ensuring that Tamil Nadu got its share of the river water. The AIADMK leader urged Chief Minister M.K.Stalin to exert pressure on the Centre in realising the State’s quota of Cauvery water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/put-pressure-on-centre-over-cauvery-ops-urges-cm/article36996968.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre, courts watching what is happening in Tamil Nadu’||State BJP president K. Annamalai on Wednesday alleged that the State Election Commission indulged in political bias favouring the ruling DMK in the recently concluded rural local bodies polls in nine newly carved out districts. In a statement, he said the DMK’s victory was ‘temporary’ and that the Central government and courts were watching what is happening in Tamil Nadu. He claimed people are upset that the State Election Commission and the police “joined hands and worked hard to ensure the ruling DMK’s victory in the polls.” ‘Cameras an eyewash’ “The security cameras placed in polling booths, rooms where the ballot boxes are placed and at counting centres were an eye wash. Many cameras did not function,” Mr. Annamalai alleged. “Counting was delayed in many places and other party members were sent out in some places and the final count was changed to favour the ruling party. In some places, those who won were declared as losers,” Mr. Annamalai claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-courts-watching-what-is-happening-in-tn-annamalai/article36996941.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools to stay closed on Saturday||The School Education Department has announced that Saturday will be a holiday for all schools in the State. The decision, the Department said, was taken after several representations from teachers’ associations, asking for a holiday to be declared on the day. Since September 1, schools have been functioning six days a week for senior classes and teachers. The holiday on Saturday is in addition to the government holidays that have already been declared on Thursday and Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-to-stay-closed-on-saturday/article36996919.ece
14 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. prepared for third wave of COVID-19’||Tamil Nadu has improved its daily medical oxygen stock to 1,000 tonnes as part of its preparedness for the third wave of COVID-19, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Wednesday.  Mr. Subramanian told The Hindu the requirement for medical oxygen was a major problem that the Health Department faced during the peak of the second wave in Tamil Nadu. “Our daily medical oxygen stock was 230 tonnes during crucial times of the second wave, which we now have increased to 1,000 tonnes. The requirement went up to 530 tonnes a day during the peak of the second wave. With our capacity expanded to 1,000 tonnes, we do not anticipate a shortage if a third wave comes,” he said. One lakh extra beds One lakh additional beds and special wards for children at the district headquarters hospitals and all medical college hospitals are among the preparedness the State has taken. In addition, 2,100 doctors and 6,300 doctors were recruited, he said. The Minister said that the two special schemes of the government namely Varumun Kappom and Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam would not have an impact on the functioning of hospitals. “Under Varumun Kappom , 1,250 medical camps will be held across the State in a year. Each block will have three camps a year. This will not have an impact on the functioning of hospitals,” he said. According to him, Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam does not require additional doctors. To improve the scheme, the government will appoint 4,900 nurses soon. Those who have worked for the Department under various schemes will have priority, he said. Mr. Subramanian said that the public should strictly adhere to COVID-19 safety norms during the festival season and curb further spread of the disease. On the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), he said that the DMK had not deviated from its election promise. “We [DMK] did not say that we will scrap NEET within 12 or 24 hours of coming to power. As promised, a Bill was passed against NEET. Now the government will work hard to get President’s assent to the Bill. In addition, Mr. Stalin wrote to 12 Chief Ministers and the Justice A.K. Rajan committee report was translated into seven languages. We are continuing our efforts,” he said.  We [DMK] did not say that we will scrap NEET within 12 or 24 hours of coming to power. As promised, a Bill was passed against NEET. Now the government will work hard to get President’s assent to the Bill||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-prepared-for-third-wave-of-covid-19-says-health-minister/article36996951.ece
14 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Coimbatore continues to remain first in vaccinating eligible population’||With 93 % of the eligible population in Coimbatore district receiving its first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, the district administration is on the efforts to identify the remaining 7 %, said Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian here on Wednesday. The Minister said that Coimbatore district continued to lead in terms of vaccinating the highest percentage of its population aged above 18 in the State. About 37 % of the eligible population in the district had received its second dose, while the State’s average stood at 24 %, the Minister said. “Now the authorities are trying to identify the 7% of population that is yet to take its first dose and the 63 % that has to take its second dose in Coimbatore district. Vehicles have been launched to conduct door-to-door survey in the five zones in the Corporation limits and to identify the remaining population,” said Mr. Subramanian after inaugurating a Special Neonatal Care Unit (SNCU) at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) Coimbatore has an estimated population of 38,67,926, out of which 27,07,550 are aged above 18, he said. The new SNCU, built at a cost of Rs. 1.5 core, has a capacity to take care of 90 newborns. It is equipped with facilities including ventilator, phototherapy, continuous positive airway pressure. The Minister said that the SNCU would be beneficial to newborns from Coimbatore and the neighbouring districts who need special attention. “Around 40 to 50 newborns are brought to CMCH from Coimbatore and neighbouring districts a day. Out of them, seven to eight have low birth weight due to various factors. The SNCU will be beneficial to such newborns,” he said. District Collector G.S. Sameeran, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine T.S. Selvavinayagam, CMCH Dean A. Nirmala, Deputy Director of Health Services P. Aruna and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-continues-to-remain-first-in-vaccinating-eligible-population/article36996998.ece
14 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. collects Rs. 11.21 cr. as dues from telecom service providers||Recently the Coimbatore Corporation collected Rs. 11.21 crore in dues from two telecom service providers. The Corporation said it had collected Rs. 1.73 crore from a company as track rent for 2016 – 2021 for optical fibre cables it had beneath city roads and Rs. 9.48 crore from another company as track rent for 2018 – 2021. The Corporation collected the track rent, a non-tax source of revenue, based on instructions from Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara after it came to light at a review meeting that the two telecom service providers had not cleared dues. Sources said a GST-related issue delayed the payment of track rent by a company and it paid up after the company and the Corporation sorted out the issue. The collection of track rent has been one of Corporation’s source of non-tax revenue ever since the State Government passed an order allowing urban local bodies to levy track rent on telecom service providers. It had fixed Rs. 6,300 a km as track rent for Coimbatore Corporation and a few other corporations. The Corporation had collected Rs. 53.47 lakh from telecom service providers as track rent in 2007-08. From there it saw the rent collection increase to Rs. 3.43 crore in 2019-20. For the 2021-22 financial year, the Corporation had projected Rs. 2.80 crore as the rent. Likewise, the Corporation had in 2011 decided to levy Rs. 30,000 a year as rent on telecom service providers for each of the cell phone towers they had erected within the city. It had also decided to treat as commercial those residential buildings housing the towers. This was part of the Corporation’s efforts to widen its tax net to boost revenue. While it managed to levy tax at commercial rate for residential buildings with towers it could not charge telecom service providers for towers erected because of a court case, said sources. Now with the Corporation once again trying to boost its revenue, it could look at an early resolution for the court case to start charging companies for towers, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-collects-rs-1121-cr-as-dues-from-telecom-service-providers/article36996992.ece
14 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||New equipment, free heart screening programme launched||Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian launched various lifesaving medical equipment at Sri Ramakrishna Hospital and a free heart screening programme for school children at K.G. Hospital on Wednesday. Patient monitors, syringe pumps, ventilators and non-invasive ventilation (NIV) were added to the COVID-19 ICU unit at Sri Ramakrishna Hospital. The equipment were sponsored by Robert Bosch Engineering Solutions as part of Bosch Cares programme and were procured by Aram Foundation Charitable Trust. Mr. Subramanian said that the hospital treated the most number of patients under the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme and bagged the award continuously for their dedicated efforts since 2009. He said that the second wave of COVID-19 left hospitals grappling with shortage of medical oxygen. To tide over the crisis, the hospital installed an in-house oxygen generator plant with a capacity of 43 litre per minute. District Collector G.S. Sameeran; D. Lakshminarayanaswamy, Managing Trustee, SNR Sons Charitable Trust; LathaSundaram, Founder and Managing Trustee of Aram Foundation Charitable Trust; V.S. Saiju, General Manager, Car Multimedia, Bosch; J Gokul Raj, Founder Trustee, Aram Foundation Charitable Trust; Julius Panakkal, General Manager Powertrain Bosch, and P. Sukumaran, Dean/Medical Director of Sri Ramakrishna Hospital, were present. The Minister launched KG Hospital's 'Little Hearts Project' which aims to offer free heart screening and surgeries for children and school students. Hospital chairman G. Bakthavathsalam presented 'Dynamic Personality of the Decade Award' to Mr. Subramaniam. The hospital had started 'Little Heart Foundation', which was launched by former President of India A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, under which free heart surgeries were done for more than 500 poor children. The hospital had also joined hands with the Government of Tamil Nadu for 'Ilam Sirar Irudaya Paadukappu Thittam' and 'Idhayam Kaappom Scheme'.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-equipment-free-heart-screening-programme-launched/article36996999.ece
14 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Photo exhibition hall inaugurated||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan on Wednesday inaugurated an exhibition hall at the Coimbatore Collectorate. A release said the hall would be a permanent feature where the Directorate of Information and Publicity would showcase photographs of events. The Minister also witnessed a demonstration by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel. The State Government would soon erect statues for V.K. Palanisamy Gounder, N. Mahalingam and former Union Minister C. Subramaniam, people who were responsible for the Parambikulam Aliyar Project, he said in Pollachi after reviewing the plan drawn for building an auditorium at the Water Resources Organisation office. The government would observe October 7 – the day the Aliyar Reservoir was opened – as Aliyar Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/photo-exhibition-hall-inaugurated/article36996994.ece
14 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘No truth in family not voting for me in ward election’||Bharatiya Janata Party member D. Karthik, who contested as an independent in Ward 9, Kurudampalayam Panchayat, Coimbatore, in the recently-concluded ordinary rural local body polls, said there was no truth to the report that not even his family voted for him. “Towards the end of counting on Tuesday, a section of the media reported that I had secured only a vote and that even my family did not vote for me. It is a fact that I secured only one vote but there is no truth behind the report that my family did not vote for me as it does not have a vote in that ward.” He resided in Ward 4 in Kurudampalayam. His family and he voted there. But, he chose to contest in Ward 9 as an independent to gain electoral experience. He contested after taking the nod from the party, said Mr. Karthik, who joined the BJP about a decade ago. At the time of filing nomination, a friend, Vaithilingam, proposed his candidature. After filing nomination, he did not canvass because his mother underwent surgery and the AIADMK member contesting there as an independent requested him not to canvas as the BJP and AIADMK were allies, he said. It was for this reason that he did not canvas and the only vote he secured was that of his sponsor, Mr. Vaithilingam, he added. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s A. Arulraj won the election securing 387 of the 913 votes polled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-truth-in-family-not-voting-for-me-in-ward-election/article36996995.ece
14 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||New initiative aims to convert used cooking oil into biodiesel||Coimbatore plans to break the Guinness record achieved by Brazil. The district administration, through the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) and non-governmental organisations, has launched a drive to collect more than 550 tonnes of used cooking oil in October and turn it into biodiesel. Launching the drive under the 'Repurpose Used Cooking Oil' (RUCO) initiative of the FSSAI here on Wednesday, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said that Brazil holds the current Guinness World Record by converting 550 tonnes of used cooking oil into biodiesel in a month. The Minister said that the main aim of the initiative was to avoid reuse of used cooking oil which leads to various health issues. The NGOs and Hoteliers Association in Coimbatore district have come up for the cause. Used oil will be collected by the authorities from hotels, bakeries, manufacturing units of sweets and savouries using special vehicles. FSSAI officials said that Total Polar Compounds (TPC), a benchmark for measuring the degradation of the oil, are formed in the oil during reheating and more amount of TPC has adverse effects on health. Mr. Subramanian took part in the mass hand washing exercise involving students at the PSGR Krishnammal College for Women, Coimbatore, in view of the Global Handwashing Day which is observed on October 15. The Minister also announced the expansion of a zero food waste initiative, which was originally started by Coimbatore-based 'No Food Waste', to 10 districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-initiative-aims-to-convert-used-cooking-oil-into-biodiesel/article36997005.ece
14 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Prevent artificial scarcity of fertilizers: farmers||Vivasayeegal Sangam, a non-partisan farmers’ organisation, has urged the State Government to ensure that there was no scarcity of fertilizers. In a resolution passed at the meeting held a few days ago, the association said there prevailed a situation wherein artificial scarcity of white potash, urea, DAP, complex and other fertilizers was being created. The association drew the Central and State governments’ attention to the premium charged by approved companies supplying equipment for micro irrigation. To the State Government, the association said it must consider taking the proposed Godavari-Cauvery river linking canal through Hogenakkal and not through Tiruvallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prevent-artificial-scarcity-of-fertilizers-farmers/article36997013.ece
14 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industries asked to renew licence||Joint Director of Industrial Safety and Health has announced that industries registered under the Industries Act can renew their licence for the year 2022 online and the last date for renewal is October 31, 2021. Industries in Coimbatore are requested to visit the websitehttps://dish.tn.gov.inand remit the licence fee online and renew their licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-asked-to-renew-licence/article36997001.ece
14 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||World Sight Day was observed by Lotus Eye Hospital and Rotary Coimbatore City by jointly organising a road show on Wednesday to spread awareness about vision. Over 100 persons comprising Rotary members, doctors and staff carrying placards took part. K.S. Ramalingam, Medical Director of Lotus Eye Hospital, and S. Rajasekar, Governor of Rotary Dist 3201, the chief guest, flagged off the awareness event. Sangeetha Sundaramurthy, Managing Director of Lotus Eye Hospital, R. J. Madhusudhan, Medical Director of Lotus Eye Hospital, J.P. Tamilselvan, vice- president of Lotus Eye Hospital, and N. Senthil Kumar, president of Rotary Coimbatore City participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article36997002.ece
14 October 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID gets one-day custody of DMK MP in murder case||The Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) has been granted a day’s custody of Cuddalore MP T.R.V.S. Ramesh (DMK), the prime accused in the murder of a worker at a cashew processing unit in Panikankuppam near Panruti on September 20. Chief Judicial Magistrate, Cuddalore, N. Prabakar passed the order on Wednesday, with a direction to the CB-CID to produce Mr. Ramesh before the court at 1.15 p.m. on Thursday. The CB-CID, to which the murder case of K. Govindarasu, 60, of Melmampattu, was transferred recently from the police, had filed a petition before the court on Wednesday, seeking two-day custody of the MP. Following the order, a CB-CID team took Mr. Ramesh into custody for interrogation. The victim, who was working at the cashew processing unit that belongs to the MP, was accused of stealing 7 kg of cashew nuts, and allegedly assaulted on the premises. He was found dead under suspicious circumstances in the unit a few hours later. The CB-CID arrested five persons, all employees of the unit, in connection with the murder, and was on the lookout for Mr. Ramesh. Even as the probe was on, the MP surrendered before a local court on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-gets-one-day-custody-of-dmk-mp-in-murder-case/article36996934.ece
14 October 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||No death in Cuddalore||Cuddalore district recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Wednesday. As many as 16 persons tested positive for the disease, taking the district’s tally to 63,732. In Villupuram district, 11 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases to 45,653. Kallakurichi district reported 16 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 31,152.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-death-in-cuddalore/article36997069.ece
14 October 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Rainwater harvesting campaign launched||Campaign van for rainwater harvesting ahead of the North-East monsoon was flagged off by Collector S. Dhivyadarshini on Wednesday to spread the message of rainwater harvesting amongst the pubic. The campaign envisions creating adequate structures to harvest rainwater in time for the monsoons that will enable recharge of ground water aquifers. The campaign van will spread awareness on rainwater harvesting through short films, and showcase methods of harvesting rainwater depending on the structure of the dwelling units. In Krishnagiri, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy flagged off the campaign van.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rainwater-harvesting-campaign-launched/article36997063.ece
14 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Private students asked to collect marksheets||Private candidates, who had appeared for their board exams between March 2017 and September 2018 and had not yet collected their marksheets so far, have been asked to collect the same before November 30. According to the administration, further to the communication from the Directorate of Examination, Chennai, marksheets would be handed over only upon producing identity card and hall ticket. Further, the unclaimed marksheets beyond November 30, 2021 would be destroyed and no claims thereafter shall be entertained, the Education Department has stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-students-asked-to-collect-marksheets/article36997098.ece
14 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Drills conducted in Erode, Salem to mark natural disaster reduction day||Drill to demonstrate evacuation and rescue methods during natural calamities and firefighting techniques was conducted on the occasion of International Day for Natural Disaster Reduction on Wednesday. Collector H. Krishnanunni inspected the drill that was performed by personnel from National Disaster Response Force and Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services Department. The drill was held to assess the preparedness and respond to any disaster in the wake of heavy rain during North East monsoon. In Salem, Collector S. Karmegam inspected the drill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drills-conducted-in-erode-salem-to-mark-natural-disaster-reduction-day/article36997102.ece
14 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Markets witness brisk business ahead of puja celebrations in Erode||On the eve of Ayudha puja, people in large numbers thronged markets to purchase necessary fruits, flowers and puja items required for the celebrations. Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market and Uzhavar Sandhai at Sampath Nagar witnessed heavy crowd and brisk business. Temporary shops were set up on selling these items have also come up on R.K.V. Road, Manikoondu, Kongalamman Kovil Street, Eswaran Kovil Street and market areas. Traders said that the price of flowers and fruits have gone up by over 60% as there is a good demand for it during the puja season. Traders said that prices will further go up on Thursday. But consumers say that flowers and fruits were sold at exorbitant prices as they have no choice, but to purchase them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/markets-witness-brisk-business-ahead-of-puja-celebrations-in-erode/article36997107.ece
14 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Over 3,000 motorists booked for not wearing helmets||A total of 3,172 motorists were booked here on Wednesday for not wearing helmets. Superintendent of Police V. Sasimohan recently announced that the compulsory helmet rule would be enforced strictly in the district from October 13 and asked the motorists to wear helmets without fail. On Wednesday, police personnel intercepted two-wheelers at Panneerselvam Park, Swastik Corner, Perundurai Road, G.H. Roundabout, Karungalpalayam and other major junctions in the city and verified the documents such as driving licence and vehicle insurance. Cases were registered against 3,172 motorists and a total of 2,351 vehicles were impounded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-3000-motorists-booked-for-not-wearing-helmets/article36997104.ece
14 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Cong. seeks action against Seeman||Members of the lawyer’s wing of the Congress submitted a petition to Superintendent of Police S. Sasi Mohan on Wednesday demanding action against Naam Tamilar Katchi coordinator Seeman for making derogatory remarks against party leaders during a public meeting. Led by its State secretary C.M. Rajendran, district Congress leaders said that during a public meeting in Melur and at Vikravandi on October 12, Mr. Seeman said that death by human bombs will once again occur in the State and asked his partymen to prepare for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-seeks-action-against-seeman/article36997100.ece
14 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain in districts||Several areas in the district received widespread rain during the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday here. The district received a total rainfall of 256.4 mm. Rainfall recorded at various places were Varattupallam 52.4 mm, Bhavani 24.8 mm, Ammapettai 31.6 mm, Gobichettipalayam 23.4 mm, Kodiveri 26.2 mm, Sathyamangalam 17 mm and Elanthakuttaimedu 14.2 mm. Salem district received a total rainfall of 311.30 mm. In Namakkal district, Rasipuram received 68.20 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rain-in-districts/article36997108.ece
14 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Flood alert issued along banks of River Bhavani||Following the discharge of 7,300 cubic feet per second (cusecs) of water from Bhavanisagar dam into River Bhavani, a flood alert has been issued to people living on the banks of the river in the district here on Wednesday. At 8 a.m., the dam’s water level stood at 102 feet against the maximum storage level of 105 feet. The storage was 30.31 tmc, against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. The inflow was 9,618 cusecs and the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project canal and 7,300 cusecs into River Bhavani. Meanwhile, a flood alert has been sounded to people living in Bhavanisagar, Sathyamangalam and Gobichettipalayam. People were asked not to enter the river for bathing or washing clothes. People in low-lying areas were asked to move to safer locations. Officials of the revenue and disaster management department continue to monitor the flow of water in the river and warn people at various locations. The water level in Stanley Reservoir at Mettur stood at 85.17 feet, against the full reservoir level of 120 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-alert-issued-along-banks-of-river-bhavani/article36997110.ece
14 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at the following sub-stations, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on October 16.  Elumathur sub-station: Elumathur, Mangaradu, Sellathampalayam, Pandipalayam, Ellakadai, Kadakinaru, Kulavilakku, Modakkurichi, Kulur, Maniyampalayam, Vellapethampalayam, V. Pudur, Anandampalayam, Manor, Erappampalayam, Minnankattu Valasu, Veppili and 24-Velampalayam.  Kaspapettai sub-station: Kaspapettai, Mullamparappu, Chinniyampalayam, Velankattuvalasu, Pottinaickenvalasu, Veerapampalayam, 46 Pudur, Rangampalayam, Kurikaranpalayam, Chellapampalayam, Govindanaicken Palayam, Nanjai Uthukuli, Sengaraipalayam, T. Mettupalayam, Andakothampalayam, Anakalpalayam, EB Nagar, K.A.S. Nagar, Indian Nagar, Telephone Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Moolapalayam, Chettipalayam, Sadayampalayam, Tirupathi Garden, Muthugoundanpalayam, Karundevanpalayam, Chavadipalayam Pudur, Kiliyampatti, Ragupathi Naicken Palayam and Kagathanvalasu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article36997105.ece
14 October 2021||Kovilpatti,TAMIL NADU||Woman robbed of 10 sovereigns of gold jewellery||Unidentified persons have stolen Rs. 4-lakh worth gold ornaments from a house after tying a woman against a stone pillar. Police said M. Parvathi, 55, of Avudaiyammalpuram here came out of her house on Tuesday night to answer the call of nature. Two persons, dressed up like bears, usually worn by the devotees during Dasara season here, tied her. After stuffing cloth in her mouth, they entered the house of Ms. Parvathi and took 10 sovereigns of gold ornaments from a bureau. When her daughter-in-law happened to hear the murmurs of Ms. Parvathi, she rescued her mother-in-law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-robbed-of-10-sovereigns-of-gold-jewellery/article36997372.ece
14 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain in Kozhikode for two more days||Hundreds of people, including women and children, who were shifted to makeshift relief camps at schools and colleges, started returning to their houses with the rain subsiding on Wednesday morning. However, the district administration said that the situation was still difficult although it had improved. Rain wreaked havoc in the district with several areas in the city and suburbs getting submerged on Tuesday. More than 500 persons, who were unable to relocate to safer dwellings, were sheltered at 15 camps in the district. Of this, 14 were in Kozhikode taluk that bore the brunt of nature’s fury. About 115 families were the worst affected as the raging floods struck low-lying areas. The District Disaster Management Authority had swung into action to open the camps and provide necessary facilities. The rainfall recorded was 60.9 mm in Kozhikode city on Wednesday. The Meteorological Centre in Thiruvananthapuram has forecast heavy rain accompanied by thunderstorm, lightning and squall in the district on Thursday and Friday. The probability is heavy (64.5-115 mm) to very heavy rainfall (115.6-204.4 mm). However, no warnings have been issued for these days. An online meeting chaired by Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohammed Riyas to take stock of the situation, focussed on effective coordination of various departments to meet any eventualities. He said that those temporarily relocated to camps should not experience any difficulties. Officials should be careful to understand their mood and act accordingly. Also, they should understand the problems of those staying at the houses of their relatives. Besides the camps should maintain the COVID-19 protocol, Mr. Riyas said. Water-logging, the Minister said, was a vexing issue in the city. This required a permanent solution. Drainage would have to be desilted to allow the flow of stormwater during heavy rain. Officials should take steps to complete the drainage cleaning by October 18, he said. Mr. Riyas said that steps should be taken in the case of two dams in the district. The Deputy Director of Fisheries was assigned to arranged rescue boats to meet any emergencies in future. The efforts of the Revenue department and other government departments for coordinating the relief operations were also lauded. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said that all hospitals were given instructions to coordinate activities in case of an emergency. Kozhikode City Police Chief A.V. George said action should be taken to address the problem of water-logging before the north-east monsoon (Thulavarsham) which begins in October and goes on till December. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy presided over the meeting. Various departmental officials were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-in-kozhikode-for-two-more-days/article36996808.ece
14 October 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||‘Prevent child marriages’||The district administration has sought concerted action from all departments towards curbing child marriages. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy releasing an awareness campaign banner prepared by the Block Medical Officer of Kelamangalam Rajesh Kumar called upon all department officials to step up to prevent child marriages, when it is brought to their knowledge. Dr. Reddy called for booking offenders and others aiding and abetting in child marriages. Child marriages brought with it a range of disruptions besides increasing the school dropout rate. Taking away the right to education of young girls, child marriages lead to early pregnancy, multiple pregnancies, anaemia, malnutrition, maternal and infant mortality, widowhood, depression and stress, congenital disorders in new born, bonded labour in young girls among others social ills, said the Collector. Earlier, the Collector also presided over a consultative meeting to curb child marriages. As part of the action plan to crack down on child marriages, Integrated Child Health Services workers were asked to report on villages with young mothers under 18 years of age, and pregnant adolescents under 18 years of age. The administration has also proposed a month-long campaign through schools against child marriages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prevent-child-marriages/article36997062.ece
14 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||As people throng markets, prices shoot up||People on Wednesday thronged the city markets ahead ofSaraswati pujaandAyudha puja. The demand led to an increase in prices of flowers and otherpujaarticles by at least two fold. But, this did not deter the public from coming to the markets and buying the articles. Though they could be seen wearing face masks, physical distancing went for a toss due to the presence of large crowds. However, despite the increase in prices, vendors said they were unable to break even. The increase in price was only during festival days. The vendors said that a kg of jasmine on a regular day would cost Rs. 300 to Rs. 350. But on the eve of the festival the price of jasmine ranged from Rs. 600 to Rs. 700. Similarly, prices of other flowers had also increased, they said. President of a flower merchant association S. Ramachandran said that the trade was yet to recover from the impact of COVID-19. Compared to last year'sSaraswati pujaandAyudha puja, this year was even worse.  He said the closure of temples during weekends was one of the reasons. People usually visit temples on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. But closure of the temples on these days meant no business on the usually busy days. Agreeing with him was another flower merchant S. Sundarapandian. He said that the production itself had gone down. Apart from this, they also faced other issues such as logistics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-people-throng-markets-prices-shoot-up/article36997247.ece
14 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Artist’s images of Madurai make their way into picture postcards||Select drawings of artist Manohar Devadoss, a Padmashri awardee, that depict the beguiling charm of Madurai of the 1950s have found a place of pride in the postal department’s picture postcards. A pack of 25 postcards imprinted with his ink drawings of the city’s prominent landmarks and landscape was released by the Postmaster General (Southern Region) G. Natarajan in the presence of Chairman Emeritus of Aravind Eye Hospital P. Namperumalsamy. The event was held here on Tuesday as part of Postal Week Celebrations from October 11 to 17. ‘Multiple facets’ Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Natarajan said he was introduced to ‘artist Mano’ through his beautifully illustrated book ‘Multiple Facets of My Madurai’ .  “I was totally smitten with his talent. No amount of appreciation is enough for such flawless art work done from memory, imagination and dwindling eyesight,” he said. Mano’s childhood memories of the city of his birth, where he spent his pre-teen years, are done in bold and precise strokes in blank ink. Mr. Natarajan said he thought of printing them because not only would they look stunning on the postcards but also remind people of the city of yore and its value. Artist Mano said he was humbled by the gesture of the postal department. The fact that people remembered him and his work with so much affection was a blessing, he said. He radiated positivity even while talking about the tragedies in his life and how his wife Mahema, a quadriplegic, encouraged him to push past the pain and keep drawing. The Department of Post has printed 1,000 packs of the special postcards. Priced at Rs. 250 each, it is available at the Head Post Office on North Veli Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/artists-images-of-madurai-make-their-way-into-picture-postcards/article36997244.ece
14 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘POWER transforms women’s lives’||The US Agency for International Development (USAID) Producer Owned Women Enterprises (POWER) project enabled women’s economic empowerment and transformed their lives, said US Consul General Judith Ravin here on Tuesday. Speaking at a function organised at Thanakankulam near here, the Consul General said the project was a great example of the strong commitment the US government to advance women’s economic empowerment, especially, those from marginalised communities here, and wished many more women-owned and operated businesses in Tamil Nadu. Minister for Finance and Human Resources Management Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said that such projects from the US would help build good relationship between the USA and India. Appreciating the opportunity given to women from rural background, he said the Dravidian movement in the State had played a big role in women empowerment. The government, under the leadership of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, focused on self-respect, equality and empowerment of women. This would take forward the entire community. He also recalled his contribution as an MLA in building additional infrastructure for girl children studying in government and corporation schools in Madurai. Initiated in September 2019, USAID’s POWER project empowered women from rural communities to become micro-entrepreneurs by helping them shift work closer to their homes and offering them a steady source of income. Neelam Chibber, Co-Founder, Industree Crafts Foundation, said the project helped establish 12 women-owned enterprises, impacting 2,400 women and their families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-transforms-womens-lives/article36997245.ece
14 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire and Rescue Services personnel conduct drill||A drill was conducted by the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services personnel on the Madurai Collectorate premises on Wednesday in the presence of Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar on account of the International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction. As part of the drill, Fire and Rescue Services personnel demonstrated various techniques to the public as to how people could protect themselves during the heavy rains and floods. The Fire and Rescue Services ersonnel also demonstrated the techniques on how people could protect themselves in cases of fire at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-and-rescue-services-personnel-conduct-drill/article36997251.ece
14 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Only Maharashtra, Gujarat used funds for wards of scavengers’||Over the last decade, only Gujarat and Maharashtra used funds from the National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation to assist wards of manual scavengers to pursue higher education abroad. According to information obtained through the Right To Information Act by Madurai-based activist S. Karthik from 2011-12 to 2021-22 (till September 23, 2021), 43 students from Gujarat and two from Maharashtra benefited from the Corporation. The Corporation, which is part of the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, spent Rs. 5.76 crore for students from Gujarat and Rs. 30.90 lakh for wards from Maharashtra. The aspirants applied for higher education in various fields, including engineering, medicine and research, in renowned universities and colleges in the USA, Europe, China, New Zealand and Australia, among others. There was no beneficiary from any other State, including Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Telangana and Karnataka, which was baffling, Mr. Karthik said. When there were over one lakh scavengers in the country, with higher numbers from metropolitan cities, it was shocking that none of the wards utilised the funds from the Corporation in a decade, he added. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Karthik said the Tamil Nadu government should conduct awareness programmes for students, especially wards of conservancy workers, in this regard. There were many bright students who belonged to the SC/ST community. Hence, the information should be disseminated to the stakeholders, who might take it up from the ensuing academic year. The political class in Tamil Nadu, which spoke about empowerment, social justice and self-respect, should take such schemes to the needy, which alone would bring about a change in society. An awareness programme in government and Corporation-run schools would benefit students. Similarly, universities and government collegesshould conduct programmes about the finance schemes/subsidies for students, he said.  The Tamil Nadu government should conduct awareness programmes for students S. Karthik RTI activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-maharashtra-gujarat-used-funds-for-wards-of-scavengers/article36997252.ece
14 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai candidate gets 5th rank in ICSI exam||S. Parvathy of the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, Madurai Chapter, has secured All India 5th rank in the professional examinations (new syllabus) conducted by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, New Delhi. The results of the examinations were declared on Wednesday. Ms. Parvathy cleared the final course papers at a single stretch. The Madurai Chapter of ICSI described it as a great achievement. Ms. Parvathy thanked her parents, teachers and friends for helping her achieve the goal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-candidate-gets-5th-rank-in-icsi-exam/article36997085.ece
14 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Consider plea to publish typing curriculum at affordable price: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State government to consider the representation made by Tamil Nadu Typewriting-Shorthand-Computer Institutes Sangam of Virudhunagar seeking publication of the syllabus book on ‘Certificate course in computer on office automation’ at affordable rate. Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said the request appeared to be reasonable, keeping in mind the economic status of the persons pursuing the course. It was just and necessary that prompt action be taken in this regard by authorities. Sangam president Soma Sankar said the certificate course offered by Directorate of Technical Education was conducted twice a year. The curriculum was framed by experts. The course book covering the syllabus was costly and not affordable. Hence, the book must be published at an affordable rate. The State government submitted that the book covering the syllabus of the certificate course would be issued after receiving the recommendation of the expert committee for change of syllabus. The court directed the State government to initiate action within two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-plea-to-publish-typing-curriculum-at-affordable-price-hc/article36997077.ece
14 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||IGNOU extends last date||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has extended the last date for submission of online admission applications for July 2021 session for UG and PG degree programmes (except semester based programmes) offered through distance learning mode till October 25. Interested candidates can visit the website of IGNOU at www.ignou.ac.in for online admission. Unemployed SC/ST students can claim fee exemption in many programmes. The candidates can contact IGNOU’s Regional Centre, Madurai on 0452 2380733/2380775. They can also email the office at rcmadurai@ignou.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ignou-extends-last-date/article36997248.ece
14 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||80% of Puducherry’s population covered with at least a single dose||An estimated 80% of the target population of 10 lakh have received a single dose of the COVID-19 vaccine and efforts were being intensified to reach out to the remaining unvaccinated people, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Wednesday. The Lt. Governor, who visited the vaccination camp at Gorimedu, told the media that several such camps were being organised to achieve 100% coverage of the population with at least single dose protection against COVID-19. As of now, around 35% of the population eligible for vaccination had completed both doses of the COVID vaccine, Ms. Soundararajan added. Ms. Soundararajan said it was a folly for those still reluctant to take the vaccination because COVID-19 numbers had declined. “On the contrary, the pandemic was under control because of the impetus to the vaccination programme,” she said. Vaccination was our only available protection against the coronavirus. India had taken the lead in granting emergency use authorisation for administering Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin in children and adolescents in the age group of 2-18 age group, she pointed out. The Lt. Governor called for increased awareness campaigns targeted at those avoiding vaccination, especially those who were putting off getting even the first dose. Interest of society It will go against the interest of the society if an unvaccinated person gets infected and spreads it in the community, she said. A.K.D. Aroumugam, MLA, G. Sriramulu, Health Director and other officials participated. Later, the Lt. Governor participated in the ground-breaking ceremony for renovating the Primary Health Centre at Thirubuvanai. The project was completed with CSR aid from Whirlpool and FXB India under a programme to upgrade medical infrastructure in the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/80-of-puducherrys-population-covered-with-at-least-a-single-dose/article36997066.ece
14 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Legislators want MCC for local bodies polls lifted||Legislators belonging to all political parties on Wednesday met State Election Commissioner Roy P. Thomas and urged him to lift the Model Code of Conduct following the direction of the Madras High Court to keep the local bodies polls in abeyance. The MCC came into force after the second notification of SEC announcing the re-scheduled poll dates were issued on October 7. The court while hearing a petition filed by Opposition leader R. Siva on October 11 had directed the Puducherry government and SEC to keep all further proceedings related to the local bodies elections in abeyance. The SEC had been asked to file its counter petition by October 21. The existence of MCC was hampering implementation of development and welfare schemes, the legislators said in the memorandum. They requested the SEC to hold consultation with elected representatives before taking steps regarding local bodies elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/legislators-want-mcc-for-local-bodies-polls-lifted/article36997323.ece
14 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress seeks clarification from CM on poll notification||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has sought a clarification from Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on the local bodies poll notification issued on October 7 to announce the election that did not contain provisions for reservation for Backward Classes and Scheduled Tribes. The Madras High Courthas since ordered that the poll notification be kept in abeyance. In a virtual statement on Tuesday night, the Congress leader said the notification issued by the State Election Commission on October 7 was signed by the Chief Minister, who also holds the Local Administration portfolio. “The Chief Minister should explain why he signed a file for the notification which did not provide reservation for BCs and STs. Conducting the poll without reservation for both these sections of the community is against social justice and the Constitution. The Chief Minister owes an apology for his decision,” he said. It was not appropriate for a Chief Minister to merely sign the files placed before him by the officials, he said adding that the government and State Election Commission (SEC) have messed up the local bodies poll in the Union Territory. The decision to provide reservation for BCs and STs was taken by the Congress government, he further added. The Madras High Court had to intervene twice now on the poll schedule announced by the SEC. The manner in which the election process was taken up by the SEC and the intervention of the court had put a question mark on the “capabilities,” of State Election Commissioner Roy P. Thomas, in conducting the local bodies election in a proper manner, the Congress leader said. The SEC never bothered to take political parties into confidence or correct the anomalies pointed out by the them, he said. “He should either resign on his own or the government should seek his resignation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-seeks-clarification-from-cm-on-poll-notification/article36997089.ece
14 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records one death||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 59 new cases on Wednesday. Puducherry reported the death taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,849. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,447), Karaikal (250), Yanam (107) and Mahe (45). Puducherry logged 33 of the new cases, which were detected from 4,817 tests, followed by Karaikal (10), Yanam (7) and Mahe (9). With 24 patients posting recovery in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 651. Of these, 91 patients were in hospitals and 560 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.22%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.03%. The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,27,210 cases against 1,24,710 recovered patients. Of an estimated 18.53 lakh tests conducted so far, over 15.71 lakh samples returned negative. Meanwhile, 4,057 persons took the COVID jab in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has to date administered 10,63,123 doses of vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-one-death/article36997068.ece
14 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Two mini fishing harbours planned||Union Ministry of Fisheries has given in-principle consent to sanction two mini fishing harbours for Puducherry. Following this, the Department of Fisheries identified one site at Pannithittu here and another at T. R. Pattinam in Karaikal region. On Wednesday, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, Speaker R. Selvam, Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan, officials from the PWD and Fisheries Department visited the site at Pannithittu. A team from the Central Institute of Coastal Engineering for Fishery, a government of India enterprise, would visit the two identified localities and prepare a techno-economic feasibility report. Based on the report, the Ministry would sanction funds for the construction of the mini harbours. Speaker R. Selvam, in whose constituency the site has been identified, said the harbour was a long-pending demand of fishermen residing in the hamlets of Narambai, Pannithittu and Murthikuppam. The harbour would help them berth at least 500 vessels, he added.  A team from Central Institute of Coastal Engineering for Fishery, will prepare a techno-economic feasibility report||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-mini-fishing-harbours-planned/article36997087.ece
14 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Government in favour of providing reservation for SC, BC and ST, says L-G||The government is in favour of providing reservation for Scheduled Castes/Backward Classes/Scheduled Tribes in local bodies and is consulting legal experts for ensuring social justice in allocation of posts in the now-deferred civic poll, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Wednesday. Addressing the media, Ms. Soundararajan said that as the matter was in the Madras High Court after the Supreme Court had ruled against any further delay, the government has to seek legal advice on setting the BC/ST reservation norms. She pointed out that in the just concluded rural local bodies elections in nine districts in Tamil Nadu, there had not been separate reservation for BC sections. The rules were framed in Puducherry to provide a share of seats to the BC sections. On the Opposition demand to change the State Election Commissioner for the muddle that led to the postponement of the local bodies election twice, the Lt. Governor said as much as the Opposition had every right to voice their view in a democracy, the government had to go by the rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-in-favour-of-providing-reservation-for-sc-bc-and-st-says-l-g/article36997325.ece
14 October 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Trickster arrested, 12 ATM cards seized||A trickster, who was cheating people, especially young women, was arrested here on Wednesday. Following a complaint from a woman, Superintendent of Police E. Karthik directed the police to register a case. According to the complainant, the accused, D. Immanuvel Raja, 43, of Kovilpatti in Thoothukudi district, had claimed himself to be a cinema director from Chennai. He was staying in a posh hotel in Rameswaram and ‘interviewed’ young girls in the hotel room. Suspected by his activities, the complainant alerted the police, following which he was picked up for interrogation. The police said the accused had a history of cheating, robbery and other crimes in Kovilpatti west police station limits. In the past, he was also detained under the Goondas Act. It was revealed that he had booked a room in the hotel, where he took photographs and videos of women. When some of the ‘candidates’ showed keen interest in acting in films and were ready to shell out money, the trickster gave them false hopes and collected money from them. During a search, the police seized 12 ATM cards, three different bank cheque books, two high-end mobile phones and two ordinary hand phones from his room. A senior officer said the accused had videographed and photographed some women in compromising positions without their knowledge. Probably, he intended to threaten them with the contents to squeeze money from them, he added. Rameswaram town police have registered cases and seized a two-wheeler. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trickster-arrested/article36997095.ece
14 October 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Campaign on||A legal awareness campaign was flagged off on the Ramanathapuram district court premises on Wednesday by Principal District and Sessions Judge R. Shanmuga Sundaram. The event was organised to commemorate the 75th year of Independence. A Mobile van with a large display screen was deployed as part of the legal awareness campaign. Pamphlets were distributed to the people and short films on legal awareness were screened for the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaign-on/article36997091.ece
14 October 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Resume talks with Lankan government’||Reiterating their charter of demands, the mechanised boat fishermen from Rameswaram staged a demonstration on Tuesday. Led by fishermen leader Sesu Raja, they demanded the Union government to resume talks with the Sri Lankan government immediately and ensure safety for the fishermen while fishing in the Palk Bay. The Sri Lankan Navy personnel, under the guise of crossing the territorial waters, harassed the fishermen from Tamil Nadu, he charged. Only when the Sri Lankan Navy adopted a friendly approach, the livelihood of the fishermen from Tamil Nadu would be safe and secure, he said and added that the Union and State governments should provide subsidy on diesel which would help them overcome financial strains. Similarly, about 150 fishing boats, which were seized by the Sri Lankan Navy in the past, remained in the island nation. The governments, through dialogue, should help retrieve the boats and also give financial assistance to repair them, Mr Sesu Raja said. “We are worried about our survival and there was no place for politics...The governments are aware of our problems,” he responded when asked to comment on the relationship between Union government and the Tamil Nadu government. The Rameswaram fishermen have been staying off the sea since October 9 as a mark of a week-long protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resume-talks-with-lankan-government/article36997083.ece
14 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Additional stoppages of train from today||With effect from Thursday, Train No. 06121/06122 Virudhachalam – Salem Junction – Virudhachalam DEMU special trains will have additional stoppages at Kuttakudi, Siruvattur, Melnariyappanur, Thalaivasal, Valapadi Gate and at Ayodhyapattanam railway stations, a release from Salem Railway Junction said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-stoppages-of-train-from-today/article36997099.ece
14 October 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||DMK-led combine wrests district panchayat council and all 10 PUs in Tenkasi||Like neighbouring Tirunelveli, the DMK-led combine has wrested the district panchayat council and all 10 panchayat unions in Tenkasi district with resounding majority. All 14 seats in the district panchayat council have been won by the DMK-led alliance. While the DMK has bagged 10 seats, the Congress, DMK’s major ally, has got 3 seats while the remaining one seat has gone in favour of MDMK, another ally of the DMK. In the 10 panchayat union councils of the district, the DMK and its allies have won 120 of the 144 seats – DMK - 95, Congress – 12 and MDMK – 13 while AIADMK had to satisfy with 13 seats. The voters have not given to AIADMK even one councilor in the Alangulam, Melaneeilithanallur, Shencottai, Tenkasi and Kuruvikulam panchayat union councils. The then ruling party, which had given ministerial berth to Sankarankovil MLA V.M. Rajalakshmi till 2021, has got just one member in the Sanakarankovil panchayat union council, having 17 members. Similarly, the AIADMK has got just one member in the 12-member Kadayanallur panchayat union council though this Assembly segment is being represented by AIADMK’s Krishna Murali alias Kuttiyappa, son of late Minister Chendurpandian. Voters of Alangulam, who reposed their faith in AIADMK’s Paul Manoj Pandian in the Assembly polls held only in last April, have gifted all 23 panchayat council wards to the DMK (16), Congress (3) and the Independents (4). The MDMK, an electoral ally of the DMK, has bagged 8 of the 17 wards in the Kuruvikulam panchayat union that houses party general secretary Vaiko’s native place, Kalingapatti. Hence, the MDMK is likely to head the Kuruvikulam panchayat union council for which the DMK, having 6 councillors, is likely to agree. The DMK is likely to name party office-bearer Socrates, who has been elected from ward 9 of the district panchayat council as its chairman, party sources say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-led-combine-wrests-district-panchayat-council-and-all-10-pus-in-tenkasi/article36997373.ece
14 October 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Student, octogenarian win top panchayat post||A postgraduate college girl and an octogenarian are among those who have been elected panchayat presidents in the rural local bodies polls held in nine newly carved-out districts. When Lakshmiyur and other hamlets falling under Venkadampatti village panchayat in Kadayam union were facing a drinking water crisis a couple of years ago, Ravi Subramanian, a farmer, stepped up to the plate and supplied drinking water in his tanker. Now, his 22-year-old daughter, R. Saarukala, a postgraduate engineering student, has become the president of Venkadampatti village panchayat. “I have personally seen people’s agonising struggle for drinking water even though we are situated close to the Gadana irrigation system. I am determined to provide a lasting solution to this problem,” she said. When the civic polls were notified, Mr. Subramanian asked his daughter if she was interested in contesting the elections since Venkadampatti village panchayat, with 23 hamlets, was reserved for women. She instantly said yes. She bagged 3,336 of the 6,656 votes polled in a four-cornered contest. “The people backed me overwhelmingly. With the drinking water schemes being executed by the Central (Jal Jeevan) and State governments, I will provide an effective solution to the drinking water issue,” she said. Ms. Saarukala also promised the youth of her panchayat that they would get adequate facilities to showcase their sporting skills. Her other promises include community halls, libraries, proper roads and healthcare. Vowing to eliminate corruption, she said all the funds sanctioned for various schemes would be utilised properly. When asked if she would go back to her college to complete the second year of her postgraduate degree, Ms. Saarukala said she would get permission to do her project from her native place itself so that she could serve the people. In Tirunelveli district, Perumathal, an 80-year-old woman, has become her son’s successor as Sivanthipatti village panchayat president. After Thangapandian decided to take up a larger role in Palayamkottai panchayat union, he fielded his mother in Sivanthipatti village panchayat. In a three-cornered contest, Ms. Perumathal won by a margin of over 1,000 votes. Her rivals forfeited their deposits. “I will work towards creating better basic amenities in the panchayat,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-octogenarian-win-top-panchayat-post/article36996940.ece
14 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Special postal cover released||The Thirubhuvanam Silk Handloom Weavers’ Cooperative Production and Sales Society Limited, Z-322 (Thicosilks), Thirubhuvanam, has tied up with the India Post to use the services of the department to publicise its products. The deal was sealed between the society and the Postal Department on Wednesday. The Director of Postal Services (Headquarters), Tamil Nadu Circle, B.Arumugam and the Mayiladuthurai MP, S.Ramalingam took part in the function at Thirubhuvanam for release of a special postal cover. The special postal cover priced at Rs. 25 was released to commemorate the grant of geographical index tag to the ‘Thirubhuvanam silk sarees,’ secured by the society in coordination with the Nodal Officer, GI Registration, Tamil Nadu government, P.Sanjai Gandhi. The special cover released by Mr.Arumugam was received by the Thiruvidaimaruthur MLA, Govi.Chezhian. The society’s Managing Director, S.Selvam handed over a cheque bearing the amount required to publicise the Thicosilks products on the post cards under the ‘Meghdoot Post Card’ scheme, to the department. The Tamil Nadu Circle will place an order for a minimum of 1,00,000 cards carrying the Thicosilks advertisement with the Security Printing Press at Hyderabad and will make the ‘Meghdoot Post Card’ with Thicosilks advertisement available for sale at the post offices in the areas specified by the Thicosilks, sources said. Recently, the society received the national award for marketing of handloom products for the year 2018 from the Union Ministry of Textiles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-postal-cover-released/article36997064.ece
14 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NCTP takes cognisance of article on Santhi Soundarajan||Gopi Shankar Madurai, the South Regional Representative of the National Council for Transgender Persons (NCTP), a statutory authority under the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, has taken suo motu cognisance of a “discriminatory and inter-phobic” Tamil magazine article against Santhi Soundarajan, a recipient of several medals at various international sporting events, who is currently serving as a coach in the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDATN). The NCTP sought an on-record complaint from Santhi Soundarajan. She emailed the complaint against the Tamil magazine and athletics coach Rajan Abraham who, she alleged, had repeatedly harassed her on the basis of her gender identity and caste. The athlete, who belongs to a Scheduled Caste community and is a native of Pudukottai district, sent the complaint on Tuesday to the NCTP, which attends to the grievances of inter-sex and gender non-conforming persons and takes suo motu cognisance of their grievances. “We received the e-mail complaint from Santhi Soundarajan on Tuesday evening, and the NCTP has taken cognisance of it and will seek an explanation from Rajan Abraham, the Tamil magazine and the journalist who wrote the article,” Gopi Shankar told The Hindu on Wednesday. The article was “highly discriminatory and inter-phobic in nature”, he added. In her complaint, the athlete alleged repeated gender-based and caste-based harassment by Rajan Abraham, her colleague, adding that he had also given interviews against her gender identity to the media, colleagues and trainees. She also complained that he was preventing her from discharging her official duties, and that the remarks allegedly made by him had affected her family members. She sought protection for herself in the complaint she sent to the NCTP. Rajan Abraham, in a recent interview to the Tamil magazine, made remarks legitimising the gender test on Santhi, which was ruled unscientific by the Court of Arbitration for Sport in 2015, Gopi Shankar said. The NCTP would file a criminal defamation complaint if it did not receive the replies within 30 days, he said. The organisation would constitute a fact-finding team to look into Santhi’s complaint and take necessary action based on the report after inquiring with her and Rajan Abraham. “We are not treating it as an isolated case, but as an attack on female athletes with diverse sex characteristics,” Gopi Shankar said. Santhi had, in September 2018, filed a harassment complaint against a male colleague, alleging that he had made casteist remarks and had made fun of her gender. She also lodged a complaint with the National Commission for the Scheduled Castes, the National Human Rights Commission and the National Commission for Women, Gopi Shankar said.  We received the e-mail complaint from Santhi Soundarajan on Tuesday evening, and the NCTP has taken cognisance of it and will seek an explanation from Rajan Abraham, the Tamil magazine and the journalist who wrote it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nctp-takes-cognisance-of-article-on-santhi-soundarajan/article36996967.ece
14 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers initiated into drumstick cultivation||Under Unnath Bharath Abiyan 2.0 (UBA) scheme of the Ministry of Human Resource Development, New Delhi, St. Joseph's College has undertaken a project to initiate farmers in Manikandam block into undertaking moringa cultivation and manufacturing value-added products. The initiative started off with ‘Moringa Project Orientation and Sapling Distribution for Farmers’ for improving their income generation capacities. The college reached out to farmers of Thoppupatti, Inam Mathur, Sethurapatti and other villages in Manikandam block through its extension wing SHEPHERD (Science and Humanities for People's Development). Secretary of the college Rev. Fr. S. Peter explained the health benefits of moringa while handing over packages of 10 saplings each to 30 farmers during a recent interface at the institution’s Herbal Garden at Nagamangalam. The objective was to enhance the quality of life of the villagers through drumstick farming; the farmers were sensitised to the scope for rewarding returns, Rev. Fr. M. Berchmans, Director of Extension Department, said. According to Jayachandran, Senior Coordinator, Extension Department, the project envisages perennial fund assistance. S.R. Senthilkumar, Head, Department of Botany, sensitised farmers to the demand for drumstick, flower and leaf in the market. S.J. Vijayalalithaa, Professor, Center for Agricultural Sciences, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (Kris Vikyan Kendra), Sirugamani, further oriented farmers on the methods of marketing. Prof. Vijayalalithaa emphasised that powdered leaves of moringa cultivated in organic method commands a high value in the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-initiated-into-drumstick-cultivation/article36997076.ece
14 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Roads dug up for sewer lines cause hardship to vehicle users||The deplorable condition of roads in the city, where underground drainage (UGD) works have been taken up, has caused severe inconvenience to motorists. The Tiruchi Corporation began the construction of the phase-II UGD project in 2018 in order to increase the coverage of underground drainage. Within a few months, it also started the construction of the Phase-III UGD project. UGD works such as laying underground pipelines, construction of chambers and others are on in various residential areas in the city. Many parts of Tiruchi-Thanjavur road, Mahalakshmi Nagar, Kattur, Ariyamangalam, K.K. Nagar, LIC Nagar, Edamalaipatti Pudur, Devadhanam, Airport areas, some parts of Woraiyur, Cantonment, Wireless Road and R.S. Puram are among the residential areas, where the works are on. Roads have been dug up at various spots to facilitate the construction activities. While the corporation chose to relay some of the roads, where the UGD works were completed, in the run-up to the Assembly elections, road works are yet to commence in many areas. Though the residents managed to commute through the uneven roads in many areas, they face untold miseries since the onset of pre-monsoon showers in the city. The city continues to get rain once in two to three days for the last two weeks. It has made several roads slushy and slippery. Some of the roads resemble paddy fields. It has caused severe inconvenience to the motorists. Several residents find it difficult even to go to the neighbouring grocery and vegetable shops. “None of the roads in R.S. Puram is motorable. They are not only riddled with potholes but also slushy and slippery. In the absence of public transport to the interior parts, the residents invariably depend upon their own vehicles to commute. The deplorable roads have made driving vehicles very difficult,” says H. Ghouse Baig, a resident of Khajamalai, who frequents R.S. Puram. Since the city started receiving showers, the corporation continues to receive numerous petitions, seeking immediate attention to bring the roads motorable. There were residents, who took up the issue with Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru too. While admitting there were issues in some parts of the city P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, said that the unseasonal rain had not only affected the progress of the UGD works but also made some roads slushy. He had given clear instruction to the UGD contractors to take necessary steps to ensure the residents commute by reducing the inconvenience as much as possible. But the frequent rain had been a major hindrance. All possible steps would be taken to improve the road condition until the UGD works were over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roads-dug-up-for-sewer-lines-cause-hardship-to-vehicle-users/article36997071.ece
14 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Heritage museum inaugurated||Sepia-tinted reprints of photographs featuring visits by Nobel laureates Rabindranath Tagore and C.V. Raman, late Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, late President R. Radhakrishnan and various Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu figure among highlights of the milestone years in the Heritage Museum inaugurated on Wednesday by St. Joseph’s College in its heritage campus. Named after Rev. Fr. Audibert, the first rector and principal who started ‘St Joseph’s Collegium’ in Nagapattinam in September 1844, under the auspices of Fathers of Society of Jesus (the Jesuits) with just one pupil in a small hut, the museum chronicles the college’s rise as an educational institution that had nurtured many students in southern India. The college shifted to Tiruchi in 1883, from where it continues to function in its heritage campus in the Chathiram area. Former President Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, an alumnus of the intermediate school and college from 1950-1954, has been commemorated with a special display. The museum talks about the history and origins of the buildings on its campus, such as the Lawley Hall, Clive’s House and the Indo-Gothic style Lourdes Church. The Audibert museum, located near the Inigo Block, was blessed by Most Rev. Dr. S. Arockiaraj DD, STD, Bishop of Tiruchirapalli Diocese. Museum architect and designer Hermon Carduz and D. Augustus Manimaran were felicitated for their contribution to the project. Rev. Dr. M. Arockiasamy Xavier SJ said ‘the college is a priceless treasure house of information, that brings a feeling of nostalgia among us about the 178 years of our history. It tells the world how this institution grew up gradually. This museum explains the sacrifices and achievements of those who have worked and studied here. It proudly proclaims to the world how it took part in the process of nation-building.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heritage-museum-inaugurated/article36997079.ece
14 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Namakku Naame’ scheme to be revived||The Tiruchi Corporation has proposed to revive the Namakku Naame Thitttam to create basic infrastructure with the contribution of the public. The scheme, which was popular in the erstwhile DMK regime between 2006 and 2011, was not given importance between 2011 and 2021. It has once again been revived with the DMK returning to power. Circular Based on a circular, the Tiruchi Corporation has issued detailed guidelines on involving the public to contribute to implementing various infrastructural schemes in the city. Corporation Commissioner P.M.N Mujibur Rahuman said that the scheme would facilitate the creation of basic infrastructure as per the expectation of the people. For any work, the public contribution should be one-third of the estimated value. In respect of the works related to the renovation of water bodies, the minimum public contribution should be 50% for the desilting and bund formation component. For other components such as pathway, retaining wall, light and bench facilities, the minimum public contribution would be one-third of estimated value. Individuals, resident welfare groups, institutions, public or private companies could contribute. He said that renovation of water bodies, formation, improvement and renovation of parks, playgrounds, traffic islands, fountains, streetlights, installation of solar high mast lamps at vantage points, planting of trees and installation of tree guards, construction of libraries, construction and renovation of buildings for schools, colleges, hospitals, urban primary health centres could be implemented under the scheme. He said that Tiruchi had a great potential to involve the public in the creation of civic assets. It had been taken to the notice of resident welfare associations, institutions and industries and prominent individuals. The public should make use of the opportunity in taking part in the drive, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakku-naame-scheme-to-be-revived/article36997086.ece
14 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special tourist train||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC) will operate an exclusive Bharat Darshan special tourist train ‘Shri Ramayana Yatra’ from Madurai via Tiruchi, Thanjavur, and Kumbakonam. The package cost for the 13 day tour starting from Madurai on November 16 is Rs. 14,490 per person including GST. The tour will cover Hampi, Nasik, ChitrakutDham, Varanasi, Gaya, Sitamarhi, Janakpur (Nepal), Ayodhya, Nandigram, Prayagraj and Shringaverpur. The train journey would be in sleeper class and accommodation would be provided in non AC hall / dharmashalas. The other features of the tour would be non AC road transfers, south Indian vegetarian food, tour escort and security for each coach, travel insurance and provision of protection kits such as sanitiser, mask, face shield and gloves. This exclusive budget tourist train package could be availed by people residing in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and Puducherry. Further details could be obtained from the IRCTC Tourism Information and Facilitation Centre, Tiruchi in the mobile number 82879-31974 and Madurai - 82879-31977, a press release from the IRCTC Joint General Manager, South Zone, Chennai, A.P. Sundararajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-tourist-train/article36997080.ece
14 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||The TANGEDCO has announced power shutdown in the following areas served by Thuvakudi sub-station from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. on October 16 in view of maintenance works: Parts of C-Sector in BHEL Township, A, E, R, and PH sectors, Nehru Nagar, Anna Arch, Akbar Salai, M.T. Salai, Government Polytechnic, National Institute of Technology, Rouwthan Medu, BHEL Nagar, Indira Nagar, Thuvakudi, Thuvakudi Industrial Estate, Burma Nagar, Devarayaneri, Theneeraptti, Asoor, and Poigaikudi, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article36997081.ece
14 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||DMK captures all 9 PU councils||The DMK has comfortably captured all nine panchayat union councils and the district panchayat council with a thumping majority even as the AIADMK had to content with just a few consoling victories. Of the 122 panchayat union council wards in the district, the DMK and its allies have bagged 90 wards while the AIADMK and its electoral ally have won only 17 wards – AIADMK 14 and the BJP 3. In the 12-member district panchayat council, the AIADMK has no presence as the Opposition party has lost the battle in all these wards by huge margin. After electing AIADMK’s Esakki Subbiah as their MLA in the Assembly election held just five months ago, Ambasamudram voters have let down the party in the civic polls. The electorates have backed the DMK-led alliance as all nine union council wards have gone in favour of the DMK and the Congress which have bagged eight seats and one seat respectively. While the AIADMK will have no member also in Kalakkad and Pappakudi panchayat unions, the party will have just one member in Valliyoor and Palayamkottai unions. Nanguneri panchayat union is the only solace for the AIADMK where it has won five of the 16 wards even as the DMK has bagged eight wards. Even though the AIADMK can pacify the lone AMMK candidate and the two independents, it can only match the DMK’s strength. Hence, the DMK, being the ruling party, will easily ‘bring’ the independents to its camp to get the majority and get the chairmanship. In the election for the district panchayat council wards, the AIADMK was let down by voters. Of the 12 district panchayat council wards, the DMK has won 11 seats and the remaining seat has gone in favour of the Congress. As the DMK is all set to get the chairmanship, the party’s candidate from ward 12 in Radhapuram V.S.R. Jegadeesh, a good organiser of party events who defected from the AIADMK to the DMK a couple of years ago, is likely to get the coveted post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-captures-all-9-pu-councils/article36997375.ece
14 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 3 lakh stolen from firm||Police are on the lookout for the burglars who have decamped with Rs. 3 lakh and Rs. 1-lakh worth computer peripherals from a finance firm. The police said the burglars who entered a finance firm’s office of builder Murugan, 45, at KTC Nagar in Palayamkottai, stole Rs. 3 lakh in cash and the peripherals. When the workers returned to the office after two days of holidays, the crime came to light. Police have collected CCTV footages from the scene of crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-3-lakh-stolen-from-finance-firm/article36997072.ece
14 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Wednesday stood at 101 feet (maximum level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 1,729 cusecs and a discharge of 204.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 66.50 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 197 cusecs and nil discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36997376.ece
14 October 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead in PAP canal||A man aged between 35 and 40 was found dead in the Parambikulam Aliyar Project (PAP) canal in Tiruppur district on Wednesday. The police said that the body was spotted by people at Kavundampalayam near Peruntholuvu around 7.30 a.m. They informed the Avinashipalayam police. The body was retrieved by the Fire and Rescue Services. It was shifted to the mortuary of the Government Medical College Hospital, Tiruppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-dead-in-pap-canal/article36997000.ece
14 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||VIT ties up with Indian Bank to fund growth-stage start-ups||The Vellore Institute of Technology’s Technology Business Incubator (VITTBI) has tied up with Indian Bank to fund start-ups supported by VITTBI. According to a VIT press release, the funding will be done under ‘IND SpringBoard’, Indian Bank’s initiative to provide funding up to Rs. 50 crore to growth-stage start-ups. An MoU was exchanged between G. Viswanathan, Chancellor, VIT, and Sudhakar Rao, General Manager (MSME), Indian Bank, during a ceremony held at VIT, Vellore. According to the release, Mr. Viswanathan, underscored the importance of such innovative banking schemes to address funding gaps and growth-stage challenges of technology start-ups. VITTBI has been providing grants, loans, and equity-based financing to early-stage start-ups. Mr. Rao was quoted as saying that the bank would also consider applications evaluated by VITTBI and loans up to Rs. 2 crore would be collateral-free under the CGTSME scheme. Four VITTBI incubated start-ups had received in-principle approval under the scheme. G. V. Selvam, vice president, VIT, along with senior university and bank officials participated.  The funding will be done under ‘IND SpringBoard’, an initiative of Indian Bank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vits-business-incubator-ties-up-with-indian-bank-to-fund-growth-stage-start-ups/article36996957.ece
14 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 21 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,597 with 21 new cases reported on October 13. While a total 48,264 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 208. The district's death toll is 1125. In Ranipet district, 10 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,243. In Tirupathur district, 10 new cases were reported on Wednesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,158. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 20, taking the total number of cases to 54,625. Out of this, 53,719 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 240.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-21-new-cases/article36997379.ece
14 October 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Special medical camp at Virudhunagar hospital||A special camp for pulmonary function test for Asthma patients and people with chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases was held at Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital on Wednesday. “With the new medical college getting ready, we have recently set up the Department of Respiratory Medicine and we wanted the people to know about the specialised facilities available in the hospital through the camp,” said Dean J. Sangumani. People with respiratory problem need not any more go to Madurai for getting the pulmonary function test, the Dean said. Medical Superintendent Dr. Palanikumar and Resident Medical Officer Dr. Aravind Babu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-medical-camp-at-virudhunagar-hospital/article36997094.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to implement urban job scheme||Among municipalities, Nellikuppam in Chengalpattu, Kallakurichi in Vellore, Kulithalai in Salem, Vellakoil in Tiruppur, Thiruthuraipoondi in Thanjavur, Oddanchatram in Madurai and Puliyankudi in Tirunelveli have been chosen for the scheme. The 37 town panchayats in as many districts where the scheme would be implemented are: Uthiramerur (Kancheepuram), Edaikazhinadu (Chengalpattu), Podhaturpet (Tiruvallur), Pallikonda (Vellore), Alangayam (Tirupattur), Nemili (Ranipet), Polur (Tiruvannamalai), Kambainallur (Dharmapuri), Nagojanahalli (Krishnagiri), Kadayampatty (Salem), R. Pudupatty (Namakkal), Jambai (Erode), Komaralingam (Tiruppur), Vettaikaranpudur (Coimbatore), Devarshola (the Nilgiris), Killai (Cuddalore), Ananthapuram (Villupuram), Vadakkanandal (Kallakurichi), Perumagalur (Thanjavur), Keezhvelur (Nagapattinam), Manalmedu (Mayiladuthurai), Kodaracheri (Tiruvarur),Pullampadi (Tiruchi), Kurumbalur (Perambalur), Varadharajanpet (Ariyalur), Keeramangalam (Pudukkottai), Thadicombu (Dindigul), P.J. Cholapuram (Karur), Alanganallur (Madurai), Mallanginar (Virudhunagar), C. Pudupatti (Theni), Nerkuppai (Sivaganga), R.S. Mangalam (Ramanathapuram), Panagudi (Tirunelveli), Sundarapandiapuram (Tenkasi), Authoor (Thoothukudi) and Killiyur (Kanniyakumari). As per another G.O. issued earlier, no less than 50% of total person days under the Tamil Nadu Urban Employment Scheme will be earmarked for women. Women and men would be paid the same wages for the same unskilled and semi-skilled work. The scheme is based on the recommendations made by a committee led by former RBI Governor C. Rangarajan. An initial allocation of Rs. 100 crore has been made during 2021-22 for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-implement-urban-job-scheme/article36996935.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Greetings to Governor||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/greetings-to-governor/article36996937.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements for Friday||OCTOBER 15   Jansons Institute of Technology: Mopho Club organises Photography Contest, JIT campus, 9 a.m.  Skillfavs: Launch of Skill Development and Career Guidance, Rajiv Chandrasekhar, Minister of State for Skill Development, Entrepreneurship, Electronics and Information Technology, M.K. Raghavan, MP, take part, Welcomhotel by ITC Hotels, Race Course, 12 noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-for-friday/article36996996.ece
14 October 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Stop animal sacrifice’||Sri Dayananda Swami, chairman of Vishwa Prani Kalyan Mandali, has started a movement against animal sacrifice in places of worship. He launched a rally in Belagavi on Wednesday, to create awareness against the ritual of animal slaughter in Bishta Devi temple in Kakkeri village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stop-animal-sacrifice/article36997118.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Building collapses, roof of another caves in||The heavy rains that have been battering the city over the past few days seem to have weakened several buildings. The foundation of a three-storey building at NGO Colony, Kamalanagar, gave way late Tuesday night, while the sidewall of an old single-storey house collapsed at PVN Lane, Nagarathpet, on Wednesday morning. Fortunately, in both these incidents, there were no casualties. According to sources in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the foundation of the three-storey house at NGO Colony, which falls in Mahalakshmi Layout Assembly constituency, collapsed around 10 p.m. A bedroom of one of the houses on the ground floor also gave way. The people living there rushed out to safety and alerted the others in the building. The structure had been identified as weak and dilapidated by the BBMP and notices had also been issued. The civic body demolished the building as well as another one-storey building adjacent to it. Minister for Excise Gopalaiah, who visited the spot with civic chief Gaurav Gupta, told reporters that residents of the building and a few neighbouring buildings had been evacuated. While some had moved into their relatives’ houses, a few families were accommodated in the local government school building. BBMP sources said that the building owner, now identified as Rajeshwari, has been absconding for nearly a year. The owner had taken an advance and lease amount from the residents. “Of the eight flats in the building, two were vacant. Residents were waiting to vacate after receiving their dues from the building owner,” officials said. For safety, the residents of five to six adjacent houses had also been asked to vacate. “Once the demolition is complete and if there are no more damags, the residents of adjacent homes can return to their homes,” said Mr. Gopalaiah, who added that the police were on the lookout for the owner of the dilapidated building. Residents, most of whom belong to lower socio-economic groups, lamented about the civic body not allowing them to collect their valuables from their homes. Visibly anguished, one of the residents said he had saved up for his daughter’s wedding and had even bought gold jewellery. “We have not been allowed to go back to retrieve these items,” he said. Civic officials attributed the foundation giving way to the loosening of the soil behind the building due to heavy rains. “There are vacant sites behind the three-storey building. Due to rains, the soil was eroded and the foundation was exposed,” an official said.  Meanwhile, another building partially collapsed at PVN Lane in Nagarathpet. According to civic officials, the building with old Mangalore tiled roof was nearly 70-years-old and had been vacant for more than six years. The side wall of the building collapsed around 10 a.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/building-collapses-roof-of-another-caves-in/article36996872.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Second TBM emerges at Shivajinagar||After a gap of 21 days, one more Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) achieved a breakthrough on Wednesday. Vindhya tunnelled a distance of 855 metres from Cantonment underground metro station and came out at the south end of the proposed Shivajinagar underground station on the Pink Line. On September 22, Urja had emerged at Shivajinagar after tunneling from Cantonment and became the first TBM to breakthrough under phase II of Namma Metro project. TBM Vindhya burrowed a parallel tunnel to that created by Urja. “When Urja came out at Shivajinagar, Vindhya was tunneling 70m away from Shivajinagar. As expected, Vindhya also emerged at the designated point on Wednesday morning,” said Chief PRO of BMRCL B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan. It will be dismantled and transported to a landing shaft on the other side of Cantonment underground station. From there, it will build a tunnel towards Pottery Town. Under phase II, BMRCL has deployed nine TBMs to build a 14-km network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-tbm-emerges-at-shivajinagar/article36996877.ece
14 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Experts caution against draining hydel resources to make up for coal shortage||Good rain in the catchment areas has resulted inall the three major hydel reservoirs of the State having a good storage, similar to last year’s levels. But what has caused concern in the power sector is excessive usage of the hydel storage, apparently to make up for the coal shortage. Experts feel that peak load management of power in summer months may be affected if the State continues to draw hydel power in excess for some more time.  Mix of sources Karnataka that has a mix of thermal, hydel, and renewable energy sources, as a thumb rule uses hydel storage as back-up power during the summer months to manage the peak load when the demand for power shoots up. This helps in proper management of power supply without load-shedding. During other seasons too, hydel storage is used for managing peak load. This would mean that only a small quantum of hydel storage would be used on a daily basis. However, the present situation of slightly excessive usage of hydel storage has caused concern. “Perhapsthe authorities did not have other option but to increase hydel generation to make up for any shortage in coal availability. But any excessive usage of hydel energy for a longer time now is bound to have an impact during summer months. Those who manage the power supply will have a tough time handling the situation in summer if such a trend continues,” observed a retired senior official.“If the State has been able to manage the power supply well during summer months in the last few years, that is because of the flexibility provided by good hydel storage,” pointed out another retired senior engineer, who stressed the need to conserve hydel energy now, taking advantage of the fact that the demand for power had reduced due to lesser consumption by irrigation pump sets on account of rains. Statistics show that the three major hydel reservoirs of Linganamakki, Supa, and Mani had 85.09% of cumulative storage around 8 a.m. on October 13 as against 85.1% on the same day last year. This would mean that it is possible to generate 7,393 million units of energy from this level of storage. The State can generate an average of 24.4 million units of hydel energy a day if the entire hydel storage has to last till June 30, 2022, when the hydel reservoirs would again start getting inflows during the southwest monsoon. Generation However, the State has now been generating 38.925 MUs of power a day which comprises 26.07 MUs from major hydel reservoirs and 12.85 MUs from minor hydro stations that operate mostly during the rainy season. Experts said it was not about using about 2 MUs of additional hydel storage over and above the average, but to make efforts to conserve it. However,both the retired officials said that the situation was yet to go out of control as there was an indication of Karnataka continuing to get some more good spells of rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/experts-caution-against-draining-hydel-resources-to-make-up-for-coal-shortage/article36996886.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||TAC recommends revision of COVID-19 testing targets||The COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended revision of testing targets keeping in mind the Test Positivity Rate (TPR), seven-day average of effective Reproduction Number (Rt No.) and the ensuing fairs and festivals in October-November. Recommending a total daily target of 1.1 lakh till November, the TAC suggested that 50,000 tests be done daily in Bengaluru and 60,000 in the rest of Karnataka. Half of the 60,000 tests should be in border districts, stated the TAC’s report. So far, although a target of 1.5 lakh had been fixed, the number of daily tests had reduced in the last fortnight ranging between 79,000 and 1.6 lakh. Health officials said this was mainly because people were hesitant to get tested now, especially when they do not have any symptoms. The TAC that discussed revision of testing targets at its 128th meeting noted that the weekly TPR of the State as of October 9 was 0.44%. “Only two districts — Chikkamagaluru (1.25%) and Hassan (1.04%) — have a TPR of over 1%. While 41% of the total 451 cases reported on October 9 are from Bangalore Urban, 59% are from the rest of Karnataka and five districts (Bagalkot, Gadag, Haveri, Koppal, Raichur and Yadgir) reported zero cases. With a general decline in the number of cases, a revision of testing targets has been sought,” the report stated. Recommending that 50% of the daily tests should be done at the district headquarters, the TAC reiterated that 10% of the samples should be drawn from schoolchildren. “In case of deficits of meeting the testing targets, random samples from crowded populations and others like those in closed markets, shopkeepers, caterers, restaurant staff, home delivery personnel and others should be tested,” the report stated. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing, said there was a huge hesitancy among people to get tested now. “But we should continue testing to sustain the TPR,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tac-recommends-revision-of-testing-targets-in-karnataka/article36996881.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Classes I-V: Parents to be consulted before decision on reopening||Parents of lower primary students will be consulted before the State government decides to reopen schools for Classes I-V. Sources in the Department of Public Instruction said that a section of parents, particularly those whose children are enrolled in government and aided schools, are batting for offline classes to resume. However, another section do not want to send their children to schools until they are vaccinated. “Even though we have allowed Classes VI onwards to function offline, many schools are not reopening as they have not received consent from parents to reopen. So we need to hold consultations and arrive at what is needed for both parents and school management,” an official said. The Department of State Educational Research and Training (DSERT) has decided to hold a consultation for officials of the department on October 18 to chalk out the responsibilities and the SOPs for school managements as well as officials of the department if the lower primary classes are reopened. Srimathi R., a parent of a Class IV student said, “We want to send our children to school, but we need to ensure that there are adequate classrooms, and that students are taught in batches. The school management is not ready to do this as they will need to shell out more money to make the necessary infrastructural changes. We are not willing to pay an additional fee,” she said. Mullahalli Suri, member, Parents’ Association, said parents are still apprehensive as the pandemic has not ended. “Schools need to take all precautionary measures. Managements can consider roping in parents as volunteers to ensure that protocol is followed,” he said. While the department is keen on starting classes after November 1, it needs the approval of the COVID-19 State Technical Advisory Committee.  Schools need to take all precautionary measures. Managements can consider roping in parents as volunteers to ensure that protocol is followed. Mullahalli Suri member, Parents’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/classes-i-v-parents-to-be-consulted-before-decision-on-reopening/article36996861.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Former DG&IGP Bidari’s bank account hacked||Cyber criminals targeted a former Director-General and Inspector-General of Police under the pretext of updating his bank account and used his OTP to transfer Rs. 68,000 out of his account. Acting on a complaint by Shankar M. Bidari, the South East Cybercrime Police have registered a case against unknown persons charging them under various sections of the IT Act, 2000. In his complaint, Mr. Bidari told the police that he received a message on his phone instructing him to update his KYC details. The message also warned that the account would be blocked if the KYC details were not updated. A few minutes later he received a call from a person claiming that he was calling from the bank’s helpline. The person said that he would update his KYC details, and asked for the OTP number. Mr. Bidari gave the OTP and immediately realised he should not have shared it. Within a second Rs. 68,000 had been transferred out of his account. He called the bank to raise a complaint before approaching the police. The police have stepped up investigations and asked the bank officials to freeze the transaction. In March this year, cyber criminals hacked into his email account and cheated one of his contacts of Rs. 25,000. Prior to that, unknown persons had hacked into the bank account of former DG&IGP Ajai Kumar Singh. The hackers had made more than 60 transactions to siphon off Rs. 2.13 lakh from his account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-dgigp-bidaris-bank-account-hacked/article36996860.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Digital Learning Management System inaugurated||The Digital Learning Management System was inaugurated on Tuesday at Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, Bengaluru. It was inaugurated by Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education K. Sudhakar. According to a SJICSR press release, speaking on the occasion, Dr. Sudhakar said the government was considering opening 50 bedded small Cardiac Care Units in all District Medical Colleges. He said that today cardiac disease was no longer a disease of elderly people but also affected the younger generation. He said that SJICSR has been providing cardiac services to all sections of society with all advanced facilities, faculties and supporting staff and added that with the support of the telemedicine programme, the patients are treated within a short span of time without any delay. “At present, the government has decided to open a small Cardiac Care Unit in all District Hospital and Medical Colleges for the benefit of poor and needy cardiac patients, for which Jayadeva Hospital will provide the necessary advice and training, but it will be managed by respective medical colleges,” he pointed out. According to C.N. Manjunath, Director of the Institute, Digital Learning Management System is a new system being installed at SJICSR to function like a digital library. He said that normally in hospitals particularly for PG students in Clinical Branches / Medicine and Surgery, when they are busy in their own work working in ICU and Operation Theatres, many of them are not able to attend classes physically. With this new system, those who have not attended case discussions and seminars can always login to this platform even after their work is completed, at their convenience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/digital-learning-management-system-inaugurated/article36996875.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||300 weak buildings identified: BBMP chief||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has identified as many as 300 weak and dilapidated buildings across the city that are dangerous for habitation. Civic Chief Gaurav Gupta told The Hindu that the buildings were identified by the zonal BBMP officials during the emergency survey, the report on which will be submitted soon. A similar exercise had been taken up around two years ago when 185 weak and dilapidated structures had been identified. Of these, only 10 have been demolished so far. The BBMP, Mr. Gupta said, had issued notices to the owners of the remaining 175 buildings. “We are also trying to assess if the buildings that were identified earlier are still dangerous. They are on our watch list,” he said. He added that if there is an issue of danger to public safety, the BBMP would immediately take up demolition. “In some cases, the residents may resist. However, if there is impending danger, the priority is to ensure that there is no loss of life,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/300-weak-buildings-identified-bbmp-chief/article36996873.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prohibitory orders on till October 25||Police Commissioner Kamal Pant extended prohibitory orders in Bengaluru till 6 a.m. of October 25. During this period, night curfew will be in force from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. Though COVID-19 cases and the overall number of patients in Karnataka are declining steadily, there is a need to continue the five-fold strategy of test-track-treat-vaccinate and adherence to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour to prevent any potential rise during the festive season. “Further, strict surveillance at the border posts set up in districts adjoining Kerala and Maharashtra States shall continue as per the prevailing circular/guidelines issued by Department of Health and Family Welfare,” he stated in the order. Any violation of the prohibitory order will be dealt with under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, and also under Section 188 of the IPC, according to the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prohibitory-orders-on-till-october-25/article36996866.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Saturday (Oct. 16) in the following areas owing to maintenance work and work relating to conversion of 11 KV OH line to UG Cable. According to a press release from BESCOM, HSR Layout Division, the areas to be affected are: BTM: Hongasandra 10th to 16th Main, Mico Layout and surrounding areas, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.; Naganathapura: C.K. Nagara, Hosa Road, Doddathoguru and surrounding areas, 10.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m.; HSR: 21st and 22nd Cross Road, 3rd Sector and surrounding areas. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. South City: Near BDA Park, opposite L and T South City and surrounding areas, 10.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m.; Nayak Layout, Surabhi Nagara, Jambusavari Dinne, IDBI Layout, South Avenue, Gottigere Main Road, Kembathalli, Pavamanagar, Meenakshi Layout and surrounding areas. 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article36996869.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Law against conversion soon’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Udupi on Wednesday that a law against religious conversion in Karnataka was being contemplated. “We are studying the existing laws in other States. We will frame a law soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/law-against-conversion-soon/article36996884.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Abandoned bags in market area spark panic||An unattended suitcase and a trolley bag set off panic on the busy BVK Iyengar Road on Wednesday afternoon. The bomb squad, who were called in, moved the items to Freedom Park and cordoned off the area. Later it was found that they contained clothes, a newspaper and a jacket among other items. Shopkeepers spotted the black suitcase on a scooter of a store owner around 1.25 p.m. When no one claimed it, they became suspicious and alerted the police. Soon after, they found the black trolley bag next to a tempo traveller around 200 metres away on the other side of the road. As panic spread, shops were shuttered and the area was evacuated. “The bags contained clothes and an ID card. We are verifying the details and trying to identify the owners of the bags,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Sanjeev Patil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abandoned-bags-in-market-area-spark-panic/article36996863.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||EV experience centre inaugurated||B. Sriramulu, Minister for Transport and Tribal Welfare, on Wednesday inaugurated Piaggio Vehicles Pvt. Ltd. Karnataka’s second EV experience centre at Bengaluru. S. Raghu, MLA, C.V. Raman Nagar, was present. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Sriramulu said Karnataka is committed to promote its EV ecosystem. “We were the first State to introduce an electric vehicle policy and more recently Karnataka became the first State to set up a new battery-swapping network in its capital to help clean and reliable last-mile connectivity in the region,” the Minister said. “The State Government is committed to support the electric mobility environment and working on various policy measures to make the transition to EVs a reality,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ev-experience-centre-inaugurated/article36996867.ece
14 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Absence of road is hitting families in hamlet hard||Susheelamma, 70, who resides at Echalahole hamlet near Kalakodu in Kalasa taluk, developed breathlessness recently. With no road to reach Kalakodu by any vehicle, her son Ramesh and nephew Deekshit wrapped her in a blanket and carried her for about 4 km with the help of a wooden pole. The nearest hospital for them is at Kalasa, about 15 km away. From Kalakodu, they reached the hospital by an autorickshaw. A video clip of the way the old woman was carried has gone viral in Chikkamagaluru district, drawing the attention of the public to the absence of a road for the residents. “My mother’s condition was serious on September 29 . We had no other way but to carry her on the shoulders,” said Poornima, Ms. Susheelamma’s daughter and member of Samse Gram Panchayat. Now, the old woman has returned to the village after treatment. For many decades, a few Malekudiya families have been staying in the hamlet, on the banks of the Bhadra. All these years there has been no proper road to connect Kalakodu. Children have to reach schools at Kalakodu on foot. At present, five families are residing in the village. They have demanded a road to Kalakodu. The issue had been raised repeatedly in the past. People’s representatives and officers had visited the area and interacted with people. However, the problem has not been addressed so far. Ravikumar, a member of the Samse panchayat, said there was no shortage of funds to lay a road. But the hamlet and the area around were part of Kudremukh National Park. The panchayat could not take up fresh roadworks in the area. “There is a road half-way to the hamlet. For the remaining stretch, it is difficult to construct a road, given the restrictions,” he said. Officers are also aware of the problem. Kashappa Hanumanth Madar, Panchayat Development Officer, told The Hindu that the issue had been brought to the notice of senior officers. There were similar problems with regard to a couple of more villages in the panchayat. “We have funds for the work, but cannot take it up in the forest area,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/absence-of-road-is-hitting-families-in-hamlet-hard/article36997298.ece
14 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two held for assault||Shiralakoppa Police in Shikaripur taluk have arrested two people on charges of assaulting a youth for posting a video clip of a speech passing objectionable comments on religion. The police have registered the case against 18 people and among them, two have been arrested. This incident came to light in a review meeting chaired by Lok Sabha member B.Y.Raghavendra on Tuesday. He enquired with officers about the health condition of the victim, Pramod, who runs a garment shop at Shiralakoppa. He had posted a video clip of pro-Hindutva activist Chaitra Kundapura’s speech on his Whatsapp status on October 7. Within a couple of hours around 50-60 people, according to the complainant, gathered in front of his shop. They allegedly assaulted him and ransacked the shop. B.M.Laxmi Prasad, Superintendent of Police of Shivamogga, on Wednesday, told The Hindu that a case had been registered on charges of attempting to murder, causing hurt and rioting. “We have arrested two people and they have been remanded to judicial custody. One more main accused, who met with an accident, is undergoing treatment”, the police chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-for-assault/article36997285.ece
14 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||26 new COVID-19 cases reported in Hassan dist.||Hassan reported 26 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. Among them, two were from Arkalgud, six each in Belur and Holenarsipur, five in Channarayapatna, three in Hassan, and four in Sakleshpur taluk. So far, 1,366 people have died of the infection in the district. As many as 340 people are under treatment, including six in the ICU. Shivamogga district reported eight cases on the day. Of them, two each were in Shivamogga and Sagar taluks, and one each in Bhadravati, Thirthahalli, Shikaripur, and Hosanagar taluks. So far, 1,071 have died of COVID-19 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/26-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-hassan-dist/article36997292.ece
14 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Diesel stolen||The owner of a petrol bunk at Ankanayakanahalli in Arkalgud has complained to the police that three people working in his bunk cheated him by stealing diesel worth over Rs. 11 lakh. Prashanth Kumar, in his complaint, alleged that Vishwanath, Manoj and Shanmukh took away 11,913 litres of diesel between April 1 and October 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/diesel-stolen/article36997291.ece
14 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Police seize ganja leaves||The Paper Town police in Bhadravati on Wednesday arrested a person and seized 5 kg of dry ganja leaves from him. The police, acting on a tip-off, stopped a vehicle near Gondi Canal and upon enquiry found ganja on the person, who was travelling from Tarikere to Bhadravati. The police recovered two mobile phones and seized his vehicle. The value of items seized from him is estimated at Rs. 75,000. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-seize-ganja-leaves/article36997293.ece
14 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rs. 3,600-cr. proposal for road repair submitted||Minister for Public Works C.C. Patil has said that a Rs. 3,600-crore proposal for repairing damaged roads in the State has been submitted to Finance Department for approval. Immediately after approval, repair works will be initiated, he added. Speaking during the inauguration of Jal Jeevan works at Gujamagadi village in Ron taluk of Gadag district on Wednesday, the Minister said that the officials have already been directed to get Public Works Department roads repaired. Works will be initiated at the earliest after securing approval from the Finance Department, he said and added that the officials should ensure good quality works. Mr. Patil said that under the Prime Minister’s ambitious Jal Jeevan programme, works have been initiated at Gujamagadi village and all the 395 households in the village will get direct tap water connection. “The total cost of the project is Rs. 65.36 lakh. The project is being implemented in partnership with the public,” he said. The Minister assured the village residents of getting Rs. 10 lakh grants for a community hall, for which Rs. 5 lakh has already been sanctioned. He also promised that he will take steps to clean the stream that flows through the village and make efforts for the overall development of the village. Later in the day, the Minister initiated Jal Jeevan programme works at Kuradagi village in Ron taluk, where 610 households are being provided tap water. He told the officials to get work completed within two months. He asked them to ensure quality work. Mr. Patil emphasised the need for economical use of water and asked residents to realise the significance of water. Local elected representatives and officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-3600-cr-proposal-for-road-repair-submitted/article36997117.ece
14 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Minister urges varsities to encourage research||Bhagwanth Khuba, Union Minister of State for New and Renewable Energy and Chemicals and Fertilizers, has said that the nation expects universities to encourage students to take up research apart from providing them education. He was inaugurating the 13th Foundation Day of Davangere University and the university’s men’s hostel at Guddadaranganahalli PG Centre on Wednesday. Mr. Khuba said there was now a need for skill-based education. “Education should not become a medium for providing employment based on marks, but should help one build life.” Elaborating on the National Education Policy 2020, he said the government was committed to imparting quality education for facilitating the expansion of the horizons of knowledge and for a self-reliant, active society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-urges-varsities-to-encourage-research/article36997121.ece
14 October 2021||HUBBALLI/ Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Bypoll: 13 remain in fray in Hangal, six in Sindgi||On the last day of withdrawal of nomination papers for the byelections to Hangal and Sindgi Assembly constituencies, six candidates withdrew their papers. While four Independents, including the C.R. Ballari, brother of Byadgi MLA Virupakshappa Ballari, withdrew their nomination papers in Hangal Assembly segment, two Independents took back their papers in Sindgi on Wednesday. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had invited Mr. Ballari, who belongs to the Panchamasali community, for talks in Davangere on Tuesday in a bid to convince him to withdraw his nomination papers. He also held talks with Panchamasali leaders. His efforts yielded results with Mr. Ballari withdrawing on Wednesday. That leaves 13 candidates in the fray for the Hangal bypoll. Apart from candidates from BJP, Congress, and JD(S) and three other parties, there are seven other Independents in the fray. Two Independent candidates withdrew from the race in Sindgi on Wednesday, leaving six candidates in the fray. Vikram Ramesh Pandit and Abdul Rehman Mohammad Hanif Dundasi withdrew their papers. This leaves Ramesh Bhusnur of the BJP, Ashok Managuli of the Congress, and Najiya Angadi of the JD(S), Sunilkumar Sangappa Hebbi of Karnataka Rashtra Samiti, and Independents Jeelani Gudusab Mulla and Deepika Padasalagi in the fray, according to a release from Returning Officer Rahul Shindhe. Polling for the byelections is scheduled for October 30 and already the mainstream political parties have prepared a list of star campaigners for the canvassing. As it is the first byelection after B.S. Yediyurappa stepped down as Chief Minister, the BJP is making all out efforts to win both the segments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bypoll-13-remain-in-fray-in-hangal-six-in-sindgi/article36996888.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||RGIA expects a boost with Tatas’ takeover of Air India||GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd. (GHIAL) said acquisition of Air India (AI) by the Tatas not only brought in the much-needed “financial strength to the airline but also for the entire aviation industry” on Wednesday. “Hyderabad Airport [Rajiv Gandhi International Airport] could become a major travel hub for people travelling from Southern and Central India as it expedites the expansion momentum and open doors for aviation businesses,” said an official spokesperson. Welcoming the Tatas’ takeover of AI, the spokesperson said both GHIAL and AI enjoyed a ‘strong relationship’ and would be working in more closely to maximise the potential of cooperation. AI had recently launched two new non-stop international flights — one to Chicago in the United States followed by another maiden flight to Heathrow in London. The airport here had a huge number of people travelling every year to and from US, Europe, Australia and Southeast Asia. Therefore, AI with its combination of wide body and narrow body aircraft mix would have opportunity to connect multiple destinations as it had prime slots at most airports. Two hours’ flying time connectivity to all Indian cities, four hours’ connectivity to South Asia, Southeast and Middle East regions were obvious advantages, said a press release. For international routes especially to US, there was a catchment for additional 2.18 lakh passengers annually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rgia-expects-a-boost-with-tatas-takeover-of-air-india/article36997123.ece
14 October 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||‘Modi not ready to give State its share of GST’||Holding Prime Minister Narendra Modi responsible for the non-payment of the State’s share of Goods and Services Tax (GST) by the Union Government, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has demanded that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai put pressure on the Centre and get Karnataka its GST share instead of resorting totaking loans. “As per the arrangement, it is the duty of the Union Government to pay States’ GST share. We did not get our share last year and even this year. The State’s share in the devolution of funds has been reduced from 4.72% in the 14th Finance Commission to 3.64% in the 15th Finance Commission. The reduction will result in the loss of Rs. 20,000 crore to the State. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has also rejected the special grants of Rs. 5,495 crore as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said, criticising the BJP parliamentarians from the State for not raising their voice against the “injustice” meted out to Karnataka. The Congress leader was addressing a press conference at Aiwan-e-Shahi Guest House here on Wednesday. “None of the 25 Lok Sabha members elected from the State have raised their voice against the injustice to Karnataka. What is then the use of electing them? On the other hand, Bommai is going to take loans to maintain the State’s finances instead of collecting our share of GST. This is not good. Mr. Bommai should mount pressure on the Union Government and collect share,” he said. Criticising the government for the non-payment of compensation to flood-hit farmers, the former Chief Minister disagreed with the reason for the same. “The State Government has still not given any compensation to those who lost houses and crops in the 2019 floods. It is citing COVID-19 as a reason for the lack of funds to initiatea compensation programme. It might have spent about Rs. 6,000 crore for handling the pandemic, but the State Budget size is Rs. 2.5 lakh crore and the Union Government may have contributed some amount. How long can the government continue to say that there is a shortage of funds? Instead of working for the people, this government is busy looting them,” he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who had visited the tremor-hit Gadikeshwar village the previous day, also condemned the Kalaburagi district administration for not making rehabilitation for the villages affected by frequent earthquakes a priority. “I visited Gadikeshwar yesterday and more than 75% of the people have migrated out of fear. They have no place to live now. I had called Mr. Bommai and Revenue Minister R. Ashok and urged them to start the rehabilitation programme at the earliest. They had responded positively. But the Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner has hardly done anything,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/modi-not-ready-to-give-state-its-share-of-gst/article36997119.ece
14 October 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Spooked by mild tremors people leave villages in Kalaburagi district||Most people at Gadikeshwar village in Chincholi taluk of Kalaburagi district deserted the village after it was hit by frequent tremors in the last few days. As many as 30 houses in the village that were in close proximity to the epicentre of the tremors have collapsed and many more developed cracks. “Around 75% of people have left the village in fear. They have taken shelter at the houses of their relatives in faraway places Some have even gone as far as Pune. The remaining people in the village are frightened in the anticipation of a bigger and destructive earthquakes,” Malappa Appoji, a resident of Gadikeshwar told The Hindu.  The people in the other villages, which are relatively less hit by the mild earthquakes, are still in their villages but living in fear. In Tegalatippi, for instance, where two houses have collapsed, around 50 families have fled the village. The villagers alleged that the government was doing nothing to rehabilitate them in safer places. Out in the open In Halchera, only two families have fled the village and the rest of the people are spending nights in open places to avoid the risk of their houses falling on them in the event of an earthquake. “Two houses have been destroyed in the earthquake and around seven damaged. Two families have fled the village in fear of earthquakes. All the people sleep in the open places during the night. Even in the daytime, people try to avoid staying inside the houses. Officials visit Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna and other senior officers visited the village. But, nothing concrete is done to make safer staying arrangements for the people,” Mallikarjun, a resident of Halchera, said. In Kupanur, which was just 1.6 km away from the epicentre of tremor with an intensity of 3.5 magnitude on the Richter Scale recorded on Wednesday, as many as 10 houses have developed cracks. Most of the people are staying in the village after the administration promised them to get safer tents built for them. Speaking to this correspondent, Anjum Tabassum, Chincholi tahsildar, said that the administration had already opened relief centres and built temporary sheds in Gadikeshwar village. She added that a medical team had been stationed in the village to handle any medical emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/spooked-by-mild-tremors-people-leave-villages/article36996879.ece
14 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM: TAC will decide on relaxing COVID-19 norms in border areas||The matter of relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions in border areas and opening of offline classes for primary schools will be decided by the State-level Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Bommai said the TAC would meet after Dasara to review the COVID-19 situation in Karnataka and that in neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra. It will look at the vaccination status in areas bordering Kerala and Maharashtra and take a decision on the demand for relaxing the requirement of producing a COVID-19 negative certificate, not older than 72 hours, for those entering the State from Kerala and Maharashtra. Resuming offline classes for classes 1 to 5 after Dasara will also depend on the recommendation of the TAC. He plans to hold discussions with police officials and decide on withdrawal of cases filed for violation of COVID-19 norms. Vaccination Mr. Bommai said the Union Government was yet to decide on vaccination of children for COVID-19. The State has made good progress on vaccination, with 82% of the population receiving the first dose and 36% the second dose. The government plans to give the first dose to 90% of the population and the second dose to 70% of the State’s population by December. “Once the norms for children are announced, we will vaccinate them with necessary precautions,” he said. Reiterating that there is no shortage of coal for thermal power plants, Mr. Bommai said arrangements have been made for supply for five rakes of coal, including three from Singaneri collieries, to power plants in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-tac-will-decide-on-relaxing-covid-19-norms-in-border-areas/article36997270.ece
14 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MUDA launches system for online payment of charges||The Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) on Wednesday launched a system for online payment of charges on a single site and other services. Launching the system, MUDA chairman Ravishankar Mijar told reporters on Wednesday that people can now pay the fees by sitting in their homes. Apart from credit and debit cards, the system allows payment of fees through net-banking and UPI. Mr. Mijar said hitherto, people, after checking of documents at the MUDA, had to wait in queue to get the slip stating the amount and then pay it at the banks within the working hours. “With the new system, people can pay the fees by sitting in the houses,” he said. After document verification, Mr. Mijar said, the applicant receives on his/her mobile number a link. On clicking the link related to MUDA, it takes to payment gateway of Bank of Baroda, where applicants can choose various modes to make the payment. Mr. Mijar said this online payment system was optional and the applicants can also make the payment by visiting the branch. MUDA is the second urban development authority after Bengaluru urban development authority to have an online system for remitting fees, he said. Mr. Mijar also said MUDA would shortly invite applications for allotment of 125 sites in the layout coming up in Konaje. This layout was coming up in about 14 acres of land. In a month, MUDA would start work on developing 17 acres of land in Kunjathbail where it was proposed to come up with 145 sites. MUDA has taken technical sanction to develop 73 acres in Chelyar where it has planned to have 700 plots, he said. Staff shortage The MUDA chairman said steps, including recruitment of additional staff, were being taken to speed up the process of clearing files in MUDA. “The delay is considerably reduced,” he said. The absence of regular Commissioner has affected the working of the authority. On the market built at Urwa, Mr. Mijar said eight business establishments have taken space on rent. MUDA is working on spending about Rs. 50 lakh to make changes in the cellar portion of the building, as suggested by Mangaluru City Corporation, and allot the space for fish and other wet market entities.  Payment plan After document verification, Mr. Mijar said, the applicant receives on his/her mobile number a link. On clicking the link related to MUDA, it takes to payment gateway of Bank of Baroda, where applicants can choose various modes to make the payment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-launches-system-for-online-payment-of-charges/article36997269.ece
14 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||DC resumes village stay initiative||Resuming the ‘village stay’ programme, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra will stay in Amaramudnuru and Amarapadnuru villages of Sullia taluk on Saturday and listen to the problems of the villagers. In a press release, Dr. Rajendra said village accountants have already began the process of collecting grievances of the villagers by visiting houses. Villagers can also directly submit their grievances at the unit of Chokkady Primary Agricultural Credit Society in Kukkudja. Dr. Rajendra said all taluk-level officers would be present during his stay in the village and the grievances will be redressed on the same day. If a grievance is not redressed, an appropriate date will be fixed for the next village stay programme when it would be attended. The Deputy Commissioner has asked people to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour during his stay and make good use of the programme to get all their issues sorted out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-resumes-village-stay-initiative/article36997271.ece
14 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NEP will empower younger generation: Basavaraj Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that the National Education Policy (NEP) will empower the younger generation to face international competition in academics and employment. The policy, a brainchild of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will help create a literate, safe and developed country, he said. He was speaking after laying the foundation stone for a Rs. 7.46-crore science block and inaugurating a Rs. 70-lakh computer science laboratory at Poorna Prajna College managed by Sri Admar Mutt Educational Institutions in Udupi. Mr. Bommai said that of late, there has been competition between physical classes, online classes and App-based classes wherein technology appeared overtaking human beings. In such a situation, educational institutions should not remain stagnant but adapt to the changes by harnessing technology, he said. The existing system was not conducive for the overall personality development of children, the Chief Minister said and urged everyone to make the best use of NEP. Earlier in the day, Mr. Bommai laid the foundation stone for a degree college building of Poorna Prajna College at Admar village in Udupi district. He said Late Sri Vibhudesha Tirtha Swamiji, who established Admar Educational Institutions and provided education in rural areas, had rendered yeomen service to society. Poorna Prajna College has attained a unique brand name and it instils confidence among its students. Admar Mutt seer Sri Vishwapriya Tirtha Swamiji, Ministers Kota Srinivas Poojari and V. Sunil Kumar, MLAs Lalaji R. Mendon and K. Raghupati Bhat and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nep-will-empower-younger-generation-basavaraj-bommai/article36997258.ece
14 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Banks told to hold consumer meet||Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel on Wednesday directed Lead Bank in Dakshina Kannada to organise a consumer meet to provide information about various loan schemes of the State and Union Governments here on October 30. Presiding over a meeting of officials from various banks in the district here, Mr. Kateel said that the governments have formulated several schemes for the uplift of citizens. The Union Government has decided to organise such consumer meets across the country. As such, all banks functioning in the district should participate in the meet and sanction loans to those eligible to the maximum extent. All banks should open their stalls at the venue of the consumer meet providing information about various loan products. Various departments such as Fisheries, Veterinary and Animal Husbandry, Agriculture, Horticulture, KMF and also the Mangaluru City Corporation should extend cooperation to the event, he said. Mr. Kateel also asked banks to create awareness about various social security schemes, including insurance, pension, Mudra, education loan, during the programme. Banks should intimate consumers about in-principle approval given to their loan applications. On the occasion, Mr. Kateel released NABARD loan scheme for 2022-23. Assistant General Manager of NABARD Sangeeta Karta said that the bank has pegged priority sector lending for 2022-23 at Rs. 15,318 crore based on Reserve Bank of India’s revised guidelines. Members of Legislative Assembly Y. Bharath Shetty and Umanath Kotian, Lead Bank manager M.P. Praveen and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/banks-told-to-hold-consumer-meet/article36997260.ece
14 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 patient dies in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported one COVID-19 death and 35 new cases on Wednesday. With 61 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 378. Test positivity rate was put at 0.41%. A fine of Rs. 1,07,13,670 was collected in 88,209 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported 16 new cases, of which 12 are from Udupi taluk, one from Kundapur and three from Karkala taluk. While 13 people are in home isolation, three are in healthcare facilities. With 18 patients discharged, there are 81 active cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-patient-dies-in-dakshina-kannada/article36997261.ece
14 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Will relax CRZ norms: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that the government will take steps to get coastal regulation zone (CRZ) norms prohibiting development activities within 500 m of the high tide line relaxed. He was speaking after the inauguration of a convention hall and training centre of the Udupi Grameena Bunts Sangha at Kuntalanagar in Udupi district. Interacting with entrepreneurs afterwards, Mr. Bommai said that neighbouring Kerala and Goa, which too have a coast line, have tapped their tourism potential to a considerable extent. However, the available tourism potential in the coastal districts of the State has not been harnessed to the expected levels. Mr. Bommai said that prohibition on development activities within 500 m of the high tide line in the State is affecting tourism development and the government will work on to get the condition relaxed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-relax-crz-norms-cm/article36997262.ece
14 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana artist Anant Kulal passes away||Senior Yakshagana artist Anant Kulal, 66, from Molahalli in Kundapura taluk of Udupi district, passed away on Tuesday. He had been ailing for six months. Mr. Kulal practised the Badagatittu form of Yakshagana. Having learnt the basics of acting from Veerabhadra Naika at Udupi Yakshagana Kendra, he had been performing on stage for over five decades. He was associated with Marankatte Yakshagana Mela (troupe) for over four decades. He had featured in Amruteshwari, Hiriyadka, Saligrama, Perduru. and Halady Yakshagana Melas. In 2020, he received the B.B. Shetty memorial ‘Yakshagana Kalaranga’ award for his contribution to the field of Yakshagana. In September 2021, he received the M.M. Hegde award from P. Kishan Hegde, owner of Saligrama Mela. Yakshagana Kalaranga president M. Gangadhara Rao and Secretary Murali Kadekar condoled his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yakshagana-artist-anant-kulal-passes-away/article36997267.ece
14 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Oxygen plant commissioned at Lady Goschen Hospital||The oxygen generation plant at the Government Lady Goschen Hosptial was formally commissioned here on Wednesday. This plant became the third oxygen generation plant that is operational in the two government hospitals in Mangaluru. A total of 12 of the 16 oxygen generation plants are now functional in the government health facilities in the district. The oxygen generation plant at the Lady Goschen Hospital has been constructed on the funds given by CREDAI, Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Association of Civil Engineers, Civil Contractors Association, and Indian Institute of Architects. The new plant has the capacity to generate 500 litres of oxygen per minute. “It also has the feature by which the generated oxygen can filled in jumbo cylinders, which can sent to health facilities in the district that need oxygen,” said Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. Self-sufficiency Lauding CREDAI and the other organisations that have come forward donate funds for building oxygen generation plants in the district, Dr. Rajendra said the district has reached a state of self-sufficiency to meet the demand for oxygen from patients admitted in the wards of government hospitals. Separate arrangements have been made to meet the demand of oxygen for intensive care units in hospitals, he said. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath said the district administration has made good strides since the start of the second wave of COVID-19, when it had to procure oxygen from plants in Ballari. “We are now better placed to handle situation arising out of a likely third wave,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-plant-commissioned-at-lady-goschen-hospital/article36997273.ece
14 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MCC cautions action against unvaccinated||The Mangaluru City Corporation on Wednesday cautioned citizens to inoculate themselves against COVID-19 and said strict action would be initiated if people were found wandering in public places without being vaccinated from Saturday. In a communiqué here, MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said special vaccination drives would be organised across the city from Thursday to Saturday at various places across the city. People who have not undergone vaccination should make use of these camps and get themselves vaccinated. Though the numbers of positive cases is on the decline in the city, there are chances of cases increasing due to the festive season. The MCC has been enforcing strict measures to thwart a possible third wave, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-cautions-action-against-unvaccinated/article36997263.ece
14 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Break-Yoga||Avishkar Yoga Centre in Mangaluru will organise its decennial Dasara Yoga Shibira from Friday focussing on Break-Yoga, as suggested by the AYUSH Department. During this free programme, tips on taking care of lungs will be offered to participants. For more information, call 98455 88740 or 95911 30105.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/break-yoga/article36997274.ece
14 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||UoM’s three new constituent colleges to offer UG courses from this academic year||The government first grade colleges at Hettur, Terakanambi, and Halli Mysuru that were handed over to the University of Mysore (UoM) are becoming operational from this academic year onwards. The Hettur and Halli Mysuru colleges in Hassan district andTerakanambi College in Chamarajanagar district are three new constituent colleges of the university which will be running BA and B.Com courses in 2021-22. With this, the number of constituent colleges of the university has gone up to seven, including four in Mysuru — Maharaja’s College, Yuvaraja’s College, the University Fine ArtsCollege, and University Evening College. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar told The Hindu that the colleges were transferred to the university by the government last year. The university has reached the rural sector through the three colleges, he said. A total of 40 admissions have been done in Hettur and admissions are being done in the other two also. The students from the villagescan make use of the opportunity as the university has also proposed to offer job-oriented and technical courses for the benefit of rural students. Prof. Kumar said UoM has proposed to offer UG courses with specialisation in Logistics in Terakanambi and tourism specialisation in Hettur, under the National Education Policy-2020. “Only arts and commerce UG programmes will be offered at the colleges. The guest faculty will be appointed soon,” he said, adding that various other certificate courses will also be offered soon at the colleges. Registrar Shivappa has appealed to students living in the villages and surrounding areas to submit their applications seeking admissions for the courses. Report submitted Meanwhile, the expert committee constituted by the State Government to look into the possibility of establishing a full-fledged university on the PG campus of UoM in Chamarajanagar has submitted its report to the government. The committee, headed by the UoM Vice-Chancellor, had visited the campus and also had a couple of meetings, including with the district administration, for eliciting opinions and studying practicability of establishing the university in the backward district. The districts of Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Mandya and Hassan come under the UoM. Mandya and Hassan have well-established PG centres. The committee has sought 100 acres of land for creating the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uoms-three-new-constituent-colleges-to-offer-ug-courses-from-this-academic-year/article36997295.ece
14 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Durga Puja celebrated||Durga Puja was celebrated in the city with traditional gaiety and devotion on Wednesday, adding sheen to an otherwise scaled-down Dasara events. Adding a dash of special flavour was the Durga Puja celebrations by the Bengali community in Mysuru, a tradition which the community members have followed since decades. The members of Bengali Association Mysuru are celebrating Durga Puja Utsav 2021 at the Anjaneyaswamy temple choultry besides CFTRI main gate. The events got underway on Monday and the rituals associated with the celebrations were supervised by the priests. A life-size statue of Goddess Durga greets the visitors entering the venue and she is depicted astride a lion and slaying the demon Mahishasura. She is flanked by other deities from the pantheon including Ganesha, Karthikeya, Lakshmi and Saraswathi. The organisers said there are cultural programmes to mark the events daily and will conclude with the Dashami Puja on October 15. There was considerable rush to the Chamundeshwari temple given the sanctity associated with the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/durga-puja-celebrated/article36997287.ece
14 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Public entry to palace banned for Jamboo Savari||The entry of public into the palace on Friday for Jamboo Savari has been prohibited. The police will be imposing curbs on the roads around the palace from 10 a.m. “I advise the public and tourists to watch the Dasara finale sitting from their homes as the event is being livestreamed on various social media platforms and other mediums,” said Commissioner of Police Chandragupta. Speaking to reporters after the full dress rehearsal of the Jamboo Savari that is confined to the palace in view of the pandemic situation, he said the Jamboo Savari will be flagged off around 5 p.m. “This year, we have permitted eight cultural troupes and 6 tableaux to be part of the procession. There were less participants last year.” All necessary precautions and security measures are in place, he said, adding that the staff and others who are permitted to take part in the event have to get a negative RT-PCR certificate and they are supposed to have been vaccinated. As the entry to the palace is limited, all the participants have been issued ID cards. Meanwhile, the full dress rehearsal was conducted successfully with all contingents and the troupes taking part besides the Mounted Police. The elephants led by Abhimanyu took part in the rehearsal. The Commissioner of Police showered flower petals on Abhimanyu to inaugurate the rehearsal. Only 500 persons are allowed to the event and all of them must carry the negative report. They would be screened by a team at the entry points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/public-entry-to-palace-banned-for-jamboo-savari/article36997290.ece
14 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Cong. seeks suspension of HDK from Assembly||The Congress party in Mysuru has urged Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to suspend former Chief Minister and JD (S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy from the Assembly for reportedly belittling the post of Leader of the Opposition, which is a constitutional post. Addressing a press conference in Mysuru on Wednesday, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson M. Lakshmana said Mr. Kumaraswamy’s “unparliamentary” description of a constitutionally-recognised post attracts proceedings under the breach of privilege motion. Hence, the Speaker should suo motu take cognisance of the remarks and suspend the JD(S) leader and also consider cancellation of his membership. Mr. Lakshmana claimed that the post of Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly is like a “shadow” Chief Minister. The Leader of the Opposition acts like a watchdog against the Chief Minister, he said while seeking to remind Mr. Kumaraswamy that the post had been adorned by tallest leaders of the State including his father and former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, besides former Chief Ministers D. Devaraj Urs, S.M. Krishna, B.S. Yediyurappa and himself (Mr. Kumaraswamy). Mr. Lakshmana also advised Mr. Kumaraswamy to learn from his father, who never used such unparliamentary language against political opponents. Questioning Mr. Kumaraswamy’s charge that the coalition government headed by him fell because of Mr. Siddaramaiah, Mr. Lakshmana sought to remind the JD(S) leader he did not utter one word against the Congress leader when he spoke for more than four hours during the debate on no-confidence motion moved against his government. Instead, Mr .Kumaraswamy had accused the BJP of bringing down the coalition government through “Operation Kamala”. The KPCC spokesperson said Mr. Kumaraswamy was targeting Mr. Siddaramaiah out of political frustration over survival of JD(S) or to facilitate the BJP. Mr. Lakshmana said Mr. Kumaraswamy was training his guns against the Congress leader only to pit members of two castes against each other and gain political mileage out of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-seeks-suspension-of-hdk-from-assembly/article36997296.ece
14 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Idol from Chamundi Hills to be brought in a procession||The idol of Goddess Chamundeshwari to be carried in the golden howdah during the Jamboo Savari on October 15 will be brought from Chamundi Hills to Mysuru in a procession, in a silver chariot. This is set to pave way for a new tradition and people along the route will get darshan of the deity. The practice so far was to bring the idol in a vehicle ahead of the Jamboo Savari and place it in the palace. Krishnaraja MLA S.A. Ramdas has been vested with the responsibility of organising the event which will be held on Friday morning. The procession will commence at 8 a.m. and is expected to end at the palace at around 10 a.m. The deity will be brought to the accompaniment of Nadaswara and chanting of hymns. En route, it will be given honours and offered special prayers at Satyanarayana Swami temple at Ittigegud. The procession will pass through Kurubarahalli Circle and M.G.Road and enter Ittigegud via the road opposite the Mall of Mysore. From Satyanaraya Swami temple, it will proceed to Manasara Road and Lokaranjan Road and reach the Jayamartanda Gate of the palace via J.C.Wadiyar Circle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/idol-from-chamundi-hills-to-be-brought-in-a-procession/article36997288.ece
14 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Man washed away in Bhima near Yadgir||A 32-year-old man, Sabanna, was washed away in the flowing Bhima near Yadgir city on Tuesday. A search operation has been launched by personnel from Fire and Emergency Services, along with local swimmers and the police. Sabanna and his friend Bhimaraya of Mudnal village went to offer puja on the banks of the river when Sabanna slipped and fell into the water. Bhimaraya, who immediately jumped into the water to to rescue his friend, did not succeed as Sabanna was carried away by the flowing currents. Onlookers, who heard Bhimaraya crying for help, rushed to the spot and threw a rope at Bhimaraya and helped him come out of the river. Bhimaraya survived. Though the search ended in the evening on Wednesday, the rescue team will resume operation tomorrow, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-washed-away-in-bhima-near-yadgir/article36997113.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Festive mood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festive-mood/article36996865.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Auspicious start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auspicious-start/article36997277.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ram fight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ram-fight/article36997115.ece
14 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water in dams less than last year’s||Though the water level in the Idukki reservoir reached close to the blue alert level on Wednesday, the chances of opening the dam shutters appear remote, according to Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) authorities. The water level now is 2,390 ft, whereas the blue alert level is 2,390.86 ft. As per the new rule curve level announced by the CWC (Central Water Commission) for the Idukki reservoir, the upper rule curve level is 2,398.86 ft. An orange alert will be announced when the water level reaches 2,396.86 ft, followed by red alert at 2,397.86 ft. Maximum level The maximum water level is 2.403.50 ft. An official of the Dam Monitoring and Research Station, Vazhathoppe, said there was 85.07% of water in the reservoir on Wednesday, which was 2,391 ft on the same day last year. The rainfall in the catchment area on Tuesday was 9.4 mm. The power generation at the Moolamattom plant remained at a moderate level of 10.34 million units. A senior official said that compared to the low range areas, the high range recorded less rainfall for the past few days. The rainfall in Peerumade taluk will decide the water inflow into the reservoir. Peerumade recorded a rainfall of 17 mm on Tuesday. Mullaperiyar dam  The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam in the upstream of the Idukki dam on Wednesday was 128.60 ft. The maximum water level allowed as per the apex court order is 142 ft. The official said that in the present condition there was no chance of releasing water from the Mullaperiyar dam to the Idukki reservoir. With a moderate generation of power, the chances of releasing water in the present situation were very remote, he said. Power generation Though the Idukki dam is mainly reserved for power generation during the summer when the demand escalates, after the new rule curve level was announced following the flood in 2018, the KSEB is keen on increased power generation during the monsoon period too to control the water level.  An orange alert will be announced when the water level reaches 2,396.86 ft, followed by red alert at 2,397.86 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-in-dams-less-than-last-years/article36997229.ece
14 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Disaster management plan for all tourism destinations in Wayanad||The Wayanad district administration, in association with District Tourism Promotion Council, has launched disaster-resilient tourist destinations under the Wayanad tourism’s safe tourism campaign. Speaking after releasing the disaster management plan at Pookode lake shore here on the International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction on Wednesday, Wayanad District Collector M. Geetha said that the comprehensive project was envisaged to enable all the tourism destinations in the district deal with any disaster. Ms. Geetha said that for the first time in the country, such a plan was launched exclusively for tourism destinations.Each tourist destination would have a separate disaster management plan, a specially trained emergency response team and warning systems based on the geographical characteristics of each area under the project, she said. A 15-member rapid response team was trained for the purpose, she said. The project would be helped to develop the emerging tourism destination in the State at the international level, Ms. Geetha said. A mock drill was also held in connection with the programme. A. Aboobacker, Deputy Collector (Disaster Management); Amit Ramanan, manager, district management; and DTPC Secretary V. Muhamad Salim spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/disaster-management-plan-for-all-tourism-destinations-in-wayanad/article36997176.ece
14 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||4.5 kg of ganja seized; three held||An excise team on Wednesday arrested three youths and seized from them 4.5 kg of ganja, worth Rs. 2.5 lakh, at the Muthanga excise check-post on the Kerala-Karnataka border. The arrested are Aflah, 25, of Ulladan Veedu at Kondotty in Malappuram district; Althaf, 24, of Kanjirathil house at Feroke; and Afnas, 23, of Maliyekkal house at Ramanattukara in Kozhikode district. They were arrested while transporting the narcotic in a car from Bengaluru to Malappuram district. During the interrogation, the accused revealed that it was transported for sale in Kozhikode and Malappuram districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/45-kg-of-ganja-seized-three-held/article36997174.ece
14 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Bail granted to 3 accused in tree felling case||The First Class Judicial Magistrate at Sulthan Bathery in the district on Wednesday granted bail to the accused in the Muttil tree felling case. The court granted the bail to Anto Augustine, Josekutty Augustine, and Roji Augustine, in a case registered by the Forest Department officials in connection with the massive felling of rosewood trees. No charge-sheet The court granted the bail on the ground that the officials had failed to submit the charge-sheet even after 60 days of their arrest. The petitioners have been in custody since their arrest on July 28. The police have also registered cases against the accused in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bail-granted-to-3-accused-in-tree-felling-case/article36997182.ece
14 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Devaswom Board takes over Mattannur temple||The Malabar Devaswom Board took over the administration of the Mattannur Mahadeva Temple amid strong protests by people, who resisted the entry of the officials and the police into the temple, on Wednesday. Despite the protest, officials led by executive officer P. Sreekumar entered the temple by breaking open the locked gate and door and took charge of the temple. The protesters gathered in front of the temple by 7.30 a.m. after they got information that Devaswom Board officials, with the support of the police, were planning to take over the administration. The protesters tried to block the officials in front of the temple gate. During the protest, a few of the agitators tried to pour petrol on their bodies but the police intervened and snatched away the bottle of petrol. Based on a High Court order, the Malabar Devaswom Board Commissioner had directed the take-over of the temple and auditorium, the board officials said. For the past 10 years, the board had been trying to take control of the temple. However, C.H. Mohandas, temple president, alleged that the board had taken over the administration when the case was pending in the Supreme Court. The police force headed by Inspector M. Krishnan and sub inspector K. Ganeshan provided protection to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/devaswom-board-takes-over-mattannur-temple/article36997181.ece
14 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Transpersons voice litany of woes at interaction with police||“Why do police never take our complaints seriously and even leak our details to the accused?. Why do cops publicly humiliate us?” The interaction between members of the transgender community and police as part of a one-day workshop organised by the district Social Justice Department here on Wednesday witnessed an avalanche of complaints by transpersons. Responding to their complaints and concerns, Assistant Commissioner Biji George urged them to approach senior officials or the control room in the event of misbehaviour by police personnel. A person wanted to know how intrusion into privacy by circulating one’s image on social media without permission could be prevented. Mr. George said that such mischief was hard to trace if done using fake profile. Another wanted to know how a criminal among the transgender community could be stopped from bringing disrepute to the entire community. Humiliating treatment in the public with innuendos associating them with sex work was another concern. The community members also requested District Collector Jafar Malik to organise a camp for issuing different cards they are entitled to. They complained to him about the lack of affordable housing that forced them into sex work. Government assistance for sex reassignment surgery, a support mechanism for psychological assistance in the wake of a spate of suicides among the community, and foisting of bogus police cases on transpeople were the other issues raised with the Collector. A transwoman employed with the Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) attributed the large scale attrition of community members from KMRL to the lack of affordable housing. They also sought a psycho-social support system to address their problems and those between themselves. Difficulty in getting different cards owing to their peculiar position of being ousted from their families was another issue that surfaced during the interaction. “So far, only 1,070 transgenders have received the transgender cards in the State. Applying for the card requires them to declare their status openly and that leads to their ouster from their families,” said K.K. Subair, district social justice officer. This despite the fact that a survey by a Bengaluru-based NGO putting the number of transpeople in the State around 25,000. Faisal Faisu, a transgender activist and one of the first to openly declare to be a transgender, said that identity crisis and lack of societal acceptance continued to be the major problems faced by the community. “Even those who have come to attend this event will return home hiding behind a different identity to avert family rejections. There needs to be a mechanism for addressing issues in inter-personal relations and proper mental health care for the community,” Faisu said. The event, organised in association with the Health department and Ernakulam Welfare Services, was the first step towards drawing up a a comprehensive psycho-social project by the district Transgender Justice Board under the district Social Justice Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/transpersons-voice-litany-of-woes-at-interaction-with-police/article36997202.ece
14 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Panel suggests CRZ amendments to benefit coastal communities||Hundreds of traditional coastal dwellers of Kerala could construct new dwelling units in their holdings close to pokkali fields if a proposal of the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority (KCZMA) is accepted. A five-member committee of the authority has recommended the reclassification of the pokkali fields to CRZ 3 from the existing CRZ 1 B. Once accepted, the No Development Zone (NDZ) of 100 metres in these areas would be reduced to 50 metres, paving the way for new constructions. However, the relaxation will be available only to ecosystem people. The traditional brackish water paddy-shrimp farming system of the central and northern Kerala are known as pokkali and kaipad fields. Going by the official records, 3,542 ha is under pokkali farming in Kerala. The 100-metre NDZ has been causing hardships to the traditional coastal communities. A large number of applications of the coastal dwellers to build dwelling units were rejected due to CRZ norms, the panel noted. The panel members found most of these dwelling units they visited as uninhabitable, unsafe and in dilapidated conditions. Several applications to build houses under the government’s housing schemes had to be denied due to CRZ issues. Some of the plots had backwater on one or more sides where it was impossible to build houses after following CRZ norms, the panel noted. Safe and multi- hazard-resistant housing models should be considered. The local bodies should undertake a safety audit of all such existing dwelling units, it suggested. Rebuilding/renovating the existing dwellings should be allowed to make the houses safer and multi-hazard-resistant, recommended the panel which had C.P. Geevan, P.K. Thulasidas, Amrutha Satheesan, Richard Scaria, and Dinesan Cheruvat as its members. The high tide line for pokkali and kaipad wetlands should be redefined to enable the coastal communities tp put up new housing units without a ceiling on its plinth area. All the applications from the coastal communities received since May 1, 2020, for construction/reconstruction of houses in the No Development Zone should be reviewed and decisions kept in abeyance till the reclassification of the pokkali fields was carried out, it suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-suggests-crz-amendments-to-benefit-coastal-communities/article36997196.ece
14 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi Corporation’s eatery to offer more services||The Kochi Corporation plans to widen the service of its popular eatery, Samridhi@Kochi, from where one can have a noon meal at an amount as low as Rs. 10. During the first five days of its operations, the eatery offered food to 10,350 persons. The project, which aims to create a hunger-free city, is being implemented without spending money from the coffers of the civic body. The subsidy offered by the State Government, contributions from individuals and Corporate Social Responsibility funds of various agencies are utilised for the project, said Mayor M. Anilkumar. Besides offering meal for the needy at Rs. 10, the project provides employment to women of Kudumbashree self-help group. “The workers need to be paid a respectable salary. The corporation has created a separate bank account for mobilising funds for the sustainable management of the project,” he said. Contributions can be made to the account number 11530200024910 with the Federal Bank, Ernakulam South. The IFSC code of the account is FDRL0001153 and the name of the dedicated account is Samridhi @ Kochi. Compensation The civic body hopes to widen the activities of the eatery in one month, he said. The corporation will provide a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the kin of Dhanpal Nayik, who died in an accident while engaged in the work of a drain at Kaloor. The civic body will also foot the medical expenses of the two other workers who were seriously injured in the accident besides providing them monitory compensation. Bankaru Swami, who was seriously hurt, will be provided a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh and Shivaji Nayik, another worker, Rs. 1 lakh, the Mayor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-corporations-eatery-to-offer-more-services/article36997198.ece
14 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Projects worth Rs. 139 crore approved: Hibi||The district water and sanitation committee has approved projects worth Rs. 139 crore in various panchayats under the Centrally-administered Jal Jeevan Mission, said Hibi Eden, MP, here on Wednesday. Supply of drinking water to all households remains the motto of the project. Under the project, 40% of the expenditure will be funded by the Centre, 35% by the State, 15% by the local body, and 10% by the beneficiary. Among the projects approved are Varapuzha - Rs. 5.94 crore for 2,000 water connections; Udayamperoor Rs. 84.80 crore for 4,860 connections; Alangad Rs. 17.70 crore for 4,000 connections; Kadungalloor Rs. 29.96 crore for 9,200 connections, and Elamkunnapuzha Rs. 1 crore for 400 connections. In total, 20,460 families will benefit from the projects. Earlier, administrative sanction was given for 25,112 connections worth Rs. 37.61 crore. Out of this, 18,120 connections worth Rs. 18.81 crore have already been commissioned, Mr. Eden said.  He said that projects were sanctioned panchayat-wise. Directions had been issued to the Kerala Water Authority officials to complete the remaining works at the earliest, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/projects-worth-rs-139-crore-approved-hibi/article36997200.ece
14 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Four judicial officers appointed as HC judges||C. Jayachandran, Principal District Judge, Kottayam; Sophy Thomas, High Court Registrar General; P.G. Ajithkumar, Registrar (District Judiciary); and C.S. Sudha, Principal District Judge, Ernakulam; have been elevated as Additional Judges of the Kerala High Court. Mr. Jayachandran had joined the judicial service directly as Additional District Judge in February 2011. He had worked as Principal District Judge in Kollam, Thiruvanthaurapuram and Kottayam. He had also served as member secretary, Kerala Legal Services Authority (KELSA) for two years. Ms. Thomas was the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Thrissur, before being appointed as Registrar General of the High Court. She joined the judicial service as Munsiff Magistrate after completing LLB from the Government Law College, Ernakulam. Mr. Ajithkumar started his practice at courts in Thiruvananthapuram. He joined the judicial service as a magistrate in 1991 and became a district judge in 2011. He also served as Additional Director, Kerala Judicial Academy. Ms. Sudha joined the judicial service in 1995 and worked as Munsiff Magistrate, sub-judge, and Assistant Sessions Judge in various districts. She was promoted as District and Sessions Judge in 2012. She had also served as Additional District and Sessions Judge of Kollam. She took charge as Principal District Judge, Ernakulam, in May 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-judicial-officers-appointed-as-hc-judges/article36997209.ece
14 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,794 fresh COVID cases||As many as 1,794 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. A total of 1,757 persons got infected through local contact. The test positivity rate was 11.8%. Meanwhile, the district-level committee to screen the applications for inclusion in the list of deaths owing to COVID-19 held its first meeting here on Wednesday. Those who have complaints about not being included in the list despite being a death due to COVID-19 can also submit the applications online through the portalhttps://covid19.kerala .gov.in/deathinfo. Those who cannot submit the applications online can file it through a primary health centre or Akshaya centre after submitting the required documents. A decision on the applications will be taken within 30 days, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1794-fresh-covid-cases/article36997203.ece
14 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Health protection panels to be formed in schools||Health protection committees will be formed in all schools under the General Education Department in the district ahead of the school reopening on November 1. The committee will coordinate the efforts to ensure the compliance of health protocols prescribed by the government. Rapid response teams will also be formed. The members of the team will monitor the implementation of SMS (sanitise, mask wearing and social distancing) protocol on campuses. The school authorities will take the lead in organising counselling sessions for students, who seem reluctant to come back to schools after a gap of more than one-and-a-half years. The sessions will be also available for parents and they will be jointly offered by the departments of Health, Education and Social Justice. School bus operating staff will get training on how to comply with the norms. It will be provided by the Motor Vehicles Department. The district-wise cleaning programme in schools will be held from October 18 to 23. The disinfection of classrooms, labs and other facilities will be carried out in association with voluntary organisations and workers under the employment guarantee scheme. Fire and Rescue Services personnel will also participate in the disinfection campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-protection-committees-to-be-formed-in-schools/article36997206.ece
14 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cusat joins project to mitigate noise pollution||The Department of Electronics at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) will collaborate with Japan’s Sony Group to develop an intelligent sensor network for mitigating the effect of noise pollution on the marine habitat. The joint venture is part of the company’s Sensing Solution University Collaboration (SSUC) programme to develop an intelligent sensor node network deployed on the sea floor or semi-buoyant platforms across large regions of the ocean, which can monitor marine habitats. “We had come first in the national-level competition organised by Sony that required researchers to enhance the utility of the company’s products through innovative ideas,” said Supriya M.H, Professor and Head of the Department of Electronics. The project is to develop the sensor network to help fill the gap in the global efforts to collect, monitor and analyse acoustic noise pollution in the ocean and understand its threat on marine habitats. The system helps intelligently monitor the acoustic landscape of the ocean with near zero human intervention. Prof. Supriya said that there is a need to monitor the acoustic ambience of the ocean for mitigating the effect of noise pollution on the marine habitat. Marine mammals have developed their hearing for many reasons such as navigation, communication, and foraging. Noise trauma also damages the hearing and long exposure can often cause permanent dumbness. Mammals often avoid noisy areas, which can be a problem if these locations are important feeding or breeding grounds, she said. It is noticed that the ambient background noise interferes with the sense of hearing of marine mammals, making it harder for them to hunt, navigate and communicate, eventually leading to an extinction, according to the researchers.  Department of Electronics to collaborate with Japan’s Sony Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-joins-project-to-mitigate-effects-of-noise-pollution-on-marine-habitat/article36997207.ece
14 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Mobile phone maker asked to pay relief to buyer||The Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission Ernakulam has ordered that the manufacturer of a mobile phone should pay the cost of the phone, compensation and court expenses to a buyer who filed a complaint that the phone that became dysfunctional and was serviced during the warranty period could not be used. Chairman of the disputes redressal forum D.B. Binu and members Vaikom Ramachandran and T.N. Sreevidya ordered that the phone manufacturer should pay Rs. 11,300 as the cost of the phone, Rs. 6,000 as compensation and Rs. 2,000 in expenses towards legal procedures, said a communication here. The complainant, V.A. Jayakumar, listed the phone manufacturer and its agency in Kochi as the accused in the case. The complaint was that the phone became dysfunctional during the warranty period and it could not be repaired for reuse. The redressal forum order said the cost of the mobile phone, compensation and expenses towards court procedures should be paid within 30 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mobile-phone-maker-asked-to-pay-relief-to-buyer/article36997192.ece
14 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cancer centre: HC upholds termination of contract||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday dismissed an appeal filed by P and C. Projects Private Limited, Erode, against a single judge verdict rejecting its petition challenging the termination of its contract for constructing a building for Cochin Cancer Centre. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali, while upholding the single judge’s judgement, observed that the company had failed to make out any case of jurisdictional error or other legal infirmities in the judgment of the single judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cancer-centre-hc-upholds-termination-of-contract/article36997197.ece
14 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC orders probe into police ransom demand||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday initiated a suo motu case on the basis of a newspaper report that alleged that a family from Delhi residing in Kochi was being harassed by the police and that they had demanded Rs. 5 lakh for releasing their two daughters from custody. Justice Devan Ramachandran directed the District Police Chief (Kochi City) H. Nagaraju to inquire into all aspects mentioned in the report and file a report in a sealed cover before the court. It also directed the commissioner to ensure that the family was not subjected to any harassment or vexation. The court appointed lawyer A.V. Jojo as amicus curiae in the case. Acting on the orders of the High Court, Mr. Nagaraju ordered a probe. The two girls, one is minor, of the migrant family went missing in August. A team from the Kochi City police traced the girls to Delhi. “We had initially registered a missing case but later turned it into a case of abduction and rape after it emerged that the older girl was sexually exploited by a man, whom she had acquainted during the train journey, at a lodge in Delhi. During her medical examination in a hospital in Delhi she made the startling revelation to the medical officer that she was sexually abused by her three brothers since she was a minor. Following this, we registered another case under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act,” said Mr. Nagaraju. The accused along with the two girls was then brought to Kochi after which the brothers were summoned and they allegedly confessed to the crime. The girl’s statement was also recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. “Subsequently, two brothers were produced before the court and remanded while the minor brother was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board. The girls were sent to a child protection home,” said Mr. Nagaraju. The two remain remanded and the bail plea of the older brother remains pending before the court. Bribery allegations However, the migrant parents alleged that the police had let off one of the accused who sexually abused their daughter in Delhi and that their sons were booked under bogus cases. They also alleged that an assistant sub inspector then attached to the North police had sought a bribe of Rs. 5 lakh. The terms of reference of the probe ordered by Mr Nagaraju will include these allegations. “The other man was contacted by the accused for arranging rooms and had no knowledge about anything else. We have arrested everyone there needs to be arrested,” said Mr. Nagaraju. ASI Vinod Krishna, against whom the parents had raised the allegations, said that the girl had levelled the allegations against brothers at all relevant places. He said that the girl and the accused were tracked down after hopping through four police station limits in Delhi. Child Welfare Committee Ernakulam Chairperson Bitty Joseph said that the two girls were given shelter as per the Juvenile Justice Act. “The sisters wanted to be together and are indecisive about returning home. Since the family members are being accused as perpetrators, there are legal impediments to sending them back home,” she said. Mr. Nagaraju also shot down the allegations that the police had collected the flight fare to Delhi for investigation from the parents. Meanwhile, the migrant parents reiterated the bribery allegations and said that their boys are being implicated by the police under coercion. An investigation by senior officials will expose the truth, the father said. The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has registered a suo motu case. Commission Chairman K.V. Manoj has sought reports from the District Child Protection Officer, North police station House Officer, and the District Police Chief (Kochi City) by November 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-orders-probe-into-police-harassment-charge/article36997185.ece
14 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cochin Duty-Free announces first lucky draw winners||Cochin Duty-Free has announced the winners of the first lucky draw conducted for its customers under the ‘Shop and Fly’ promotional scheme jointly held with Air India Express Ltd. The lucky draw winners for the month of September are Anumol M.S. (Manakkad, Mulavukad, Ernakulam) and Nishad Kunhi (Guruvayur, Thrissur). The winners will receive free international round trip ticket from Air India Express. Under the joint promotion, a lucky draw will be conducted every month for customers purchasing from Cochin Duty-Free, said a communication here. The lucky draw was done by Oommen Joseph (Assistant Commissioner of Customs) and Captain Sanjay Gopinad (Air India Express) in the presence of CIAL officers Jacob T. Abraham, Santhosh J. Poovattil, Sreejith T.K., Paul A. Bijoy and George Elanjickal, the communication added. CIAL and Air India Express have rolled out promotional schemes for passengers under a joint marketing initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cochin-duty-free-announces-first-lucky-draw-winners/article36997194.ece
14 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Heritage walk on Sunday||Elected representatives of people, officials, and tourism stakeholders will take part in a heritage walk across Fort Kochi and Mattancherry on Sunday at 7.30 a.m. The walk, which will begin from the folklore complex, is intended to gather information about the projects needed at these heritage spaces. The idea, according to a communication, is to create a blueprint for each of these projects. In all, five such groups will walk along the heritage zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heritage-walk-on-sunday/article36997193.ece
14 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two more held in ganja seizure case||The special investigation squad probing the seizure of 31 kg of ganja smuggled in through courier to Perumbavoor has arrested two more persons. The arrested were identified as Jinu George, 24, of Kottapady, and Sajmal Yousuf, 23 of Thrikkariyur. Jinu was among those who procured ganja from Visakhapatanam in Andhra Pradesh. The parcel containing ganja had come in the name of Sajmal Yousuf. “We have expanded the probe to other States as well,” said K. Karrhik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-held-in-ganja-seizure-case/article36997199.ece
14 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea to restore short-distance trains||The commoner has been left in the lurch since most MEMU and short-distance trains withdrawn in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic have not been restored, despite life getting back to normal in Kerala, Friends on Rails, a collective of railway passengers, has said. Railways, which had stated that operating more short-distance passenger trains would affect its revenue, had not bothered to probe the reasons for the fall in the number of passengers on trains restored during the past few months, said the collective recently. An example is the Nilambur-Kottayam passenger train which operates with just a handful of passengers on most days, since reservation facility is not available in many of the stations where it stops. Number of stops The lessening of number of stops for MEMU and express trains that were restored has affected their patronage. Most passengers from Alappuzha cannot afford to travel on Jan Shatabdi trains. Subsequently, they are forced to rely on other modes of commute to reach Ernakulam and other destinations. The sole way out was to resume the operation of the Ernakulam-Kayamkulam passenger train and to revise timings of trains that operated through Alappuzha and Kottayam, said Liyons J., secretary, Friends on Rails. The confining of season ticket travel to a few trains has further affected commuters. The allocation of season and unreserved coaches in just a few trains lacks logic. Unreserved coaches must be allotted for all trains. It was noteworthy that patronage in second-class and sleeper coaches was limited, since tickets were available only for AC coaches, said Gita M., president of the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-restore-short-distance-trains/article36997191.ece
14 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC notice on petition against enthronement of Catholicos||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday issued notice to the State Government; Kuriakose Mar Clemis, president, Malankara Syrian Christian Association; and Yuhanon Mar Diascoros, secretary, episcopal synod, Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church; on a writ petition challenging the ‘enthronement of Catholicos of the East scheduled at Parumala on October 15’. The petition was filed by K.A. John and another parishioner of the St. Mary’s Orthodox church, Piravom. They alleged that the enthronement of the Catholicos was going to be held without canonically inviting the Patriarch of Antioch. They said the invitation was mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-notice-on-petition-against-enthronement/article36997204.ece
14 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NIA seeks pardon for an accused in gold smuggling||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, has approached the Special Court here seeking pardon for an accused. Muhammad Mansoor, the 35th accused, has voluntarily expressed his willingness to disclose the true facts of the case known to him regarding the role played by other accused in the case, the agency submitted before the Special Court on Wednesday. The confessional statements of the accused were recorded before the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, Ernakulam, on September 14. The agency hopes to turn him in as an approver in the case. Mansoor has made a full and true disclosure of the circumstances in the case and his knowledge against every other accused in the case. The evidence provided by Mansoor is highly essential to establish the offences alleged against first accused P.S. Sarith and others, it submitted. The agency also submitted that it was necessary that Mansoor be tendered pardon and examined as a witness in the case. 5 other approvers The investigation agency had made five other persons, including Sandeep Nair, as approvers in the case. The court posted the case for October 16. The case relates to the alleged smuggling of gold from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to the country through the diplomatic channel of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nia-seeks-pardon-for-an-accused-in-gold-smuggling/article36997205.ece
14 October 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Applications invited for Maths lecturer||Government Polytechnic College, Ezhukone, has invited applications for the post (temporary) of Mathematics lecturer on daily basis. Candidates with postgraduate degree or equivalent qualification with 55% marks in the relevant subject can attend the interview at 10 a.m. on November 18. For details For more information on the post and application process, contact 0474 2484068.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-maths-lecturer/article36997230.ece
14 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||925 test positive in Kottayam||As many as 925 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam district on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, 913 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. With 101 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Elikkulam grama panchayat, which recorded 36 cases. As many as 781 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the active cases in the district to 3,272. Meanwhile, 36,816 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. 8 deaths In Pathanamthitta, 547 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. All but one person contracted the virus through local transmission and among them, the contact source of three cases is yet to be identified. With 29 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by Konni, which reported 24 cases. The disease claimed eight more lives in the district. With 616 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases in the district stood at 5,277. 760 via contact The Kollam district reported 767 new cases of COVID-19 and 580 recoveries on Wednesday. While 760 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include one NRI, two persons from another State and four health workers. At present, the district has 23,478 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 24,79,689. While 2,906 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 3,90,175 primary and 21,153 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam district for the day is 13.5 %.  The test positivity rate in Kollam district for the day is 13.5 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/925-test-positive-in-kottayam/article36997232.ece
14 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Association all set to elect Catholicos||A meeting of the Malankara Syrian Christian Association to elect the ninth Catholicos of the East and the 22nd Malankara Metropolitan, supreme head of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, will begin at Parumala on Thursday. As many as 4,007 members, including clergy, laity, managing committee members, and metropolitans from 1,590 parishes across the 30 dioceses of the Church, are slated to attend the event. Opening Marking the opening of the event, senior metropolitan Kuriakose Mar Cleemis hoisted the Catholicate flag at the venue of the meeting around 2.30 p.m. on Wednesday. The flag-hoisting ceremony was followed by a meeting of the managing committee to evaluate the preparations. Extensive arrangements have been made for the meeting, which will be held across 50 specially prepared centres on a diocesan basis at the same time. Registration of delegates for the meeting who are members of the managing committee would take place at Parumala from 9 a.m. to 12 noon on Thursday, the organisers said. Other delegates Registration process of other delegates will be held at respective venues at around the same time. A procession to the venue of the event will begin by 12.45 noon. Mar Cleemis will preside over the meeting. Nominated Mathews Mar Severios, who has been nominated by the episcopal synod and the managing committee, is slated to be unanimously elected as successor to Baselios Mar Thomas Poulose II., who passed away in July this year. In view of the meeting on Thursday, entry of devotees to the Parumala church will be strictly regulated on October 14 and 15, according to the organisers of the meeting.  As many as 4,007 members from 1,590 parishes across the 30 dioceses of the Church are slated to attend the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/association-all-set-to-elect-catholicos/article36997189.ece
14 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Helping teenagers tide over pandemic blues||The pandemic can have a different impact on children in different age groups. The Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) is now holding counselling sessions titled ‘Ujjwala Koumaram’ to help teenagers tide over this phase. The project was launched on a pilot basis in Kozhikode district on Teachers’ Day on September 5. It is now being extended across other districts in the State. K.K. Sivadasan, head of the district-level education committee, KSSP, told The Hindu on Tuesday that ‘Ujjwala Koumaram’ is a follow-up scheme of ‘Makkalkkoppam’, which helped parents negotiate the perils of online learning of their wards. “When we were holding sessions for parents, a section of students had demanded that they too needed a similar initiative. The plan is to address those in the 8-12 age group. In the first phase, students in the 8-10 age group will be targeted,” he said. Parishad functionaries said the project aimed to instil confidence among teenagers who were often confounded by the changes in their physical and mental make-up as they grew up, especially in the wake of lack of offline classes. The counselling sessions are planned in such a way as to lead life in a fulfilling way. Technical support for the initiative was given by the Kozhikode-based Institute for Mental Health and Neurosciences (IMHANS). The classes are run by counsellors and teachers trained in psychology. A study conducted by the KSSP earlier had found that students were under pressure and most of them became disinclined towards learning. The absence of school atmosphere that often helped them survive the stress deteriorated their condition. Many parents were also unable to help students cover their online assignments. Differently abled children and those with learning disabilities were pushed to the corner, the study said. As a result, at least some children were branded lazy and naughty. Behavioural changes such as anger, fear, and indiscipline were seen in some others because of sleeping and waking up late, lack of or excess sleep, and day-time sleep. Changing food habits too had an impact on their health, the study pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/helping-teenagers-tide-over-pandemic-blues/article36997178.ece
14 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Coastal sewage plants get PCB clearance; works to begin soon||The works of the two sewage treatment plants of Kozhikode Municipal Corporation, at Kothi and Avikkalthodu, which had been delayed due to several technical problems, may begin soon. Corporation Secretary K.U. Bini said that the State Pollution Control Board had cleared both the projects. However, the plant in Kothi is yet to be cleared by the Coastal Regulatory Zone Authority. “There are no issues. Kothi will also get clearance, most probably within a month in the next hearing”, she said. The laying of the pipeline network is the first step, which may begin in Avikkalthodu soon. Ahmedabad-based Nasith Infrastructure that had won the tender for the network laying, has kickstarted the work at Avikkalthodu by bringing in the raw materials, including pipes. The two projects were estimated to cost Rs. 59.77 crore for the STP in Avikkal and Rs. 56.38 crore for the one in Kothi, totalling Rs. 116.15 crore. However, since not many agencies could invest the total amount, the corporation had split the project into two. The tender for the pipeline network was won by Nasith Infrastructure from Ahmedabad, while Maharashtra-based Zimak Hitech Products won the tender for the construction of the plants. However, the corporation had to tender the whole project for Rs. 139.5 crore as no one was ready to accept it for the initial amount. The estimated cost for the networks alone at present is Rs. 104.83 crore. Once the construction is completed, the maintenance of the plant for the next five years will be with Zimak Hitech. The two projects, being implemented under AMRUT, are expected to benefit more than 98,000 people in the coastal areas of Kozhikode city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coastal-sewage-plants-get-pcb-clearance-works-to-begin-soon/article36997183.ece
14 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Calicut varsity’s MCA students in a fix||Outdated syllabus, lack of regular teachers, inordinate delay in conducting of exams, no placement assistance, very few computers in computer labs, rickety furniture in classrooms and creaky buildings. These are just some of the issues being faced by students of Master of Computer Applications (MCA) in a dozen Centres for Computer Science and Information Technology affiliated to the University of Calicut. These centres, set up in 1996 in five districts under the university’s jurisdiction, offer three-year postgraduate programme in MCA and MSc Computer Science and graduate programme in B.Sc Information Technology. Since 2019, they started a two-year lateral entry course too in MCA. There are at least 30 students in each MCA batch. According to K. Abin, functionary of a collective of MCA students, those belonging to the 2018 regular and 2019 lateral entry batches have not completed their tenure even now. “For the 2018 batch, exams have been completed only for four semesters. Notification for the fifth semester is yet to be out. For the 2019 batch, exams have been held only for two semesters. Both these groups are yet to get any idea about completion of their projects,” he said. The condition of the 2020 batch is not different as they have not had any exams till date. Mr. Abin said though each student paid Rs. 22,500 in each semester as fee, they were not given proper facilities. None of these centres had permanent teachers. Most of the buildings were not in proper shape. Differently-abled students often found it difficult to cope with this. These students had no well-equipped computer labs. They were still being taught outdated syllabus, which did not prepare them with fast-changing technological advancements. Protest march “Because of the delay in conducting exams, courses do not complete on time. This affects our prospects for higher studies and jobs. We find it difficult to compete with students with similar qualifications who complete courses in APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University,” Mr. Abin said. These students took out a protest march to the university campus recently to highlight their concerns. Though university authorities have promised to look into their demands, the students say that they may not be addressed soon because of issues such as budgetary constraints.  Outdated syllabus, lack of regular teachers, delay in exams among issues bedevilling students||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsitys-mca-students-in-a-fix/article36997170.ece
14 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kathakali awards to be given away||Thodayam Kathakali Yogam in Kozhikode will observe October 16 as National Kathakali Day, along with its 32nd anniversary, in honour of poet Vallathol Narayanan Menon, whose birth anniversary falls on the day. Besides performances of “Santhanagopalam” and “Lavanasura Vadham” Kathakali, there will also be a Chakyarkoothu performance by Sanju Palasseri on the occasion. The formal event is to be inaugurated by M.K. Raghavan, MP, at 10 a.m. while Thottathil Raveendran, MLA, will be the guest of honour. The various awards instituted by the Yogam will be presented on the occasion. This includes T.N. Balakrishnan Thamban Award for Raman Namboothiri (chenda); Vallathol Award for Kalluvazhi Vasu; Yuva Prathibha Award for Kottakkal Harishwaran; and Thodayam Award for Ranjini Kizhakke Pisharam. The new managing trustee of Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala, P.M.Warrier, will release the souvenir. He will be honoured on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kathakali-awards-to-be-given-away/article36997169.ece
14 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Expert opinion awaited on renovation of flyovers||The Public Works Department is awaiting expert opinion on the condition of two major flyovers in Kozhikode city before starting work on their renovation, Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohammed Riyas has said. Mr. Riyas said at a meeting on Wednesday that experts from the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras and the Kerala Highway Research Institute were examining the A.K.G flyover and C.H. flyover in Kozhikode city. A detailed estimate on their renovation would be prepared after these teams submitted their report to the government. A senior official said that timely examination of the C.H. flyover had not been possible because of the presence of shops under the Kozhikode Corporation below the structure. The Minister asked District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy to look into it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expert-opinion-awaited-on-renovation-of-flyovers/article36997171.ece
14 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Mapilapattu exponent passes away||V.M. Kutty, 86, the singer who donned the mantle of Sultan in Mapilapattu, died at a private hospital at Kozhikode on Wednesday. He was under treatment for cardiac issues. Kutty stood tall among the Mapilapattu singers in the country through his bold experiments. He was instrumental in popularising the genre in Kerala. A member of the Kerala Chalachitra Academy general council, Kutty has sung in seven Malayalam films and won the Sangeeth Natak Akademi Award. He ruled the Mapilapattu realm for over six decades. He was born at Pulikkal, near Kondotty, in Malappuram in 1935 and started working as a teacher after passing matriculation and TTC. He had displayed exceptional skill in singing, painting and acting from childhood. Kutty entered the world of Mapilapattu by singing for All India Radio in Kozhikode in 1954. His fame reached its pinnacle in the 1970s, especially in the combination with Vilayil Faseela, who was formerly Vilayil Valsala. Orchestra troupe From 1957, he had an orchestra troupe of his own. Very few Mapilapattu singers had permanent troupes of their own in those times. Kutty and his troupe toured all major cities in the country and almost all countries in the Arabian Gulf. His body was kept for the public to pay respects at Moyinkutty Vaidya Academy Hall at Kondotty. The funeral took place at his home mahal at Pulikkal in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mapilapattu-exponent-passes-away/article36997211.ece
14 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||End farmers’ strife, says Metropolitan||Attributing the raging protest of farmers to the renunciation and desertion faced by the community for a long period, Mar Theodosius Mar Thoma Metropolitan, head of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, has called for urgent action to end the strife. Addressing online a three-day meeting of the Prathinidhi Mandalam of the church here on Wednesday, the Metropolitan said that the issues raised by protesters should be addressed by taking the farmers into confidence and by ensuring protection to the life and property of the people. Minority communities According to the Metropolitan, the issues faced by minority communities were indeed growing with the raging communalism. ‘‘Both religious nationalism and identity drawn from religion are dangerous. Instances of different groups clamouring in the name of religion are on a steady rise in India,” the Metropolitan said. He called for an end to the abuse of anti-conversion law by various north Indian States to attack the church and missionaries and pointed to the death of Stan Swami, who had fought on behalf of the tribal community. Concerns Noting the recent developments in Afghanistan, he sought to register his concerns on the war of words that broke out in Kerala over religious extremism. Educational institutions The Metropolitan also drew the attention of the council towards moulding educational institutions under the church as centres of excellence by enhancing the learning methods and upgrading the curricula. Besides the Metropolitan, Suffragan Metropolitans Euyakim Mar Coorilos and Joseph Mar Barnabas and members of the council were present. Church secretary K.G. Joseph will present the annual report. Laity secretary P.P. Achankunju will present the budget.  1,451 representatives As many as 1,451 representatives of the church from different parishes around the globe are attending the online event. New office-bearers will be elected on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/end-farmers-strife-says-metropolitan/article36997238.ece
14 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF walks out of House over SilverLine||The Congress-led United Democratic Front Opposition walked out of the Assembly on Wednesday, damning the Left Democratic Front government’s “quixotic” semi-high-speed railway project, SilverLine as economically and environmentally unviable. Seeking leave of the House for moving an adjournment motion, Indian Union Muslim League legislator M.K. Muneer said the “unrealistic” project, if implemented, would dispossess more than 20,000 families. It would foist an irredeemable debt of more than Rs. 1,24,000 crore on the public and disrupt the natural order of things. The 450-km steep railway embankment required for SilverLine would tear Kerala’s narrow strip of terra firma asunder geographically. It would subsume large expanses of ecologically fragile wetlands, mangrove forests and paddies. The elevated causeway would act as a barrier to the natural flow of water during monsoon, exacerbating the intensity of floods and mud slips. Opposition charge Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan said the government had not comprehensively assessed the environmental and economic impact of SilverLine. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, like other authoritarian figures in history, is prone to condemn those sceptical about his “dream project” as traitors. The government is struggling to source granite for Vizhinjam seaport construction. “How does the government hope to find granite required for raising 10 to 15 high railway embankments for SilverLine. Will the administration hollow out the Western Ghats by allowing indiscriminate granite mining behind the cover of SilverLine,” Mr. Satheesan asked. Misplaced fears: CM Mr. Vijayan said the UDF’s fears were misplaced. SilverLine would compress the estimated 16-hour travelling time between Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram to less than four. The scheme would open up Kerala’s verdant hinterlands to development and tourism and help reduce the State’s carbon footprint. Moreover, the Centre has specified that an environmental impact study was not mandatory for the “green project”. The Centre has approved the scheme in principle. Several international financial institutions have extended low-interest loans for the project. Eight comparable projects are under way in other States. Kerala has to catch up with the world in terms of sustainable infrastructure development. The Opposition should cooperate with the government and not mislead the people, he said. Speaker M.B. Rajesh rejected the plea for the adjournment motion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-walks-out-of-house-over-silverline/article36997213.ece
14 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC to buy 50 e-buses for capital||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will purchase 50 electric buses for operating services in the capital city, Minister for Transport Antony Raju has informed the Assembly. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) had sanctioned Rs. 47.5 crore for purchasing the buses, Mr. Raju said on Wednesday. The capital city would also see the introduction of 30 electric autorickshaws for operating feeder services to the KSRTC, the Minister said. The autorickshaws would be purchased through a loan scheme. This would constitute the first phase of a loan scheme announced in the 2021-22 State Budget for enabling the public to purchase e-vehicles. A total of Rs. 200 crore would be made available for 10,000 two-wheelers and 5,000 autorickshaws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-to-buy-50-e-buses-for-capital/article36997363.ece
14 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala Food Conclave to be held on Oct. 16||The Hindu , in association with the Food and Civil Supplies Department, Government of Kerala, is organising ‘Kerala Food Conclave’ on October 16 to coincide with World Food Day. The food conclave will focus on the theme ‘How Kerala can be self-sufficient in food production’. CM to inaugurate Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the event. Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil is scheduled to preside over the inaugural function and deliver the keynote address. Safe food Secretary, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Teeka Ram Meena; Director, Civil Supplies, D. Sajith Babu; senior officials from the State Planning Board, Food Commission and Health Department; and representatives of the food manufacturing industry will participate in the conclave which will also discuss various topics and issues, including safe food consumption culture and eating healthy during COVID-19 times. Admission by invite The programme will be telecast by Kairali News and streamed live on The Hindu social media handles. Admission is by invite. The event will be held in accordance with COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-food-conclave-on-october-16/article36997173.ece
14 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA admin set-up to undergo change||The administrative set-up of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) is set to undergo a change, with a shift towards dividing the duties based on the revenue district rather than the existing system based on sub-divisions, Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine has said. The offices at the lower levels will be reclassified as per this. The existing divisions created problems in project implementation as well as in the carrying out of maintenance works, Mr. Augustine told the Assembly on Wednesday. The MLAs often ended up attending multiple meetings for issues in different parts of their constituency, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-admin-set-up-to-undergo-change/article36997369.ece
14 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tree-felling: Minister promises action||Further punitive action will be taken against the Forest Department officials who are accused in the Muttil tree felling case, Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran has said. Replying to a question from K. Babu in the Assembly on Wednesday on why no action had been taken against the officials whom the Special Investigation Team (SIT) recommended to suspend from service, he said that action had been taken based on the preliminary report of the SIT. “The SIT’s investigation has not been completed. I am not aware whether they have given any report regarding this to the Chief Minister. Based on the preliminary report, we transferred the officials. It is only after the final report that the punitive action to be taken against them will be decided,” said the Minister. SIT probe An SIT to probe the illegal felling of centuries-old rosewood trees from revenue land assigned to farmers for cultivation in the forested Wayanad district was constituted in June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-promises-action-against-staff/article36997190.ece
14 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Twin murder: one held||The Poojappura police on Wednesday recorded the arrest of a 31-year-old man, accused of murdering his father-in-law and brother-in-law at Mudavanmugal on Tuesday night. The accused has been identified as Arun from Kallummoodu, near Muttathara. According to the police, the accused stabbed and murdered his father-in-law Sunilkumar (48) and brother-in-law Akhil (24) at their house on Mannamkonam lane in Mudavanmugal. On Tuesday evening, the accused tried to forcibly take away his wife who was living separately from him at her house due to his drinking habit. When her father and brother resisted him, he allegedly stabbed them both. Sunilkumar was stabbed on the neck and Akhil on the chest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/twin-murder-one-held/article36997357.ece
14 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU Padasala launched||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan launched the KU Padasala repository of educational videos, created by the University of Kerala, at Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-padasala-launched/article36997361.ece
14 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,125 cases in district||The district logged 1,125 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases to 11,552. The test positivity rate stood at 10.4%. The district also reported 1,058 recoveries on the day. In all, 51,422 people are currently in quarantine in the district. Aryancode ward in Aryancode panchayat has been declared a containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1125-cases-in-district/article36997364.ece
14 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Provide counselling for students: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has directed that steps be taken to provide counselling to school and college students. Counselling should be ensured in schools and colleges, Mr. Vijayan said at a COVID-19 review meeting on Wednesday. First year undergraduate students who could not receive COVID-19 vaccination as they had not completed 18 years would be exempted from the vaccination stipulations. Only students who had received both doses of vaccine would be allowed into colleges. Those whose second vaccine was due would also be permitted. Counselling should be conducted for teachers and students who were reluctant to get vaccinated, the Chief Minister said. Restriction on public meetings would continue. Special permission should be sought for programmes that need to be exempted. Museums and monuments under the Archaeology, Archives, and Museum departments would start functioning from October 25. Permission would be granted to conduct competitions for selection to the Nehru hockey tourney.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/provide-counselling-for-students-cm/article36997217.ece
14 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Guidelines in place for offline classes in colleges||The Higher Education Department on Wednesday released guidelines for the resumption of offline classes for junior batches in colleges on October 18. College managements have been instructed to accommodate all students in the same classroom for postgraduate courses. Undergraduate classes should be divided into different batches and taught on alternate days or on the same day in different classrooms in those colleges that have sufficient space. Practical sessions have been permitted for science subjects.  The heads of institutions have been directed to organise special drives to provide COVID-19 vaccine free of cost to students and employees on campuses. All teaching and non-teaching staff members will be required to report for duty. The guidelines also permit students aged below 18 years and not vaccinated and students who have received only the first dose of vaccine to attend classes. In such cases, the colleges should ensure that their family members who are above 18 years have received at least a dose of vaccine. Teachers and students who have wilfully refused to take the vaccine need not be permitted to enter colleges. Students with disabilities and comorbidities can be exempted from offline classes for the first two weeks. Students who are pregnant and lactating mothers can be permitted to attend classes if they have received both vaccine doses. College managements have been directed to strictly enforce COVID-19 norms on campuses. COVID-19 Jagratha Samitis comprising teachers, non-teaching staff, students, guardians, local body representatives, health workers and police should be constituted in each college. Time slots While colleges can function between 8.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m., college councils have been permitted to choose between the time slots of 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m., and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Engineering colleges must ensure six hours of class sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guidelines-in-place-for-offline-classes-in-colleges/article36997219.ece
14 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||First arrest in Corpn. fund misappropriation case||The first arrest in the case of misappropriation of revenue funds from the zonal offices of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation was recorded on Wednesday. The Sreekaryam police arrested Biju (41), office attendant, at the Sreekaryam zonal office. He was arrested from his wife’s house at Kallara in the morning. He is accused of misappropriating Rs. 5.25 lakh from the revenue collections that was supposed to be remitted to the Corporation Secretary’s account. The accused has been charged under Section 409 pertaining to criminal breach of trust by public servant, Section 420 pertaining to cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property and Section 465 pertaining to punishment for forgery, of the Indian Penal Code. The Sreekaryam police are on the lookout for one more person. Series of protests The issue has been rocking the Corporation for the past few weeks, with the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party and the United Democratic Front (UDF) staging a series of protests. A revenue officer who had newly taken charge at the Sreekaryam zonal office had noticed the anomalies in revenue collection on July 16 and promptly reported it to the Corporation Secretary. The Corporation administration on July 19 requested the local fund audit officials to carry out a detailed check of revenue collection at all the 11 zonal offices and the main office. The office attendant at the Sreekaryam office, allegedly responsible for the anomaly, was suspended on the same day. The revenue collection records of the past two years are being checked, as the audits have been completed till March 2020, when the COVID-19 outbreak happened.  MP seeks White Paper Shashi Tharoor, MP, on Wednesday demanded that the Corporation release a White Paper to allay the fears of tax payers, in the light of the cases of fund misappropriation by some officials. Inaugurating a relay protest being organised by the UDF councillors in front of the Corporation office, he said that all involved in the case should be identified and arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-arrest-in-corpn-fund-misappropriation-case/article36997358.ece
14 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Governor felicitates Civil Services toppers||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan felicitated Keralites on the Civil Services rank list at a function at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday. 38 toppers As many as 38 Civil Services toppers from the State attended the function. The Governor congratulated them and lauded the role and involvement of their parents in their growth. Work for the weakest In his address, Mr. Khan reminded them that while taking decisions, civil servants should always be conscious of the weakest sections. “The power vested in you must be used to improve the lives of the most ordinary people,” he said in is address. Culture of acceptance He advised them to treat the cultural, religious, and linguistic diversity of the country as the real strength. “Be conscious of the nation’s age-old culture of acceptance, which has its noblest examples in Kerala. The modern world emphasises the principle of dignity of mankind, while India has always upheld the divinity of mankind,” he said. Expressing his happiness on seeing many candidates qualify the Civil Services examination, Mr. Khan said: “I wish that a good number among you get posted outside Kerala, so that you can spread Kerala’s robust culture of equality and dignity to other States.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-felicitates-civil-services-toppers/article36997236.ece
14 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Get Set’ to ready students for reopening||The National Service Scheme (NSS) of Vocational Higher Secondary Education (VHSE) will organise a webinar series ‘Get Set’ ahead of school reopening on November 1. Practice-based sessions The webinar series from October 15 to 31 will comprise 100 practice-based sessions that will prepare the students mentally and academically for return to school. The one-hour sessions will broadly focus on life skills, functional skills and soft skills. Hundred vocational higher secondary school NSS units from all the 14 districts will prioritise areas such as techno craft, change and crisis management in the webinar. COVID-19-related health sessions and how to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour will also figure in the webinars. Resource persons Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. will lead the first session. Amar Fettle, State nodal officer for COVID-19, will interact with parents and address their concerns. Former DGP Rishi Raj Singh will lead a session. Subject experts from the State and the country will act as resource persons for various sessions. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty released the poster of the webinar series on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/get-set-to-ready-students-for-school-reopening/article36997227.ece
14 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Foundation stone laid||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal laid the foundation stone for the School of Communication and Information Sciences and formally inaugurated the Centre for Latin American Studies on the Karyavattom campus of Kerala University on Wednesday. The school complex is being constructed at an outlay of Rs. 4.5 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/foundation-stone-laid/article36997356.ece
14 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||11,079 more test positive||The State reported 11,079 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 89,995 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The active case pool, which came down to 97,630. The number of recoveries on Wednesday was 9,972.  The cumulative case burden now stands at 48,20,698 cases. Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 1,794, followed by Kozhikode 1,155, Thiruvananthapuram 1,125, Thrissur 1,111, Kottayam 925, Kollam 767, Idukki 729, Malappuram 699, Kannur 554, Pathanamthitta 547, Palakkad 530, Alappuzha 506, Wayanad 387, and Kasaragod 250.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11079-more-test-positive/article36997214.ece
14 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Probe against Aryadan||The Cabinet on Wednesday sought the consent of Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to open an anti-corruption inquiry against former Power Minister and Congress leader Aryadan Mohammed. The investigation is based on a complaint filed by Sarita S. Nair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-against-aryadan/article36997215.ece
14 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Monthly aid for kin of BPL COVID victims||The Cabinet on Wednesday announced an ex gratia financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 per month for three years as direct benefit transfer to the next of kin of COVID-19 victims hailing from below the poverty line (BPL) families. The payment is in addition to the assistance Rs. Rs 50,000 declared by the Central Government. The Government has included those receiving welfare pensions under the ambit of the scheme. The Cabinet also clarified that families of those who died abroad or outside the State due to COVID-19 would be eligible for the assistance. The Government has asked the Revenue Department to simplify the application process for the scheme. Moreover, District Collectors should ensure that the beneficiaries do not include income taxpayers or Government employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monthly-aid-for-kin-of-bpl-covid-victims/article36997216.ece
14 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Orange alert in six districts||Six districts are on orange alert for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall on Thursday. Generally, rainfall will be widespread over Kerala till Saturday due to a cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal, which is poised to intensify into a low pressure area by Thursday and a cyclonic circulation that persists over the Arabian Sea, weather forecast indicated on Wednesday. The districts of Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod have been put on orange alert on Thursday. These six districts, along with Idukki, are on orange alert on Friday as well and on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall on Saturday. Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Thrissur also are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall till Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orange-alert-in-six-districts/article36997220.ece
14 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Student found dead at college||A 19-year-old student of Mar Ivanios College here died in a suspected accident after falling down the stairs of the college hostel. According to the Mannanthala police, Joshua Abraham from Anchal in Kollam was found on the hostel floor around 11.45 a.m. on Wednesday. He was pronounced dead on arrival at hospital. Joshua has been staying in the hostel for training for the college basketball team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/student-found-dead-at-college/article36997362.ece
14 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrust on boosting rice exports||Excessive use of pesticides, lack of quality seeds and untimely rain have been hampering rice export, a Farmers-Scientists Interface on GI Tagged Rice observed on Wednesday. Inability to meet global standards and irregular supply of demanded quantities too have hit business. “Traceability and pesticide residues are key challenges faced while exporting rice to European countries. Lack of proper storage facilities at village level leads to quality deterioration, which often leads to rejection of the produce,” the meet pointed out. The Central Training Institute, Mannuthy, under the Directorate of Extension, Kerala Agricultural University (KAU), in collaboration with the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) organised the event. Premium price Simi Unnikrishnan, assistant general manager, APEDA, New Delhi, assured that the body would support farmers in exporting their produce for premium price if the quality as prescribed by the importing countries and continuous supply are ensured. Business models Experts suggested collaboration between farmer societies and marketing agencies and creation of business models with the support of funding agencies for GI registration. Publicity through social networks and online marketing of GI rice will increase the economic viability of GI rice cultivation, they noted. Farmers raised concerns of using the brand name of ‘Palakkadan matta’ by middlemen from other States and sought the intervention of the government to stop its illegal use. They also suggested the need to upgrade skills in the areas of value addition in rice to enhance the income of farmers and attract rural youth towards farming. Experts involved in the relevant areas of research from the KAU handled six sessions. The objective of the programme was to promote export-oriented production of GI tagged rice varieties in the State by involving farmers, exporters, entrepreneurs and other stakeholders under the auspices of the APEDA. Legal and legislative support for cultivating traditional rice varieties, problems and prospects of cultivation of GI tagged rice varieties, experiences of farmers in cultivating GI rice varieties and the importance of adopting Maximum Residue Limits (MRLs) were among the topics discussed. Twenty five farmers who cultivate Palakkadan matta rice participated at the seminar hall of Communication Centre, Mannuthy. Farmers who cultivate GI rice from other districts participated virtually. Catalysing role The collaboration of the KAU with the APEDA was initiated by R. Chandrababu, Vice Chancellor, KAU, with an aim of establishing a catalysing role for the KAU in this endeavour. Jayasree Krishnankutty, director of extension, KAU, inaugurated the event and explained the policy and legal support available for traditional rice varieties.  Inability to meet global standards and irregular supply too have hit business||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrust-on-boosting-rice-exports/article36997318.ece
14 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Stir by KAU workers||KAU workers on Wednesday took out a protest march seeking withdrawal of suspension of general secretary of Employees Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stir-by-kau-workers/article36997365.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Providing a climate of ‘Ease of Living’||The functions of the state have vastly expanded in the decades after Independence. In the colonial era, the state was mainly oriented to collect revenue and spend for the use of force to cater to imperial interests. The development, growth and redistributive needs were of least priority to the rulers though some small steps were taken under the pressure of popular movements. The implementation of the goals of social and economic inequality enumerated in the Directive Principles of State Policy enshrined in the Constitution requires political will, something which emerges from the maturing of society through mass movements, strong presence of social and other representative organisations, the pressure they are able to exert on the state and the commitment of the political parties which seek people’s mandate by placing their manifestoes before elections. Decentralisation In Kerala, from pre-Independence days, mass movements for social, economic and civil liberties went hand in hand with the national movement and they worked in harmony with the Renaissance movement. It is in this background that Kerala took early steps in democratic decentralisation. After the 73rd and 74th Constitutional amendments, Kerala has taken the lead in decentralisation by taking the planning process to the grassroots. A democratic state is one that serves its citizenry and is not a ‘giver of services’. It is here that something more than decentralised governance is required.  On October 1, 2021, the Government of Kerala launched a single app to take services to citizens. Three days later, the Government made the issuance of certificates free of cost and had done away with the need for many certificates like Residence, Identity, One and the Same, Relationship, Caste and inter-caste marriage certificates if necessary authentic evidence is available with the citizen. Simplified process The attestation by the Home Department for jobseekers abroad has been simplified and will be issued online. It has been declared that there need not be attestation by Gazetted Officers or notarisation of certificates while making applications. Issue of remaining necessary certificates will be made within five working days and applications can be made online. Certificates issued can be used for more than one purpose, thus avoiding the need for citizens to visit government offices for getting the same certificate for different purposes. Through this reform, the State Government aims to create a climate of ‘Ease of Living’ for the people. Our efforts to provide citizen-centric governance will continue and this is part of our continuous attempts in deepening the content of democracy, a goal which we shall continue to strive for.  A democratic state is one that serves its citizenry and is not a ‘giver of services’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/providing-a-climate-of-ease-of-living/article36997222.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Preparing for an auspicious start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/preparing-for-an-auspicious-start/article36997234.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-devotion/article36997180.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||New lease of life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-lease-of-life/article36997367.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Stamping its mark||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stamping-its-mark/article36997320.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Nature’s essence||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/natures-essence/article36997187.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For puja||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-puja/article36997360.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sivankutty’s plea rejected||The unruly incidents took place in the House on March 13, 2015 following the attempts of the LDF MLAs to prevent the then Finance Minister K.M. Mani from presenting the State Budget. The trial court rejected the arguments of the accused that the prosecution initiated on the basis of a complaint by the Legislative Secretary without the Speaker’s permission was not maintainable. The contention of the accused, who were members of the Assembly, that they were entitled to immunity due to the privileges conferred by the Constitution was also rejected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sivankuttys-plea-rejected/article36997218.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lights of tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lights-of-tradition/article36997224.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leaked conversation embarrasses Cong.||In an embarrassment to the Congress, a private conversation between two party leaders on corruption in irrigation projects and its alleged connection to KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar became public on Wednesday. It led to a slugfest between the Congress and the BJP. It all began with a conversation between the former MLC and MP V.S. Ugrappa and KPCC media coordinator M.A. Saleem, which had taken place before the press conference on Tuesday, getting leaked. Mr. Saleem had made the remarks against Mr. Shivakumar, unaware that the microphone was on. Soon after the conversation went public, the KPCC Disciplinary Committee issued show-cause notice to Mr. Ugrappa and expelled Mr. Saleem from the primary membership of the party for six years. In the video, while Mr. Saleem is mostly heard speaking, Mr. Ugrappa is seen listening and responding in monosyllables.  Mr. Saleem is heard indicating that “commission for irrigation contracts had gone up from 6 % - 8 % to 10 % - 12 %” and there were “adjustments connected to DK (Shivakumar)”. He goes on to say that if dug deeper, it will reach him (Mr. Shivakumar) also. “How much money would Mr. Shivakumar have made in this if a collection agent Mulagund can make Rs. 50 crore to Rs. 100 crore?” he is heard stating. Mr. Shivakumar was Water Resources Minister in the Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress coalition headed by H.D. Kumaraswamy. The conversation also revolved around Mr. Shivakumar’s speaking and leadership style, comparing it to that of the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. Mr. Saleem is heard saying that the latter “speaks with confidence” while the former “slurs”. In a party that is divided between camps of Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Shivakumar, the conversation was seen as further proof of the bitter rivalry. Soon, the BJP attacked Mr. Shivakumar on Twitter, saying, “For those accusing that the income tax searches were politically motivated, Mr. Ugrappa and Mr. Saleem have clarified. Congress leaders led by Mr. Siddaramaiah have ended the dreams of Mr. Shivakumar to become chief minister.” In response, the KPCC tweeted, “...Though the issue of corruption in BJP has been raised by Yatnal, Vishwanath and Suresh Gowda, no action has been taken. BJP legislator Basanagouda Yatnal had alleged of corruption, family interference, hawala transaction and black money of BJP leaders.” The KPCC also pointed to a similar private conversation on stage between Mr. Yediyurappa and late Union Minister Ananth Kumar in which the former speaks of money given to the high command. Mr. Ugrappa claimed that the conversation was “taken out of context” and that he had not endorsed what Mr. Saleem had said. Meanwhile, distancing himself from the conversation, Mr. Shivakumar insisted that there were no camps in the party and there was no conspiracy against him. “I will abide by the decision of the disciplinary committee,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leaked-conversation-embarrasses-cong/article36996797.ece
14 October 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teen athlete gets a helping hand||Kaka Joga Rao, the talented Adivasi athlete from Lingapuram village in the border mandal of Dummugudem, faced the risk of losing a lifetime opportunity to get into his dream course, due to poverty, until a few days ago. But then help came from Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt. He gave Joga Rao Rs. 20,000 to pay the admission fee at the National Sports University (NSU) in Manipur online within the stipulated time. The 19-year-old secured a seat in the four-year undergraduate programme in Sports Coaching at NSU based on merit after emerging successful in the entrance test, physical fitness/sports proficiency test and interview held recently, sources said. However, the poor financial condition of his father, a small farmer, stood as a stumbling block to his ambition of joining the courseat the NSU situated in Manipur’s capital Imphal. Timely help His close associates, members of several Adivasi organisations and Dummugudem Circle Inspector of Police N. Venkateshwarlu took up the cause of the talented Adivasi athlete. Various Adivasi organisations also donated some amount, sources added. Being aware of the sporting talent of Joga Rao, who excelled in several sports tournaments held in the Agency areas in the past, Mr. Dutt extended immediate financial assistance in Bhadrachalam on Friday. The SP also assured the Adivasi youth further assistance to help him complete the four-year undergraduate course at the NSU. Lifetime ambition “My lifetime ambition is to excel in athletics and also become a coach in the international arena to bring fame to Telangana’s tribal heartland of Bhadrachalam Agency,” Joga Rao asserts, adding that his prospects of joining the NSU was in doubt for a while due to his parents’ inability to afford admission and other requisite fees. He is grateful to the SP for his timely assistance. “I will study diligently and live up to the expectations of my parents and all my well-wishers, including sports lovers,” says Joga Rao, who participated in the national youth athletics championship held in Delhi in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teen-athlete-gets-a-helping-hand/article36996807.ece
14 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tamil Nadu to implement urban job scheme||The State government has issued orders to implement the Tamil Nadu Urban Employment Scheme in two zones in the Greater Chennai Corporation, one zone each in 14 municipal corporations, one municipality each in seven regions and one town panchayat each in 37 districts, on a pilot basis during 2021-22. Tondiarpet (Zone 4) and Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar (Zone 6) in the GCC have been selected for the scheme that aims at improving livelihood and social security by boosting job opportunities and through creation and maintenance of public assets. Zone 1 of Madurai, Coimbatore’s East Zone, K. Abishekapuram in Tiruchi, Zone 1 of Vellore, Zone 3 of Tiruppur, Ammapettai Zone in Salem, Dindigul's Adiyanuthu area, Zone 4 of Tirunelveli and Erode, Nagercoil’s proposed North Zone, Zone 5 of Thanjavur, Thoothukudi's South Zone, Division 8 of Hosur and Divisions 3 and 6 of Avadi have also been selected. Among municipalities, Nellikuppam in Chengalpattu, Kallakurichi in Vellore, Kulithalai in Salem, Vellakoil in Tiruppur, Thiruthuraipoondi in Thanjavur, Oddanchatram in Madurai and Puliyankudi in Tirunelveli have been chosen for the scheme. The scheme would be implemented in 37 town panchayats. As per another G.O. issued earlier, no less than 50% of the total person days under the Tamil Nadu Urban Employment Scheme would be earmarked for women. Women and men would be paid the same wages for the same work. Among municipalities, Nellikuppam in Chengalpattu, Kallakurichi in Vellore, Kulithalai in Salem, Vellakoil in Tiruppur, Thiruthuraipoondi in Thanjavur, Oddanchatram in Madurai and Puliyankudi in Tirunelveli have been chosen for the scheme. The 37 town panchayats in as many districts where the scheme would be implemented are: Uthiramerur (Kancheepuram), Edaikazhinadu (Chengalpattu), Podhaturpet (Tiruvallur), Pallikonda (Vellore), Alangayam (Tirupattur), Nemili (Ranipet), Polur (Tiruvannamalai), Kambainallur (Dharmapuri), Nagojanahalli (Krishnagiri), Kadayampatty (Salem), R. Pudupatty (Namakkal), Jambai (Erode), Komaralingam (Tiruppur), Vettaikaranpudur (Coimbatore), Devarshola (the Nilgiris), Killai (Cuddalore), Ananthapuram (Villupuram), Vadakkanandal (Kallakurichi), Perumagalur (Thanjavur), Keezhvelur (Nagapattinam), Manalmedu (Mayiladuthurai), Kodaracheri (Tiruvarur),Pullampadi (Tiruchi), Kurumbalur (Perambalur), Varadharajanpet (Ariyalur), Keeramangalam (Pudukkottai), Thadicombu (Dindigul), P.J. Cholapuram (Karur), Alanganallur (Madurai), Mallanginar (Virudhunagar), C. Pudupatti (Theni), Nerkuppai (Sivaganga), R.S. Mangalam (Ramanathapuram), Panagudi (Tirunelveli), Sundarapandiapuram (Tenkasi), Authoor (Thoothukudi) and Killiyur (Kanniyakumari). As per another G.O. issued earlier, no less than 50% of the total person days under the Tamil Nadu Urban Employment Scheme would be earmarked for women. Women and men would be paid the same wages for the same unskilled and semi-skilled work. The scheme is based on the recommendations made by a committee led by former RBI Governor C. Rangarajan. An initial allocation of Rs. 100 crore has been made during 2021-22 for the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tamil-nadu-to-implement-urban-employment-scheme/article36996897.ece
14 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remembering Amrutha Rao, whose fast had led to setting up of Vizag steel plant||It was on October 14 in 1966 that T. Amrutha Rao, former MLA of Tadikonda constituency in Guntur district, had launched an indefinite fast demanding that the Central government set up a steel plant in Visakhapatnam. Amrutha Rao had fasted for 20 days in the Port City. What had begun as a peaceful protest soon changed its course and turned violent. Seventeen persons had been killed in mob violence. Properties of the Railways and other Central government establishments had been destroyed. Even as violence continued, the protesters raised slogans such as “Save Amrutha Rao” and “Visakha Ukku - Andhrula Hakku.” As the State plunged into a turmoil, Indira Gandhi, who was the Prime Minister then, had announced at the Congress Parliamentary Party meeting on October 31, 1966, that the government would consider the matter favourably and urged Amrutha Rao to end his fast. The Cabinet Sub-Committee had later recommended the setting up of the steel plant in Visakhapatnam. Later, Indira Gandhi had announced in Lok Sabha that the fifth steel plant of the country would be set up in Visakhapatnam. On November 3, 1966, the Union government had “in principle” accepted the proposal. Hours later, the then Chief Minister, Kasu Brahmananda Reddy, had reached Visakhapatnam by a chartered flight and offered a glass of orange juice to Amrutha Rao and enabled him to break his fast. Soon after, Amrutha Rao was rushed to the King George Hospital and provided emergency oxygen support. “My grandfather was firm in his demand and drew inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi. He had set out to Visakhapatnam on October 14 and launched an indefinite fast opposite the Collector’s office. As the State plunged into a turmoil, he had convinced the then District Collector, Abid Hussain, to pause the shooting orders. His agitation had sparked instant protests and prompted many leaders to set up local committees. The 15 Members of Parliament from Andhra Pradesh had represented the matter to former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi,” said T. Mohan Gandhi, grandson of Amrutha Rao and president of the Gandhi Mission International Society of India. The foundation stone for the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant had been laid on January 20, 1971. The construction had begun in the year 1979. Later, Amrutha Rao had risen in the ranks of the Congress and was elected as the first MLA of Tadikonda (SC) constituency in 1978. Later, he was nominated as the first Chairman of the A.P. Scheduled Castes Finance Corporation. Amrutha Rao had died in 1989 in penury. In Guntur, where Amrutha Rao had spent his early childhood, a bronze statue and a park named after him were set up in the year 2008. Former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had sanctioned Rs. 78 lakh for the purpose. He had also announced that October 21 should be celebrated as ‘Amrutha Rao jayanthi’. Grandson’s appeal to Jagan Even as the demand for saving Visakha Steel Plant was getting louder, Mr. Mohan said, “Most steel plants in the country have captive mines, and so operational cost of running the VSP may remain high. I urge Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to use his good offices and persuade the Union government to merge the VSP into the National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC).”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remembering-amrutha-rao-whose-fast-had-led-to-setting-up-of-vizag-steel-plant/article36997312.ece
14 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Issues of govt. staff will be resolved soon’||Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said the government is making every effort to resolve the pending issues of government employees by the end of November. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy met representatives of employees’ unions, including NGO, APNGO and Amaravati JAC, at the CM’s camp office. Principal Secretary Dhanunjaya Reddy took part in the deliberations. Among the issues that were discussed included recommendations of Pay Revision Commission (PRC), payment of salaries on time, scrapping of Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). “We will ensure the welfare of employees. A meeting will be held with the Chief Secretary soon and a decision will be taken,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. Stating that steps have been taken to ensure job security of the employees, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said setting up of the Out-sourcing Corporation, merger of the APSRTC with the government and creation of 1.30 lakh posts were done in the interest of the employees. “We we will resolve all these issues soon. The Chief Minister has fulfilled his promise of providing the interim relief, which entails an additional burden of Rs. 10,000 crore on the government exchequer. A meeting has been planned with the Chief Secretary on October 18 and 19,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/issues-of-govt-staff-will-be-resolved-soon/article36997313.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Implementation of gazette order on river boards delayed||The implementation of a gazette notification issued by Centre empowering the Godavari and Krishna river management boards to resolve the water disputes between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh will have to wait though Thursday (October 14) is the appointed day for the same. The notification was issued fixing jurisdiction of the twin boards and giving them authority and powers in terms of administration, regulation, operation and maintenance of listed irrigation projects in the two river basins. Special Chief Secretary, Irrigation, Rajat Kumar told The Hindu that the boards had submitted their action plan to Telangana government but it had to be studied in detail before consent could be given. The government had appointed an expert committee headed by Engineer-in-Chief of irrigation C. Muralidhar to study the operational procedures laid down by the boards and submit a report in 15 days. The government will submit its proposals to the boards in case of any objections and seek clarification. It will not give consent if the stand of the boards was not agreeable. On objections, Mr. Kumar cited the example of water allocation to the Krishna which was yet to be settled. How will the board handle the issue when the matter was sought to be taken to the Krishna water disputes tribunal - II?. The implementation of the notification was premature at this stage, he said. Sources said the government had in principle agreed to handing over the common projects of the two States to the twin boards. But, it was not willing to give up the power houses on Nagarjunasagar and Srisailam. After two days of deliberations at the special meetings of the boards on Monday and Tuesday, the minutes were communicated to the two governments on Wednesday. The Krishna board maintained that a “meaningful solution” to the disputes was not possible without taking over power houses. The board finally decided that all direct outlets from the main reservoirs of Nagarjunasagar and Srisailam may be prioritised by the two governments for handing over to the board by October 14. With regard to the Godavari basin, the board asked the governments to handover the Peddavagu reservoir which was jointly managed to carry out its mandated functions. Appropriate government orders may be issued for the purpose. The governments should also deposit one time seed money to the board. The list of projects sought to be taken over by the Krishna board in the river basin were : Srisailam - spillway and sluices, left and right bank power houses managed by both States, Pothireddypadu head regulator, Handri - Niva, Kalwakurthy and Muchurmarri lift irrigation schemes. Nagarjunasagar - project spillway, power houses, canal head regulators of two States and Alimineti Madhava Reddy lift irrigation scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/implementation-of-gazette-order-on-river-boards-delayed/article36996798.ece
14 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP confident of retaining Badvel||The YSRCP aims to retain the Badvel Assembly seat in the ensuing by-election by a huge margin of one lakh votes. Addressing the media at Badvel on Wednesday, Chief Whip Gadikota Srikanth Reddy said the party deserved a thumping victory at the hustings in view of the accomplishments done to the constituency. “Badvel Municipality gets drinking water from Brahmam Sagar, which started receiving copious inflows from Srisailam only after Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy became Chief Minister. The TDP regime did not care to address the technical issues due to which the water remained at dead storage for long,” he said. He said everyone in Badvel would vouch for the fact that they had been receiving drinking water only after YSRCP came to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-confident-of-retaining-badvel/article36997316.ece
14 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kakinada SHGs to get Rs. 120 cr. under YSR Asara||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu has assured that Rs. 120 crore would be given to SHGs under the YSR Asara scheme in Kakinada Rural Assembly segment by October 18. Over 80,000 women are engaged in the SHGs in the Kakinada Rural constituency. On Wednesday, Mr. Kannababu and Kakinada MP V. Geetha handed over a cheque of Rs. 23 crore to the SHGs at a programme in the city. Addressing SHG members, Mr. Kannababu said that the government is committed to the empowerment of women through the SHGs. On the allegations of welfare schemes being cancelled, he said the beneficiaries should visit the village secretariat to get their pensions resumed and the Secretariat staff would solve the grievances pertaining to technical problems in disbursal of the pensions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kakinada-shgs-to-get-rs-120-cr-under-ysr-asara/article36997327.ece
14 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||34,200 litres of jaggery wash destroyed, 26 held||Around 34,200 litres of jaggery wash and 1,500 litres of illicitly distilled (ID) liquor were destroyed in joint raids conducted by the Special Enforcement Bureau (Liquor and Sand) and the East Godavari district police on Wednesday. The police arrested 26 persons involved in the production of illicitly distilled liquor units and 40 cases have been registered across the district, the officials said. The raids on the ID liquor production will continue for some days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/34200-litres-of-jaggery-wash-destroyed-26-held/article36997328.ece
14 October 2021||Kalaburagi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siddaramaiah hits back at Kumaraswamy||Congress leader and former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has said he will retire from politics if the allegations of him secretly meeting former Chief Minister and BJP leader B.S. Yediyurappa are proved. Mr. Yediyurappa too has tweeted rubbishing the allegations. JD (S) leader and former Karnataka Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had on Tuesday alleged that the recent Income Tax raids on the aides of Mr. Yediyurappa were carried out at the behest of the BJP national leadership after Mr. Yediyurappa met Mr. Siddaramaiah. He had also alleged that Mr. Siddaramaiah had “conspired” to destabilise the BJP government in the secret meetings. “If H.D. Kumaraswamy proves that I had secretly met B.S. Yediyurappa ahead of the IT raids, I would retire from politics. I had met Mr. Yediyurappa on his 76th birthday. After that, I had met him in the Assembly. Except for these meetings, I have not personally met Mr. Yediyurappa even once. It is Mr. Kumaraswamy who meets Mr. Yediyurappa regularly,” he said. Mr. Yediyurappa on Wednesday clarified in a tweet, “I had met Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on February 27, 2020, at a function to mark my birthday. I have not met Mr. Siddaramaiah personally and there is no need for such meetings too.” In another tweet, he said that his aim was to bring the BJP back to power. “Till I reach the goal, I will not rest. I have never compromised nor will I compromise on the ideology that I have believed. Mr. Siddaramaiah has also clarified that we have not met,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/siddaramaiah-hits-back-at-kumaraswamy/article36996793.ece
14 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discharge plea of Sivankutty, others rejected||General Education Minister V. Sivankutty and five Left Democratic Front (LDF) leaders have to stand trial in the Assembly ruckus case as their discharge petitions were rejected by a trial court on Wednesday. Chief Judicial Magistrate, Thiruvananthapuram, R. Rekha rejected the petitions as the court felt that it cannot consider the charges against the accused to be groundless. The judge, after examining all the materials produced before the court, arrived at the conclusion that there was sufficient ground for presuming that the accused committed the offences punishable under the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. All the accused in the case, including K.T. Jaleel, MLA, K. Ajith, K. Kunjammed, E.P. Jayarajan and C.K. Sadasivan, should be present in the court on November 22 to frame the charges in the case, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/discharge-plea-of-sivankutty-others-rejected/article36996799.ece
14 October 2021||KOLLAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala man who used cobra to kill wife gets double life term||The Kollam additional sessions court on Wednesday awarded double life sentence along with 17 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) to Sooraj, accused in the sensational case in which a cobra was used to kill his wife Uthra. In the judgment running to more than 400 pages, judge M. Manoj said the life imprisonment would run concurrently and term sentences for 10 and 7 years would run consecutively. The life sentence would commence only after undergoing 17 years of term sentence. The court had found him guilty under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the IPC on Monday. The accused has been sentenced to imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs. 5 lakh under Section 302 and in default of payment he will undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year. He will undergo imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs. 50,000 for committing the offence under Section 307 and the default of payment will lead to rigorous imprisonment for one year. The accused was also awarded rigorous imprisonment for 10 and 7 years along with a fine of Rs. 25,000 and 10,000 under Sections 328 and 201. The fine amount will be paid as compensation to Uhtra’s parents and since her minor son needs rehabilitation on account of the crime committed, victim compensation will be provided to the child. The court observed that the chances of reformation of the accused cannot be said to be foreclosed and the case does not fall into the rarest-of-rare category so as to award death sentence. The prosecution had argued that the unparalleled cunningness of the accused, the amount of pain he inflicted on the victim, his intention to use a cobra as a weapon, the way he convinced Uthra of his affection and his attempt to camouflage the murder as a myth of serpentine of curse make the case fit into the rarest-of-rare category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-man-who-used-cobra-to-kill-wife-gets-double-life-term/article36996801.ece
14 October 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed in road accidents||Two persons died in separate accidents in the district on Wednesday. Bhushan Rao, 33, of Bengaluru died when the car he was driving collided with an APSRTC bus at on the NH 44 towards Gooty town. He was rushed to the Gooty government hospital but died while undergoing treatment. In the second incident at the Ramakrishnapuram stage in Pyapili mandal, Ramanamma, 55, of Owk Mandal was killed and an APSRTC bus driver was grievously injured when a lorry hit the bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-in-road-accidents/article36996852.ece
14 October 2021||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Moral values needed in society: Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday that moral policing cases occur “when moral values in society diminish” and there would be “action and reaction” which need to be taken into account while viewing such incidents. The Chief Minister was responding to a question on increasing incidents of moral policing in the coastal districts and a BJP MLA receiving accused persons following their release at a police station after one such incident. In recent days, Dakshina Kannada district has seen several cases of young people belonging to differing faiths travelling together or socialising being confronted, threatened or attacked by right-wing activists. Speaking to reporters on his arrival at Mangaluru international airport for a daylong visit to Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts, Mr. Bommai argued that moral values were needed in society to lead a cohesive life. He went on to say that it was “improper for young people to act in a way that affects social values”. Mr. Bommai said moral policing was a very “sensitive issue”. Just as the government has to maintain law and order, society too has to behave in a “responsible way”. The government has to balance law and order as well as social issues. “When social beliefs are affected, such incidents happen. People have to behave appropriately to avoid such incidents,” he said, adding that the government would take appropriate action to curb moral policing in the region. “It is important that sentiments of people are not violated. The onus on protecting social harmony is on everybody,” said Mr. Bommai. Many outraged The statement of the Chief Minister elicited some strong reactions, accusing him of “justifying” moral policing. A group of over 30 activists and organisations from across Karnataka, in a joint statement, said that it sends out “a dangerous message” that it is acceptable to use violence to enforce what some people see as “morality”. They said that people of the State expected Mr. Bommai to condemn these violent acts of moral policing and take action. “Instead, shockingly, you have spoken in a manner which may encourage more such acts... These acts of violence affect the dignity of the youth and instil fear in them. It condemns minorities and Dalits to lead the life of second class citizens. It also conveys the message that women have no right in choosing their partners. It is an attack on all women, in fact. It also fills the minds of many youth among majority community with hate,” said the statement. In a tweet, activist and advocate Vinay Sreenivasa said, “Your encouragement to criminal actions is dangerous for Karnataka. As the CM you should lead the state to light, not darkness.” In a statement Lavanya Ballal, a Congress worker from Dakshina Kannada, said, “What does this even mean Mr. Bommai when the CM of the State supports moral policing? What more can be expected from the minions?” Ms. Ballal had faced threats from some right-wing activists while she was on air in a TV talk show recently. Muneer Katipalla, DYFI leader, demanded to know how the Chief Minister of a State, bound by the Constitution, could make statements contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. He demanded an apology from the Chief Minister.  You have accepted your incapability to maintain law & order by justifying moral policing by a few anti-social elements. Please resign & save Karnataka. A tweet by Siddaramaiah,former Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/moral-values-needed-in-society-bommai/article36996803.ece
14 October 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four succumb to virus in South Coastal A.P.||Four more persons succumbed to COVID-19 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh which registered 76 new infections in the last 24 hours. The toll rose to 2,156 in the region as two persons each in SPSR Nellore district and Prakasam district died in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday. At least 95 persons in SPSR Nellore and 45 in Prakasam recovered from the disease during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-succumb-to-virus-in-south-coastal-ap/article36996853.ece
14 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive spirit returns as COVID-19 cases subside in Ongole||With the number of COVID-19 cases dipping steadily in Prakasam district, the cultural city of Ongole was soaked in a festive spirit are the nine-day Dasara festivities are on. The festival is the first major one being celebrated in a befitting manner after the second wave of the pandemic. All Durga temples in the city, including the Rajarajeswari temple at Lawyerpet, Durgadevi temple in Balajiraopeta, Mahishasuramardhini temple in Chennakesavapeta, Mahalakshmi temple near Kothapatnam bus stand and Rajarajeswari temple in Seetaramapuram, were decorated for the occasion and witnessed a flurry of activities. Budding artistes performed Kuchipudi dance while religious discourses were organised by cultural organisations on the occasion. The ‘Kalaram’ processions were the highlight of the festival. Adhering to the traditions, devotees took out colourful processions, first from the Ankathammathalli temple near the ‘Yenuga Chettu’ (a tree resembling an elephant’s leg), followed by another procession from the Narasimha Swamy temple. Wearing masks, a large number of devotees recited ‘Lalita Sahasranamam’ to propitiate the mother Goddess. There was an increase in commercial activities during Dasara, as it has been a practice for people to buy new vehicles and electronic items on the occasion of Dasara. Children had a gala time enjoying the joy rides organised on the occasion near the DRRMH school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-spirit-returns-as-covid-19-cases-subside/article36996854.ece
14 October 2021||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Postal cover released in honour of Gouthu Latchanna||The Union government, as a part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ being celebrated in connection with the 75th year of Independence, released a postal cover in honour of freedom fighter from Andhra Pradesh ‘Sardar’ Gouthu Latchanna on Wednesday. Leaders cutting across party lines attended the programme organised at Bapuji Kalamandir here. Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishna Das and BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav were present. Latchanna’s family has been associated with the TDP for the last three decades. Latchanna, who was born at Baruva in Srikakulam district in 1909, had fought against the British regime, which earned him the sobriquet ‘Sardar’. He had taken part in protests such as the Swaraj Movement, the Salt Satyagraha and the Quit India Movement. Even after Independence, Gowthu Latchanna continued his struggle on issues pertaining to the Backward Classes and the farmers. Speaking at the programme, Post Master General M. Venkateswarulu said the Union government was keen on honouring great freedom fighters to enable the new generation understand their sacrifices. TDP State president K. Atchannaidu and Member of Parliament K. Rammohan Naidu recalled their association with Latchanna’s family. North America Telugu Society’s (NATS) India coordinator Yarlagadda Venkanna Chowdary said Latchanna would continue to inspire youth and the Telugu people across the globe. He urged the State government to arrange a photo exhibition in all the districts to enable people to know about Latchanna’s association with leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel among others. Latchanna’s son Shyam Sundar Shivaji and granddaughter Sirisha said that the release of the postal cover was a moment of pride for the entire State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/postal-cover-released-in-honour-of-gouthu-latchanna/article36997334.ece
14 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adani Group to take over airport operations from today||The Adani Group will take over the operations and management of Thiruvananthapuram International Airport from Thursday. The formal transfer of the airport to Adani Thiruvananthapuram International Airport Ltd. (ATIAL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Adani Enterprises Ltd., will take place in the early hours of October 14, a senior official of the Ahmedabad-based group confirmed on Wednesday. Under the concession agreement with the Airports Authority of India (AAI), ATIAL will operate, manage and develop the airport for the next 50 years. Infrastructure development and attracting more flights to Thiruvananthapuram will be among the immediate priorities of ATIAL, a senior official of the group said on October 13. Amid opposition The takeover comes amid opposition from the State Government and the Airports Authority employees’ union which had moved court against airport privatisation. In November last year, the State Government and the employees’ union had approached the Supreme Court after the Kerala High Court dismissed the plea opposing the transfer. The petitions are pending before the Supreme Court. In August last year, the Kerala Assembly unanimously passed a resolution flaying the privatisation bid and demanding the Central Government to hand over airport management to a special purpose vehicle run by the State Government. The Adani Group is also the concessionaire for the Rs. 7,525-crore Vizhinjam international seaport project in Thiruvananthapuram district. Set up in 1932 Established in 1932, the Thiruvananthapuram airport received the ‘international airport’ tag in 1991. Adani Enterprises Ltd. emerged the highest bidder for five airports, including the one in Thiruvananthapuram in February 2019 following an offer by the AAI. State-run Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) also participated in the bid for the Thiruvananthapuram airport, but lost out. After the Union Cabinet gave its approval on August 19, 2020, the AAI issued the Letter of Award (LOA) to the Adani Group. The Group had quoted Rs. 168 as the passenger fee payable to the AAI against the KSIDC’s Rs. 135. The AAI and the Adani Group inked the concession agreement on January 19, 2021. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) for providing Reserved Services — customs, immigration, plant and animal quarantine services, health services, and meteorological and security — was signed by the Ministry of Civil Aviation and Adani Enterprises Ltd. in August this year. Likewise, the AAI and the Adani Group have executed an agreement for communication navigation surveillance-air traffic management (CNS-ATM). Under the original schedule, the airport should have been handed over to the Adani Group on or before July 18, 2021. However, following the outbreak of COVID-19 second wave, the deadline was extended up to October 18, 2021, at the request of the Adani Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adani-group-to-take-over-airport-operations-from-today/article36996804.ece
14 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lord Malayappa rides ‘Suryaprabha vahanam’||Lord Malayappa dressed as Govindaraja Swamy rode the Suryaprabha Vahanam on the seventh day of the ongoing Brahmotsavams at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here on Wednesday. Special rituals were performed to the deities at the Kalyanotsava Mandapam inside the temple in the presence of both the senior and junior pontiffs amid recitals by Vedic scholars. In the afternoon, Snapana Thirumanjanam was ceremoniously conducted to the deities who were adorned with garlands made of red and white silk threads, dry fruits and kusas. The crowns made of jaggery and kiwi fruits stood cynosure to the eyes of the onlookers. The event lasted for over two hours. While Rajendra from Tirupur donated the garlands and crowns, Hyderabad-based Srinivas and Sridhar had borne the cost of embellishing the entire mandapam with cur roses and other traditional flowers. The festivities drew to a close with Chandra Prabha vahanam in the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lord-malayappa-rides-suryaprabha-vahanam/article36997315.ece
14 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rush on Durga Ashtami||A heavy turnout of pilgrims to Kanaka Durga temple atop Indrakeeladri was witnessed on Wednesday. The temple priests adorned the presiding deity as Sri Durga Devi on the occasion of Durgashtami, the eighth day of the festivities. About 80,000 devotees turned up to have a darshan of the deity. Heavy police presence was witnessed. It was a common sight of the staff on duty atop Indrakeeladri bringing tens of devotees for darshan. Leaving aside the queue lines, some of the devotees with the help of staff on duty, such as police, had the “privilege of having a quick darshan”. In some cases, 20 to 30 devotees were taken for darshan from VIP gates. The devotees waiting in the queue lines were seen cursing themselves for this out of turn darshan for kin of the staff on duty. The VIP rush too was significant. Notable among were Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas Rao, Director-General of Police (DGP) Gautam Sawang, Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Prashant Kumar Mishra and others. The Minister, speaking to the media, said that the temple managed to provide darshan to all the devotees on Moola Nakshatram, Saraswati alankaram, on Tuesday. The temple was kept open till the last devotee had the darshan, he said. The presiding deity will be decked up as Mahishasura Mardhini on Thursday and Rajarajeswari on Friday. Arrangements were being made for ‘teppotsavam’, the celestial boat ride of the goddess and her consort, in the Krishna on Friday. The festivities will conclude with the celestial boat ride.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rush-on-durga-ashtami/article36997336.ece
14 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State requests Centre to allot 20 rakes of coal per day||The State government has requested the Union government to allot 20 rakes of coal per day to its thermal power plants and revive the stranded / non-working pit-head plants not having power purchase agreements or coal linkage, on an emergency basis to help overcome the prevailing crisis. Against the total installed capacity of 5,010 MW, the APGenco is generating between 2,300 MW and 2,500 MW due to the severe coal shortage. A couple of units at the Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant (RTPP) and one unit at the Sri Damodaram Sanjeevaiah Thermal Power Station (SDSTPS) have been shut down, while the Dr. Narla Tata Rao Thermal Power Station (NTTPS) is generating less power than its capacity due to the coal shortage, according to an official release. The release said the power purchase rates shot up to Rs. 20 per unit against the average cost of Rs. 4.50 earlier owing to the high demand and low supplies of coal across the country. At the same time, the average power demand surged to 190 Million Units per day in October 2021 against 160 MU during the corresponding month the previous year. The State’s total installed capacity (all sources) is 18,533 MW as on date, of which 8,075 MW come from solar and wind, but it does not help in maintaining base loads due to their variable nature. The State has an installed gas-based power capacity of 908 MW, but only 100 MW are being generated because of the non-availability of the required gas. The Hinduja National Power Corporation’s thermal power plant of 1,040 MW is mired in cases being heard by the Supreme Court. According to the release, the APGenco’s thermal plants received an average of 24,000 tonnes of coal per day in September 2021 against their total demand of 70,000 tonnes. The supply increased to 40,000 tonnes on the request of the State government recently. It is further mentioned that the slump in coal production across the country for the last two years, the steep rise in coal prices in the international market and the recent surge in grid demand in A.P. have led to the power crunch. Because of the crisis, the utilities, which saved around Rs. 2,300 crore by adopting best practices and through cost-effective power purchases, are now forced to buy power at prices ranging from Rs. 14 to Rs. 20 per unit from the open market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-requests-centre-to-allot-20-rakes-of-coal-per-day/article36997310.ece
14 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight succumb to COVID-19||The State reported eight more deaths due to COVID-19 and 517 infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The cumulative tally and toll reached 20,58,582 and 14,276 respectively. The active cases tally further came down to 6,615, as 826 patients recovered in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 20,37,691 and 98.99%.  Krishna, Nellore and Prakasam districts reported two deaths each in the past day, while Chittoor and East Godavari reported one each. No district reported more than 100 infections in the past day. Chittoor reported 97 infections. It was followed by East Godavari (88), Guntur (84), Krishna (71), Nellore (38), Prakasam (38), Visakhapatnam (31), West Godavari (28), Kadapa (26), Srikakulam (6), Kurnool (5), Anantapur (3) and Vizianagaram (2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-succumb-to-covid-19/article36997307.ece
14 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State aims at excellence in logistics services||The government has constituted a high-level State Logistics Coordination Committee headed by the Chief Secretary to prepare a master plan for the State and city-centric logistics and providing actionable strategies to align the State policy with the national logistics policy. Andhra Pradesh has been in the forefront of economic growth in India, contributing 4.6% of the GDP and 5.8% of the country’s exports in FY 2020-21. “To achieve better results, the government is preparing a policy document for promoting professionalism and excellence in logistics services,” according to Industries and Commerce Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy. Addressing the officials of industries and other line departments after participating in the virtual launch of ‘Gati Shakti’, the National Master Plan, by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said it would give the much-needed fillip to infrastructure development. The Minister asserted that Gati Shakti would reduce the travel time for the common people and increase the productivity of industries, and enables Indian manufacturers to become globally competitive. Mr. Goutham Reddy stressed the need for completion of the east coast railway freight corridor between Vijayawada and Kharagpur by the year 2022 and Vijayawada - Muktyala inland waterway by 2026.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-aims-at-excellence-in-logistics-services/article36997308.ece
14 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘ends life’ over family dispute||A woman, C. Nagamani (48), allegedly died after consuming pesticide at her house. Her body was found in the early hours on Wednesday. Nagamani reportedly had an argument with her son and daughter-in-law over distribution of books to children, while performing Durga Puja at a temple in the town on Tuesday. After returning home, the family members had some discussion and her relatives reportedly found fault with Nagamani for aggravating the issue and allegedly chided her. Taking it as an insult, the victim reportedly recorded her voice accusing that four persons of the family were responsible for her death, said Narsapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) P. Veeranjaneya Reddy. The body was sent for postmortem.Persons in distress can ‘Dial 1090’ for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-ends-life-over-family-dispute/article36997381.ece
14 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||GECO launched for swift probe of cyber crimes||Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal launched the dashboard for monitoring Grave, Economic and Cyber Offences (GECO). The SP along with the Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) inaugurated the dashboard for GECO, at his camp office in Vijayawada on Wednesday. Mr. Kaushal said investigation on GECO would be monitored by the DSPs, who would review the progress of investigation in sensational cases with the Station House Officers (SHOs) concerned. The aim of setting up GECO was to review the investigation of grave cases from time to time, complete investigation in the stipulated time, file charge sheets in courts and render justice to the victims, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/geco-launched-for-speedy-investigation-of-cyber-cases/article36997382.ece
14 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sridhar Reddy elected member of IRCS panel||Indian Red Cross Society’s Andhra Pradesh chapter chairman A. Sridhar Reddy has been elected to the National Managing Committee of the IRCS as a member. According to a release, in the election held to the committee on Tuesday, 22 persons representing IRCS chapters of various States and 12 members were elected. Dr. Sridhar Reddy, a city based dentist, received the highest number of the votes in the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sridhar-reddy-elected-member-of-ircs-panel/article36997329.ece
14 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curbs at public places go||The State government has extended the night curfew currently being imposed from 12 a.m. to 5 a.m. in view of the COVID-19 pandemic up to October 31. Further, it has allowed 100% occupancy at all public places and venues such as cinemas and restaurants with fixed seating. The government has also permitted a maximum of 250 persons at gatherings, including weddings and religious events. “The requirement of keeping alternative seats vacant in public places or venues with fixed seating arrangements is dispensed with,” a government order issued on Wednesday said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curbs-at-public-places-go/article36997305.ece
14 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CII donates medical equipment to GGH||As part of the COVID-19 relief initiative, the Andhra Pradesh Chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Wednesday contributed 25 Medicraft Bilevel BiPAP Machines worth Rs. 11 lakh to the Government General Hospital. The machines are funded by the CII Foundation. Medicraft Bilevel BiPAP Machine, clinically known as bi-level positive airway pressure, is used in the care of patients with chronic respiratory complications caused by COVID-19 and co-morbidities so that their lungs can work to the capacity. A BiPAP machine assists breathing by maintaining a positive pressure, thereby increasing oxygen level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cii-donates-medical-equipment-to-ggh/article36997337.ece
14 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call grows for probe into girl’s death||Calls are growing louder for a thorough investigation into the case of a 14-year-old girl who was found dead at Aganampudi on October 6. While police had initially said that the girl ended her life by jumping off the roof of an apartment opposite her home, the girl’s parents are reportedly of the mind that their daughter was murdered. They have found support from both the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and the opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP). On Wednesday, YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy and Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao met the family members of the deceased girl at their house at Aganampudi. Later, addressing a press conference, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that the parents and the police had conflicting points of view regarding the incident. While police said that it was a clear case of suicide, the victim’s parents allege that their daughter was murdered. “Police should thoroughly investigate the allegations of the parents that the body of the girl was found in a sitting posture, with her back to the wall. How would this be possible if she jumped from the sixth floor of the apartment?” Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said. “Why did the police not investigate the allegations of the parents that blood marks were found in the lift? A dog squad should have been deployed immediately,” he added. ‘Justice would be done’ The YSRCP MP stressed that justice would be done to the family members of the deceased. He said that he would talk to the Police Commissioner over the issue. Member of Rajaka Sangham, Pardha Saradhi, alleged that the police investigation was done based on the confession of a youth said to be close to the girl, and who lived in a flat in the opposite apartment along with several other roommates. Mr. Pardha Saradhi demanded a reinvestigation into the case and interrogation of all the roommates of the youth in question. Mr. Pardha Saradhi deplored that neither the Collector nor any official from the district administration met the family members after the incident.Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the State government would provide assistance to the family of the victim. The police had said that the death was ‘a clear case of suicide’. As per the police, the accused youth, identified as Naresh (28), had initiated a physical relationship with the girl and was forcing her to continue seeing him for the past three months. The girl is said to have gone to meet the youth at his flat in the wee hours of October 6. Her father who woke up in the middle of the night noticed that she was not at home, and began searching for her outside. She then jumped off the roof in a state of panic after hearing her father calling out for her, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-grows-for-probe-into-girls-death/article36997345.ece
14 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Better cargo facilities will boost air exports from Vizag’||There is a huge potential for air cargo exports from Visakhapatnam International Airport but the cargo is right now being routed through Hyderabad and Chennai due to lack of connectivity and non-availability of facilities like pelletisation and variable temperature storage compartments for perishable cargo, opined participants at a meeting here on Wednesday. The meeting was organised by the Andhra Pradesh Air Travellers Association in association with Andhra Pradesh Chamber of Commerce and the Airport Advisory Committee (AAC). Lok Sabha MP from Visakhapatnam, M.V.V. Satyanarayana, presided over the meeting. The exporters said that they were moving around 1,200 tons of cargo, every month, by road to Hyderabad and Chennai Airports for onwards exports to various destinations. They felt that improving the facilities at Vizag Airport would contribute to Ease of Doing Business (EODB) and boost trade and employment. Airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao said that he would coordinate with the cargo providers and industry for resolving the concerns raised by the participants and improving the cargo handling facilities. He also said that he would take up infrastructure improvement of cargo facilities with the Ministry of Civil Aviation and Customs for speedy completion of procedures. Mr. Satyanarayana said that he would hold a meeting with representatives of airline companies and senior officials from the Airports Authority of India (AAI) apart from convening a meeting with dedicated cargo flight operators soon. Representative from IndiGo Airlines offered to operate dedicated cargo flights if a written request was given to them. The MP promised to speak to the airline operators to connect Visakhapatnam with Singapore, Dubai, Bangkok and Kuala Lumpur at the earliest, in coordination with APATA. APATA representatives K. Kumar Raja, O. Naresh Kumar and D.S. Varma, representatives from air cargo service providers, pharma and other industries from the Special Economic Zone attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/better-cargo-facilities-will-boost-air-exports-from-vizag/article36997342.ece
14 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Drop proposal to build multi-modal hub’||The construction of four additional terminus platforms on the west side of Visakhapatnam junction, as proposed in the past is a better idea, than constructing multi-modal hub, as proposed by the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) under the Station Re-development Plan, says N. Gajapathi Rao, a former member of the Zonal Railway Users Consultative Committee (ZRUCC). In a letter to Railway Minister Aswini Vaishnav, Mr. Gajapathi Rao sought dispensing with the multi model hub project on the west side as it would not yield any financial benefits but would become a ‘white elephant’. The west side (Gnanapuram-side) of the railway station has the city’s biggest burial ground, situated closer to the proposed project, the area is polluted and the ambience is also not suitable for the construction of the complex, he said. Mr. Gajapathi Rao noted that Visakhapatnam is already declared as Headquarters of South Coast Railway (S Co R) Zone. The city has also been declared as ‘Executive Capital’ of Andhra Pradesh and there is a need to construct more platforms to cater to the needs of the commuters of the city. He noted that about 10 pairs of important express trains, including Duronto, are being bypassed without touching Visakhapatnam junction, due to the shortage of platforms. He appealed to the Railway Minister to get his suggestion examined and decide accordingly. Meanwhile, reacting to the Station Redevelopment Plan, A. Sannibabu, an RTI-activist, has demanded that the proposal to construct a multi model hub on the west side should be kept in abeyance till the S Co R Zone became operational. “Construction of additional platforms, utilising the vacant land available on the west side, should be done to prevent important long-distance trains from bypassing the Visakhapatnam junction,” says Karthik Jillella, a frequent traveller.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-proposal-to-build-multi-modal-hub/article36997340.ece
14 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Purandeswari seeks fillip for city’s IT sector||BJP general secretary D. Purandeswari met Union Minister for IT Ashwini Vaishnaw in New Delhi on Wednesday and submitted a representation from IT Association of AP (ITAAP) seeking the establishment of a Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC) in Visakhapatnam. Ms. Purandeswari sought the setting up of an international fiber landing station in visakhapatnam. This would help submarine cables coming from Singapore to reduce bandwidth prices, improve quality and provide greater speeds, which will help all the Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) in Visakhapatnam and various defence establishments headquartered in Visakhapatnam and also boost IT investments and promote job creation, she said. Ms. Purandeswari said that the proposal was approved for setting up a disaster recovery and data centre at Visakhapatnam for NIC and the foundation stone was laid by Union Minister Nirmala Sitaraman at Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ), but it remained a non-starter. The BJP leader also sought setting up of an STPI incubation centre with high-speed data rendering for promotion of animation, gaming and VFX. Ms. Purandeswari also sought setting up of NIXI (National Internet Exchange of India) in Visakhapatnam to reduce bandwidth costs and improve the quality of the internet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/purandeswari-seeks-fillip-for-citys-it-sector/article36997387.ece
14 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||US Navy CNO arrives in city on three-day visit||Admiral Michael Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations (CNO), US Navy accompanied by Linda Gilday, arrived, here, Visakhapatnam on a three-day official visit from October 13 to 15. Admiral Gilday interacted with Vice-Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, ENC, on Wednesday. Various issues of common interest to both navies were discussed. Later, Admiral Michael Gilday was taken on a guided tour of facilities at the Naval Dockyard. The CNO paid homage to personnel who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty at Smaram Sthal Memorial in the Dockyard. Admiral Gilday is scheduled to embark the USN Carrier Strike Group participating in Ex Malabar, along with Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh, Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, FOC-in-C, ENC, and other US-India delegates on October 14. Ms. Linda Gilday would interact with the Committee Members and ladies of the Navy Wives Welfare Association (NWWA) (Eastern Region) and will also visit the NWWA facilities during her stay in Visakhapatnam. The Indian Navy (IN) is currently participating in the Second Phase of Multilateral Maritime Exercise Malabar along with the Japan Maritime Self-Defence Force (JMSDF), Royal Australian Navy (RAN) and the United States Navy (USN). The exercise is being conducted in the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/us-navy-cno-arrives-in-vizag-on-3-day-visit/article36997343.ece
14 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRM conducts surprise inspection of colonies||Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy conducted a surprise inspection at Dolphin Nose Colony (Old Jail Area Colony), to take stock of the facilities and amenities at Railway colonies, on Wednesday.  The objective of the inspection was improvement of basic facilities, sanitation, illumination, security and the condition of railway quarters. Mr. Anup Satpathy interacted with residents and took their feedback on the amenities. He also inspected houses and advised the officials on carrying out various modification works. The DRM said that the purpose of inspection was to know about the welfare of the inhabitants, condition of houses, to take feedback on facilities and to improve sanitation, security and the quality of life of the inhabitants by taking due consideration of their needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drm-conducts-surprise-inspection-of-colonies/article36997344.ece
14 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||120 litres of ID arrack seized at Parawada||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) arrested three persons while they were allegedly transporting 120 litres of ID arrack near Naidupalem under Parawada police station limits on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Deputy Commissioner (SEB) S.V.V.N. Babji Rao said that an SEB team was conducting a route watch when the trio — D. Naveen, Ch. Bangarraju and Ch. Somi Naidu, who were allegedly transporting 120 litres of ID arrack in an auto-rickshaw, were caught. The SEB officials said that the arrack was being transported from Tikkavanipalem to Pudimadaka. After the catch, SEB teams also conducted raids at Tikkavanipalem, where ID arrack was being prepared, and destroyed 14,200 litres of fermented jaggery wash, which is used to prepare arrack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/120-litres-of-id-arrack-seized-at-parawada/article36997346.ece
14 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stone laid for development works||YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy along with Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao laid the foundation stone for a butterfly park at MSR Nagar in Ward 6 of Madhurawada, on Wednesday. The theme park will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 2.6 crore. During the programme, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that the State government has prepared development plans for all 98 wards in the GVMC limits. He also reiterated that 800 open spaces in the corporation limits will be developed with greenery and basic amenities. Later, he laid the foundation stone for drinking water supply works for wards 59, 60 and 62 at Malkapuram, at a budget of Rs. 3.16 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stone-laid-for-development-works/article36997347.ece
14 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Local bodies to pass resolutions against privatisation of VSP||The ruling YSRCP, main opposition TDP and the Left Parties have resolved to fight against the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). At a conference organised by the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Samiti here on Wednesday, the leaders of all political parties decided to pass a resolution in this regard in all local bodies in the State, saying that the steel plant was the pride of Andhra Pradesh and it should not be privatised at any cost. Speaking on the occasion, Vizianagaram MP Bellana Chandrasekhar (YSRCP) said that the State government had already conveyed its displeasure over the privatisation proposal. Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy (YSRCP) and Vizianagaram Zilla Parishad Chairman Majji Srinivasa Rao (YSRCP) also reiterated the same. TDP former MLC Dwarapureddy Jagadish said that the Centre’s decision to privatise the VSP was a big jolt for the north Andhra region. CITU leader T.V. Ramana, who chaired the meeting, said that thousands of employees and workers of the VSP were facing a threat to their job security. CITU leader Ch. Narasinga Rao, VSP Porata Committe chairman Mantri Rajasekhar demanded that the Centre reconsider the privatisation proposal as the VSP was established with the sacrifice of many people including farmers who had parted with their land. Leaders of political parties including T. Suryanarayana of the CPI (M), V. Ramana of CPI, Saragada Ramesh Kumar of Congress, K. Dayanand of Aam Admi Party, INTUC leader Modili Srinivas took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/local-bodies-to-pass-resolutions-against-privatisation-of-vsp/article36997332.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Today’s alankaram||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/todays-alankaram/article36997386.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Today’s alankaram||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/todays-alankaram/article36997339.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outpouring of joy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/outpouring-of-joy/article36997349.ece
14 October 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||‘COVID-19 threat still persists’||State Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao has called for collective efforts in a mission mode to propel the district to achieve 100% vaccination coverage against COVID-19 by October 31 to become the first fully-vaccinated district in Telangana. All the eligible people above 18 years of age should be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 by the month-end so as to facilitate the vaccination drive for an estimated 1.20 crore population of children aged 2-18 in the State, he said referring to the approval reportedly given by the expert panel of the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) for COVID-19 vaccination for children. He was speaking at a review meeting on the ongoing special drive of COVID-19 vaccination in Kothagudem on Wednesday. The meeting was attended by Kothagudem MLA Vanama Venkateswara Rao, Collector D Anudeep, the officials of the health department and the elected representatives of the rural and urban local bodies from various parts of the district. Mr Rao noted that the vaccination drive is progressing at a brisk pace in the district. Around 3 lakh persons were administered COVID-19 vaccine as part of the ongoing special drive in the district in the past 25 days. Between January 16 and September 15, a total of 3.96 lakh persons were inoculated since the launch of the COVID-19 vaccination drive in January this year, he added. In all, nearly 65% of the total eligible population of the district have been covered so far.  The coronavirus threat still persists and every one should scrupulously follow the COVID-19 safety protocols for the next three months, which are crucial in the decisive battle against COVID-19, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-threat-still-persists/article36997355.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||An endless wait for closure||It was a night when all was lost. Some lost their siblings, some their spouses and others their children. A year since the deluge swallowed everything in its path in Ali Nagar, M.A. Taher Qureshi, the sole survivor who fought the ravenous torrent for over four hours, and his son Wasif Qureshi, are seeking an answer to the same tormenting question — what has become of their relatives. “Even after a year, my brother Wajid and his son Wahab are missing. The least my father and I deserve to know is what happened to them. We should at least get to see their faces, to know what state they are in,” says Wasif. Bolt from the blue Wasif (30) was working in Dammam, Saudi Arabia, when the raging waters pillaged the neighbourhood, and claimed the life of his wife, Humera Tabassum. A distraught Wasif reached Hyderabad on October 21 last year to be with his parents. But, the pressing need for financially supporting his grieving family overshadowed everything else. After the death of his mother, it was imperative that he head home for good. “My father was unwell. But the incident took a further toll on him. My mother’s passing too was difficult for him,” Wasif says. Tedious paperwork The family, including Wasif’s brother-in-law Mohammed Omer, a lawyer by profession, claims that as months passed, dealing with authorities to get paperwork done became taxing. It was barely 10 days ago, Wasif says, that the last of the death certificates were issued. While four members of the family received ex-gratia cheques of Rs. 5 lakh each, the family maintains that a 2BHK house that they were assured and a job for the next of kin are yet to materialise. According to a document which the family shared with The Hindu , Rajendranagar mandal tahsildar K. Chandrasekhar Goud on October 21, 2020, wrote to Revenue Divisional Officer that the matter may be submitted for sanction of 2BHK house in Saidabad mandal. The houses were for the survivor Taher Qureshi, and his sister-in-law Zahera Naseem Qureshi. Zahera’s husband, Abdul Quddus Qureshi, was swept away when he was trying to save his family. Unhealed wounds “Who would want to live in a place where there was so much sorrow? My mother wanted to move from here,” Wasif says, adding that after the initial visit, follow-up meetings of politicians became scarce. The family says the body of Wasey Qureshi, another brother of Wasif, was found in the Shaligouraram Police Station limits in Nalgonda district. So decomposed was the body that it had to be buried in a village. Wasey’s wife also died in the deluge. Their two children now live with Wasif. “A few weeks ago, we tried to visit the grave but it remained inaccessible. It was not possible to wade through the slush due to heavy rains,” Wasif says.  The least my father and I deserve to know is what happened to them. We should at least get to see their faces, to know what state they are in. M.A. Wasif Qureshi   Deceased Humera Tabassum Farzana Tabassum Darakshan Qureshi M.A. Abdul Quddus Qureshi Amina Qureshi M.A. Wasey Qureshi Missing M.A. Wajid Qureshi M.A. Wahab Qureshi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/an-endless-wait-for-closure/article36997139.ece
14 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Flood anxiety is now a part of their lives||For 100-year-old Ayesha Bi, it was the experience of a lifetime being pulled out of her house with a rope tied to her waist as flood waters raced through the locality of Al Jubail Colony. The frail old lady was rescued after a neighbour broke the asbestos ceiling of her house. For her son Muhammad Khaja, the saviour was a cellphone which let him contact his neighbour Babur Khan. “Babur swam in pitch darkness with a rope and cracked open the ceiling to pull us out at 2 a.m. Then we sat on the ceiling for 12 hours,” recalls Mr. Khaja about the intervening night of October 13 and 14 when water from the Palle Cheruvu mixed with sewage flooded his one-room tenement built right beside the nala. Same old, same old He shows a video shot at 10.30 p.m. on October 13, 2020, when water began to rise in their house and the family of four got onto the bed to stay safe. Nearly a year later, the family had to flee their house again as sewage water entered their home on September 28. “Nothing has changed. We live in more fear than before,” says Mr. Khaja, who drives a carrier auto for a living. For residents of Kabgir Nagar and Hashamabad, the flood of October 13-14 is a memory that refuses to fade. While flood markers of September 28, 1908, dot the city from the Residency Building to Miyan Mishk Masjid, there are no flood markers for the October 2020 flood that wreaked havoc from Bandlaguda to Saroornagar. “The water rose up to here,” says Muhammad Javed, pointing to a mark left by water above the lintel of his house. Mr Javed works as a welder in Musheerbad and saw the destruction of every household item as the water rose. “Now we don’t even have a TV, leave alone other electronic items,” he says. The Telangana government handed out Rs. 10,000 as part of relief efforts in the aftermath of the flooding but for families it was social workers and NGOs that helped them rebuild their lives. “We got a mixer grinder from one NGO. We got other items repaired but the stench from the sewage stayed in the house for nearly three months,” says Daulat Bi who has lived beside the nala for the past 40 years. The Gol Bungalow dining area of the Falaknuma Palace is easily visible from the house of Daulat Bi. But that provides no relief for Daulat Bi as the water from the hillock and the surrounding hilly areas floods her home whenever there is heavy rain. The sewerage line is connected to the nala but water races down the Falaknuma hillock which is at an elevation of 586 metres above sea level (MSL) to the Kabgir Nagar area which is at 521 MSL. The families are trapped between a sewerage line and a nala. “When we came here, there were no houses. Last year’s flood was big and it repeated this year,” says Daulat Bi as she narrates how she ran with her family in waist-deep water to the nearby masjid with the family. The colourfully painted small one room, two-room houses appear to have a concrete slab, but have asbestos sheeting as a roof making it unsafe to climb up. Realty rates tumble The flooding of the nala has sent real estate prices southward. “We are flattening the ground so that we can build a house. The land prices used to be Rs. 25,000 per yard before the flood, but now it has reduced to Rs. 10,000 a yard,” says Mir Mudassar Ali, a realtor building a house on the other side of the nala. “A woman got trapped here. Another was found buried in the muck there,” informs Shaikh Zubair pointing to the signboard of a milk kiosk. “I have reached out to the corporator and the MLA, but even the basic work of walling up the nala has not been completed. The residents vacated their houses but the civic body has not carried forward the work,” says Mr. Zubair, a social worker who lives in the area. As the unwalled nala twists and turns through the area, the residents of Kabgir Nagar, Al Jubail Colony, Hashamabad continue to live in terror of rainy nights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flood-anxiety-is-now-an-inalienable-part-of-their-lives/article36997136.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seven new judges for High Court||The strength of judges in the High Court for the State of Telangana has gone up from the present 11 to 18 with the Union government on Wednesday appointing seven new judges. A notification to this extent was issued by Ministry of Law and Justice announcing appointment of seven new judges for Telangana HC. The newly appointed HC judges in the order of seniority are Perugu Sree Sudha, Chillakur Sumalatha, Gurijala Radha Rani, Munnuri Laxman, Noonsavath Tukaramji, Addula Venkateshwara Reddy and Patolla Madhavi Devi. Among the present 11 judges (including the Chief Justice), Justice T. Amarnath Goud was recently transferred to Tripura HC. He is yet to assume charge there. Already, Justice Ujjal Bhuyan of Bombay High Court was transferred to Telangana High Court. He is yet to assume office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seven-new-judges-for-high-court/article36997160.ece
14 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Achieve oil palm cultivation targets: CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the officials of Horticulture and Industries departments to initiate steps for meeting the five-lakh acre target set for oil palm cultivation across the State for the next financial year. He recalled that the State Cabinet had approved an action plan to take up oil palm cultivation in 20 lakh acres to ensure that farmers secured better income. The decision comes in the light of the fact that oil palm would give four to five times more income as compared to paddy and the requirement of water would also be less. A study conducted by the Central government had revealed that most areas in the State were suitable for oil palm cultivation. The Chief Secretary, who reviewed the progress of oil palm cultivation with senior officials, was informed that 18 nurseries were set up and 23.41 lakh oil palm sprouts, sufficient for cultivation in 36,000 acres, were received. Indent had been placed by the companies for 2.11 crore sprouts of oil palm while the farmers were showing interest in the cultivation. Mr. Somesh Kumar said the Central government had reduced the import duty on oil palm seeds from 30 per cent to five per cent following the request of the State government to help farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/achieve-oil-palm-cultivation-targets-cs/article36997148.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flooding continues to plague colonies||One year after the devastating floods shook eastern Hyderabad to the core, heavy rains are still dreaded and colonies are submerged in water. Works completed by civic authorities at some locations have brought about only partial relief. Ayyappa Colony in Bandlaguda, which was flooded during the rains in October, 2020, experienced inundation yet again. The slum came up within the full tank level of Bandlaguda Lake, which filled up during the rains last year and rushed into homes of the poor, destroying their houses and livelihoods. Several people escaped to safer localities and rented homes outside when water had not cleared even after a month or two. This year, the same scenario repeated, with homes besieged by water mixed with sewage on all sides. Efforts are on by locals to fill the water-laden streets with tractor-loads of sand and debris. “I lost many valuables such as TV and fridge last year and this year too. Only, this time, I am without a job thanks to the pandemic, and cannot afford to buy them afresh,” says Satyanarayana, a resident fishing out a cot from water. He is now staying on rent in a locality nearby, visiting his home daily to see if there is any improvement. Locals allege a box drain constructed from the Pedda Cheruvu of Mansurabad up to the Bandlaguda Lake has only worsened the situation, by dumping here all the excess flows from upstream. Last year, Saraswathi Nagar area experienced flooding due to surplus water from Mansurabad Pedda Cheruvu, to avoid which the box drain has been constructed. Flooding prevented at Saraswathi Nagar is now diverted to Bandlaguda Lake, where the heavily encroached surplus weir is insufficient to carry the flows downstream. “We need to take up another box drain from Bandlaguda Lake up to Musi River to address the flooding issue,” said an official from GHMC pleading anonymity. One more box drain to empty flood water from areas such as Vanasthalipuram and Chintalkunta is progressing at a snail’s pace. Once completed, it will enhance outflows from Mansurabad Pedda Cheruvu, and add to the travails of Ayyappa Colony residents. The flooding situation remains same in Saroornagar Lake, downstream of which areas such as Kodandaram Nagar and Seesala Basthi are inundated every time it rains even moderately. Last year, the lake’s surplus water rushed up to Chaitanyapuri, flooding colonies en route. GHMC officials blame the neighbouring Meerpet Municipal Corporation, which has built drains from Meerpet Tank, Mantrala Cheruvu and Chandan Cheruvu to dump large amounts of surplus water into Saroornagar Lake, which in turn has rendered the existing surplus channel ineffective. “Tenders have been finalised for expanding the surplus channel through a box drain up to Musi River. Sanction has been given for Rs. 8 lakh. We shall begin the work as soon as rains stop,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flooding-continues-to-plague-colonies/article36997134.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GSDP registers 2.4% growth||The State’s economic output, the gross State domestic product (GSDP), grew by 2.4% during the previous financial year 2020-21, the adverse impact cast by the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on the State’s economy notwithstanding. The growth assumes significance as the economic output at the national level fell by 3% during the same time. The GSDP at Rs. 9.8 lakh crore showed the impressive resilience during the year and recovery is already underway. The resilience is led by agriculture and allied sectors which grew by 18.5%, much higher than 6.6% growth in these sectors at the national level, according to a report on the State Economy released by the Directorate of Economics and Statistics. The report said the agriculture and allied sectors contributed a higher share to overall GSDP than in any year since the formation of the State. The services sector however continued to contribute the highest share to the GSDP in the overall terms. Although the secondary and tertiary sectors contracted by 2.1% and 3.9% respectively, they still fared better as there were much steeper contractions at the national level. The State’s GSDP at current prices increased by 93.8% since its formation till FY21. This was against the 58.4% increase witnessed at the national level during the same period. In the process, the State achieved the third highest percentage increase in GSDP value at current prices since its formation. The State was sixth highest contributor to the country’s GSDP at current prices and the State improved its rank to four during the current financial year, according to a recent report released by the Reserve Bank of India. The per capita income, one of the strongest economic indicators, of Telangana during the fiscal was Rs. 2,37,632, 1.84 times higher than the national average of Rs. 1,28,829. The report said tertiary sector continued to remain dominant sector in the State’s economy accounting to 59.5% of the gross value added. The GVA for all sub-sectors in the services sector was 1.5 to 2 times. Its value during the formation of the State and the contribution of the primary sector to GSVA consistently improved from 19.5% to 24.1% in the past six years. The agriculture and allied sector grew by 14.3% at constant prices during 2020-21 as compared to 3.6% at the national level. The average contribution of the second sector to the State’s GSVA (Gross State Value Added) was 18% over the last five years and the value added by the manufacturing sector grew by 72% since the formation of the State, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gsdp-registers-24-growth/article36997164.ece
14 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||DMK MPs meet KTR||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) parliamentarians met Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) working president and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao here on Wednesday seeking support to oppose the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) held for entry into medical colleges. Dr. Kalanidhi Veeraswamy and T.K.S. Elangovan called on Mr. Rao at Telangana Bhavan and handed over a letter written by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to 11 non-BJP ruled State Chief Ministers in this regard. Mr. Stalin had earlier written the letter reiterating the DMK government’s opposition to NEET, and to restore the primacy of the States. Mr. Elangovan later told reporters that they had sought the support of the TRS government. He claimed the Centre is trying to usurp the powers of the State governments through various means. He also said Mr. Rao had responded positively. TRS sources however said the Minister had assured to deliver the letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao and convey their concerns to him. Mr. Stalin has been arguing that the introduction of NEET by the Centre is against the spirit of federalism and an effort to curb the rights of the State governments to decide on the method of admission in medical institutions founded, established and run by them. He argued that all the Chief Ministers need to support the DMK government’s effort so that students from rural and marginalised backgrounds are not put in a disadvantageous position or under pressure. The letters were sent to Chief Ministers of several States -- including Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Odisha, Delhi, Kerala, Punjab, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh apart from Goa. The DMK government had been opposing NEET and wanted the 12th class marks as the basis for medical college admissions. It also unanimously passed a Bill against NEET in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. The Bill is yet to receive Presidential assent. It had constituted a committee headed by a former judge of Madras High Court, Justice Rajan, to study the impact of NEET on the students, particularly the downtrodden. The committee felt that NEET impacts the federal structure of the Constitution and had no power to intervene in medical college admissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dmk-mps-meet-ktr-seeking-support-for-scrapping-of-neet/article36997151.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Central team tours forests and national parks in State||A Central Forest team toured the State between October 9 and 13, to conduct ‘Management Effectiveness Evaluation’ in sanctuaries and national parks, and made suggestions to the Telangana Forest department for their improvement. The team from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change led by former PCCF, Karnataka, B.K.Singh, visited the Manjeera Wildlife Sanctuary at Sangareddy, Mahaveer Harina Vanasthali National Park at Hyderabad and the Pakhal Wildlife Sanctuary in Mahabubabad district, before reaching the capital city and interacting with senior forest officials including PCCF R.Sobha. Suggestions by the team include creation of more nesting grounds for birds in Manjeera, and better coordination with the local communities who can be supportive to the Protected Area Managers. The existing open areas in Mahaveer Harina Vanasthali may be developed as grasslands for antelopes such as black buck and four horned antelope. The team also recommended eco-bridges and underpasses to facilitate movement of wild animals in the entire notified national park area. With regard to Pakhal Wildlife Sanctuary, the MEE team appreciated the efforts of forest staff in evicting encroachers from 500 hectares of forest land and developing it as grassland, a statement from the Forest department said. The team recommended measures to strengthen protection by setting up base camps and mobile parties. The officials also suggested development of a database on the distribution and status of flora and fauna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/central-team-tours-forests-and-national-parks-in-state/article36997146.ece
14 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS to elect its new president on Oct. 25||Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) will conduct a massive meeting in Warangal on November 15 to celebrate 20 years of its’s journey and achievements as a party and the government that has become synonymous with welfare and development, said TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao said. The meeting will recall the party’s contribution to Telangana in terms of achievements to the State where the party leaders from the panchayat to State-level will participate, he said at a press conference here. The party plenary would be held on October 25 at the HICC to elect the party president by the delegates. It was not held in the last two years due to Parliament elections and COVID-19 situation. Generally, party plenary is held on April 27 every year marking the foundation day. The party president will be elected during the general body meeting on October 25 that would be attended by more than 13,000 TRS elected representatives from across the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-to-elect-its-new-president-on-oct-25/article36997165.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Picking up the pieces after months of agony||Take a tour of the Uma Maheshwar Colony beside Fox Sagar Lake in Jeedimetla and the sight of quite a few recently-painted houses is sure to greet you. Some houses in between, however, will stand out like a sore thumb, with locks hanging on the worn-out doors. The vibrant look of some houses is not to mark the festive season. Residents had to repair and repaint their homes following catastrophic rains which lashed the city exactly a year ago, on the night of October 13, flooding the locality up to 10 feet. Not to mention, electric wiring, wooden furniture and electronic equipment were completely damaged. Only the pillars and walls were left standing, say locals. Every house in the locality suffered a minimum loss of Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 2 lakh as their household good and valuables that they could not carry to safety bore the brunt of the floods. In the aftermath, many residents of the locality had to go make extensive repairs to their houses. Some did not even return to do that. Depending on the distance of a house from the lake, it took three to seven months to clear the flood water and sludge. Distressing memories of hand-picking important documents and valuables while running away to safety on the night of October 13 last year is still fresh in their minds. Some of them recalled the chaos that ensued after they started to evacuate from the colony following a flood warning. “It took seven months for us to clear out all the water and sludge. Apart from incurring damages of Rs. 1 lakh or more, we spent another Rs. 70,000 for rent in Kompally. We returned home after seven months. You can see many of our houses have new doors and have been repainted,” says Rama Raju who has a family of eight. Another resident of the locality, P. Venkat Raju shudders as he recalls how their homes were destroyed. “We had to replace electric wires too. Only pillars and walls were strong enough to withstand the deluge,” he says, standing near his water dispensing store. “The richer a home, the greater the damage. Poor people live on basics,” chimes in Sujatha, another local. Kompally Municipality 13-ward councillor Ravi Yadav says there are around 500 houses in Uma Maheshwar Colony and all of them, save for a few, were flooded. Every time it rains heavily, the residents get on their toes and frequently check the water level in their lanes. Their plea to engineers who take care of the lake is to keep multiple sluice gates open so that their locality is not flooded again.  Apart from incurring damages of Rs. 1 lakh or more, we spent another Rs. 70,000 for rent in Kompally. We returned home after seven months. Rama Raju, A local resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/picking-up-the-pieces-after-months-of-agony/article36997132.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Thirty candidates in fray for Huzurabad bypoll||With 12 candidates withdrawing their nominations, 30 candidates are officially in the fray for Huzurabad bypoll to be held on October 30. Main political parties stepped up their campaign even as people were immersed in Bathukamma festival on Wednesday and gearing up for Dasara, a major festival in the State, to be celebrated on Friday. Notwithstanding BC Welfare Minister Gangula Kamlakar testing positive for COVID-19, ruling TRS party leaders and workers continued to main the campaign tempo. Though Mr. Kamlakar’s absence from the campaign, even temporarily, is a setback of sorts for TRS candidate Gellu Srinivas Yadav, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao compensated by drawing other important leaders. Meanwhile, Karimnagar Lok Sabha member and BJP State chief Bandi Sanjay, who is observing ‘navaratri deeksha’, confined himself to religious rituals in Karimnagar. A rabble-rouser for BJP, Mr. Sanjay’s poll campaign, said to begin after Dasara, is surely to boost morale of his party workers and add strength to its nominee Eatala Rajender. Congress party in-charge for the by-poll, Damodar Rajnarsimha already toured the constituency and will be camping in Huzurabad after Dasara. Congress State chief and MP A. Revanth Reddy set the tone for the campaign soon after its nominee Balmoor Venkat Narsing Rao filed nomination papers with his fiery speech at a public meeting in Huzurabad town. Though 30 candidates are in the fray, the fight is mainly between candidates of TRS, BJP and Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/thirty-candidates-in-fray-for-huzurabad-bypoll/article36997152.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP hits out at Owaisi||Senior BJP leader N.V. Subash lashed out at the Majlis leader and MP Asaduddin Owaisi stating that he had “no right” to talk of either Mahatma Gandhi or Veer Savarkar after having “colluded” with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in “distorting” history and not allowing Telangana people to celebrate the ‘Redemption Day’ of Sept.17. He said no one in Telangana would forgive either Mr. Owaisi or Mr. Rao for denying the occasion for people to celebrate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-hits-out-at-owaisi/article36997140.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DMA suspends assistant engineer||Director of Municipal Administration N. Satyanarayana has ordered the suspension of assistant engineer S. Narasimha with immediate effect and until further orders for his “failure to take precautionary safety measures” during a drain work in the Shadnagar municipality, which has resulted in the death of two workers on Monday. Municipal Commissioner D. Lavanya has also been suspended due to the incident where the two workers — E. Krishnaiah (33) and B. Srinivas (35) died while engaged in underground drainage work at Chantanpall village of the municipality. Ranga Reddy district Collector and Magistrate D. Amoy Kumar has already announced an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh each to the family members of the deceased, according to orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dma-suspends-assistant-engineer/article36997145.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. issues safety steps at work sites||Post the recent instance at Manikonda where a techie had been washed away after stepping inside a manhole left open by the civic authorities, the State government has issued a detailed standard operating procedure with regard to safety precautions while executing works in urban local bodies. An order issued by the Municipal Administration & Urban Development Department delineated the precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-issues-safety-steps-at-work-sites/article36997161.ece
14 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||France invites KTR to Ambition India Business Forum||IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao has been invited by the French government to address the ‘Ambition India Business Forum’, which is to be held on October 29 at the French Senate in Paris. He will be a keynote speaker after the round table ‘Growth: Drafting the future of Indo-French relations in a post-COVID era, Ambassador of France Emmanuel Lenain said in a letter to Mr.Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/france-invites-ktr-to-ambition-india-business-forum/article36997144.ece
14 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sunil Sharma posted as Energy Dept. Spl. CS||Transport and Roads and Buildings Department Special Chief Secretary Sunil Sharma has been posted as Special Chief Secretary to Energy Department. He will relieve Panchayat Raj Principal Secretary Sandeep Kumar Sultania, who is holding full additional charge of the post. Mr. Sunil Sharma will however continue to hold full additional charge as Secretary of Housing Department. Mr. Sharma will be replaced by Tourism secretary K.S. Srinivasa Raju who has been transferred and posted as Secretary to Transport and R&B Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sunil-sharma-posted-as-energy-dept-spl-cs/article36997162.ece
14 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Ten crest gates of Nagarjunasagar lifted||Project officials of Nagarjunasagar on Wednesday operated 10 crest gates to release about 1.22 lakh cusecs to the downstream projects. Nagarjunasagar project has been brimming with water just around the full reservoir level of 590 feet as inflows from the upstream continue to accumulate. Flood of about 1.55 lakh cusecs inflow was recorded on Wednesday, and the water level hovered around 311 tmc against the full capacity of 312 tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ten-crest-gates-of-nagarjunasagar-lifted/article36997149.ece
14 October 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Postal cover in memory of Maqdoom Mohiuddin||The Postal Department has released a special cover in memory of freedom fighter and Urdu poet Maqdoom Mohiuddin. Hyderabad headquarters region director SKA Devaraj released the cover on sub post office premises at Andol on Wednesday. The programme was organised on the occasion of National Philately Day. Maqdoom Mohiuddin was native of Andol. Jaffer Mohiuddin, son of Maqdoom Mohiuddin and some other relatives attended as special guests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/postal-cover-in-memory-of-maqdoom-mohiuddin/article36997167.ece
14 October 2021||Gurugram,||Heli-hub to come up in Gurugram||The Haryana government will identify land in Gurugram to set up a heli-hub and will send a proposal in this regard to the Central government. It has also been decided by the State to reduce the VAT on air turbine fuel from 20% to 1%. Chief Minister Manohar Lal met Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya M. Scindia in New Delhi on Wednesday to discuss various civil aviation projects in Haryana. Discussions were held about reduction of VAT on air turbine fuel, and setting up of a heli-hub, civil aviation university, drone school and satellite centre in the State. Development of Integrated Aviation Hub; Airstrip Karnal; Airstrip Ambala; Pilot Training School, Bhiwani was also discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/heli-hub-to-come-up-in-gurugram/article36997058.ece
14 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Developer fined Rs. 4 cr. in Haryana||A penalty of Rs. 4 crore has been imposed on developer M3M Pvt. Limited and its two partners by Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA), Gurugram, for allegedly advertising their residential projects without registration in violation of the law. A authority bench headed by K.K. Khandelwal, Chairman, Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority, Gurugram imposed a penalty of Rs. 2.5 crore on M/s M3M Pvt. Ltd for advertising boutique floors at project named “City of Dreams”, Sector 89, Gurugram and a penalty of Rs. 50 lakh was also imposed on it for another project. i.e. “Smart World Floors”, Sector 61. A fine of Rs. 50 lakh each was slapped on Smart World developers and Suposhaa Realcon Pvt who are partners in Smart World project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/developer-fined-in-haryana/article36997032.ece
14 October 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra announces Rs. 10,000 cr. relief package||Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday announced Rs. 10,000 crore compensation package for damage to farms due to high-intensity rainfall and subsequent floods in the State in last few weeks. According to the State government, a total of 55 lakh hectares was damaged between June and October 2021. “We have decided not to wait for the NDRF norms to announce the relief package. The government wants to extend aid at the earliest and that is the reason why we have announced Rs. 10,000 relief package,” said an official from the Relief and Rehabilitation Department. As per the decision, Rs. 10,000 per hectare for rain-fed crop while Rs. 15,000 per hectare for irrigated crop and Rs. 25,000 per hectare for multi-crop land will be given. This aid will be given with a limit of two hectares. Monetary help to artistes The State Cabinet also announced the decision to extend monetary help to artistes and organisations working in experimental art, who were solely dependent on cultural programmes, as they suffered due to closure of cinema and drama theatres, auditoriums during the lockdown period. As per the decision, a total of 56,000 artistes will get Rs. 5,000 each and for which Rs. 28 crore have been allotted. A total of 847 organisations will be given a total of Rs. 6 crore. A committee at the District Collector level will make the selection of artistes and money will be deposited directly in their accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-announces-rs-10000-cr-relief-package/article36997042.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Pak. national may have had role in Delhi HC, Jammu blasts’||A day after an alleged Pakistani terrorist was arrested in the Capital, the police suspect that he may have been behind the 2011 Delhi High Court bomb blast that killed 17 people and left more than 80 injured. According to a source privy to the investigation, the accused, Mohd. Ashraf, had conducted a recce of the court premises after getting in touch with one of the suspects in the case who gave him instructions to scope out other high footfall spots in the city. “We showed him several pictures of the prime suspects in the high court blast and he identified Gulam Sarvar, one of the prime suspects in the case,” a senior police officer said. Gulam Sarvar, also known as Abu Bilal, 33, hails from Pakistan and has been absconding in the case. He is one of the main accused who has been charged by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for planning and carrying out the HC blast 10 years ago on September 7. ‘Named an accused’ “At this point, we suspect him of having a role in the attack as he has named one of the accused, but investigation is ongoing to ascertain his actual involvement in the incident,” the officer added. The officer further said that during inquiry, the accused also identified a few others involved in the 2009 bomb blast at the bus station in Jammu which was carried out by Pakistan-based Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). In both the incidents, sources claimed that while they suspect him of having had a role, concrete material evidence is yet to be found. He has been remanded to 14 days in police custody by a Delhi court after an in-camera hearing on Tuesday. Sources have claimed that the accused had also conducted a recce of over eight locations in the Capital a few years before the 2011 blast. “The areas included prime locations like India Gate, Kashmere Gate, Red Fort and the old Delhi Police Headquarters at ITO,” an officer said. Ashraf has also named three of his accomplices who were planning the terror attack, a source said. Sleeper cell Earlier, DCP (Special Cell) Pramod Kushwaha had said that Mohd. Ashraf, who lived under the name of Ali Ahmed Noori, in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar, was an active part of a sleeper cell and has carried out many terror attacks and espionage activities in India in the last several years. The police had further said that Ashraf had been assigned to carry out a terror strike during the festive season at the behest of ISI. After being trained by an ISI handler in 2004, he managed to enter India via Siliguri border and befriended a maulvi of a local mosque, along with whom he came to Delhi. Thereafter, he started working as a daily wager at factories with the help of the maulvi’s relatives and stayed in touch with Nasir. Ashraf was trained by an ISI handler code-named Nasir in 2004. Recently, he was tasked with orchestrating a terror strike in the festival season, the police said, adding that all the weapons and ammunition recovered from him are imported and were smuggled from the Indo-Pak border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pak-national-may-have-had-role-in-delhi-hc-jammu-blasts/article36997039.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Court pulls up ‘confused’ police for shoddy probe in riots case||A court here on Wednesday pulled up the city police yet again over the north-east Delhi riots probe for “not conducting the case in a proper way” and asked to ensure better coordination between police officers and prosecution. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat said that it appeared that the police officers are “confused” as they first moved an application stating that IPC Section 436 — which pertains to causing mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house, etc. — is not made out and ask for transfer of the case to the Metropolitan Magistrate (MM) and later, after talking to the prosecutor in the case, they wanted to withdraw their own application after finding it meritless. “This is not a proper way of conducting the case. The present application for transfer of this case to the court of Ld. MM stands dismissed as withdrawn,” the court said. ASJ Rawat further said that the copy of his order should be sent to the Special Commissioner of Police, Division-I (Law and Order). Application moved During the course of hearing in the case, which pertained to vandalism and rioting and involved four persons — Zubair, Ashu, Khalid Ansari and Ashwani alias Kale — as accused, the IO in the case, assistant sub-inspector Satish Kumar, along with the SHO, moved a plea for transfer of the case to the court of Metropolitan Magistrate. “It is stated in the application that Section 436 of the IPC is not made out in the present matter and hence, the present matter needs to be transferred to the court of Ld. Magistrate…,” the order said. However, after arguments in the matter, the judge said that it appeared from the chargesheet that apart from IPC Section 436, all other Sections as alleged are bailable. “...if IPC Section 436 is taken out, then what remains are offences which are bailable and for which the accused should not have been sent to custody,” the court said. Further, the application was also regarding the transfer of the said case to Metropolitan Magistrate for which there is no provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), the court said. “It appears that police officers want discharge of the accused persons under IPC Section 436 and thereafter, committal of the case to the court of Ld. Magistrate,” the order read. However, after the matter was passed over at the SHO’s request, he submitted that he wanted to withdraw the present application after having a word with the Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) who represented the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-pulls-up-confused-police-for-shoddy-probe-in-riots-case/article36997051.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||HC asks NDMC, Delhi Police to clear CP of encroachments||The Delhi High Court has said that the failure of the authorities to remove hawkers and vendors from no-vending zone “very severely and adversely” impacts citizens’ rights to life, a healthy and clean environment. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh made the remarks while directing removal of unauthorised hawkers and vendors from Connaught Place. The High Court warned officials of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and Delhi Police, who have jurisdiction over the area, to ensure strict compliance of orders and scheme approved by the Supreme Court on encroachments. “We...issue a stern warning to both — officers of the NDMC as well as the Delhi Police who have jurisdiction over the Connaught Place area, that is Rajiv Chowk and Indira Chowk — to ensure strict compliance of not only the scheme approved by the Supreme Court but also the orders passed by courts…,” the Bench said. The High Court’s order came while hearing a plea by the New Delhi Traders’ Association, which represents shop owners and operators in Connaught Place, seeking directions to ensure that illegal hawking and squatting or vending activities in ‘no hawking’ and ‘no vending’ areas of Connaught Place and Connaught Circus are stopped permanently. The court directed removal of encroachers and illegal vendors from Connaught Place and directed the authorities to ensure that the area remains clean on a regular basis and they do not return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-asks-ndmc-delhi-police-to-clear-cp-of-encroachments/article36997059.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||HC dismisses bail plea of two riots accused||The Delhi High Court has declined bail to two persons who were arrested in a Delhi riots case related to the recovery of a 15-year-old boy’s body from a drain in Gokulpuri. Justice Mukta Gupta said in view of the witnesses, who saw the petitioners, Ankit Chaudhary and Rishabh Chaudhary, assault people of another religious community, no ground for their release was made out. The High Court said since the petitioners resided in the vicinity of the place of the crime, their “tower location” as per call records was not sufficient to conclude that the petitioners were not present at the spot as they may have left phones at their residences. As per the prosecution, the boy’s body, recovered from the drain on March 1, 2020, had injury marks on the backside of the head. The father of the deceased identified the body by the clothes on March 13, 2020, it said. The HC took into account the statement of an eyewitness, that some people, including the petitioners, had gathered near a bridge and attacked passers-by with sticks, rods and stones and thereafter, threw the body in the drain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-two-riots-accused/article36997053.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Political row over Chhath Puja continues||The political row over the observance of Chhath Puja in the Capital continued on Wednesday with both the Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP blaming each other for the ban amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. A day after Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia wrote to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya to consult a group of experts regarding the observance of the festival, north-east Delhi BJP MP Manoj Tiwari followed suit. “Your government wrote a letter to the Union Minister under pressure from Chhath Puja organisers yesterday. If you were actually serious about the issue, you would have requested guidelines in the month of September,” Mr. Tiwari stated in a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. “I state with regret that you continuously engage in anti-Hindu behaviour which has resulted in Hindu-Muslim polarisation in the city,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/political-row-over-chhath-puja-continues/article36997050.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Protest outside police HQ against ‘sexual assault’||The All India Students’ Association (AISA) along with civil society groups staged a protest outside the Delhi Police headquarters on Wednesday against the alleged sexual assault of two women students by police personnel during a recent demonstration. The students were protesting outside Home Minister Amit Shah’s residence against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence when the students alleged that the Delhi police unleashed “physical sexual violence” against two women protesters. The students demanded that Chanakyapuri ACP Pragya Anand be sacked for allegedly instructing police personnel to assault women protesters. DCP (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said that he has received a file in the matter and an independent inquiry and appropriate action will be taken to look into the allegations raised by the two students. “A police team will conduct a probe and accordingly, we will proceed,” DCP Yadav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/protest-outside-police-hq-against-sexual-assault/article36997052.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Abandoned dhalaos to be used for public services||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has proposed to demolish the abandoned dhalaos (waste collection points) under its jurisdiction and hand them over to Residents’ Welfare Associations and NGOS who will utilise the space for public services. A decision in this regard was taken at the standing panel meeting on Wednesday. “Plenty of dhalaos have shut because they have been replaced by fixed compactor transfer stations. This move has been taken for NGOs or any organisation that works for the public benefit to convert and maintain the space for a period of five years. We will not charge them anything,” Jogi Ram Jain, chairman of the standing committee, said. He said that the space can be converted into public libraries or community kitchens. According to the data provided by the civic body, 246 dhalaos have been closed till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/abandoned-dhalaos-to-be-used-for-public-services/article36997049.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||SDMC fines 72 builders for DPCC violation||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Wednesday said that it had imposed fines worth Rs. 65 lakh on 72 builders and owners in the south zone, over the last week, for violating guidelines issued by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee to check pollution caused by construction activities. The SDMC said that it had “observed grave violations” in projects being “executed by the NBCC” and had imposed a fine of Rs. 5 lakh. “The different projects within the complex of IIT Delhi were also found violating the said guidelines,” a press note stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-fines-72-builders-for-dpcc-violation/article36997054.ece
14 October 2021||Vijayawada,||Andhra Pradesh seeks 20 rakes of coal per day||The State government has requested the Union government to allot 20 rakes of coal per day to its thermal power plants and revive the stranded / non-working pit-head plants not having power purchase agreements or coal linkage, on an emergency basis to help overcome the prevailing crisis. Against the total installed capacity of 5,010 MW, the APGenco is generating between 2,300 MW and 2,500 MW due to the severe coal shortage. A couple of units at the Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant and one unit at the Sri Damodaram Sanjeevaiah Thermal Power Station have been shut down, while the Dr. Narla Tata Rao Thermal Power Stationis generating less power than its capacity due to the coal shortage, according to an official release. The release said the power purchase rates shot up to Rs. 20 per unit against the average cost of Rs. 4.50 earlier owing to the high demand and low supplies of coal across the country. At the same time, the average power demand surged to 190 Million Units per day in October 2021 against 160 MU during the corresponding month the previous year. The State’s total installed capacity (all sources) is 18,533 MW as on date, of which 8,075 MW come from solar and wind, but it does not help in maintaining base loads due to their variable nature. The State has an installed gas-based power capacity of 908 MW, but only 100 MW are being generated because of the non-availability of the required gas. The Hinduja National Power Corporation’s thermal power plant of 1,040 MW is mired in cases being heard by the Supreme Court. According to the release, the APGenco’s thermal plants received an average of 24,000 tonnes of coal per day in September 2021 against demand of 70,000 tonnes. The supply increased to 40,000 tonnes on the request of the State government recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/andhra-seeks-20-rakes-of-coal-per-day/article36997038.ece
14 October 2021||Kabul,||Taliban warn U.S., EU of refugee influx if the sanctions continue||The new Taliban government in Afghanistan has warned the U.S. and European envoys that continued attempts to pressure them through sanctions will undermine security and could trigger a wave of economic refugees. Acting Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi told Western diplomats at talks in Doha that “weakening the Afghan government is not in the interest of anyone because its negative effects will directly affect the world in (the) security sector and economic migration from the country”, according to a statement published late on Tuesday. The Taliban overthrew Afghanistan’s former U.S.-backed government in August after a two-decade-long conflict, and have declared an Islamic emirate governed under the movement’s hard-line interpretation of religious law. But efforts to stabilise the country, still facing attacks from the Taliban’s rival, the extremist group the Islamic State-Khorasan, have been undermined by international sanctions: banks are running out of cash, and civil servants are going unpaid. According to the statement from his spokesman, Muttaqi told the Doha meeting: “We urge world countries to end existing sanctions and let banks operate normally so that charity groups, organisations and the government can pay salaries to their staff with their own reserves and international financial assistance.” European nations, in particular, are concerned that if the Afghan economy collapses, large numbers of migrants will set off for the continent, piling pressure on neighbouring states such as Pakistan and Iran and eventually on EU borders. Human rights Washington and the EU have said they are ready to back humanitarian initiatives in Afghanistan, but are wary of providing direct support to the Taliban without guarantees they will respect human rights, in particular those of women. The European Union has pledged one billion euros in aid, but European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen stressed that it would be used to help Afghanistan’s neighbours or given in “direct support” to the Afghan people, bypassing the Taliban government. “We have been clear about our conditions for any engagement with the Afghan authorities, including on the respect of human rights,” she said on Tuesday. The Taliban insist that they pose no threat to civilian rights, and have urged government workers, including some women, to return to their professions, while swearing to defeat IS-K and return Afghanistan to stability. But girls were not allowed back into high schools when the new term started just under a month ago, and many women have complained of being forced out of professional and public roles like journalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-warn-us-eu-of-refugee-influx-if-the-sanctions-continue/article36996514.ece
14 October 2021||COLOMBO,||Army chief Naravane calls on Rajapaksas||Chief of the Army Staff (COAS) of the Indian Army General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Wednesday called on Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, during his ongoing, four-day visit to the island nation. The visit by India’s top military official comes a week after Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s visit to Sri Lanka that focused largely on expediting bilateral development and connectivity projects. In his meeting with President Gotabaya, General Naravane said India “highly expects” the stability of neighbouring countries for regional security, a statement from the President’s office said. “Reminiscing the training he received in India during his service in the Army and the experiences gained, the President commended the leadership capabilities achieved by Sri Lankan military personnel through the military training they receive in India,” the media release said. Every year, nearly 1,000 Sri Lankan Army officers receive military training in India. In addition to that, a specially designed training course for 50 Army officers will be provided “in the near future” at the request of the Chief of Defence Staff and Commander of the Sri Lankan Army, General Shavendra Silva, the Presidential Media Division said. ‘Mitra Shakti’ The Indian Army chief’s visit coincides with ‘Mitra Shakti’, an ongoing programme for the Indian and Sri Lankan military, said to be one of the largest bilateral military exercises in the region. “During the visit, areas of mutual interest and avenues for enhancing existing bilateral defence cooperation will be discussed, with Sri Lanka being ‘Priority One’ partner of India,” a press release from the Indian High Commission said. General Naravane called on Prime Minister Rajapaksa, who “expressed his appreciation for the assistance provided by the Indian armed forces to Sri Lanka throughout the years, especially in the area of training”, the Prime Minister’s office said in a statement. The two delegations discussed several areas of mutual interest, including “regional concerns of fundamentalism and terrorism, and the importance of caring for veterans after their service to the country”, the statement said. Earlier, addressing senior Sri Lankan military officials, the Indian Army chief said: “As matured democracies, the quality and interaction of elected leaders of both countries is mirrored by similar interactions between our two militaries,” while recalling his days as part of the Indian Peace Keeping Force deployed in Sri Lanka from 1987 to 1990.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/army-chief-naravane-calls-on-rajapaksas/article36996741.ece
14 October 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lankan fishermen seek India’s action over disputes||Sri Lanka’s northern fishermen want the authorities in India and Sri Lanka to urgently step up action to resolve the long-persisting conflict in the Palk Strait, fearing tensions with Indian fishermen could escalate. In a letter submitted at the Indian Consulate in Jaffna last week, the Federation of Jaffna District Fishermen’s Cooperative Society Unions pointed to the perils of bottom-trawling and pair-trawling fishing methods — commonly used by Tamil Nadu fishermen — resulting in a drastically smaller catch and frequent damage to their modest fishing gear. “We are very worried that despite discussing this problem for more than 10 years now, there has been no forward movement or a solution until now. Indian fishermen crossing the maritime boundary and fishing in our waters has resulted in huge losses amounting several crores to our fishermen,” said the letter dated October 10, 2021. The fisher associations have also sought compensation from the Indian authorities to cope with the financial losses. Having braved the civil war and the displacement and dispossession that came with it, the northern fishermen have been struggling to rebuild their livelihoods post-war. However, the ongoing conflict with Indian fishermen — mostly from Tamil Nadu’s Ramanathapuram and Nagapattinam districts — has severely impacted the revival of their livelihoods. Attacks at sea The fishermen’s concerns, voiced in the recent letter, also come amid reports of Tamil Nadu fishermen being attacked at sea, allegedly by their Sri Lankan counterparts. Fishermen’s groups along Tamil Nadu’s coastal belt held protests last month, condemning the attacks. Tamil Nadu has repeatedly accused the Sri Lankan Navy of attacking or killing its fishermen in the Palk Strait, including in January this year, when Samson Darwin, 28, A. Mesiya, 30, V. Nagaraj, 52, and S. Senthil Kumar, 32, from Ramanathapuram returned dead. Sri Lankan authorities have denied the allegations. While New Delhi conveyed “strong protest” over the incident then, there is no word yet on the promised probe into their deaths. The investigation into the shooting of K. Britjo in March 2017, too, has seen no update in the four years since. However, the recent allegations made by Tamil Nadu fishermen against fellow fishermen in Sri Lanka have sparked serious concern. “This is a very dangerous development. Despite our disagreement with our brothers in Tamil Nadu, we have always been in solidarity. We have relied only on dialogue and never resorted to violence. We fear that certain political forces are instigating some groups to carry out these attacks,” a fishermen’s association representative in Jaffna told The Hindu , requesting anonymity. “Before this escalates, both governments must take swift and decisive action,” he said. Meanwhile, addressing a media conference, Jaffna legislator M.A. Sumanthiran accused Fisheries Minister Douglas Devananda of provoking violence among fishermen of the two countries. “Since he is the subject minister, that too from Jaffna, he is in a good position to implement the laws we have in place to take action on illegal fishing and bottom trawling. I urge all our fishermen to respond to this problem in democratic ways, and not resort to violence at any cost,” he said, calling for a peaceful protest next weekend. Minister Devananda has not commented so far on the allegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lankan-fishermen-seek-indias-action-over-disputes/article36996743.ece
14 October 2021||Washington,||U.S. Congress averts default with stop-gap debt limit hike||U.S. lawmakers rubber-stamped a short-term bill to lift the nation’s borrowing authority on Tuesday, averting the threat of a first-ever debt default — but only for a few weeks. The Democratic-controlled House of Representatives voted along party lines to pass the stop-gap $480 billion hike, which advanced from the Senate last Thursday. “It’s about the kitchen table, it’s about our economy, the global economy, but it’s also about our Constitution which says the full faith and credit of the United States shall not be in doubt,” Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told reporters ahead of the vote. Democratic leaders had spent weeks underlining the havoc that a default would have wrought, including the loss of six million jobs and $15 trillion in household wealth, as well as increased costs for mortgages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-congress-averts-default-with-stop-gap-debt-limit-hike/article36996518.ece
14 October 2021||Istanbul,||Turkey slams Russia, U.S. after Syria attacks||Turkey on Wednesday said the United States and Russia bore responsibility for a spate of deadly attacks on its border with Syria, stressing that Ankara reserved the right to self-defence. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan warned on Monday that Turkey had “no patience left” with Syrian-based Kurdish militias it blames for cross-border rocket strikes and attacks against its personnel. Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu on Wednesday accused the U.S. and Russia of failing to adequately police a buffer zone in northern Syria, set up under two agreements in 2019, and aimed at pushing the Kurdish forces away from Turkey. ‘Will do the necessary’ “Unfortunately, Russia and the United States also bear responsibility for the latest attacks aimed at civilians and the police,” Mr. Cavusoglu told a televised news conference. “We will do whatever is needed to cleanse the terrorists from those regions.” Turkey has blamed the reported attacks on Kurdish People’s Protection Units (YPG), which Ankara views as the Syrian branch of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK). Washington relied heavily on the YPG to defeat Islamic State group jihadists who overran large swathes of Syria and neighbouring Iraq in 2014. The PKK is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by the U.S. and the EU. Ankara wants Washington to cut its ties with the YPG and fully back Turkey’s campaigns in Syria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/turkey-slams-russia-us-after-syria-attacks/article36996517.ece
14 October 2021||Washington,||‘Captain Kirk’ goes to space, for real this time||Life imitated art as actor William Shatner, 90, who played the iconic Star Trek character Captain James T. Kirk, became the oldest person to fly into space on Wednesday morning. Mr. Shatner was part of a crew of four, in ‘New Shepard’, a space capsule from Blue Origin, Jeff Bezos’s spaceflight company. The age record was held for a few months by Wally Funk, 82, who was part of a crewed Blue Origin flight that went into space on July 20. The flight, which lifted off from Texas, lasted 10 minutes and 11 seconds, with a maximum ascent velocity of 3,597 km/h, according to data posted by Blue Origin on its Twitter account. The apogee (i.e., the maximum distance from the earth) attained was 3,51,000 feet. The other passengers on board were a Blue Origin employee and two paying customers. Mr. Shatner, visibly overwhelmed with emotion after returning to earth, was embraced by Mr. Bezos. “What you have given me is the most profound experience,” he said, about the flight. “I hope I never recover from this. I hope that I can maintain what I feel now. I don’t want to lose it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/captain-kirk-goes-to-space-for-real-this-time/article36996833.ece
14 October 2021||Beijing,||Drills, flights were needed to defend Taiwan: China||China’s recent increase in military exercises and warplane missions near Taiwan — which have raised concerns around the region — were necessary to defend the nation’s sovereignty and territory, a Chinese official said on Wednesday. China’s military flew 56 planes off the southwest coast of Taiwan on a single day earlier this month, a single-day record that capped four days of a sustained pressure campaign involving 149 flights. All were in international airspace, but the display raised fears that any misstep could provoke an unintended escalation in the region. Taiwan views China’s moves as advertising its threat to bring the island it claims as its own territory under its control by military means as necessary. The sides split amid civil war in 1949 and have no official contacts. ‘Taiwan govt. to blame’ The purpose of the manoeuvres was to “fundamentally safeguard the overall interests of the Chinese nation and the vital interests of people on both sides of the Taiwan Strait,” said Ma Xiaoguang, spokesperson for the Cabinet’s Taiwan Affairs Office. “The People’s Liberation Army exercises are necessary actions to defend national sovereignty and territorial integrity,” Mr. Ma told reporters at a news conference in Beijing. He blamed actions by Taiwan’s independence-leaning democratically elected government and its relations with “external forces” for heightening tensions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/drills-flights-were-needed-to-defend-taiwan-china/article36996738.ece
14 October 2021||Taipei,||Harvard programme moves from Beijing to Taipei||An intensive summer language programme hosted by Harvard University in Beijing will relocate to Taiwan in summer of 2022, as the U.S.-China relationship remains strained. The programme is moving to Taipei and will kick off next summer with about 60 students who will take eight weeks of classes, National Taiwan University confirmed on Wednesday. The decision was in part “due to a perceived lack of friendliness from the host institution” in Beijing, according to Harvard’s student paper the Crimson , which first reported the move. Every summer, according to the Crimson, the programme “would typically host a small party to celebrate the Fourth of July, during which students and faculty would eat pizza and sing the national anthem”. But in 2019, the host university, Beijing Language and Culture University, said it could no longer host the event, programme director Jennifer L. Liu told the paper. Logistical issues Ms. Liu also said logistical issues impacted the decision. She told the Crimson that “BLCU did not provide a single dorm for all the students, instead requiring the program split the students into two different dorms of different quality, or to find a hotel that could keep their students together”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/harvard-programme-moves-from-beijing-to-taipei/article36996739.ece
14 October 2021||Washington,||U.S. to open land borders in November||The United States will open its land borders with Mexico and Canada in early November to non-essential travellers who are fully vaccinated against COVID-19, a senior White House official said on Tuesday. The official said the administration would give the “precise date very soon” — both for land cros- sings as well as international air travel. The U.S. had announced in September that it would lift bans in November on all vaccinated air passengers who undergo testing and contact tracing.   The White House source said the land border re-opening would happen in two phases. Initially, vaccines will be required for “non-essential” trips — such as visiting family or tourism — though unvaccinated travellers will still be allowed into the country for “essential” trips. A second phase beginning in “early January” 2022 will require all visitorsto be fully vaccinated, no matter the reason for their trip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-open-land-borders-in-november/article36996519.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Telugu leaders on a sticky wicket||Seven years after the bifurcation of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, many of the promises made in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act of 2014 affecting the two Telugu States remain unfulfilled. Unkept promises and flow of funds apart, the two States are struggling to cope with post-bifurcation challenges like river water-sharing. A new trend Andhra Pradesh’s demands, some of which were articulated by Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in a recent meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and some others earlier, include Special Category Status; Rs. 55,656 crore for the Polavaram irrigation project, designated as a national project; shifting of the Polavaram Project Authority from Hyderabad to Rajahmundry; relocating the High Court of Andhra Pradesh from Amaravati to Kurnool; restructuring of debts of Rs. 50,000 crore in which the Andhra Pradesh power utilities are mired; and release of pending dues — Rs. 3,299 crore related to subsidy for Public Distribution System rice from the Union Food Ministry and Rs. 4,652 crore from the Union Rural Development Ministry. Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao’s list is similar. During a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month, Mr. Rao sought an Indian Institute of Management at Hyderabad. His other demands have been a Hyderabad-Nagpur Industrial Corridor, Rs. 1,000 crore for a textile park at Warangal, 100% funding for road network in Left-Wing Extremism affected areas, the setting up of a Tribal University in Warangal, and additional funds for improving road connectivity in backward areas as promised in the State Reorganisation Act. Despite their customary visits to Delhi and meeting the Prime Minister and Union Ministers, both the Chief Ministers have scrupulously avoided making these long-pending problems a big Centre-State federal issue of national importance. They prefer to maintain a strategic silence. This is a new trend in Telangana-Andhra politics. It is a perceptible shift from the days of former Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao, who was in constant battle with the Centre over issues affecting erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, beginning with Telugu culture, language and pride. A fiery fighter against centralisation, the misuse of Article 356, and the institution of governors, Rao strongly worked for multi-party federalism. This is what inspired him to form an anti-Congress rainbow coalition, the National Front. His famous statements — the “Centre is a conceptual myth” and the Congress had “mortgaged” the self-respect and interests of Telugus in Delhi — were a big hit with the Telugu people. Former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu too sparred with the Centre over Special Category Status and this ultimately led to his Telugu Desam Party (TDP) snapping ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Ironically, it was Mr. Reddy’s YSR Congress Party’s strident posture on Special Category Status that pushed Mr. Naidu to take a tough stand. Mr. Reddy used to taunt Mr. Naidu and tell people that if he had all 25 MPs fiom Andhra Pradesh in the Lok Sabha, he could have forced the Centre to grant Special Category Status to Andhra Pradesh. The YSR Congress Party now has 22 MPs in the Lok Sabha, but not much is heard about Special Category Status anymore. After provoking Mr. Naidu to walk out of the National Democratic Alliance, Mr. Reddy started cultivating the BJP. Their relationship continues to blossom, pushing State issues to the background. Notably, both the YSR Congress Party and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) supported the revocation of Article 370 and the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories. Though the TRS opposed the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill (CAB) in Parliament, Mr. Rao did not categorically say that the National Register of Citizens (NRC) will not be implemented in Telangana. Mr. Reddy first supported the CAB, but several days later, after Asaduddin Owaisi appealed to him to withdraw his party’s support, said the NRC would not be implemented in Andhra Pradesh. Fighting for federalism So, what happened to the fighting spirit of the Chief Ministers and political leaders from Andhra and Telangana? Why are they now going soft on the Union government and being perceived as compromising with it? Why has the battle for federalism been left to leaders like West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee? The reasons are layered. Both Mr. Rao and Mr. Reddy appear to be wary of the dominance of the BJP and the power of Mr. Modi and are aware of the political implications of taking on the Centre. In Mr. Reddy’s case, it may be political compulsion, given the slew of charges of acquiring disproportionate assets that he faces in a special CBI court. He also considers the TDP as a bigger political adversary than the BJP in Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Rao too has preferred to settle for a non-confrontational approach towards the BJP, having realised the futility of floating a non-BJP non-Congress front. But while strategising for their political survival, the two leaders are either unable to fathom or conveniently ignore the BJP’s centralising tendencies and its attempts to implement its idea of ‘One Nation One Ration Card’, ‘One Nation One Election’, ‘One Nation One Language’. This project fits into the BJP’s long-cherished ideological agenda of homogenising India in total disregard to the nation’s historic diversity and plurality and seeks to bulldoze the federalism cherished by erstwhile Andhra Pradesh’s former leaders. The beauty of Indian federalism is that it not only created enough space for the States to flourish and fight for their rights, but also safeguarded multiculturalism. This happened over time — first, when the Centre and States were ruled by different parties and later, when national and regional parties came together to form coalition governments. Differences were respected and sorted out in true federal spirit. Some States were accorded special privileges for historical, cultural and ethnic reasons. One party now wants to wipe this out in the name of national unity and its one nation theory. The signs are already there. For all its talk of promoting ‘cooperative federalism’, the BJP keeps undermining the concept, as seen in the abrogation of Article 370 and its attempt to change the political landscape of Kashmir; the multiple ways in which it creates trouble in West Bengal and Maharashtra; and the defections it has engineered in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. Politically savvy and strong regional leaders like Mr. Rao and Mr. Reddy should rise to the occasion and foil such crude attempts to hit at federalism and democracy. Their attitude of running with the hare and hunting with the hounds could even boomerang. By remaining silent and indirectly toeing the BJP’s line, they are lending legitimacy to its one nation agenda, besides unwittingly enabling this agenda to grow and become stronger. Whatever their compulsions, they should not forget that Indian federalism is intrinsically woven into the Constitution, and they have every right to challenge moves to weaken it, eroding the autonomy of the States. If they chose to be reluctant, they will be doing a great disservice to the nation. K. Venkateshwarlu is a senior journalist based in Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/telugu-leaders-on-a-sticky-wicket/article36996512.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The global war on terror grinds along||Two decades after September 11, 2001, when al-Qaeda carried out its most audacious attacks ever on American soil, leading to the Global war on terror and triggering the invasion of Afghanistan by the United States, it might be worthwhile to do a fact check on the outcome. More so given the latest turn of events, which has seen the return of the Taliban in Afghanistan, leading to the question as to whether the Global war on terror was a failure. Also, are there lessons to be learnt from it? A perspective In retrospect, it is possible to surmise that the 9/11 attacks were the sum total of a series of systemic and structural shortcomings of the U.S. security establishment. Seldom mentioned, it was also, perhaps, the failure of human imagination. No one in the U.S. establishment imagined that an attack on this scale could take place. It is unclear whether even today security agencies in the U.S. and elsewhere are better positioned in this respect. Historians surmise that Osama bin Laden’s actions were inspired as much by geopolitical as they were by religious objectives, and that he was obsessed by the ‘sufferings of Muslims’ in many far-flung regions. He believed — mistakenly — that delivering a decisive blow against the U.S. by an action such as 9/11 would force the U.S. to alter its policies in many areas of conflict. Osama bin Laden failed to succeed in his attempt, and over time it was al-Qaeda that faced the wrath of not only the U.S., but the rest of the world as well. Osama bin Laden’s aims to destroy the ‘myth of American invincibility’ failed, but since then, the world has witnessed prolonged periods of uncertainty as also the spawning of many more terror groups worldwide. The Global war on terror did, however, neutralise fears that terrorism was poised to create large-scale mayhem across the globe. Several reasons could be attributed to bin Laden’s failure. It would seem, in hindsight, that bin Laden and other leaders associated with al-Qaeda such as Ayman al-Zawahiri, other jihadi leaders such as Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi of the Islamic State (IS) or Mukhtar Abu Zubair of Al-Shabab, all lacked the centrality of vision or power so essential to sustain the momentum of an initiative of this kind. Moreover, while in the initial stages, Afghanistan — and to an extent, Pakistan — provided safe havens (which together with the presence of several disparate terror groups in a common milieu provided powerful unifying forces for disparate groups), the situation changed once the safe havens were no longer available. In addition, the lack of visibility of the leaders of the movement over time and diminished authority also contributed to dissipation of the terror momentum and the capacity for militancy and violence. Persistent challenge Two decades of the Global war on terror did not, however, eradicate terrorism. Notwithstanding leadership losses, including that of leaders like bin Laden and al Baghdadi, and despite organisational fracturing and territorial degradation, terror groups such as al-Qaeda and the IS today pose a persistent challenge. Hard intelligence on the myriad terror modules has been hard to come by and the absence of a single core for either al- Qaeda or the IS, is making it even more difficult to assess the true nature of the threat that looms. It would be tempting for intelligence agencies to think that the current low-tech attacks, involving small arms, the occasional use of Improvised Explosive Devices, and random ‘lone wolf’ attacks reflect the weakening of terror modules, including that of al-Qaeda and the IS. Nothing could be more misleading. Not only the major terror groups but even smaller terror modules currently retain the potential for both sophisticated and mass casualty attacks. History is, therefore, more relevant and important when assessing future threats such as terrorism. The broad sweep acquired by radical Islam in recent decades has, by no means, been eliminated. Terrorism, stemming from a mixture of religious fervour and fundamentalist aims, remains vibrant. The newer breed of terrorists may be less familiar with the teachings of the Egyptian, Sayyid Qutb or the Palestinian, Abdullah Azzam, but they are well-versed in the practical methodologies practised by: the Jalaluddin and Sirajuddin Haqqanis (the latter is a Minister in the Interim Afghan Government), Hafiz Saeed of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Maulana Masood Azhar of the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), etc. Hence, it is possible to surmise that notwithstanding some temporary setbacks caused by the Global war on terror, the broad contours of terrorism, specially Islamist terrorism, remain much the same. A grim warning The return of the Taliban in Afghanistan, after humiliating the combined forces of the U.S., the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Afghan Armed Forces is a grim warning of what lies in store for the neighbourhood. Apart from giving radical Islam a fresh lease of life and a new thrust, it has come at a time when the democratic world is demonstrating a diminishing appetite to fight terror away from their own ‘locales’, thus leaving the field wide open to the forces of Terror Inc., of which the Taliban is an indispensable entity. Several terror groups which possess varying capabilities such as al-Qaeda, the IS, the Daesh across Asia, the LeT, JeM and the TRF (The Resistance Front, which is backed by the LeT) in India, the Al-Shabab in Africa, etc., are certain to feel energised and gain a fresh lease of life. In India One can already see emerging signs of what can be expected in Afghanistan given that its capital, Kabul, has been wracked by a series of bomb blasts, reflecting a more intensified intra-denominational strife which has the potential to become a ‘prairie fire’. Nearer home, Kashmir is beginning to see a new wave of terror attacks reviving grim memories of the 1990s. Targeted killings of minorities have begun to send shockwaves across not only Jammu & Kashmir (J&K), but many other pockets of the country. Given the prevailing scenario, the dice is heavily loaded against India, with J&K being in the cross-hairs of several terror factions, further complicated by Pakistan’s efforts to aid and abet them through the use of its ‘regulars’. That Sirajuddin Haqqani, a Pakistani acolyte, holds a key position in the new interim Government of Afghanistan, makes it easier for forces inimical to India in the region, essentially Pakistan, to wage an ‘undeclared war’ against India. While the past is often a good guide to the future in comprehending what shape terror could manifest itself going forward, it is even more important to recognise the paradigmatic changes beginning to take shape in the practice of violence in different parts of the world. The emerging shape of terror and terror attacks during coming periods is likely to be very different from what many of today’s experts possibly anticipate. While ‘Zero-day’ attacks like New York (9/11) and Mumbai (26/11) are still very much on the drawing board of terror groups, it is also known that a new breed of terrorists is experimenting with newer forms of terror, specially the possibility of ‘enabled or remote controlled terror’. This is a frightening prospect. The forms of ‘new era’ terror Intelligence and terror specialists must begin to anticipate how to deal with ‘new era terrorists’, recruited over the Internet, who would thereafter be guided through different steps, over a sustained period, by anonymous handlers located elsewhere. This is not science fiction. There is already evidence of the existence of remote controllers who choose the targets, the actual operatives, the nature of the attack itself, and even the weaponry to be used, operating behind a wall of anonymity. Internet-enabled terrorism — a completely new genre of terrorism — would be very different from what we have seen so far. Linked to this is the threat posed by cyber-terrorism. Digital sabotage has already entered the armoury of certain terror groups. Cyber sabotage is a distinct possibility in certain situations today. It is well-known that terror groups that have state backing, have the capacity today to employ cyber techniques to carry out hostile attacks on the ICT-enabled infrastructure of another country. While little is talked about these aspects, the reality is that the limits of human imagination have become the virtual parameters of terror threats today. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-global-war-on-terror-grinds-along/article36996501.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A portrait of the Nobel masters of ‘metrics’||Every year on the second Monday of October, The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel a.k.a. the Nobel Prize for Economics is announced. This year, on October 11, three econometricians – David Card, Joshua D. Angrist and Guido W. Imbens — were given this distinct honour. Interestingly, David Card was awarded half the prize while the remaining half was split equally between Angrist and Imbens. Incidentally, every year the actual prize is awarded in a grand ceremony on December 10 which coincides with the death anniversary of Alfred Nobel. A connecting thread The Nobel citation says that the prize was awarded “for empirical labour economics and methodological contributions to the analysis of causal relationships”. All three have many more things in common beyond their interest in this aspect of econometrics. Not surprisingly, they teach at some of the finest universities in the world — Card teaches at UC Berkeley, Angrist at MIT and Imbens at Stanford. Both Card and Angrist got their PhDs from Princeton, and their doctoral supervisor was the legendary labour economist, Orley Ashenfelter. Imbens obtained his doctoral degree from Brown University, and all three are fellows of the Econometric Society, a rare honour among economists. Their list of honours is extensive, but it is worth mentioning that the unique honour of being Guido Imbens ‘best man” goes to Joshua Angrist. An important quest For me this year’s Nobel Prize for economics is especially precious since it has been given to those making a methodological contribution for establishing causality. Economics has always been interested in causal relationships, already evident from Adam Smith’s book title, An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations . This is particularly important in matters of human behaviour as casual relationships are critical for making policy. Suppose you observe that whenever my sister buys shoes, it rains in Bhubaneswar. If this was a coincidence or spurious correlation, then we have nothing to worry about. But if this was causal, then a flood prevention policy for Bhubaneswar would be to put an end to my sister’s shoe shopping sprees! This quest for causality is doubly important in this era of big data where analysts simply look for patterns in the data and not for behaviours that might give rise to the data generating process. When we observe two events, A and B, being correlated, in general we cannot conclude that A causes B simply because a bunch of confounding factors that we have not taken into account may be present or there may even be reverse causality. A way out is to consider an experimental framework where we think of event A as a treatment and see what events it generates. However, even this is problematic. Once we offer a treatment to an individual, it is not possible to study the same individual without the treatment. Therefore, we need to resort to statistical techniques. One type of statistical technique in this vein which was introduced and popularised in economics by the winners of the 2019 Nobel Prize Abhijit Banerjee, Esther Duflo (incidentally Angrist was one of Duflo’s PhD supervisors) and Michael Kremer is called a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT). In this approach we compare the outcomes in the treatment and no treatment (control) groups just like in a medicine trial to establish causality while guarding against things like contamination across the two groups. A different technique This year’s Nobel Prize winners use a different technique called Natural Experiments. To quote Peter Fredriksson, Chair of the Prize Committee, “Sometimes nature or policy changes provide situations that resemble randomized experiments,” and the brilliance of those scholars lies in their ability to recognise these situations and identify the conditions under which causal links can be established using these naturally occurring phenomena. Take for instance the work of David Card (with the late Alan Krueger who many believed would have shared the Nobel) on minimum wages. Typically, economists believed that raising the minimum wage will lead to greater unemployment as firms will hire fewer workers. In 1992, New Jersey increased its minimum wage while neighbouring Pennsylvania did not. Card and Krueger surveyed a large number of fast food workers on either side of the New Jersey-Pennsylvania border in this natural experiment and established that the higher wages had no impact on employment! This study has helped change how economists view minimum wages; today it is widely believed that minimum wages may not affect employment since firms may pass on the costs to consumers. Statistical techniques One drawback of natural experiments is that we cannot control who participates in them. This is where the work of Angrist and Imbens has been very important to economics and other related fields. Angrist and Imbens developed a framework and demonstrated how statistical techniques can be used to draw precise conclusions about causal relationships from natural experiments. Finally, if you are looking to access some of the work of these scholars you can find plenty of papers on Google Scholar. Angrist is one of the authors of two excellent introductory books: Mostly Harmless Econometrics and Mastering Metrics that are probably the most accessible of all their work. Imbens is the author of an all-encompassing book titled Causal Inference for Statistics, Social and Biomedical Sciences . David Card is one of the editors of several volumes of the encyclopedic, Handbook of Labor Economics . Sudipta Sarangi is a Professor of Economics at Virginia Tech, U.S., and is the author of the recent book, ‘The Economics of Small Things’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-portrait-of-the-nobel-masters-of-metrics/article36996504.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Deconstructing climate finance||In the run-up to the 26th Conference of the Parties of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), media reports have claimed that developed countries are inching closer to the target of providing $100 billion annually in climate finance to developing countries by 2025 (the original target was 2020). This view has been bolstered by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), which claimed that climate finance provided by developed countries had reached $78.9 billion in 2018. Flawed claims These claims are erroneous. First, the OECD figure includes private finance and export credits. Developing countries have insisted that developed country climate finance should be from public sources and should be provided as grants or as concessional loans. However, the OECD report makes it clear that the public finance component amounted to only $62.2 billion in 2018, with bilateral funding of about $32.7 billion and $29.2 billion through multilateral institutions. Significantly, the final figure comes by adding loans and grants. Of the public finance component, loans comprise 74%, while grants make up only 20%. The report does not say how much of the total loan component of $46.3 billion is concessional. From 2016 to 2018, 20% of bilateral loans, 76% of loans provided by multilateral development banks and 46% of loans provided by multilateral climate funds were non-concessional. Between 2013 and 2018, the share of loans has continued to rise, while the share of grants decreased. The overwhelming provisioning of climate finance through loans risks exacerbates the debt crisis of many low-income countries. The OECD reports on climate finance have long been criticised for inflating climate finance figures by including funds for development projects such as health and education that only notionally target climate action. The Oxfam report on climate finance discounts for the climate relevance of reported funds to estimate how much climate finance is actually targeting climate action and also discounts for grant equivalence. In contrast to the OECD report, Oxfam estimates that in 2017-18, out of an average of $59.5 billion of public climate finance reported by developed countries, the climate-specific net assistance ranged only between $19 and $22.5 billion per year. The hollowness of the OECD claims is also exposed by the accounts provided by the developed countries themselves in their Biennial Reports submitted to the UNFCCC. The 2018 Biennial Assessment of UNFCCC’s Standing Committee on Finance reports that on average, developed countries provided only $26 billion per year as climate-specific finance between 2011-2016 even if these numbers are still open to challenge. This rose to an average of $36.2 billion in 2017-18. Broken promises U.S. President Joe Biden recently said that the U.S. will double its climate finance by 2024. But any claim that such a pledge will make the U.S. a “leader in international climate finance” is misleading. It is Congress that will decide on the quantum after all. The U.S. also has a history of broken commitments, having promised $3 billion to the Green Climate Fund (GCF) under President Barack Obama, but delivering only $1 billion before President Donald Trump withdrew U.S. support from the GCF. Mr. Biden initially promised only $1.2 billion to the GCF, which fell well short of what was already owed. In any case, the future focus of U.S. climate finance is the mobilisation of private sector investment, as John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for Climate Change, made it clear during his recent visit to India. Alongside claims that a few trillion dollars of private investment were being mobilised, he was clear that public finance would only contribute to “de-risking” of investment. At the end of the day, the bulk of the money coming in would be through private funds, directed to those projects judged “bankable” and not selected based on developing countries’ priorities and needs. Regrettably, behind the rhetoric of mobilising climate finance lies the grim reality of burdening the G77 and its peoples with a fresh load of “green” debt. Climate finance has also remained skewed towards mitigation, despite the repeated calls for maintaining a balance between adaptation and mitigation. The 2016 Adaptation Gap Report of the UN Environment Programme had noted that the annual costs of adaptation in developing countries could range from $140 to $300 billion annually by 2030 and rise to $500 billion by 2050. Currently available adaptation finance is significantly lower than the needs expressed in the Nationally Determined Contributions submitted by developing countries. Delivering on climate finance is fundamental to trust in the multilateral process. Regrettably, while developing countries will continue to pressure developed countries to live up to their promises, the history of climate negotiations is not in their favour. T. Jayaraman is Senior Fellow, Climate Change, M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) and Sreeja Jaiswal is a senior scientist with MSSRF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/deconstructing-climate-finance/article36996508.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Sowing better to eat better||The health of a country’s agri-food systems determines the health of its people. The findings from the first round of the Fifth National Family Health Survey suggest that nutrition-related indicators have worsened in most States. The survey covers 17 States and five Union Territories, which comprise 54% of India’s population. In addition, findings from the Comprehensive National Nutrition Survey (2016-18) have highlighted the role of micro-nutrient malnutrition. A multi-pronged approach For Indians to eat better, India must sow better. A structural shift in dietary pattern and nutrition requires a shift in production. Pathways for nutritional security consist of improving dietary diversity, kitchen gardens, reducing post-harvest losses, making safety net programmes more nutrition-sensitive, women’s empowerment, enforcement of standards and regulations, improving Water, Sanitation and Hygiene, nutrition education, and effective use of digital technology. Addressing the complex problem of malnutrition is a colossal task for which we need to look at agri-food systems as a whole and adopt a multi-pronged approach. While COVID-19 has exacerbated the nutrition issue, climate change has challenged agricultural production itself. However, the country’s agri-food systems are facing new and unprecedented challenges, especially related to economic and ecological sustainability, nutrition and the adoption of new agricultural technologies. The edifice of India’s biosecurity remains vulnerable to disasters and extreme events,. The agri-food systems are the most important part of the Indian economy. India produces sufficient food, feed and fibre to sustain about 18% of the world’s population (as of 2020). Agriculture contributes about 16.5% to India’s GDP and employs 42.3% of the workforce (2019-20). There is an urgent need for reorientation of the long-term direction of agri-food systems to not only enhance farm incomes but also ensure better access to safe and nutritious foods. Additionally, the agri-food systems need to be reoriented to minimise cost on the environment and the climate. This need is recognised by the theme of World Food Day 2021: ‘Our actions are our future. Better production, better nutrition, a better environment and a better life’. The four betters represent the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals and other high-level aspirational goals. World Food Day marks the foundation day of the FAO. FAO has enjoyed valuable partnership with India since it began operations in 1948. More recently, FAO has been engaged with the Indian government for mainstreaming agrobiodiversity, greening agriculture, promoting nutrition-sensitive agriculture and strengthening national food security. FAO’s support for the transformation of agri-food systems is rooted in agro-ecology. The more diverse an agricultural system, the greater its ability to adapt to shocks. Different combinations of integrated crop-livestock-forestry-fishery systems can help farmers produce a variety of products in the same area, at the same time or in rotation. In January this year, FAO in collaboration with NITI Aayog and the Ministry of Agriculture convened a National Dialogue to evolve a framework for the transition to a more sustainable agri-food systems by 2030 and identify pathways for enhancing farmers’ income and achieving nutritional security. A sustainable agri-food system is one in which a variety of sufficient, nutritious and safe foods are made available at an affordable price to everyone, and nobody goes hungry or suffers from any form of malnutrition. Less food is wasted, and the food supply chain is more resilient to shocks. Food systems can help combat environmental degradation or climate change. Sustainable agri-food systems can deliver food security and nutrition for all, without compromising the economic, social and environmental bases. Tomio Shichiri is FAO’s Country Director/Representative in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sowing-better-to-eat-better/article36996509.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Beguiling base||The latest sets of data on industrial output and retail inflation are beguilingly heartening, with the former showing a double-digit year-on-year increase in production, and the latter positing a sharp slowdown in price gains. The Index of Industrial Production (IIP) and Consumer Price Index (CPI) figures released on Tuesday show industrial output rose 11.9% in August, while inflation in September slowed by 95 basis points from the preceding month to 4.35%. The numbers seem to indicate a gathering recovery in economic momentum, even as CPI-based inflation eases towards the RBI’s mandated target of 4%. The IIP constituents — mining, manufacturing and electricity — posted appreciable improvements of 23.6%, 9.7% and 16%, respectively. But a closer look shows the production figures were buoyed substantially by the contractions that occurred last year when the economy was still struggling to recover from the first COVID-19 lockdown. The eroded base in the case of the August 2020 IIP data disguises the fact that output actually shrank 0.2% on a month-on-month basis this year with mining and manufacturing, which together account for 94% of the index, posting sequential contractions of 0.8% and 0.5%, respectively. Only consumer non-durables and construction goods posted increases from July. The slowdown in the consumer durables category reflects the lack of demand for white goods amid the pandemic. With last fiscal’s IIP numbers showing output rebounding in September-October 2020, and some industrial sectors, including automobile manufacturing, hit this year by raw material shortages and logistic constraints, it is hard to see production sustaining the pace of growth. Inflation too has benefited from the elevated levels in the year-earlier period when the headline reading had accelerated to 7.3% in September 2020, and subsequently touched 7.6% last October. The CPI data mask the real extent of price pressures across major product categories. Undermining nutritional security especially among the sizeable number who have suffered job or income cuts, key protein sources including meat and fish and pulses and products recorded provisional inflation of 7.99% and 8.75%, respectively, while the vital cooking medium of oils and fats saw price gains accelerate to a punishing 34.2%. Transport and communication, which captures pump prices of petrol and diesel, also stayed stuck close to double digits at 9.5%. With global crude oil ruling near three-year highs, unless the Central and State governments deign to respond to the RBI’s entreaties and cut fuel levies, there is little scope for inflation easing by much in this category. The coal crisis that is roiling power output is sure to also ripple across sectors and undermine price stability unless policy makers intervene post haste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/beguiling-base/article36996496.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Aiding Afghans||At a meeting of countries with the world’s highest GDPs — the G-20 — Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about the looming humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, especially as winter nears. He also called for the international community to provide Afghanistan with “immediate and unhindered access to humanitarian assistance”. The meeting came as the UNHCR published a new appeal for funds, with a report that half the population (more than 20 million people) are in need of “lifesaving humanitarian assistance”, and the UN has received only 35% of the funds needed for its relief operations. As a result of the Taliban takeover, most direct aid to the Afghan government has dried up; its reserves have been frozen by the U.S., making it impossible for salaries to be paid. The Taliban government’s refusal to allow women to work and its stopping girls from schooling have made the situation more dire. While recognition of the Taliban and any governmental engagement is a long way off, the world is faced with the stark choice on how to ensure Afghanistan does not suffer further. At the summit, the EU committed $1.15 billion for Afghanistan and neighbouring countries where refugees have fled, while other countries including the U.S. and China pledged $1.1 billion at a donor conference in Geneva last month. India has not announced any monetary or food assistance. The PM’s words are a welcome sign that the Government remains seized of the welfare of ordinary Afghans even as New Delhi has closed its embassy but maintains only a limited exchange with Taliban officials in Doha. Given the manner of the Taliban’s takeover in August, with support from Pakistan, maintaining links with terror groups including those that target India leaves the Government hard put to increase its engagement, or to send aid directly to the new regime. But India could contribute to international agencies that are working with displaced Afghans, particularly for about one million children at the risk of starvation. It could also help Iran and the Central Asian states that are housing refugees with monetary assistance. The Government could also consider liberalising its visa regime for Afghans, which at the moment has cancelled all prior visas to Afghan nationals, and is releasing very few e-visas for Afghans desperate to travel here. As a goodwill gesture, India could once again send food aid, including wheat, grain, fortified biscuits and other packaged food, directly to Kabul. Clearly, the imperative to act is now, at what the UN Secretary General has called a “make or break” moment for the Afghan people, and to heed the warning that if the international community, which includes a regional leader like India, does not help stave off the unfolding humanitarian crisis, not only Afghans but also the rest of the world will pay a “heavy price”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/aiding-afghans/article36996497.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Yahya Khan’s elusive goal (From an editorial)||The Pakistan President has interspersed his latest address to his people about the election programme in the east wing with invective against India which is accused of massing troops on the border. Since Pakistani forces are observed in strength on all our frontiers, the question as to who moved first is really academic in view of the growing tension in East Pakistan where the Awami League guerrillas are extremely active. What is happening in Gen. Yahya Khan’s political programme is his determination to hold bye-elections to fill a large number of empty seats in the national and provincial assemblies despite the unrest in the region. In the second week of December some 78 National Assembly and 105 Provincial Assembly seats have to be voted for with new candidates, and the whole process is to be completed by December 23. Early in the new year, the President promises to convene the assemblies and give them a new constitution drafted by his experts. The National Assembly may propose amendments, provided they do not contravene the integrity or ideology of Pakistan. Three months will be allowed for making changes in the document, all of which will have to have Gen. Yahya Khan’s approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/yahya-khans-elusive-goal-from-an-editorial/article36996505.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s trade with China set to exceed $100 billion in 2021||India’s trade with China is set to cross the $100 billion mark for the first time in 2021, with shipments hitting $90 billion after three quarters, an almost 30% jump from pre-pandemic levels. Data from China’s General Administration of Customs (GAC) showed two-way trade jumped 49% in the first nine months to $90.37 billion. India’s imports from China surged 51.7% to $68.4 billion, while India’s exports rose 42.5% to $21.9 billion. Two-way trade was substantially higher than pre-pandemic levels, with bilateral trade up 29.7% compared to the same period in 2019, with India’s imports up 21.5% and exports to China up 64.5%. India’s biggest exports to China are iron ore, cotton, and other raw material-based commodities. India imports mechanical and electrical machinery in large quantities, while imports of medical supplies have soared in the past two years. Chinese trade officials attributed China’s overall trade performance to the country’s economic recovery as well stronger global demand. The growth in trade with India was among the fastest for China’s major trading partners. While China’s total trade rose 22.7%, that with its biggest trading partners, ASEAN, the EU and the U.S., rose 21.1%, 20.5% and 24.9%, respectively. The GAC said Chinese exports of mechanical and electrical products, as well as medicinal materials, grew robustly. Medicine and medicinal material exports more than doubled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indias-trade-with-china-set-to-exceed-100-billion-in-2021/article36996478.ece
14 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Wipro Q2 net profit rises 19% to Rs. 2,930.7 cr.||IT services provider Wipro Ltd. reported second-quarter consolidated net profit rose 18.9% to Rs. 2,930.7 crore. Revenue increased 30.1% to Rs. 19,760.7 crore. IT services, which contribute more than 95% of Wipro’s total income, rose 29.5% to $2.58 billion for the September quarter, a 6.9% sequential increase. “The Q2 results demonstrate that our business strategy is working well,” said Thierry Delaporte, CEO and MD. “We grew at over 4.5% organic sequential growth for a second quarter in a row, resulting in a 28% YoY growth in the first half of this financial year. “We surpassed the $10 billion milestone of annualized revenue run rate. The majority of our growth is volume-led and the demand environment remains very strong. Our pipeline is one of the highest in recent quarters with many mid and small size deals,’’ he said. “We’ve experienced secular growth across all markets, sectors and businesses,” Mr. Delaporte added. Mindtree net jumps Smaller rival Mindtree reported a 57.2% jump in net profit to Rs. 398.9 crore. Revenue rose 34.3% to Rs. 2,586.2 crore in the quarter. The firm said it had 263 active clients. Its attrition rate stood at 17.7%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wipro-q2-net-profit-rises-19-to-rs-29307-cr/article36996479.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Aluminium industry rings alarm bells over coal shortage||The aluminium industry has sent an SOS to Coal India, demanding the immediate resumption of supplies for survival of the industry that is facing an ‘alarming’ situation following coal shortage. “The current acute coal crunch has created an immensely precarious situation, majorly for the highly power-intensive industries like aluminium wherein coal accounts for about 40% of the production cost,” Aluminium Association of India president Rahul Sharma wrote in a letter to Coal India Ltd. (CIL) CMD Pramod Agrawal.  “Aluminium smelting requires uninterrupted quality power supply for production which can be met only through in-house captive power plants (CPPs) which operate 24/7 and 365 days, and have signed fuel-supply agreement with CIL and its subsidiaries for assured long term coal supply,” he said. The group noted that the recent decision to stop secured supplies and rakes for the non-power sector was detrimental for the industry and would jeopardise sustainability as these continuous process based plants were not designed for ad hoc shut down and start of operations. “Any power outage/failure (2 hours or more) results in freezing of molten aluminium in the pots which will lead to shutting down of plant for at least six months rendering heavy losses and restart expenses, and once restarted will take almost a year to get desired metal purity.” The industry had been brought to a standstill and left with no time to devise a mitigation plan. “The coal stocks of operational plants have depleted to alarmingly low critical stocks of 2-3 days and plants are forced to operate at reduced power generation with huge risk of closure and threat of loss of huge employment and deterioration of MSMEs,” it said, adding the ongoing global aluminium shortage due to supply-demand mismatch was also adding to the woes. The group said import sourcing was completely unviable in this emergency situation to meet coal requirements on account of the exponential rise in global coal prices as well as ocean freight rates, which were at all-time high. The industry group has sought immediate resumption of coal supply for CPPs against secured linkages for economically viable industry operations. It has also sought “rakes allocation on priority for optimum coal materialisation (and) expediting coal linkage/exclusive e-auctions for CPP sub-sector through rail mode at the earliest to provide some relief for the consumers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/aluminium-industry-rings-alarm-bells-over-coal-shortage/article36996482.ece
14 October 2021||MUMBAI,||RIL arm signs pact with Danish firm||Reliance New Energy Solar Ltd. (RNESL), a subsidiary of RIL, and Denmark’s Stiesdal A/S have signed an agreement for the development and manufacture of Stiesdal’s hydrogen electrolysers in India. “The new technology has the potential to deliver significant cost reduction thereby paving the way for rapid commercialisation of affordable green hydrogen,” RIL and Stiesdal said. RNESL would also invest $29 million in NexWafe GmbH. “This will accelerate product development for NexWafe, including completion of the commercial development of NexWafe’s solar photovoltaic products in Freiburg,” NexWafe said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-arm-signs-pact-with-danish-firm/article36996480.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Retails sales near pre-COVID levels with 96 per cent recovery: RAI||Retail sales in September were at 96% of the pre-pandemic levels of September 2019 as the sector shows signs of recovery, Retailers Association of India (RAI) said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/retails-sales-near-pre-covid-levels-with-96-per-cent-recovery-rai/article36996483.ece
14 October 2021||Paris,||Denmark punches Qatar ticket||Joakim Maehle scored in the 53rd minute to send the Danes to Qatar as they build on their surprise run at Euro 2020 this summer when they reached the semifinals. England sputtered as a combative Hungarian side held it to a 1-1 draw while Portugal thrashed Luxembourg.  Sweden stayed two points ahead of Spain in Group B thanks to a 2-0 win against Greece.  The results: Group A: Portugal 5 (Ronaldo 8-pen, 13-pen, 87, Fernandes 18, Joao Palhina 69) bt Luxembourg 0; Serbia 3 (Vlahovic 30-pen, 53, Tadic 83-pen) bt Azerbaijan 1 (Makhmudov 45+2).   Group B: Kosovo 1 (Muriqi 45-pen) lost to Georgia 2 (Okriashvili 11, Davitashvili 82); Sweden 2 (Forsberg 59-pen, Isak 69) bt Greece 0.   Group C: Bulgaria 2 (Nedelev 53, 63) bt Northern Ireland 1 (Washington 35); Lithuania 0 lost to Switzerland 4 (Embolo 31, 45, Steffen 42, Gavranovic 90+4).   Group D: Kazakhstan 0 lost to Finland 2 (Pukki 45, 48); Ukraine 1 (Yarmolenko 15) drew with Bosnia and Herzegovina 1 (Ahmedhodzic 77).   Group F: Denmark 1 (Maehle 53) bt Austria 0; Faroe Islands 0 lost to Scotland 1 (Dykes 86); Israel 2 (Zahavi 28, Dabbur 49) bt Moldova 1 (Nicolaescu 90+5).   Group I: Albania 0 lost to Poland 1 (Swiderski 77); England 1 (Stones 37) dreww with Hungary 1 (Sallai 24-pen); San Marino 0 lost to Andorra 3 (Pujol 10, Moreno 53, Fernandez 89) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/denmark-punches-qatar-ticket/article36996494.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Nervy KKR survives meltdown, enters third IPL final||Kolkata Knight Riders edged out Delhi Capitals by three wickets to book a spot in the IPL final. KKR came out on top in a Qualifier 2 outing which went down to the wire, at Sharjah on Wednesday. Chasing 136, KKR was in a comfortable position, until poor shot selection led to the fall of Nitish Rana, Shubman Gill, Dinesh Karthik and Eoin Morgan in quick succession. DC spinner R. Ashwin came in to bowl with KKR needing seven runs from the last over. Ashwin trapped Shakib Al Hasan leg-before, and in the very next ball, Sunil Narine holed out to long-on. With six runs needed in two balls, Rahul Tripathi smacked a straight maximum to seal the match in KKR's favour. Earlier, KKR openers Venkatesh Iyer (55, 41b, 4x4, 3x6) and Shubman Gill (46, 46b, 1x4, 1x6) put the chase on the right track. While Venkatesh was his usual aggressive self, Gill was happy to play second fiddle. Venkatesh was fearless, walking down the track to smash genuine quick Kagiso Rabada for a huge six. The southpaw took a liking to left-arm spinner Axar Patel, whacking him for two maximums in the mid-wicket region. Venkatesh was lucky to receive a life on 23, when Rabada dropped a caught and bowled chance. When Venkatesh did fall, KKR required just 40 runs in 7.4 overs. Earlier, after choosing to field, KKR made full use of the slow, low pitch to stifle the DC batters. Only DC openers Prithvi Shaw (18, 12b, 2x4, 1x6) and Shikhar Dhawan (36, 39b, 1x4, 2x6) looked comfortable, but the duo could not convert and make it count. Spinner Varun Chakravarthy struck in his very first ball, trapping Shaw on the pads with a flat skidder. Marcus Stoinis, who replaced Tom Curran in the eleven, struggled to get in the groove. Stoinis (18, 23b, 1x4) eventually cracked under pressure, losing his stumps to an attempted slog off pacer Shivam Mavi. Varun took the crucial wicket of Dhawan, who similarly paid the price for trying to accelerate. Captain Rishabh Pant entered with DC desperate for quick runs at 83 for three off 14.1 overs. Pant managed to score a four, but fell to speedster Lockie Ferguson shortly after. Shimron Hetmyer hit Ferguson for two sixes to give DC some much-needed momentum. Shreyas (30 n.o., 27b, 1x4, 1x6) came alive with a six and a four in the 20th over bowled by Mavi. The 15-run final over gave DC some hope, but it was not enough.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/knight-riders-prevail-in-a-tense-finish/article36996817.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Dhoni’s Super Kings, Morgan’s Knight Riders in mouth-watering summit clash||Chennai Super Kings comprehends the art of winning on big occasions. After three straight losses in the league after becoming the first team to qualify for playoffs, CSK ambushed table-topper Delhi Capitals in Qualifier 1 to seal its place in the final. And big players have a sense of occasion. M.S. Dhoni’s delightful match-winning unbeaten cameo that sunk DC would have instilled CSK with immense belief. And CSK will be up against a resurgent Kolkata Knight Riders in the IPL summit clash at Dubai on Friday. Captivating duel It should also be a captivating duel between two of the best captains in the competition, Dhoni and Eoin Morgan. The England captain might be short of runs but is smart on the field. KKR, turbo-charged after the inclusion of dashing opener Venkatesh Iyer, can dish out intelligent, winning cricket. It has seemed a different unit in the UAE, with Venkatesh and Shubman Gill firing at the top of the order. Lockie Ferguson and Shivam Mavi have delivered thunderbolts and the spinners, the versatile Sunil Narine — he turned games with the bat as well — and the skilful Varun Chakravarthy, battling a knee injury, are tying down the opposition. Star all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan — the injury to the explosive Andre Russell has not hurt the side — and the intrepid Dinesh Karthik and the unsung Rahul Tripathi can swing games. The ambience in CSK encourages cricketers to express themselves. Ask Ambati Rayudu, such a dangerous customer with the willow. Opener Ruturaj Gaikwad, with his footwork, balance, and timing, has delighted. He and Faf du Plessis have formed a formidable opening pair with the South African innovating and creating scoring opportunities.  It is here Robin Uthappa’s return to form at No. 3 — he is such a sweet timer of the ball — becomes crucial. It provides CSK with a solid base. Then there is Moeen Ali who can scatter the field with his free-spirited left-handed strokeplay, apart from sending down useful off-spin. CSK is not short of multi-dimensional cricketers. Ravindra Jadeja’s tight left-arm spin and a blaze of left-handed strokes make him a game-changer. Dwayne Bravo can give the ball a thump and also send down canny deliveries, including yorkers, with pace variations. Deepak Chahar’s swing and Josh Hazlewood’s wicket-to-wicket bowling and subtle movement can cause dents. The final should be a mouth-watering match-up between two sides which last met in the summit clash way back in 2012, with KKR triumphing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhonis-super-kings-morgans-knight-riders-in-mouth-watering-summit-clash/article36996842.ece
14 October 2021||Basseterre [Saint Kitts],||Gayle hits back at Ambrose||Chris Gayle said that he had ‘no respect’ for Curtly Ambrose after the former legendary fast bowler said that the batter shouldn’t be an automatic pick in the starting XI for the team in the upcoming T20 World Cup, which begins on Sunday. “I am speaking about Curtly Ambrose. I am singling out Curtly Ambrose, one of your own. I highly respected him when I came into the West Indies team,” Gayle told The Island Tea Morning Show , a radio station in St. Kitts, on Tuesday. “When I just joined the team, I looked up to this man. But I am now speaking from my heart. I don’t know what, since he retired, what he had against Chris Gayle. I can tell you personally, and you can let him know that Chris Gayle, the Universe Boss, have no respect for Curtly Ambrose whatsoever,” he added. Gayle, who was part of the 2012 and 2016 World Cup-winning teams, added that if former West Indies players “continue to be negative” and not support the team, then the ‘Universe Boss is going to be disrespectful, disrespectful verbally in their face’. “I am finished with Curtly Ambrose,” Gayle said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gayle-hits-back-at-ambrose/article36996822.ece
14 October 2021||Sharjah,||The Narine conundrum||West Indies skipper Kieron Pollard says they will resist the temptation of adding Sunil Narine to the T20 World Cup squad despite the spinner’s form in the IPL. Friday deadline The ICC deadline to make changes in the squad ends on Friday. “If I add my two cents or my words on how his non-inclusion came about, then it could be spun - just like how he’s bowling on these Sharjah wickets - in all different directions,” said Pollard. “Let’s deal with the 15 guys we have here at this moment in time, which is more important, and see if we can rally around these guys and see if we can defend our title.” “I have no comments on that. Enough has been said on that. I think persons have explained the reason of his non-inclusion at this point in time.” Pollard, though, was keen to have fast bowling all-rounder Andre Russell in their squad. “We haven’t had the opportunity to see him. We’ve gotten reports as to what he has done. I wouldn’t want to get into trying to say what he can or can’t do at this point in time. “He’s a critical person for our team and we’d love for him to be 100%, but we have to deal with what’s in front of us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-narine-conundrum/article36996825.ece
14 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Shardul replaces Axar in India’s T20 World Cup squad||Pacer Shardul Thakur has been gone from a standby player to the main Indian squad, replacing left-arm spinner Axar Patel, for the T20 World Cup less than two weeks ahead of India’s campaign-opener versus Pakistan. The national selection committee has also announced a list of eight cricketers who will “assist Team India in their preparations”, according to a statement issued on Wednesday. “The All-India Senior Selection Committee after a discussion with the team management has added Shardul Thakur to the main squad” stated the release. “All-rounder Axar Patel, who was part of the 15-member squad, will now be on the list of standby players.” Pace and spin balance Wednesday’s announcement put an end to recent speculation about including certain players in India’s squad based on their Indian Premier League form. More importantly, the announcement also attempted to strike the balance between and pacers and spinners in India’s armoury for the World Cup. The squad of 15 announced last month included just three pacers, including injury-prone Bhuvneshwar Kumar, and a whopping five spinners. Despite Axar having had an impressive outing in every format in 2021, with Ravindra Jadeja being a certainty in the XI as the primary all-rounder, the selectors were forced to take the decision. In fact, an insider admitted that including Axar in place of Shardul, who can be handy with the willow as well, wasn’t a unanimous decision and came “as a surprise to some of the seniors in the squad”. “Now that parity is restored, the balance of the squad looks much better, especially with Shardul’s consistency of striking with the ball even in middle overs,” he added. Non-committal Despite chief selector Chetan Sharma stressing last month on Hardik Pandya “will bowl in every match”, The Hindu understands that Pandya’s medical report remains non-committal about his availability for bowling. It is learnt that, after discussing with the team management, the selectors decided to persist with Pandya “since everyone feels he is the best finisher with the bat”. Venkatesh Iyer, the Madhya Pradesh all-rounder who has impressed during the second leg of the IPL in United Arab Emirates, is a part of the eight-member support group which will primarily work as net bowlers ahead of the T20 World Cup. The others are pacers Avesh Khan, Umran Malik, Harshal Patel and Lukman Meriwala, along with spinners Karn Sharma, Shahbaz Ahmed and K. Gowtham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shardul-replaces-axar-in-squad/article36996812.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Billion Cheers Jersey unveiled||Claiming to be inspired by the fans, the ‘Billions Cheers Jersey’, the Indian cricket team’s jersey for the T20 World Cup, was unveiled by MPL Sports on Wednesday. The jersey comes in shades of Prussian blue and royal blue. “This is the first time in the history of Indian cricket that fans have been memorialised on a jersey. It carries their chants and cheers from iconic past matches, transformed into unique soundwave patterns,” stated a release from MPL Sports, the official kit sponsor of the Indian men’s, women’s, and under-19 teams. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly said, “The Indian cricket team enjoys support not just in India but around the world, and there’s no better way to celebrate their excitement and energy than through this jersey.” Over 10 variations, including a player edition jersey and skipper Virat Kohli’s signature number 18 jersey, have been launched. The jersey will be available in stores for Rs. 1,799.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/billion-cheers-jersey/article36996824.ece
14 October 2021||Dubai,||Stead plays down Williamson’s injury concerns||New Zealand head coach Gary Stead is confident that captain Kane Williamson, who hurt his hamstring during the IPL last week, will be fit in time for the team’s opening T20 World Cup fixture against Pakistan on October 26. Williamson was left out of Sunrisers Hyderabad’s playing XI for its final match, but Stead played down concerns around the chances of the injury hurting Williamson’s participation in the marquee event. “Kane’s fine,” Stead told New Zealand Cricket. “He’s just had a very, very slight hamstring twinge, but he’s getting through everything at the moment, he’s feeling good. “They (Sunrisers Hyderabad) were out of the competition as well, so I’m not sure if that was something he had to play in.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stead-plays-down-williamsons-injury-concerns/article36996827.ece
14 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Quraishi returns a five-wicket haul as Gemini Friends posts win||Abdul Ela Quraishi’s spell of five for 13 helped Gemini Friends score a 81-run win over Secunderabad Nawabs by VJD method in a rain-affected match of the M.A.K. Pataudi Tiger Cup T20 cricket tournament, organised by HCA on Wednesday.  The scores:   Ensconse 91 in 17.2 overs (Md. Junaid Ali 32, E. Vidyananda Reddy 3/20, Shubham Sharma 3/5) lost to Jai Hanuman 95/1 in 9.5 overs (A. Prateek Reddy 58).   Zinda Tilismath 140/8 in 20 overs (M. Radhakrishna 38) lost to R. Dayanand 124/7 in 15.4 overs (Anirudh Reddy 33) by VJD method.   Gemini Friends 163/4 in 20 overs (Sai Pragnay Reddy 50, Alankrit Agarwal 51) bt Sec’bad Nawabs 72/9 in 16.4 overs (Abdul Ela Quraishi 5/13) by VJD method.   SBI 191/7 in 20 overs (Anirudh Singh 36, K.S.K. Chaitanya 81) bt Apex 135/9 in 20 overs (Syed Firasuddin 56, Harshit Sudini 31).   Sri Chakra 150/9 in 20 overs (R. Vishal Singh 35, Anirudh Thakur 59, M. Venkat Naidu 4/26) bt Rohit XI 96/4 in 15 overs (Balaji 53, Kush Agarwal 32 n.o.) by VJD method.   Combined Dist. 82 in 19.3 overs (Pradeep 35, D. Sragvi 3/10) lost to Cambridge XI 86/2 12.2 overs (Gopinath Reddy 59).   Sporting XI 161/5 in 20 overs (Asif Mansoori 47) vs Income Tax. No result.   Concorde 133/8 in 20 overs (Shaik Sameer 57, Shaik Ilyas Zubaidi 53, Mohd. Omer 3/36) lost to India Cements 134/3 in 15.5 overs (Shreyas Vala 59).   Jai Bhagwathi 131/7 in 20 overs (Yash Satwalekar 63) lost to Central Excise 137/5 in 19.1 overs (K. Sumanth 50, M. Pratyush Kumar 33 n.o.).   EMCC 179/2 in 20 overs (Mohul Bhowmick 55, Shaik Sohail 52, Ajay Dev Goud 37) bt UBI 83 in 13.2 overs (Ajay Dev Goud 4/7).   BDL 155/5 in 20 overs (K. Hima Teja 88) lost to Sportive 159/8 in 19.3 overs (N. Sandeep Goud 56, K. Hima Teja 3/40).   Apex 130/6 in 20 overs (Anirudh Yadav 43, M. Siddharath Nayak 34) lost to Ensconse 133/5 in 17.5 overs (Md. Junaid Ali 34, P. Shiva 31, Owais Abdul Wahed 33).   Jai Hanuman 170/7 in 20 overs (N. Anirudh Reddy 58, K. Rohith Rayudu 52, A. Prateek Reddy 35, Raja Shekar 3/21) bt Balaaji 170/8 in 20 overs (M. Siddharath Naidu 60, T. Hrishikesh 51, Y. Sharavan Kumar 3/30, Shubham Sharma 3/24) in super over.   Evergreen 191/7 in 20 overs (Rahul Buddi 70, Chandan Sahani 53, G. Aniketh Reddy 42) bt Continental 121/8 in 20 overs.   Charminar 99 in 18 overs (S. Nikhil 3/17, Hunar Jain 3/16) lost to Mahmood 100/8 in 16.4 overs (Mohd. Omer Rizwan 4 /17).   MP Colts 120/9 in 20 overs (Mickil Jaiswal 57, M.A. Adnan 3 /27) lost to Deccan Chronicle 124/1 in 17.2 overs (Yash Kapadia 52 n.o., A. Varun Goud 51 n.o.).   Hyderabad Bottling 103 in 17.5 overs lost to Budding Stars 104/3 in 14.3 overs (P. Nitish Reddy 43, Bhavesh Seth 45).   Khalsa 144 in 19.3 overs (Faisal Alvi 82, Aravind 3/14) bt Gouds XI 117 in 17.4 overs (Faisal Alvi 3/3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/quraishi-returns-a-five-wicket-haul-as-gemini-friends-posts-win/article36997125.ece
14 October 2021||Geneva,||UEFA set to give clubs more say in deals||UEFA is preparing to give Europe’s top soccer clubs the greater control they have wanted for Champions League marketing rights and deals — an issue that helped drive some to launch the breakaway Super League. UEFA said in a statement released late on Tuesday it “started the search for a marketing and sales partner” to complete deals within an agreed strategy for three seasons of club competitions from 2024-27. The clubs’ increasing demands were a barrier in March to completing talks between UEFA and then-leaders of the European Club Association about new formats for competitions taking effect in 2024. The Champions League will add four entries in a 36-team single standings table where each is guaranteed 10 games instead of six because influential clubs wanted more money and more games against each other. During the negotiations, 12 ECA member clubs were also plotting the Super League, which was launched in April and collapsed within 48 hours. Real Madrid, Barcelona and Juventus have refused to renounce the project while the other nine founding teams rejoined the 240-member ECA. Still, the greater commercial control those rebel clubs fought for is likely to be granted by UEFA to the ECA, which is now led by Paris Saint-Germain president Nasser al-Khelaifi. Al-Khelaifi told ECA members last month in Geneva there was agreement with UEFA for a joint venture “to better optimise revenues from club competitions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uefa-set-to-give-clubs-more-say-in-deals/article36996484.ece
14 October 2021||KOCHI,||Is India’s domination of women’s relay at Asiad in danger?||The Chinese virtually taking over this year’s Asian women’s quartermile rankings — they now occupy seven of the top 10 rungs, including the top four — should be a big worry for Indians. Heading the chart is 29-year-old Huizhen Yang, 2015 Asian 400m champion, who clocked 51.63s for the National Games gold in Xi’an last month. Behind her are 19-year-old Guojuan Liu (51.94s) and Chunyu Wang (52s), who was also fifth in the 800m at the Tokyo Olympics, and Zenghuan Tong (52.17s). Never before has the Asian list looked so crowded with Chinese presence in the last 10 years. India had five athletes in the Asian top 10 in 2019 (China had none then) and 2018 (China two) but has just two this year: the country’s fastest quartermiler this year Priya H. Mohan (52.77s) in fifth place and Dandi Jyothika (53.05) in ninth. 2020 has been pulled out from the comparative study as it was an inactive year. The Chinese domination of the quartermile is an indication that India’s chances of extending its five-gold streak in the women’s 4x400m relay, which it had won at every Asian Games since 2002, could be in big trouble in the next year’s Asiad which China will host at Hangzhou in September.  “Since 2020 was a COVID year, our athletes did not have much time to train properly. Girls like Vismaya and others could not do well but they will come back. We need not get nervous, we still have time,” Tintu Luka, the star of the relay team that won gold at Incheon 2014 with the Asian Games record that the country still holds, told The Hindu on Wednesday. “But it won’t be easy, we will have to work harder this time.” Two 18-year-olds, Priya and Summy (53.57), who helped India to the mixed relay bronze and women’s relay fourth place at the Nairobi under-20 Worlds in August, showed there are youngsters knocking at the relay team’s doors. The recent National meets throwing up two more — AP’s Dandi Jyothika (53.05s, second fastest Indian this year) at under-23 Nationals and UP’s 16-year-old Rupal Chaudhary (53.73) in the 400m Nationals in Delhi on Tuesday — proved that there is abundant talent. Incidentally, three of them were faster this year than the three who went to the Olympics with the mixed relay team. With the Indian women’s relay team failing to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics, it will be interesting to see what strategy the Athletics Federation of India adopts to bring the young talent into the national team for next year’s Asian Games, Commonwealth Games, under-20 Worlds and Worlds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/is-indias-domination-of-womens-relay-at-asiad-in-danger/article36996976.ece
14 October 2021||Aarhus (Denmark),||Indian men reach Thomas Cup quarterfinals||The Indian men’s badminton team hammered Tahiti 5-0 to enter the quarterfinals of the Thomas Cup for the first time since 2010, but the women’s team suffered a crushing 5-0 defeat against a strong Thailand in its last group match here. It was the first defeat for Indian women after beating Spain (3-2) and Scotland (4-1). The women’s team has already reached the quarterfinals. The men’s team, on Tuesday, recorded its second straight 5-0 win, having beaten the Netherlands on Sunday. In the Uber Cup, Malvika Bansod lost the opening singles 21-15, 21-11 to Pornpawee Chochowong. Ashwini Ponappa and Sikki N. Reddy then went down fighting 21-16, 21-12 to Jongkolphan Kititharakul and Rawinda Prajongjai. Falling short For India to stay alive, it was imperative for Aditi Bhatt to win the next singles match. She fought her heart out, but lost 21-16, 18-21, 21-15 to Busanan Ongbamrungphan in a match that lasted 59 minutes. Treesa Jolly and Gayatri Gopichand then fought hard before losing 21-17, 21-16 to Puttita Supajirakul and Sapsiree Taerattanachai. Tasnim Mir took the court with an aim to avoid a whitewash, but fell 21-19, 21-15 to Supaninda Katethong. Tasnim had a good chance to win the first game as she was leading 17-14 but lost points in a jiffy to let slip advantage. Top-two finish Meanwhile, Tuesday’s win over Tahiti ensured that Indian men’s team will finish in top two in the four-team Group C. India will take on traditional powerhouse China in the final match on Thursday. B. Sai Praneeth began the proceedings with a 21-5, 21-6 win over Louis Beaubois in just 23 minutes in the opening singles. Sameer Verma made it 2-0 with an easy 21-12, 21-12 victory over Remi Rossi.. Kiran George sealed the tie, beating Elias Maublanc 21-4, 21-2. In the inconsequential doubles matches, the pair of Krishna Prasad and Vishnu Vardhan achieved a 21-8, 21-7 win in 21 minutes before Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty beat Maublanc and Heiva Yvonet 21-5, 21-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-men-reach-thomas-cup-quarterfinals/article36996491.ece
14 October 2021||Male (Maldives),||India beats Maldives, roars into final||When India desperately needed it captain Sunil Chhetri stepped up and delivered. Two goals from him and one from Manvir Singh ensured that India defeated defending Maldives 3-1 in its must-win game and entered the final of the SAFF Championships football. In the title decider it will take on first-time finalist Nepal and with Wednesday’s thumping result will be confident of adding to its tally of seven title wins in this competition — the most by any team. Chhetri’s brace means that the Indian talisman has overtaken Brazilian legend Pele on the all-time list of international goal-scorers with 79 and is just one behind Argentine icon Lionel Messi. India went ahead through Manvir Singh’s 33rd minute strike but the lead lasted only till just before the break when Ali Ashfaq converted from the spot for the hosts. The second half though belonged to Chhetri who struck his brace in the space of nine minutes to seal the deal for India. Even a stoppage time red card for Subhashish Bose could not take the sheen away from India’s performance, one which would relieve some of the pressure on coach Igor Stimac.   The result: India 3 (Manvir 33, Chhetri 62, 71) bt Maldives 1 (Ashfaq 45-pen) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-beats-maldives-roars-into-final/article36996831.ece
14 October 2021||Nairobi,||Kenyan runner Tirop found dead at her home||Kenyan runner Agnes Tirop, a two-time world championships bronze medalist, has been found dead at her home, the country’s track federation said on Wednesday. Athletics Kenya said it was still working to uncover details of the incident but it had been informed of Tirop’s death. She was 25. The track federation said she was allegedly stabbed by her husband. Tirop won bronze medals in the women’s 10,000 meters at the 2017 and 2019 World Championships and finished fourth in the 5,000 metres at the Tokyo Olympics. Last month, Tirop broke the world record in the women-only 10-kilometer road race. Tirop was found dead at her home in Iten in western Kenya, a town renowned as a training base for distance runners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kenyan-runner-tirop-found-dead/article36996856.ece
14 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dahiya makes the quarterfinals||Second seed Aman Dahiya played a sharp and explosive game to beat Ajay Malik 6-4, 6-4 in the pre-quarterfinals of the National junior tennis championship on Wednesday. Having lost to 18-year-old Malik in three sets in the ITF junior tournament at the same venue in January, the 17-year-old Dahiya was raring to even things out. Malik was a little erratic against Dahiya even as the contest was hotting up in the second set. In the quarterfinals, Dahiya, who trains at the Altevol academy in Ahmedabad, will play under-16 champion Daksh Prasad, who was stretched to three sets by eighth seed Parv Nage.  Top seed Nishant Dabas, Denim Yadav, Karan Singh, Aayush Bhat and Sandesh Kurale sailed into the quarterfinals. Rushil Khosla outplayed seventh seed Aditya Nandal after being pushed to the tie-break in the first set. In the girls’ event, Anjali Rathi rallied hard despite the energy sapping conditions to beat seventh seed Tejasvi Dabas 2-6, 6-3, 6-0. She will play third seed Sanjana Sirimalla, who was also taken to three sets by Madhurima Sawant. Ruma Gaikaiwari overcame a slow start to beat seventh seed Riya Uboveja to set up a quarterfinals against second seed Suhitha Maruri. Hitakamya Singh Narwal recovered from the brink to beat Renee Singh 3-6, 7-6(5), 6-3, and earned a quarterfinal against top seed Reshma Maruri.  The results (pre-quarterfinals): U-18: Boys: Nishant Dabas bt Dhruv Hirpara 6-2, 6-0; Aayush Bhat bt Ananth Manimuni 6-4, 6-4; Karan Singh bt Shivam Kadam 6-2, 6-4; Rushil Khosla bt Aditya Nandal 7-6(5), 6-0; Sandesh Kurale bt Suresh Keerthivassan 6-2, 6-2; Denim Yadav bt Saheb Sodhi 6-2, 6-4; Daksh Prasad bt Parv Nage 4-6, 7-6(1), 6-4; Amand Dahiya bt Ajay Malik 6-4, 6-4.   Girls: Reshma Maruri bt Lakshanya Vishwanath 6-1, 6-1; Hitakamya Singh Narwal bt Renee Singh 3-6, 7-6(5), 6-3; Shruti Ahlawat bt Radhika Mahajan 6-1, 6-0; Lakshmi Prabha bt Tamanna Takoria 6-4, 6-1; Anjali Rathi bt Tejasvi Dabas 2-6, 6-3, 6-0; Sanjana Sirimalla bt Madhurima Sawant 6-1, 2-6, 6-1; Ruma Gaikaiwari bt Riya Uboveja 3-6, 6-4, 6-3; Suhitha Maruri bt Nandini Dixit 6-1, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dahiya-makes-the-quarterfinals/article36997047.ece
14 October 2021||SAO PAULO,||Brazil teammates rally around Neymar||Neymar's Brazil teammates are still hoping the 29-year-old striker will remain with the national team after next year's World Cup, despite saying the tournament in Qatar could be his last. Neymar said in an interview aired this week that he doesn't know whether he will be able “mentally to endure” more international football after the 2022 World Cup and that he's approaching the tournament as if it is his last. His teammates rallied around the PSG player on Tuesday, saying they understand the pressure Neymar faces as Brazil's biggest star. “We want him to stay with us for many years," midfielder Fred said. “But it is hard to talk about someone else’s head. Sometimes people face a huge pressure. Not only Neymar, but (Lionel) Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo. We want him here, he is one of the best we have ever seen in Brazil.” Defender Thiago Silva, a close friend of Neymar's, said at a news conference that the pressure on Neymar is unfair when compared to other players. The striker left the pitch after Sunday's 0-0 draw at Colombia without speaking to journalists after a sub-par performance. “We forget a lot of what he has done on the pitch and focus on what is not important. He puts a lot of pressure on himself,” Silva said before Brazil’s World Cup qualifier against Uruguay on Thursday. “I hope he doesn't lose his joy, he is a super special kid. When he is happy and doing what he likes he can always deliver and play as well as he has always played. It is better for team.” Boosting morale Silva, who played his 100th match for Brazil against Colombia, also used his Instagram account to boost his friend’s morale. “If you ever need someone to be strong for you, know that I will always be here! The Silva family loves you,” the defender said in a post that included a picture of himself hugging Neymar. Everton striker Richarlison, who is out with a knee injury, tweeted a picture of a banner carried by fans in Manaus, where Brazil will play on Thursday, that read: “Neymar, if you played in heaven I would die to watch you." Neymar has had a disappointing start to the club season after a failed attempt to win his first Copa America title with the national team in July. The Seleção lost the final to Argentina. The striker missed 17 passes against Colombia, looked slow on the pitch and rarely took on defenders during the game in Barranquilla. Local media suggested he should be rested in the next international window in November. Neymar's previous two World Cups were forgettable. In 2014 in Brazil, he injured his back in the quarterfinals against Colombia and missed the shocking 7-1 semifinal loss to Germany. In 2018 in Russia, he was disappointing in the quarterfinal loss to Belgium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/teammates-back-neymar/article36997045.ece
14 October 2021||NEW YORK,||Nets sideline Irving||The Brooklyn Nets decided on Tuesday to bar star guard Kyrie Irving from practice as well as games in the NBA season that starts next week because he refuses to be vaccinated against COVID-19. “Given the evolving nature of the situation and after thorough deliberation, we have decided Kyrie Irving will not play or practice with the team until he is eligible to be a full participant,” Nets general manager Sean Marks said. “Kyrie has made a personal choice, and we respect his individual right to choose. “His choice restricts his ability to be a full-time member, and we will not permit any member to participate part-time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nets-sideline-irving/article36997280.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||AIFF names probables for U-23 AFC Qualifiers||The All India Football Federation (AIFF) on Wednesday announced 28 probables, including Dheeraj Singh Moirangthem and Aniket Jadhav, for the national team’s qualifying campaign for next year’s AFC U-23 Asian Cup. India has been drawn alongside Oman, Kyrgyz Republic, and hosts UAE in Group-E of the Qualifiers, with the matches set to be played between October 25 to 31 at the Fujairah Stadium in Fujairah, UAE.  The Blue Colts are set to assemble in Bengaluru on October 17, before leaving for the UAE on October 20 for their matches.  The probables:   Goalkeepers: Dheeraj Singh Moirangthem, Prabhsukhan Singh Gill, Prateek Kumar Singh and Mohammad Nawaz; Defenders: Narender Gahlot, Bikash Yumnam, Alex Saji, Hormipam Ruivah, Halen Nongtdu, Asish Rai, Sumit Rathi, Akash Mishra and Sahil Panwar.   Midfielders: S.K. Sahil, Suresh Singh, Amarjit Singh, Lalengmawia, Jeakson Singh, Deepak Tangri, Rahul K.P., Komal Thatal, Nikhil Raj, Bryce Miranda and Princeton Rebello; Forwards: Vikram Partap Singh, Rahim Ali, Rohit Danu, Aniket Jadhav .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aiff-names-probables-for-u-23-afc-qualifiers/article36996492.ece
14 October 2021||London,||Root eyes maiden IPL stint next year: Report||England Test captain Joe Root is hoping to make his debut in the Indian Premier League next year and will enter his name in the 2022 mega auction, a report said on Wednesday. Considered one of the modern greats of the game, Root is yet to play in the IPL after going unsold in the 2018 auction but all that can change in next year’s tournament, which is set to be expanded with the inclusion of two new teams. Another 16 slots According to a report in Daily telegraph , Root is looking to “enter the auction next year in an attempt to play in the competition for the first time and also boost his T20 World Cup hopes.” The BCCI is planning to add two teams for the 2022 edition, meaning another 16 slots will be up for grabs for the overseas players in the mega auction, which will see almost all players go under the hammer. Root had expressed his desire to play in the IPL last year even though he had decided against entering the auction. “At some point of my career, I am desperate to be a part of an IPL season. Hopefully, a few more beyond that as well. It is something I would love to experience, and love to be a part of,” he had said. “With the amount of international cricket, and Test cricket in particular this year, didn’t feel like it was the right time (to enter the auction). “I didn’t feel like I could throw all my energy into it, which it deserves. And, I don’t think it would set me up and set English cricket up best with what’s to come.” The 30-year-old, who last played a T20I for England in May 2019, isn’t part of England’s T20 World cup squad. He is preparing to lead the side at the upcoming Ashes series in Australia. Root averages 35.7 in T20 but has been missing in action in the shortest format primarily due to workload management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/root-eyes-maiden-ipl-stint-next-year-report/article36996814.ece
14 October 2021||LONDON,||England players could take the knee: Jordan||England fast bowler Chris Jordan says his teammates are considering taking a knee before the start of the T20 World Cup opener against the West Indies, who have confirmed to repeat the anti-racism gesture on October 23. The last time England players took a knee was in August 2020 when they clashed with Ireland in an ODI and their decision to stop doing it was criticised by West Indies great Michael Holding. However, the England players did wear T-shirts sporting messages against any act of racism, religious intolerance, sexism and other anti-discrimination slogans during the Test series against New Zealand. Jordan says they are considering taking a knee at this month’s showpiece event. “We’ll discuss it and if people feel strongly about, we’ll definitely do it. On the flipside, if we don’t, then we won’t,” Jordan was quoted as saying by The Telegraph . West Indies T20 skipper Kieron Pollard confirmed his side plans to take the knee in every match, starting with the tournament-opener against England. “From my knowledge, I think it’s something that we’re gonna continue because it’s something that we strongly believe in, as a team,” Pollard said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-players-could-take-the-knee-jordan/article36996819.ece
14 October 2021||INDIAN WELLS,||Bopanna-Shapovalov combine in quarterfinals||Rohan Bopanna and Denis Shapovalov beat Germany’s Jan-Lennard Struff and Alexander Zverev 7-5, 6-3 to make the quarterfinals of the $9,146,125 ATP tennis tournament here.  The results: $ 9,146,125 ATP, Indian Wells: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Denis Shapovalov (Can) & Rohan Bopanna bt Jan-Lennard Struff & Alexander Zverev (Ger) 7-5, 6-3.   €44,820 Challenger, Villena, Spain: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Purav Raja bt Andre Goransson (Swe) & Szymon Walkow (Pol) 6-4, 6-2; Borna Gojo (Cro) & Kacper Zuk (Pol) bt Sriram Balaji & Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-4, 6-3.   €44,820 Challenger, Naples, Italy: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Jay Clarke (GBr) & Arjun Kadhe bt Mats Hermans & Glenn Smits (Ned) 6-3, 7-6(6).   $15,000 ITF men, Platja D’Aro, Spain: First round: Manish Sureshkumar bt Ramos Amoros (Pol) 6-2, 7-5.   $15,000 ITF men, Naples, USA: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Michael Redlicki (USA) & Ricardo Rodriguez (Ven) bt Dennis Novikov (US) & Sathi Reddy Chirala 6-1, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, Doha: First round: Saketh Myneni bt Terence Atmane (Fra) 6-3, 6-4. Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Patrik Niklas-Salminen (Fin) & Myneni bt Boris Butulija (Srb) & Essa Qabazard (Kuw) 6-1, 6-2; Issa Alharrasi (Qat) & Abdulhamid Mubarak (Kuw) bt Mousa Shanan Zayed (Qat) & Shahbaaz Khan 6-3, 6-1; Hanwen Li (Chn) & Beibit Zhukayev (Kaz) bt Dev Javia & Digvijay Pratap Singh 6-4, 3-6, [10-7].   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir: First round: Niki Poonacha bt Mathys Erhard (Fra) 6-4, 6-2. Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Josef Southcombe (GBr) & Poonacha bt Preston Connor (Irl) & Vivien Versier (Fra) 6-3, 2-6, [10-5].   $25,000 ITF women, Lagos, Portugal: First round: Isabella Shinikova (Bul) bt Riya Bhatia 6-2, 6-0. Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Miriam Kolodziejova & Jesika Maleckova (Cze) bt Himari Sato (Jpn) & Sathwika Sama 6-3, 6-1; Francisca Jorge & Matilde Jorge (Por) bt Ines Murta (Por) & Vasanti Shinde 6-2, 1-6, [10-8]; Riya & Prarthana Thombare bt Luana Plazaaraujo (Bra) & Milla Sequeira (Sui) 6-2, 6-0.   $15,000 ITF women, Sharm El Sheikh: First round: Ashmitha Easwaramurthi bt Zhao Xichen (Chn) 6-4, 7-6(3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-shapovalov-combine-in-quarterfinals/article36996858.ece
14 October 2021||Melbourne,||Eddings resigns as CA chairman||Earl Eddings on Wednesday stepped down as Cricket Australia chairman after losing support from several states and Richard Freudenstein was given the role of interim chief ahead of the sports body’s AGM on Thursday. The development comes less than a month after Eddings was unanimously endorsed by the CA Board to serve a second term. Eddings came into the picture when David Peever resigned in the wake of CA’s cultural review following the ball-tampering episode at Cape Town in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eddings-resigns-as-ca-chairman/article36996810.ece
14 October 2021||New Delhi,||Deadline extended for buying tender document||The BCCI on Wednesday extended the deadline for purchasing the tender document for the new Indian Premier League (IPL) teams by another 10 days till Oct. 20 and reliable sources said that the two new franchisees would not cost less than Rs. 3500 crore each. The Governing Council of the IPL had issued the ‘Invitation to Tender’ (ITT) document on payment of the non-refundable tender fee of Rs. 10 lakh on August 31. It had earlier extended the date till Oct. 10. New date “Pursuant to requests from various interested parties, BCCI has now decided to further extend the date for purchasing the ITT document till October 20, 2021,” a BCCI release said. The BCCI plans to add two teams for the 2022 edition and it is expected that they could be based in Ahmedabad, Lucknow or Pune. Showing interest  It has been learnt that major business houses such as Kotak Group, Aurobindo Pharma, Torrent Pharma, RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group, Birla Group and Adani Group are interested in joining the IPL bandwagon, which is an eight-team affair as of now. The BCCI is hoping to earn a minimum Rs. 7000 crore though the base price for each team has been set at Rs. 2000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deadline-extended-for-buying-tender-document/article36996820.ece
14 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Bengaluru United fails to make the cut||Madan Maharaj and Rajasthan United FC, who played out a 1-1 draw at the Bangalore Football Stadium on Wednesday, progressed from Group-A to the final round robin league of the I-League qualifiers. FC Bengaluru United fell out of the reckoning following a 0-2 defeat to Ryntih Sports & Cultural Club. While Madan Maharaj and Rajasthan United finished on five points each, FCBU finished last with two points from three games.  The results: Ryntih Sports & Cultural Club 2 (Sheen Stevenson Sohktung 29, Dawanchwa Carlos Challam 77) bt FC Bengaluru United 0; Madan Maharaj FC 1 (Jiten Murmu 12) drew with Rajasthan United FC 1 (Raja Musharaf 90+4) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengaluru-united-fails-to-make-the-cut/article36996485.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Hussey lauds Venkatesh’s knock||Kolkata Knight Riders mentor David Hussey was all praise for Venkatesh Iyer’s knock which laid the foundation for his side to reach a third IPL final. “We have found a player in Venkatesh Iyer, who is not only classy but a wonderful person and teamman. I thought he struck the ball superbly and from ball one. Some of the big sixes he hit today changed the tempo of the game and got us into a winning position,” said Hussey. “The opening partnership was class personified and they [Venkatesh and Gill] complement each other well. If one player is going, the other one sits back and gives the strike. So we have found a nice opening partnership and hopefully, it continues for one more game,” added the former Australian player. Hussey revealed that Andre Russell, who has missed the last few games due to a hamstring injury, was back to bowling in the nets and that he could be available for the final. Meanwhile, Delhi Capitals coach Ricky Ponting felt this was the first game in the tournament in which his side was outplayed and the lack of runs in the PowerPlay, combined with KKR’s quick start, made the difference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hussey-lauds-venkateshs-knock/article36996843.ece
14 October 2021||KOCHI,||State women’s football in Kochi||The 23rd Kerala State senior inter-district women’s football championship will be held at the Maharaja’s Stadium here from October 25 to 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-womens-football-in-kochi/article36997225.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Master of the||Anupam Tripathi is starry-eyed as he talks about the smash hit Korean show Squid Game, which has propelled him into the limelight. “The love from people around the world hasn’t stopped,” says Anupam, in a virtual conversation from Seoul. The Delhi-born actor plays Contestant 199 Ali Abdul, an undocumented migrant worker from Pakistan who joins 455 other debt-ridden contestants as they participate in a series of children’s games with a deadly twist... all for a whopping cash prize. Amidst all the gore and betrayal in Squid Game , Anupam’s Ali stands out, an endearing character that the Internet has collectively chosen to root for. Casting an actor to play Ali was something that had the show’s director Hwang Dong-hyuk worried and in a Netflix interview following the show’s release, he said that Anupam Tripathi appeared ‘out of the blue’. “He was fluent in Korean and he could act. His emotional acting was amazing,” Dong-Hyuk recalled. Anupam landed the role after multiple rounds of auditions and says that it was then that he realised how different playing Ali was going to be compared to his previous on-screen appearances. “I began to think about the similarities as well as differences Ali and I shared. Ali was a healthy guy and needed to look like someone who had power to compete and do well in the games. For that, I had to work hard on my physique and gain six kilos,” recalls the actor, who has lived in South Korea for the last 11 years. Born and raised in Delhi, Anupam made his way to South Korea after bagging a scholarship to study acting. Anupam says he relied on articles and documentaries to learn more about migrant workers in South Korea and across the world. “These are very real things happening across the world. I kept filling my mind by meeting people, reading about them and watching documentaries to play Ali on screen,” he says. Being fluent in Korean meant that Anupam had to work on his dialogue delivery, given that the character he was playing had probably been in South Korea for less than a year. “It was hard to go back and undo things,” he says, with a laugh. “I sought out friends from abroad who had only recently come to South Korea to converse with them.” On the show, Ali is introduced in the middle of the terrifying red-light green-light game as he heroically saves fellow contestant Seong Gi-Hun (Lee Jung-Jae) from elimination. “I remember Jung-Jae asking me to be free and express myself however I wished to,” he says. It is, however, Anupam’s scenes with another contestant, Cho Sang-Woo (played by Park Hae-Soo) that has come in for much praise. Park Hae Soo, he says, was a gentle and caring co-star with whom he spent a lot of time. “While I sought him out for feedback, he used to do the same with me, and that was surprising as he’s such a well-known actor. There was constant exchange of ideas.” While he has played small roles in popular K-dramas Descendants of the Sun and Hospital Playlist, among others, Anupam hopes that Squid Game will mark the start of diverse characters being given prominence on screen and impact the way stories are told. “In my opinion, all kinds of characters will be seen; I’m working hard too for this change to happen in the future. Going forward, I can play any character,” he says, referring to representation on screen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/master-of-the/article36996685.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Frankly speaking||When Nawazuddin Siddiqui breathed life into the now-iconic Faizal Khan in Anurag Kashyap’s gory-masterpiece, Gangs of Wasseypur (2012), it not only set the benchmark for what constituted ‘good acting’ but was also widely regarded as the performance that put him on the map, literally. Faizal Khan, for Nawaz, must have been a poisoned chalice. For, a stream of similar such villainous characters, expected to smoke ganja and massacre people, followed and soon he would suffer from the onslaught of the Nawazuddin Siddiqui problem — of being typecast in a role that can only be described as something conceived and written for him. But the question that remained on everyone’s lips; everyone who exited the cinema hall after Gangs of Wasseypur was, can Nawaz ever top this? The answer, as it turned out, was a resounding yes. It happened the second time, once again with Anurag Kashyap in 2016, when Raman Raghav 2.0 released, in which Nawazuddin explored the trickeries in the corners of a psychopathic killer’s mind. This is not an exaggeration; he outdid himself for the third time in Sacred Games (2018), the fourth in Manto (2019), and has since been beating himself in what appears to be a one-man marathon. Boasting a body of work as large and diverse as his, cut across genres, scale and dimensions, does Nawaz ever still get characters that push him to do better? “If I start thinking that I can play all sorts of characters, I will lose my limitations,” says Nawaz, over a video call. “So, I always think that this is the character I am playing for the first time.” In the same breath, Nawaz admits that he is invariably on the lookout for characters that cause him nervousness at best, challenge him at worst — “Otherwise, I will repeat myself. Personally, I prefer characters that come with complications and have an internal world. A typical hero or a villain doesn’t interest me; I want them to trigger something inside where there is a process in finding who this person is — a grey area.” One such character in the grey zone was Ayyan Mani in last year’s Serious Men , for which he has now been nominated at the International Emmy Awards 2021 for Best Actor. Serious Men is Nawaz’s third work to represent at the prestigious event. Based on Manu Joseph’s novel, the Sudhir Mishra-directed film is a satire and an incisive look at caste and its subsequent social order, and centres around Ayyan Mani, who cooks up a story about his son, Adi, being a boy genius, to get back at the oppressors of the system. He felt Mani was his mirror-image when he got the offer to play the part, for, Nawaz says he too has witnessed the things discussed in the film. “Ayyan Mani is someone who is close to my heart; close to my life actually. I too have felt what Mani feels in the novel, the film. There are a lot of people in our society like him. It is a very local film in that sense, which is why it speaks on a global level.” The unbecoming There is a reason, Nawaz believes, why he came to the industry. “It is for acting,” he puts it succinctly. But he is stubborn about one thing, which keeps him going: the process of discovering the character — he says he wouldn’t have become an actor if not for this process. “For every character, I make it a point to find something different about them. It doesn’t matter if the film runs or not, I keep discovering my character. That is why I live amidst people.” He explains his ‘living with people’ theory. Nawaz believes that so far his performances have been appreciated for their authenticity because he considers himself one among the common people. They feed him nuances for his characters, he believes. “They look at me and relate to themselves.” “It helps that I don’t see myself as a ‘star’. Because, the day I think I am one, then I get separated from people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/frankly-speaking/article36996694.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Batting for strong women||There is an unmistakable sense of calm when Jyotika speaks. The actor-producer is articulate and insightful, not a big surprise considering she has the weight of 20-odd years of acting experience. From the gleeful highs of her roles in romances like Kushi and Mugavaree to acclaimed performances in blockbusters like Kaakha Kaakha and Sillunu Oru Kaadhal , Jyotika has explored a gamut of emotions. Or so we thought, till she came swinging hard in her second innings, giving a new lease of life to progressive film subjects centered on strong women. Jyotika’s new offering Udanpirappe seems to follow the same tone; the actor headlines the family-drama in which she plays a strong central character torn between her loyalties to the two most important men in her life: her husband and brother. Speaking from Goa, where she is holidaying with her family, Jyotika chats about her latest rural drama, directed by Era Saravanan, that drops on Amazon Prime today: The central theme of Udanpirappe is the bond you share with your brother (played by Sasikumar), and his conflict with your husband. Did you tap into these emotions from any real-life relationships? I do have a brother, who is eight years younger to me, but the reference for this film is actually from Suriya’s household. It is mostly from my mother-in-law, whom I call Amma, and the sisters in her family and how they bond I have made umpteen trips to Suriya’s village over the years, which is just an hour’s drive from Coimbatore, and have constantly been fascinated by the women there. They are so different from me, and the women I know in my life, or in a city like Chennai. Even Suriya’s home in itself is very traditional; it served as an inspiration for me to frame someone like Maathangi from Udanpirappe . Has the way you research or prepare for a film changed these days, as opposed to earlier? You’re taking on more layered roles since your comeback…  Well, this is actually the first time I’ve played such a character in a rural setting. I did it to some extent in Dumm Dumm Dumm , but even that wasn’t too vastly different either. The only actor who has aced several roles like this is Radhika ma’am. Watching some of her films was a huge inspiration for me to play Maathangi with dignity and depth. You and Suriya were among the first to explore direct digital releases in 2020. Last month, you inked an exclusive deal with Amazon Prime. How do you look back on these choices? We took the call on deciding to release Soorarai Pottru and Ponmagal Vandhal digitally during intense lockdown. 2D (Suriya’s production house) was making six films; two were completed, and four were under production. There was a lot of money rolling, and the outlook seemed very bleak. We didn’t know when the pandemic was going to end, and it was all about business and settling matters. Having said that, I now feel that streaming platforms are such a massive boon for filmmakers. We are able to make smaller movies with pride, choose the content we want, and are able to feel ‘equal’ alongside a big-budget hero’s release. For the first time in my career, after 50 films, I’m getting a festival release; isn’t that special? So 2D Entertainment will continue making films for both theatrical releases and streaming platforms in the future?  I am nobody to comment on this, but I definitely feel this is a healthy way of working. It’s for the good of everyone in the filmmaking family. When you have 20-odd films waiting to release, it’s obvious that some won’t get a theatrical release. This option gives low-budget flicks a choice and a chance, besides opening it to an audience from over 250 countries. The best option is to co-exist like this now. Most of your recent films have showcased you in a strong, titular character fighting for a change in society. Not that you’re being typecast, but will you explore other genres again? I really am open to absolutely anything, but I’ll always have my kids in mind while choosing a film these days. They are my priority. But I also don’t want to come off as just being an advisory figure all the time. The women in Tamil Nadu are extremely dignified, but in more than 80% of the films, they aren’t shown the right way.We are not the way we are projected on screen, those are not the clothes we wear, that is not the way we behave, and we definitely aren’t chasing men all the time. When men see themselves on screen, they see powerhouse characters. But from a woman’s perspective, what is there to root for? We are almost always weak personas, and relegated to the background. This is all I’m trying to do: Every time a woman walks out from a film of mine, she should see herself (on some level) represented on screen, and feel relevant. It could be a comedy, action drama, or a family affair but it’s all about showing how a woman in Tamil Nadu is, in reality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/batting-for-strong-women/article36996657.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Love, all||Sometimes,even people who laugh with you on video call everyday, prefer something tangible, like a letter or a postcard. Something to hold and keep; an interaction they can revisit as often as they wish. For those not confident enough to pen their thoughts or get artistic with their expressions, help is close at hand, in the form of The Indian Handwritten Letter Co. The online initiative, which sends handwritten letters across the country, has seen a marked difference in what its clients want. “People are focussing less on stationery and calligraphy, and more on longer, heartfelt messages,” says Anubhav Ankit, who started the outfit in 2016. This festive season, the 80-strong team of “personal ghost writers” is flooded with requests — from siblings stuck overseas, grandchildren who can’t travel to grandparents, and even couples living together. Some of them are clear with words but want prettier handwriting; others want help drafting the letter from scratch — “people go through multiple versions when they propose through a handwritten letter,” says Anubhav. Yet others just want the frills: like a certain couple who wanted letters written in ‘Lord Of The Rings’ Elvish’, that nobody else could decipher.  Visit www.tihlc.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/love-all/article36996664.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||No boundaries for art||MS Dhoni is known to be a great finisher, having scripted many thrilling last-over wins for India and Chennai Super Kings. But there is another finisher from this city:Dinesh Karthik. He currently plays for Kolkata in the IPL, but his thrilling last-ball six for India against Bangladesh in 2018’s Nidahas Trophy remains an unforgettable moment in Indian cricket and for fans. The Chennai-based cricketer has captured that event in the form of India’s first sports NFT (non-fungible token). Titled Six for the Win, the digital art NFT features an animated clip with Dinesh’s voice-over and is available for public auction. “In India, cricket is a religion and there are various memorable cricketing moments, like the 1983 World Cup Win, 2011 World Cup win, Sachin’s 100th hundred or the first IPL match. The world of cricket should dabble in the NFT space, which will grow in future,” says Karthik, in interview from the UAE. Karthik first heard of NFTs earlier this year when he read that Elon Musk’s partner (Grimes) made a lot of money by selling digital artwork. “I was intrigued,” he says, “The more I read, the more I was convinced that it was unique.” What ensued was a conversation with his brother-in-law and squash player, Saurav Ghoshal — something that resulted in the Six for the Win NFT being conceptualised. “Everyone knows that I hit a last-ball six for India, but no one knows the emotion around that particular moment. There was a lot of drama around that match, with the Bangladesh players indulging in the Nagin dance (a celebratory dance step). I wanted every Indian cricket fan to relive that moment through this.” Dinesh Karthik — or DK, as he is popularly called — is currently a key player for Kolkata Knight Riders, but just a few months ago, he was in England in a new avatar: as a commentator. His knowledge of the game, combined with his sense of humour and fashion (Karthik was described as the ‘Giorgio Armani of broadcasting’) made him a hot favourite among the UK’s cricket community. So, how is it playing the game barely a few weeks after talking about it? “In basketball or football, it is very normal to see a player on the field one day, and in the studio the very next. It’s only in cricket that we are used to seeing retired players talk about it. I took up commentary to break this stereotype,” says Dinesh. Since last year,the cricketerhas been in various bio-bubbles, considering the pandemic. “Bubble life takes a massive toll on you,” he admits, “I think the world of cricket needs to have a strong look at the mental and physical aspects of bubble life. Otherwise, you will see cricketers dropping like flies….” He is ensuring he doesn’t though, by keeping himself occupied when he is not playing or training. “I watch films in Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Hindi and English. I tend to mix genres and watch; if I am watching a murder mystery, I choose a comedy next.”  One for collectors   Dinesh Karthik has partnered with his brother-in-law and squash player Saurav Ghoshal for the digital art titled Six for the Win. Says Saurav, “There is great potential for digital art and other forms of memorabilia. This NFT celebrates an unforgettable sporting victory, and is a collector’s dream.”  The auction is open to the public and will be held between October 12 and October 22 on rarible.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/no-boundaries-for-art/article36996676.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The club feels alive again||Chennai is opening up, no doubt. But a typical weekend at the club still means a rundown of ‘top 50 global tracks’ from an audio streaming app. Or predictable genre-specific music through the night. Despite a smattering of live acts, Chennai is yet to celebrate the return of live performances in a big way. Circle of Love Festival, a two-day multi-disciplinary arts festival with a focus on homegrown talent attempts to do that. Spread over two evenings in Radio Room, it promises music, visual art, games and food: shrunken in scale, but vast and diverse in talent. “The whole point was to make an eclectic mix of music and put Chennai on the map,” says Sameer Sethi, who conceptualised the limited-capacity event with a larger theme that points to ‘togetherness’. DJ and curator Manny, explains, “The whole idea of the community platform Circle of Love is to break barriers among genres, artistes and everyone in the music community. So many styles of music are coming together in one festival and venue in Chennai, which typically has a separate set of audience for each style.” This versatility can be expected across artforms, he adds. “Over two days, you will travel from House music to commercial House, independent artistes to disco,” says Sameer. Two stages and over 20 artistes are the USPs of the festival that has an impressive line-up of performances: Nikhil Chinapa, JBABE (the solo project of F16s’ Josh Fernandes) and Mali to name a few. The curation focusses on talent who have not had the chance to play in Chennai in a while. “Nikhil Chinapa hasn’t played here in three to four years. Mali, JBABE, Bread & Jam are all acts from Chennai. And they tend to book more gigs outside, which is disappointing,” says Sameer. The main stage will be indoors and the second smaller outdoor stage will be open from 4pm to 8pm, on both days. Nikhil will be headlining Day 1 while most of the live acts will be on Day 2, which will be closed by DJs Kayan and Stalvart John. Josh sees this as a “culture build-up” rather than an event. “I will be doing a lot of new tunes that have not been released yet. Hopefully, I will also get a few people on the line-up to join me on my set.” Not just him, The F16s crew will make appearances with their own acts — “Harshan (Radhakrishnan), our keyboardist, is playing his first DJ set here under the moniker Henny. Abhinav Krishnaswamy (Booby), our guitarist, is hosting the open mic and Shashank (Manohar), our bassist is curating the playlist for Focus Group Radio. All of us in the band are taking part in this festival in very diverse roles,” says Josh. DJ Manny has planned a back-to-back set on Day 1 with Skip, who is currently ranked as the number 1 turntablist in the country. It is his first gig in Chennai after the second bout of lockdowns. “We have been playing together for years and usually we do melodic techno sounds. We thought this would be a great place to create something different.” An open mic targeted at young artistes will also be held on Day 2, 5 pm onwards. Twelve to 15 people will be selected from the applicants. Apart from music, the evenings promise innovative creations in terms of art and decor. Without giving away too much, Sameer says, “Inside Radio Room, there will be projection mapping on a couple of walls by Bengaluru-based artiste Black Fern. We are also putting together some games like giant jenga.” The showcase vows to take COVID protocols seriously. Only those who are fully vaccinated will be allowed into the event. The participating artistes too, are fully vaccinated.  Circle of Love Festival will be on October 15 and 16, 4 pm onwards at Radio Room, RA Puram. Contact 9884109074 for tickets and further enquiries.   Highlights Nikhil Chinapa JBABE Mali Stalvart John Bread & Jam Kayan DJ Manny DJ Skip Henny Sharan Nichani Black Fern||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-club-feels-alive-again/article36996667.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Pet Pals||Rescued when pregnant, Maggie has healed well physically and emotionally over the last few months and is now ready to share her love with her forever family. This gentle, quiet and loving girl is about three years old, vaccinated and spayed.  9962592579.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pet-pals/article36996673.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||When Telugu meets Hallyu||Driven by the popularity of Korean culture — especially its drama, cuisine and music — 26 Korean words were recently included in the influential Oxford English Dictionary. A majority of the words are food-related thanks to the popularity of Korean food, highlighted often in K-drama productions, such as Hospital Playlist, Let’s Eat, Wok of Love and Itaewon Class. These include banchan (a side dish of vegetables), bulgogi (dish with sliced beef/pork), dongchimi (a type of radish kimchi), japchae (dish of glass noodles), kimbap (dish with rice) and samgyeopsal (dish using pork belly). The other words, such as skinship (touch friendly), PC bang (gaming room) and daebak (goodness) commonly figure in K-drama and music. In India, one of the most commonly used words, especially by K-drama fans, is ommo, an equivalent of ‘Oh no’! K-drama fans address each other as chingu (friends) when seeking help with watchlists and use khamsamnida (thank you) in conversations. For those new to K-drama, it is easy to connect with Appa/babuji (father) and omoni (mother), as they are familiar to Indians. K-dramas have led to an increasing number of Korean language tutors such as @mykoreandic, @kunkorean, @hyd_korean_club on Instagram. Delhi-based Korean language trainer Era Indiekor (@eraindiekor) says she witnessed a spike in interest post November 2020 and was pretty amazed to find people asking her to breakdown simple English sentences into Korean. Era, who is soon starting a basic online class, says, “The ones who follow me or write to me on social media are in the age group of 14-17 years, looking at self tutoring. Working people tend to sign up for classes.” Many tutorials are linked to trending K-dramas, enabling fans to relate to what they are watching, and understand dialogues without subtitles. Right now, the popular survival drama series Squid Game is a part of many flash tutorials on social media. Mumbai-based lawyer Ramya Shanker explains, “Subtitles are often crude and distort the emotion or the mood of the story. The best way to enjoy a K-drama is in the original language.”   Prabalika M Borah    Name your pet in Korean Common Korean corporate titles such as Sajangnim (chief) and Bujangnim (general manger) are the favourites among K-fans when it comes to naming pets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-telugu-meets-hallyu/article36996698.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||My grandma taught me how||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/my-grandma-taught-me-how/article36996691.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Master of the||Anupam Tripathi is starry-eyed as he talks about the smash hit Korean show Squid Game, which has propelled him into the limelight. “The love from people around the world hasn’t stopped,” says Anupam, in a virtual conversation from Seoul. The Delhi-born actor plays Contestant 199 Ali Abdul, an undocumented migrant worker from Pakistan who joins 455 other debt-ridden contestants as they participate in a series of children’s games with a deadly twist... all for a whopping cash prize. Amidst all the gore and betrayal in Squid Game , Anupam’s Ali stands out, an endearing character that the Internet has collectively chosen to root for. Casting an actor to play Ali was something that had the show’s director Hwang Dong-hyuk worried and in a Netflix interview following the show’s release, he said that Anupam Tripathi appeared ‘out of the blue’. “He was fluent in Korean and he could act. His emotional acting was amazing,” Dong-Hyuk recalled. Anupam landed the role after multiple rounds of auditions and says that it was then that he realised how different playing Ali was going to be compared to his previous on-screen appearances. “I began to think about the similarities as well as differences Ali and I shared. Ali was a healthy guy and needed to look like someone who had power to compete and do well in the games. For that, I had to work hard on my physique and gain six kilos,” recalls the actor, who has lived in South Korea for the last 11 years. Born and raised in Delhi, Anupam made his way to South Korea after bagging a scholarship to study acting. Anupam says he relied on articles and documentaries to learn more about migrant workers in South Korea and across the world. “These are very real things happening across the world. I kept filling my mind by meeting people, reading about them and watching documentaries to play Ali on screen,” he says. Being fluent in Korean meant that Anupam had to work on his dialogue delivery, given that the character he was playing had probably been in South Korea for less than a year. “It was hard to go back and undo things,” he says, with a laugh. “I sought out friends from abroad who had only recently come to South Korea to converse with them.” On the show, Ali is introduced in the middle of the terrifying red-light green-light game as he heroically saves fellow contestant Seong Gi-Hun (Lee Jung-Jae) from elimination. “I remember Jung-Jae asking me to be free and express myself however I wished to,” he says. It is, however, Anupam’s scenes with another contestant, Cho Sang-Woo (played by Park Hae-Soo) that has come in for much praise. Park Hae Soo, he says, was a gentle and caring co-star with whom he spent a lot of time. “While I sought him out for feedback, he used to do the same with me, and that was surprising as he’s such a well-known actor. There was constant exchange of ideas.” While he has played small roles in popular K-dramas Descendants of the Sun and Hospital Playlist, among others, Anupam hopes that Squid Game will mark the start of diverse characters being given prominence on screen and impact the way stories are told. “In my opinion, all kinds of characters will be seen; I’m working hard too for this change to happen in the future. Going forward, I can play any character,” he says, referring to representation on screen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/master-of-the/article36996727.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Go on a drive this Dasara||After a subdued year, there is a distinctly familiar, festive buzz in the air again as Dasara approaches. Traffic-free Tank Bund on Sundays is gearing up as stalls hawking fast food, clothes and handicrafts on the sidewalks give it the joyous vibe of a mela. In the cheery crowd, channawalas woo buyers as they compete with popular mirchi bajji stalls. Malls brim with customers juggling multiple shopping bags as they make their last stop at the popcorn stall. People seem to be celebrating a return to normalcy with a sense of relief. However, with children yet to be vaccinated and the pandemic not yet over, people are finding safe ways to celebrate, from family dinners to long drives. The popular puja pandals are up again, Bangiya Sanskritik Sangha, Hyderabad Bengali Samiti, Kalibari and Attapur Bengali Association. All puja pandals have restricted the number of entries to stop over crowding. There will be checks on vaccine certificates as well. The Bangiya Sanskritik Samiti is changing the venue from Keyes High school to Mahbub College in SD Road near the Secunderabad clock tower. Staggered time slots for darshan and bhog takeaways are some of the other measures adapted to reduce crowding and ensure safe celebrations this year. Rakhi Sarkar, a consultant with a law firm has decided to stay away from puja pandals but will compensate by ordering Bengali food. Several Bengali restaurants are holding food fests. Restaurants like Aqua at The Park, Sarkar’s kitchen and Hyatt Place have planned puja special menus. Rakhi says, “Durga Puja is all about good food, laughter and meeting friends. So my friends have divided the four days of house parties amongst us with each get together packed with karaoke, card games and good food.” Restaurateur Sarita Sarkar is making sure Durga Puja pandal food is on the menu for that festive feel. Sarita is the owner of Sarkar’s Kitchen that opened a month back in Banjara Hills. A cancer survivor who fought COVID-19, Sarita had to close her restaurants in Kondapur, lost her father and was surprised to find an opportunity to open a new branch in the heart of the city. This year she celebrates Puja to express her gratitude. Sarita says, “I offer a combo menu with Puja favourites like khichdi , luchi , pulao , manghso , ilish, mishti and more. I want to celebrate this puja because when everything seemed bleak, I was able to start a restaurant again.” Aiyan Bhoumick, a school teacher says he is planning a party for his son and friends. “Children will be going back to school after a year, which is a big deal. I want to celebrate the moment.” He plans to take the group of six children aged between 10-14years to visit the popular banyan tree in Chevella, 45 kilometers from their home. “I am treating it like a field-trip with sandwiches, chips and homemade chicken rolls so that they remember the official ending of the lockdown,” he adds. The absence of the Government-organised celebrations of Bathukamma (a floral festival in Telangana to celebrate goddesses Gowri), has triggered nostalgia with people exchanging videos and YouTube links of earlier grand celebrations. “Now that we are all vaccinated, our ladies groups in the bastis are eager to go out,” says Janaki N, a cook and kirana store owner. Women in Kukatpally are thronging the Anjaneya Swami temple to celebrate Bathukamma, decked in their silk sarees and jewellery, ensuring they are not missing this festival.  Children will be going back to school after a year, which is a big deal. I want to celebrate the moment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/go-on-a-drive-this-dasara/article36996701.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Love, all||Sometimes,even people who laugh with you on video call everyday, prefer something tangible, like a letter or a postcard. Something to hold and keep; an interaction they can revisit as often as they wish. For those not confident enough to pen their thoughts or get artistic with their expressions, help is close at hand, in the form of The Indian Handwritten Letter Co. The online initiative, which sends handwritten letters across the country, has seen a marked difference in what its clients want. “People are focussing less on stationery and calligraphy, and more on longer, heartfelt messages,” says Anubhav Ankit, who started the outfit in 2016. This festive season, the 80-strong team of “personal ghost writers” is flooded with requests — from siblings stuck overseas, grandchildren who can’t travel to grandparents, and even couples living together. Some of them are clear with words but want prettier handwriting; others want help drafting the letter from scratch — “people go through multiple versions when they propose through a handwritten letter,” says Anubhav. Yet others just want the frills: like a certain couple who wanted letters written in ‘Lord Of The Rings’ Elvish’, that nobody else could decipher.  Visit www.tihlc.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/love-all/article36996705.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||More room for art||Earlier this year, Hyderabad’s Kalakriti Art Gallery moved to new premises with more room to host art and cultural events. Now, it is the turn of Kadari Art Gallery to open new viewing rooms at its existing premises in Jubilee Hills. While both these galleries strengthened their digital presence during the pandemic, they also sensed an increased interest among art lovers in Hyderabad to engage with real-time art. Kadari was founded in 1991 as Rajeshwar Rao Art Gallery by Supraja Rao, in memory of her father. An interior designer,Supraja’s love for design and art bolstered the growth of her design venture and the art gallery over the years. In 2019, Rajeshwar Rao Art Gallery was relaunched as Kadari. Scope for expansion During the pandemic, Supraja noticed the keen interest in art among home-bound, well-heeled clientele. “ With viewing artworks online, there was an increased interest to visit the gallery and engage with art. That partly fuelled the expansion,” says Supraja. The new viewing rooms at the gallery were inaugurated recently with the show titled ‘I think you should know this’ by Kinetics, which comprises emerging artists who are alumni of the Government College of Fine Arts, Chennai. Kadari also threw open a new collection of watercolour paintings by reputed Hyderabad artist A Rajeswara Rao (not to be confused with Supraja Rao’s late father). The contemporary, postmodern approach to art by Kinetics is evident in its latest exhibition. One of the standout pieces is a clever paper and wood installation by Yuvan Bothisathuvar, playing with colours to give the viewer the impression of the artwork changing from warm red tones to cool blue notes as one moves from one side of the other. Titled The Mask, the artwork alludes to how humans change colours while going through emotional upheavals. Abstract patterns on railway tickets by Sunil Sree, Dilip Kumar Kesavan’s work that appears to be abstract but conceals figurative elements, a series of photographs of birds by Aneesh Kalode Rajan that resemble minute pencil sketches, give the exhibition an element of intrigue. The group show by Kinetics, also featuring works of Gurunathan Govindan, Kumaresan Selvaraj, Saravanan Parasuraman, Suresh Kumar P and Yuvraj Velu, factors in the need to make art more engaging for real-time viewing. The solo show of recent works by A Rajeswara Rao titled Of Desires and Destinations is a humorous social commentary. Rao’s watercolours are multi-layered and have gone through several washes to make them appear almost like aqua tint graphic prints. The play of light and shadow comes to the fore in the paintings where he depicts people visiting castles and palaces in a bid to rediscover themselves through travel. Some of the paintings done during the pandemic have images of men, women and even monkeys with masks, attempting to reconnect with their roots in their farms or farmhouses. Both exhibitions are on view till November 8 at Kadari Art Gallery, Road No.14, Jubilee Hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/more-room-for-art/article36996711.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Forms of divinity||Madhukar Mucharla’s Durga portrait is straight from the heart. Currently on his residency at Chippa Sudhakar’s studio, the artist is inspired by the story of a migrant worker from Parigi in Vikarabad district of Telangana. “Reverse migration among workers is a sad reality,” he says. Having used leather to highlight the loss of occupation among the migrant labour force, Madhukar elaborates “Making leather products is a source of livelihood for the Madiga community. The intricately stitched artwork is a symbolic representation of the work and place of origin.” Adding that he saw his father toil in leather making, he shares, “The one and a half feet portrait carved out of leather is modelled in the form of a village goddess — big eyes, nose rings, ear studs and head gear decorated with layers of flowers.”   Dasara evokes a sense of nostalgia for artist Komakula Rajashekar who did his MFA in Kolkata. “It was fascinating to see how people plan and prepare for the pandals three months prior to the festival,” he remarks. A printmaker who also loves to sketch, Rajashekar’s work on a acid-free mount board reflects divinity. With an eye for detail and intricate patterns on the crown and ornaments, Rajashekar has used a mix of acrylics and watercolours to create Durga in a contemporary style. Interestingly, the artist who often sketches a Ganesha during Vinayaka Chavithi celebrations has attempted a Durga form. “I keep my Ganesha sketch during the puja and later frame it. The Durga sketch is for my memories and to keep the festival spirit high.”   If there is one thing that artist Debabrata Biswas wants to forget it is the human misery of COVID-19. “My canvas is for hope,” says the artist who hails from Jamshedpur and has lived in Hyderabad for 21 years now. The artist combines art and deep devotion to create two artworks — one representing the goddess’ face and the other symbolic of the joy felt during the chanting and aarti during a Durga pooja. The acrylic canvas depicts symbolic elements of Shakti — dhaak, trishul, lotus and the demon. “The festival spreads happiness and stands for humanity and equality in front of the goddess,” says the artist adding it is a new beginning. “The goddess leads us from the front asking us to forget the past and make a fresh start.”   Navaratri at Sumanto Chowdhary’s house comes 10 months early, when the artist begins to plan a unique Durga idol. After using metal craft, wood, reverse painting on acrylic sheets as mediums, this year the artist has opted for mixed media on wood.” Durga with a cubist approach is an emblem of power and exuberance. She is sublime in appearance, yet beholds devotees with blessings. The goddess here is ‘Celebrated a constructive way, in geometric forms. Her martial and regal forms evoke awe,” he says of his artwork. The first step in creating the four-feet-tall idol was to assemble 28 pieces of wood; he then carved out out patterns, fixed them with glue and then painted it. “The big work needed a lot of detailing and planning,” he says. Sumanto has also created a drawing depicting how one can use the goddess’ weapons of discipline, service, prayer, cheerfulness and prayer to slay the demons of negativity, pessimism, greed and fear.   With a specialisation in sculpture, painting and printmaking, artist Madhumita Das (wife of artist Sumanto Chowdhary) gave a new dimension to wooden pieces at home. “I didn’t change the shape but just arranged them to create a form,” she shares. With a prayer for the pandemic to end, the Ashtabhuja goddess or 'the one with eight limbs' is depicted carrying her weapons to protect the good and destroy evil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/forms-of-divinity/article36996717.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘It was hard to not judge Phara’||“Playing Phara Keaen was about understanding the non-judgement of who we are. It’s been monumental growth,” says Kubbra Sait over a video call from Mumbai. The actor is a bundle of energy and anecdotes as she speaks of her work on Foundation , Apple TV+’s latest sci-fi adventure series that is an adaptation of Isaac Asimov’s famed books of the same name. “It’s always interesting to get into a world that is unknown to you; as an actor, you’re constantly stepping into minds and psyches you’ve never experienced!” The series follows a thousand-year saga of The Foundation, a band of exiles who discover that the only way to save the Galactic Empire from destruction is to defy it. The show taps into some wild but probably not impossible themes of genetic dynasties, time travel and intergalactic politics, with an international cast including Jared Harris as psycho-historian Hari Seldon, Lou Llobel as Gaal Dornick his protégé, Leah Harvey as Salvor Hardin a famed warrior who has a connection to the future, and Lee Pace as a series of genetic clones who rule the universe as Empire. ‘Monumental growth’ Kubbra says playing an Anacreon extremist leader Phara has been an exciting challenge. The character makes her entry at the end of episode three, lurking in the shadows wielding a bow and arrow aimed at lead protagonist Salvor. “It’s do-or-die for her; she knows exactly what she’s doing and why. In single-mindedly leading this army, she is pursuing something that means a lot to her and her people,” she says. While portraying Phara had been a philosophical and physically strenuous role, she looks forward to audiences learning more of the character’s complex backstory which informs a lot of her ongoing mission. While Phara certainly does not back down from a fight, she is just as much a soldier with her words. Toting armoured gear and countless weapons stowed away with a rippling scar on one half of her face, Kubbra truly stepped into Phara’s world. “There was not one single scene where I truly wanted to break down, it’s the whole journey of being Phara,” she explains. “It was hard to not judge her.’” Probably one of the most gruesome scenes of Phara’s is one where she rips out her eye inside which is a bomb – and Kubbra pumps her fist in the air as she proudly says, “I got to keep my eye!” She rushes off to get the prop that was gifted to her by the production team and shows it off, carefully unwrapping it from cloth. The iris is an exact shade-match to her own green eyes, and even comes with a sliver of veins out the back. Does she wish she had more scenes with any particular actor? “Lee Pace!” she answers instantly, “But I’m also so scared that I would’ve probably been invisible around him. I think for me, my greatest growth was with Leah; I think 80% of our scenes are together this season.”  Toting armoured gear and countless weapons stowed away with a rippling scar on one half of her face, Kubbra truly stepped into Phara’s world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/it-was-hard-to-not-judge-phara/article36996734.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The second coming||In a lighter vein, during the course of this interview in Hyderabad, actor Siddharth remarks that Sharwanand is the primary star of director Ajay Bhupathi’s Telugu film Maha Samudram , releasing on October 14. With no box office pressure on him, Siddharth says he is happy to be part of the film for the love of its story and his character. Beneath that talk of how distributors look at the film is the fact that Maha Samudram marks Siddharth’s return to Telugu cinema after eight years. He was last seen in Telugu cinema in 2013 ( Jabardasth and a cameo in Badshah ), if one overlooks the films dubbed from Tamil. Ajay Bhupathi approached Siddharth for Maha Samudram in 2019, with a story set in Visakhapatnam and a large canvas that Siddharth compares to the mainstream films of the 1980s and 90s — “the sort of films Rahul Rawail, Subhash Ghai or Mukul Anand did in Hindi.” The two trailers of Maha Samudram don’t give away the storyline, but offer glimpses of Sharwanand and Siddharth navigating different time periods, accompanied by Aditi Rao Hydari and Anu Emmanuel. Siddharth’s knowledge of port cities while working on other films and an on-ground understanding of Vizag held him in good stead. “I spent time in Vizag, picking up its native slang and trying street food. Someone asked me if I am the good guy or the bad guy in the film; I don’t have an answer to that. I liked the character’s complexities. It also gave me the opportunity to work with incredible actors like Rao Ramesh, Jagapathi Babu and Aditi Rao Hydari. This is Aditi’s film and she carries her part with dignity. Many mainstream films treat women as vanity props; this is not one of them.” Rough and tough Siddharth is sure that Maha Samudram will reintroduce him to Telugu audiences while breaking his previous lover boy image. Ajay Bhupathi, he says, encouraged him to portray a “rough and tough guy”. “Ajay is Ram Gopal Varma’s protege and has that chutzpah, along with his own sensibilities. He is a hands-on director. I like to prepare before going to a scene, but Ajay liked an unrehearsed, fresh approach.” Siddharth became a household name in the mid 2000s, after blockbusters such as Nuvvostanante Nenoddantana and Bommarillu . Rom-coms and dramas followed, fetching him the tag ‘chocolate boy’. Did he move away from Telugu cinema to break free from that image? “A lot of things were happening in my life and career 10 years ago that I was clearly not satisfied with.” The actor reflects on his journey since the film Boys (2003; the Tamil film was received better in Telugu) and subsequently enjoying stardom with memorable films in Tamil, Telugu, Hindi ( Rang de Basanti ) and English ( Midnight’s Children ): “I became a star at a young age. In Telugu, I came to be known for a certain kind of films. I could see the next 20 years flash before my eyes. Maybe I could have accepted the roles that were offered to me and made money. But, if job security is all that I wanted, I would have chosen a corporate career.” In search of a challenge On a whim, he decided to step back. “I wanted to prove that I could do films that don’t have me portraying the same kind of roles. I liked observing people; I felt intrigued by those who were broken, wanted to play characters with shades of grey... If I keep going to film sets without being challenged, what’s the point?” In the years away from Telugu cinema, he has had highs such as Jigarthanda in Tamil and outings in Malayalam ( Kammara Sambhavam ). “I learnt and spoke Malayalam. Speaking a new language may not be a big deal for someone else, but it matters to me and challenges me. I didn’t know a word of Malayalam just as I didn’t know Telugu prior to Nuvvastanante …” He turned producer and also co-wrote the horror film Aval ( Gruham in Telugu). Post Maha Samudram , he is keen to announce his new films both in Tamil and Telugu. “I have always enjoyed doing what excites me rather than doing what others think I should do.” Siddharth observes that in the last few years, Telugu cinema has gone through a sea change, with the larger-than-life Baahubali at one end and emerging filmmakers with new voices at the other. He mentions Care of Kancharapalem , Ee Nagaraniki Emaindi and Brochevarevarura among the films he enjoyed watching. He is now keen to work in Telugu films, exploring new collaborations.  If job security is all that I wanted, I would have chosen a corporate career||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-second-coming/article36996737.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||When Telugu meets Hallyu||The K-pop wave has finally spilled into theOxford English Dictionary.Driven by the popularity of Korean culture — especially its drama, cuisine and music — 26 Korean words were recently included in the influential dictionary. A majority of the words are food-related thanks to the popularity of Korean food, highlighted often in K-drama productions, such as Hospital Playlist, Let’s Eat, Wok of Love and Itaewon Class. The words include banchan (a side dish of vegetables), bulgogi (dish with sliced beef/pork), dongchimi (a type of radish kimchi), japchae (dish of glass noodles), kimbap (dish with rice) and samgyeopsal (dish using pork belly). The other words, such as skinship (touch friendly), PC bang (gaming room) and daebak (goodness) commonly figure in K-drama and music. In India, one of the most commonly used words, especially by K-drama fans, is ommo, an equivalent of the English expression ‘Oh no’! Hyderabad-based K Pavani, a 23-year-old chartered accountancy student often confuses her mother when she uses Korean words in their Telugu conversations. BTS, the popular K-pop group, got her into the Hallyu trend. She says, “I use words such as sincha (really), aneyong (hello), o mmo and daebak all the time. My mother and non K-drama watchers give me puzzled looks, but I like the sound of the words.” Does she drop Korean words with her friends too? She laughs, “When I am with someone who understands them, we enjoy a conversation laced with Korean words. Thankfully almost all of my friends watch K-drama so the conversation is fun. We do watch parties and spend a good amount of time commenting on shows all of last year.” K-drama fans like addressing each other as chingu (friends) when seeking help with the watchlist and find themselves using words like khamsahamnida (thank you) in conversations. For those who are new to K-drama, it is easy to connect with words such as Appa/babuji (father) and omoni (mother), as they are familiar to Indians. K-dramas have led to an increasing number of Korean language tutors such as @mykoreandic, @kunkorean, @hyd_korean_club on Instagram. Delhi-based Korean language trainer Era Kaundal (@eraindiekor) is quite active with Korean language classes on social media. She witnessed a spike in interest post November 2020 and was pretty amazed to find people asking her to breakdown simple english sentences into Korean. Era who began with conducting Korean language classes online says most K-drama watchers start taking an interest in the language because they want to learn more than the common phrases. Most of her students are K-pop and K-drama fans in the age group of 17-30 years. Era, who is soon starting a basic online class, says, “The ones who follow me or write to me on social media are in the age group of 14-17 years who are looking at self tutoring. Working people tend to sign up for classes, as they want to learn for the sheer joy of being able to understand a new language.” Many tutorials are linked to trending K-dramas that enable fans to relate to what they are watching. Right now, the popular survival drama series Squid Game is a part of many flash tutorials on social media. This apart, tutorials such as ‘guess the word’ and multiple choice quizzes on Korean vocabulary increase confidence in using Korean in conversations. K-fans also strive to learn Korean one word at a time via social media platforms so they can understand K-drama dialogues without subtitles. Mumbai-based lawyer Ramya Shanker explains, “Subtitles are often crude and distort the emotion or the mood of the story. As I learnt one word at a time from various online platforms or through basic conversation with like-minded K-drama watchers, I have signed up for classes.” Majority of K-drama lovers feel dubbed and subtitles dilute or alter the meaning of original dialogues. Many tend to fall back on discussions on closed groups to get the right interpretation. The best way to enjoy K-drama is in the original language. Which holds true for other languge shows as well. Take for eg. the subtitled lyrics of Bollywood songs. The subtitles to the lyrics is completely senseless.” added Ramya. Ramya’s quotidian conversations have words and phrases such as Gwenchana (are you fine), saranghae (love you). She also calls a stray cat that visits her Goyangi . She explains, “ Goyangi in Korean means cat, I love the word.”  They sign up for the sheer joy of being able to understand a new language era kaundal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-telugu-meets-hallyu/article36996732.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||An evening of Goan confluence||The sun dips low into the horizon, casting a golden glow as you sip on a refreshing drink against the backdrop of floor-thrumming beachside reggae music that pushes you to do a little one-two step. When was the last time you enjoyed a sundowner? Worry not, for reggae DJ and producer Rudy Roots has your back this weekend. As the founder of Goa Sunsplash and a supporter of India’s reggae movement, Rudy is coming to Hyderabad for Olive Bistro’s Sunday Sunsplash, thrilled after more than 18 months of a too-quiet music scene in Goa. “Over the last year and a half, we’ve been fighting to keep reggae music and the party scene alive in Goa even though it has been difficult globally. We’ve done live-streams too which has not been easy because Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and other sites block people for copyright, which we understand, but we kept fighting.” Earlier this year, Rudy and his team hosted the first digital edition of Goa Sunsplash, and were thrilled at not just the new international audiences for the event, but also the new repertoire of artistes participating. He adds, “We, of course, miss the in-person festivals because that’s where you capture the energy through the sound system on the stage.” Coming to Hyderabad, will Rudy have to pivot a bit for his set at Olive Bistro? “The music I play is not so developed yet for Hyderabad; so when I play there, the few people who look for an alternative scene really enjoy it,” he responds. “Let’s see how this year goes as I am seeing a lot of interest around less mainstream music. On Sunday, I’m going to play the way I do in Goa, and I’m excited to see people react to that.” Also performing for the night are MC Soopy from Delhi and Hyderabad-based Kayvee and Khushboo. Soopy has high hopes for a post-pandemic concert scene, explaining, “While I would hope for a complete return to normalcy, that might be a while away. I think venues, promoters and artistes need to be at the forefront, and from now on place safety above everything. Hopefully we can soon put this chapter behind us and party like we used to.” Go, Goa, go! Goa has also undergone a renaissance, with the influx of domestic travellers and work-cationers. “We saw a lot of old places closing, which was really sad. We also saw many new ones. This was drawing in new crowds, many of whom are coming to Goa for the first time. Also, people are spending more time here with no plans of going out of India. So there’s time and space to show Indians music they find new.”   Sunday Sunsplash will be held at Olive Bistro on October 17 from 4 pm till 8.30 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/an-evening-of-goan-confluence/article36996707.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A soulful run||One of the foremost soul singers in India, Vasundhara Vee has come out with a powerful video single ‘Run’. After a 15-year-long journey as a live performer, vocal trainer and author, her ‘Run’, produced by composer-producer Dhruv Ghanekar signals the debut of the Mumbai-based singer as a solo artiste. “I wanted to express myself in a new way and was also feeling renewed as a person. So it was a good time to write music. I wanted to launch solo and the stars aligned,” says Vasundhara who feels having Dhruv on board was a blessing. “Dhruv is one of the most complete artistes that I know; I want to be like him someday,” she adds. Vasundhara and Dhruv started working on ‘Run’ in 2019 and were looking at cracking a sound that would stay true to Vasundhara ‘as a person, as a woman and as a soul singer’. ‘Run’ is the first of a trail of songs. “Dhruv’s stylistic palette is so vast. A composer becomes a sonic extension of your mind and your musical personality. Every element in a song is crafted to generate a specific feeling in the listener,” says Vasundhara. Finding herself Vasundhara describes ‘Run’, as ‘notes to self’. Elaborating on its lyrical essence she says, “It is about having the guts to be yourself; taking all parts of you and moving towards your authenticity — your love, your peace. It is about being your own soulmate. We have to change the running from that of an escape to a triumphant, open, self-reliant running. Journeys of healing are gradual and not always the easiest but to quote the song, ‘ every step forth will build my way back’ .” With roots in Assam, an upbringing in Delhi and a singing career in Mumbai, Vasundhara was exposed to a western music culture that’s not just international but contemporary Indian. More than a decade of experience as a jazz, blues and soul performer saw her playing the role of a mentor who shaped many singers’ voices and styles through her school The School of Voice. “My purpose is to be a model to new singers; you can survive and thrive in this space without making a musical compromise. I love it when singers expand into other styles. I love that for myself too. Only, it should be out of curiosity and love, not out of fear or compulsion.” The responsibility of a western music artiste in India goes beyond performing; one has to ensure it is reaching a discerning audience. “Our work is to unify and organise audiences with similar tastes and this is best done as a community. Soul and RnB are now everywhere, but when I started, mine was one of the few bands,” says Vasundhara. The pandemic demanded more than raising awareness about music. While it created opportunities for indie artists to upskill and become visible, many were left behind. “Many musicians, DJs, wedding procession musicians and artists were facing starvation. My friend, Prince Mulla began Artists for Artists, a helpline and rescue initiative to send food and grain to these artistes’ families. As many as 430 artiste volunteers gave 10,800 grocery kits (over 1 million meals) over the last two years. This number itself shows the scale of the struggle,” says Vasundhara who emphasises the need to start using tickets as votes. “Every ticket, trinket or merch we buy is a vote for an artiste to stay viable. As an audience member, this is an inexpensive gesture but it will go a long way in supporting the art. If 100,000 people do this, platforms will find Indie viable.” Packaging points As a performer with an electrifying stage presence, Vasundhara is aware of how packaging is essential. She has devoted a section in her book Big Dreams Bold Choices to stress how communication is the real packaging. Says Vasundhara, “The packaging doesn’t mean sexualisation or dilution of your art. Adele’s packaging and Ed Sheeran’s packaging are different from Prince or Sting or Nicki Minaj’s. By having clear visual communication, an artiste sets up a flavour and an expectation in the audience and also complements her music fittingly. Women artistes do not have to sexualise themselves to sell. Nor does a good musician have to dumb down his music assuming that audiences will not follow. AR Rahman’s music is intelligent and is produced like gold. So there’s no scope for musicians to assume that great music has no takers.” Explaining her rather unusual second name, she says, ‘Vee is my pet name. My friends call me either Vasu or Vee. I chose this because I feel that in the arts, you are your own child. An artiste creates himself into a being who is much more than his surroundings. We have the opportunity to lose and re-create.”  My purpose is to be a model to new singers; you can survive and thrive in this space without making a musical compromise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-soulful-run/article36996726.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Lesser known stories of the Salt March||The salt march led by Mahatma Gandhi is considered one of the defining movements in India’s struggle for independence. The march commenced on March 12, 1930, from the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad and traversed more than 240 miles before concluding in the coastal village of Dandi. To mark the 91st anniversary of the salt march, Navajivan Trust has published the book 23 Grams of Salt: Retracing Gandhi’s March to Dandi by Anuj Ambalal. Anuj Ambalal is an Ahmedabad-based photographer and writer who briefly worked as an equity researcher. The book explores lesser known stories of the march through the villages in Gujarat. The book is a photographer’s journey spread over 80 villages, 90 years after the march. Ambalal will unveil the book at Kalakriti Art Gallery and present a slide show focussing on the histories of the salt march sites. He will also be in conversation with senior advocate L Ravichander. Venue:Kalakriti Art Gallery, Road No.4, Banjara Hills Date:October 18; 5.30pm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lesser-known-stories-of-the-salt-march/article36996719.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Bathukamma melody||The Telangana Jagruthi Bathukamma song ‘ Allipoola Vennela’ composed by AR Rahman is a new addition to the playlist for this year’s Bathukamma festivities. The song has lyrics by Mittapalli Surender and sung by Uthara Unnikrishnan. The music video, directed by Gautham Vasudev Menon, was launched by Telangana Jagruthi founder and MLC K Kavitha last week to coincide with the festivities. The video choreographed by Brinda traces the earthy flavour of Bathukamma celebrations through a mother revisiting her village accompanied by her young daughter. The song celebrates Bathukamma as a community festival involving women of the region. However, reactions to the song and the video have been mixed. A few social media users commented that unlike the traditional Bathukamma songs that are vibrant, foot-tapping steeped in folk flavour,‘ Allipoola Vennela’ is more of a melody and lacks the zing. The floral festival was declared a Telangana State Festival in 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bathukamma-melody/article36996722.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Song for the season||Writer and director Chirag Arora released his directorial brand new track ‘ Thomkiya Thomkiya’ . A contemporary take on traditional folk music with flavours of Hindi and Bengali, the song that features Akriti Kakar and Shaan as vocalists, promises to add colour and joy to this Durga Puja. The fusion of languages, of contemporary and traditional musical styles as well as the melody and lyrics are all brought to life by Chirag on the screen with colourful sets, frames, dancers, and costumes. Shot in just over 72 hours, the video shows sets and costumes of Bengali culture. The hook-step as part of the choreography has only added another dimension to the audio-visual experience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/song-for-the-season/article36996724.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Master of the||Anupam Tripathi is starry-eyed as he talks about the hit Korean show, Squid Game, which has propelled him into the limelight. “The love from people around the world hasn’t stopped,” says Anupam, in a virtual conversation from Seoul. The Delhi-born actor plays Contestant 199 Ali Abdul, an undocumented migrant worker from Pakistan who joins 455 other debt-ridden contestants as they participate in a series of children’s games with a deadly twist... all for a whopping cash prize. Amidst all the gore and betrayal in Squid Game , Anupam’s Ali stands out, an endearing character that the Internet has collectively chosen to root for. Casting an actor to play Ali was something that had the show’s director Hwang Dong-hyuk worried and in a Netflix interview following the show’s release, he said that Anupam appeared ‘out of the blue’. “He was fluent in Korean and he could act. His emotional acting was amazing,” Dong-Hyuk recalled. Anupam landed the role after multiple rounds of auditions and says that it was then that he realised how different playing Ali was going to be compared to his previous on-screen appearances. “I began to think about the similarities as well as differences Ali and I shared. Ali was a healthy guy and needed to look like someone who had power to compete and do well in the games. For that, I had to work hard on my physique and gain six kilos,” recalls the actor, who has lived in South Korea for the last 11 years. Born and raised in Delhi, Anupam made his way to South Korea after bagging a scholarship to study acting. Anupam says he relied on articles and documentaries to learn more about migrant workers in South Korea and across the world. “These are very real things happening across the world. I kept filling my mind by meeting people, reading about them and watching documentaries to play Ali on screen,” he says. Being fluent in Korean meant that Anupam had to work on his dialogue delivery, given that the character he was playing had probably been in South Korea for less than a year. “It was hard to go back and undo things,” he says, with a laugh. “I sought out friends from abroad who had only recently come to South Korea to converse with them.” On the show, Ali is introduced in the middle of the terrifying red-light green-light game as he heroically saves fellow contestant Seong Gi-Hun (Lee Jung-Jae) from elimination. “I remember Jung-Jae asking me to be free and express myself however I wished to,” he says. It is, however, Anupam’s scenes with another contestant, Cho Sang-Woo (played by Park Hae-Soo) that has come in for much praise. Park Hae Soo, he says, was a gentle and caring co-star with whom he spent a lot of time. “While I sought him out for feedback, he used to do the same with me, and that was surprising as he’s such a well-known actor. There was constant exchange of ideas.” Seeking diverse roles While he has played small roles in popular K-dramas Descendants of the Sun and Hospital Playlist, among others, Anupam hopes that Squid Game will mark the start of diverse characters being given prominence on screen and impact the way stories are told. “In my opinion, all kinds of characters will be seen; I’m working hard too for this change to happen in the future. Going forward, I can play any character,” he says, referring to representation on screen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/master-of-the/article36997017.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Frankly speaking||When Nawazuddin Siddiqui breathed life into the now iconic Faizal Khan in Anurag Kashyap’s gory-masterpiece, Gangs of Wasseypur (2012), it not only set the benchmark for what constituted ‘good acting’ but was also widely regarded as the performance that put him on the map, literally. Faizal Khan, for Nawaz, must have been a poisoned chalice. For, a stream of similar such villainous characters, expected to smoke ganja and massacre people, followed and soon he would suffer from the onslaught of the Nawazuddin Siddiqui problem — of being typecast in a role that can only be described as something conceived and written for him. But the question that remained on everyone’s lips; everyone who exited the cinema hall after Gangs of Wasseypur was, can Nawaz ever top this? The answer, as it turned out, was a resounding yes. It happened the second time, once again with Anurag Kashyap in 2016, when Raman Raghav 2.0 released, in which Nawazuddin explored the trickeries in the corners of a psychopathic killer’s mind. This is not an exaggeration; he outdid himself for the third time in Sacred Games (2018), the fourth in Manto (2019), and has since been beating himself in what appears to be a one-man marathon. Boasting a body of work as large and diverse as his, cutting across genres, scale and dimensions, does Nawaz ever still get characters that push him to do better? “If I start thinking that I can play all sorts of characters, I will lose my limitations,” says Nawaz, over a video call. “So, I always think that this is the character I am playing for the first time.” In the same breath, Nawaz admits that he is invariably on the lookout for characters that cause him nervousness at best, challenge him at worst — “Otherwise, I will repeat myself. Personally, I prefer characters that come with complications and have an internal world. A typical hero or a villain doesn’t interest me; I want them to trigger something inside where there is a process in finding who this person is — a grey area.” One such character in the grey zone was Ayyan Mani in last year’s Serious Men , for which he has now been nominated at the International Emmy Awards 2021 for Best Actor. Serious Men is Nawaz’s third work to represent at the prestigious event. Based on Manu Joseph’s novel, the Sudhir Mishra-directed film is a satire and an incisive look at caste and its subsequent social order, and centres around Ayyan Mani, who cooks up a story about his son, Adi, being a boy genius, to get back at the oppressors of the system. He felt Mani was his mirror-image when he got the offer to play the part, for, Nawaz says he too has witnessed the things discussed in the film. “Ayyan Mani is someone who is close to my heart; close to my life actually. I too have felt what Mani feels in the novel, the film. There are a lot of people in our society like him. It is a very local film in that sense, which is why it speaks on a global level.” The unbecoming There is a reason, Nawaz believes, why he came to the industry. “It is for acting,” he puts it succinctly. But he is stubborn about one thing, which keeps him going: the process of discovering the character — he says he wouldn’t have become an actor if not for this process. He says, “For every character, I make it a point to find something different about them. It doesn’t matter if the film runs or not, I keep discovering my character. That is why I live amidst people.” He explains his ‘living with people’ theory. Nawaz believes that so far his performances have been appreciated for their authenticity because he considers himself one among the common people. They feed him nuances for his characters, he believes. “They look at me and relate to themselves.” “It helps that I don’t see myself as a ‘star’. Because, the day I think I am one, then I get separated from people,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/frankly-speaking/article36997018.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Dusshera Festivities!||Indian mythology is all about good winning over evil; and Dusshera is perhaps the biggest festival that underscores the triumph of good over evil. The festival is celebrated all ver India, Durga puja in the East, Garba and worshipping Goddess Durga in the West, Ravaan dahan and Ram leela in the North and Bommala Kolluvu or Gollu in the South. The diversity of India couldn’t be better personified with the manner in which this single festival is celebrated all over the country. Though the nine days, Navratri, culminating with Dussehra are dedicated to the Goddess, the celebrations and the customs associated with this single festivity take on various hues showcasing the beauty and diversity of the country. In North India, melas and huge gatherings for burning the effigy of Ravaan – the epitome of evil in the Ramayana, are the main attraction. In West India, the nine days of dancing the nights away with Garba and Dandiyaraas, culminating in Dusshera is the crux of the festivities. In East, it is the Durga puja with elaborate pandals. And in the South, the celebrations are more in-house, with families putting up the traditional Bommala Kolluvu or Gollu, venerating the pantheon of Hindu Gods on a set of five, seven or nine steps. But perhaps the grandest celebration of all is the one hosted by the Royal family of Mysore, honouring Goddess Chamundeswari. According to the popular lore in Mysore, Mahishasura, belonged to Mysore and the Goddess Kali kills Mahishasura and his comrades Chanda and Munda. The fight went on for nine days and nights and on the tenth day Goddess Kali killed them near the hill. Hence, Kali came to be known as Chamundeshwari and the hill where the demons were killed as the Chamundi Hill, sacred to the deity. Chamundeshwari is the family deity of the royal family of Mysore and is sacred to the Rajas and the people of Mysore. The Royal family of Mysore worships Chamundeshwari with great fervour. The word Mysore is said to be derived from Mahishur. The festival commences with puja to the deity. Celebrated by the royal family of Mysore, Dussehra is an important State festival of Karnataka. Although the manner of festivities differs, the unity is in celebrating and venerating the Goddess Shakti and her various forms – all through Navratri leading up to the grand celebration of Dussehra. In Andhra Pradesh, the Kanakadurga Temple situated on the Indrakeeladri hill, on the banks of Krishna River, becomes the primary focus of the festival. On each day of the ten-day festival, the divine deity is decked differently to represent various avatars of the Goddess. These days, in addition to being a religious festival, Dussehra heralds a discounts and shopping spree. Just as spiritually significant this festival is, there is an inherent commercial aspect as well. Making the festivities even sweeter, this is the season of discounts, freebies and gifts. And retailers announce discounts and come forth with a flurry of enticing offers. Every major clothing store, boutique, jewellery outlet and mall bring out the best and latest; in fact, customers are spoilt for choice as there are many offers from rival stores and manufacturers competing for their attention. Considering the deals and discounts, this is perhaps the best time to invest in household gadgets. One of the most significant aspects of Dussehra is the importance given to vehicles, tools and new beginnings. Dussehra is perhaps the only festival in the world that gives so much importance to one’s tools of trade and vehicle. The Ayudha-puja performed on the ninth day of Navratri, just before Dussehra, is dedicated to the worship of vehicles and the implements used for one’s livelihood. And just as vehicles and tools are venerated, it is also considered to be very propitious to bring home something new on Dussehra day. New vehicles, be it a car, a two-wheeler, truck, or even a bicycle, are preferably bought on this day. To the extent that many customers pre-book their vehicles and take delivery on the auspicious day of Dussehra. Be it because of the festive sentiment or the attractive discount and freebies, shopping is what adds to the festive spirit of Dusshera! - UMA CHODAVARAPU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dusshera-festivities/article36997352.ece
14 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Teen pregnancies pose a challenge in Rajasthan||Amid the high prevalence of child marriages, reducing teenage pregnancies continues to be the biggest challenge in addressing issues related to the reproductive health of adolescents in Rajasthan. Since more than one-third of the girls get married before they cross 18 and 6.3% of girls in the age group of 15 to 19 years are already mothers or are pregnant, investment in sexual and reproductive health is crucial for the State. With these findings, a new study, titled ‘Returns on Investment in Adolescents’ Sexual and Reproductive Health in Rajasthan’, has calculated the benefit-cost ratio to conclude that for every Rs. 100 spent on meeting the unmet needs of adolescents, there will be a return of approximately Rs. 300 in terms of healthcare costs saved. This indicates a very high potential for gains in health and economic gains from the interventions. Arvind Mayaram, Economic Adviser to the Chief Minister, released the study, conducted by the Population Foundation of India (PFI), here recently, with the suggestion to develop new standards and guidelines to improve the quality of reproductive health services. Dr. Mayaram said that since adolescents comprised 23% of the State’s population, their demographic dividend could be harnessed through effective strategies. The potential health gains from the interventions could avert 1.45 lakh unwanted pregnancies, 1.46 lakh unwanted births, over 14,000 unsafe abortions, and the deaths of more than 7,000 infants and 300 pregnant women between 2021 and 2025, said the study. It could also save 7,321 infant lives and 343 maternal lives by 2025 and lead to a significant gain in the disability-adjusted life years, which is a measure of the overall disease burden. The findings also revealed that a per capita investment of Rs. 1 in weekly iron and folic acid supplement (WIFS) could save almost Rs. 2 to Rs. 20 in terms of averted productivity loss in adolescents. In order to reap this benefit, the State will need to make an annual investment of Rs. 6.6 crore to Rs. 8 crore in order to realise Rs. 13.2 core in returns. For achieving the coverage of at least 50% of in-school and out-of-school adolescents, the State will need to increase its reach of WIFS from the existing level of 9.2% to 25%. Similarly, the benefits from the provision of sanitary pads to adolescent girls for a year will be about 4:1, indicating that every rupee invested in this intervention will produce a return of Rs. 4 by averting loss in educational achievement, according to the study. The study highlighted challenges in the field of sexual and reproductive health because of structural poverty, social discrimination, regressive social norms, inadequate education, and early marriage and childbearing. Access to contraceptives Taking note of the unmet need for contraception among married adolescents in the State, resulting in unintended pregnancies and induced abortions, the study recommended an increase in the modern contraceptive prevalence rate for spacing methods from the existing 10.1% to 32% in the 2021-25 period. In absolute numbers, the State will have to provide contraceptives to an additional 2.53 lakh users and comprehensive abortion care services to an additional 75,000 users. PFI’s executive director Poonam Muttreja said the State government should prudently invest in ensuring that the working age population is healthy and literate, and has access to resources. Nutrition supplementation programmes should also be strengthened, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/teen-pregnancies-pose-a-challenge-in-rajasthan/article36996973.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Dussehra Festivities!||Indian mythology is all about good winning over evil; and Dusshera is perhaps the biggest festival that underscores the triumph of good over evil. The festival is celebrated all over India, Durga puja in the East, Garba and worshipping Goddess Durga in the West, Ravaan dahan and Ram leela in the North and Bommala Kolluvu or Gollu in the South. The diversity of India couldn’t be better personified with the manner in which this single festival is celebrated all over the country. Though the nine days, Navratri, culminating with Dussehra are dedicated to the Goddess, the celebrations and the customs associated with this single festivity take on various hues showcasing the beauty and diversity of the country. In North India, melas and huge gatherings for burning the effigy of Ravaan – the epitome of evil in the Ramayana, are the main attraction. In West India, the nine days of dancing the nights away with Garba and Dandiyaraas, culminating in Dusshera is the crux of the festivities. In East, it is the Durga puja with elaborate pandals. And in the South, the celebrations are more in-house, with families putting up the traditional Bommala Kolluvu or Gollu, venerating the pantheon of Hindu Gods on a set of five, seven or nine steps. But perhaps the grandest celebration of all is the one hosted by the Royal family of Mysore, honouring Goddess Chamundeswari. Although the manner of festivities differs, the unity is in celebrating and venerating the Goddess Shakti and her various forms – all through Navratri leading up to the grand celebration of Dussehra. In Andhra Pradesh, the Kanakadurga Temple situated on the Indrakeeladri hill, on the banks of Krishna River, becomes the primary focus of the festival. On each day of the ten-day festival, the divine deity is decked differently to represent various avatars of the Goddess. These days, in addition to being a religious festival, Dussehra heralds a discounts and shopping spree. Just as spiritually significant this festival is, there is an inherent commercial aspect as well. Making the festivities even sweeter, this is the season of discounts, freebies and gifts. And retailers announce discounts and come forth with a flurry of enticing offers. Every major clothing store, boutique, jewellery outlet and mall bring out the best and latest; in fact, customers are spoilt for choice as there are many offers from rival stores and manufacturers competing for their attention. Uma Chodavarapu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dussehra-festivities/article36997304.ece
14 October 2021||Kolkata,||Pandemic-hit reach out to psychiatrists||There has been a significant increase in the number of people seeking help for psychological problems following the second wave of COVID-19 that swept through the country in April-May this year, according to a top Kolkata psychiatrist. “Pre-COVID days, the proportion of new patients I saw daily was only 20% to 30%, now it is 50% to 60%,” Jai Ranjan Ram, a leading professional in the field of psychiatry and a co-founder of Mental Health Foundation, told The Hindu . “A bulk of those seeking help are parents whose children are displaying behavioural and emotional disturbances. Prolonged absence from school, the burden of online teaching, inability to have social engagements and illness or deaths due to COVID of family members have taken a huge toll on them,” Dr. Ram said. Then there are also parents of children between two and five years who have not yet been exposed to normal social and educational life due to the pandemic. Since nurseries and playschools are closed and the usual interactions with family members are also missing because many parents are caught up in work-from-home, these children are getting very little stimulation through play and social interaction, which, according to Dr. Ram, is “food for the brain to develop and grow”. “The impact of it is poor development of language and social milestones. The first 1,000 days of a child's life is critical to their brain growth. The pandemic has taken away almost half of it. This is leading to a significant increase in young children coming to us with delays in language learning, behaviour problems and attention deficit,” he said. “The other group seeking help are those who have lost one or more family members due to COVID-19. Their problems are compounded by economic hardship or the stress of work-from-home.” ‘More health conscious’ “The other palpable feeling in many patients coming to us is that life will never be the same again,” Dr. Ram said. “Probably the only benefit of the pandemic has been that all of us have become far more conscious of our health, especially mental health.” He said it was important to be aware that one could develop anxiety and have low mood and panic attacks under such circumstances and that these were not a sign of weakness, and that there was no shame in asking for help. “Regular exercise and maintaining a healthy sleep cycle are important. Seek out activities and company that soothe you. Reach out to those who you feel are going through a difficult phase due to the adversities and offer support. There is great value in being able to help others in lifting their spirits. Be a part of any organisation that is working for the welfare of the marginalised or those severely affected by the pandemic. Above all, be a stoic and remember that this too shall pass,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pandemic-hit-reach-out-to-psychiatrists/article36996970.ece
14 October 2021||Hazaribag (Jharkhand),||Wild tusker enters puja pandal||A tusker strayed away from its herd and entered a Durga Puja pandal at Daroo in Jharkhand creating panic among devotees, about 24 of whom were injured in the stampede-like situation that took place subsequently, a forest official said on Wednesday. The incident took place during sandhya aarti (evening prayer) at around 8.30 p.m. in the marquee at Daroo chowk in Hazaribag district on the second day of the festival on Tuesday, the official said. ‘Strayed from herd’ The tusker, which had trampled to death four persons in Hazaribagh district during the past 30 hours, had strayed from a herd of 22 elephants and reached the puja pandal, divisional forest officer of Hazaribag West division, R.N. Mishra said. The elephant’s presence created panic among about 2,000 residents and villagers creating a stampede-like situation as they ran helter skelter for safety, he said. A member of the Daroo puja committee, Ranjit Sinha said that on reaching the pandal, the wild elephant appeared anxious and ran towards Bharajo village before snatching a man and his son from the ground and throwing them down. The two were rushed to a hospital at Hazaribagh where they are undergoing treatment. The tusker while retreating also destroyed about six houses of the villagers and also damaged the boundary walls of nearby buildings, Mishra said. Daroo forest ranger Vijay Singh said that the forest officials had information that a single elephant, which had caused panic at Katkamdag forest range and Demotand on NH 33, has entered Daroo from Dighwar forest and was present on NH 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wild-tusker-enters-puja-pandal/article36997034.ece
14 October 2021||IMPHAL,||Large numbers of Amur falcons arrive in Manipur district||Forest officials and bird lovers are overjoyed that Amur falcons have started arriving in large numbers at Manipur’s Tamenglong district. Tens of thousands of the birds will stay till the end of December in almost all the hill districts of Manipur and some parts of Nagaland. Forest officials said that awareness campaigns will be launched in the districts of Tamenglong, Senapati, Churachandpur, Ukhrul and Kamjong. It shall be made known that trapping the birds is punishable under Section 50/51 of the Manipur Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. In the past, it was common to see live and trussed or smoked and roasted Amur falcons in Tamenglong's village markets. However, village elders, who regard the migratory birds as farmers' friends that eat up insects which destroy paddy and other crops, prevailed upon professional bird hunters and youth, to not to kill the avian wonders. Collectors of the hill districts also launched awareness programmes that yielded results. Initially, the migratory birds were seen in Tamenglong district, which borders Nagaland, but officials said they are now sighted in other hill districts also. Forest officials caught and released some Amur falcons with satellite tagging to monitor their onward journey. A male and a female Amur falcon were released last year with satellite tags, but the female was shot dead and the male bird was seen waiting for his mate. Amur falcon pairs are lifelong partners. Officials of the Wildlife Institute of India recently found that there are three habitats of Amur falcons along the Tuivai river in Churachandpur district bordering Myanmar. On their long journey, they also visit Sri Lanka. Conservationists worry that the Amur falcons may stop visiting Manipur due to hunting, climatic changes, deforestation of the hill tracts, and other human intrusion. Widespread use of insecticides has also depleted their prey base. Official reports say that the number and variety of migratory birds that used to visit Loktak, the largest freshwater lake in northeast India, has fallen rapidly as a result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/large-numbers-of-amur-falcons-arrive-in-manipur-district/article36997036.ece
14 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Minister gets award for promoting vegan leather||The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) has named Meghalaya Environment and Forest Minister James Sangma the winner of the Progressive Business Concept Award for promoting vegan pineapple leather. Apart from encouraging farmers in the State to go for pineapple leather production, Mr. Sangma also had plans to introduce climate change in the school curricula, PETA said in a statement on Wednesday. According to the International Society for Horticultural Science, Meghalaya contributes to about 8% of the total pineapple produced in India. A new product Pineapple leather, a fairly new product that some global fashion design companies were adopting to lessen animal suffering, was considered sturdy and durable as animal skin. “Minister Sangma has rightly identified the climate crisis as a defining challenge of our times and he’s already taking steps to address one of the biggest culprits — animal agriculture,” Radhika Suryavanshi, PETA-India’s senior campaigns coordinator, said. “PETA India looks forward to seeing Meghalaya create new opportunities for farmers while helping to save the planet and animals’ lives,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minister-gets-award-for-promoting-vegan-leather/article36997031.ece
14 October 2021||Ranchi,||Over 1 lakh get jab through mobile vans||More than one lakh people were vaccinated against COVID-19 through mobile vans in Jharkhand’s capital Ranchi creating a record in the State, an official said on Wednesday. Ranchi also tops among all 24 districts in the State so far as the inoculation coverage is concerned. “Ranchi has done one lakh COVID-19 vaccinations through mobile vans. Kudos to the district health team for working tirelessly even during holidays,” Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-1-lakh-get-jab-through-mobile-vans/article36997028.ece
14 October 2021||Chandigarh,||26 kg opium seized, 1 held in Haryana||The Haryana Police on Wednesday arrested a man in Kurukshetra district and seized 26.5 kg of opium worth Rs. 45 lakh from his possession. The arrest was made based on a tip-off about the movement of some narcotics by a car in the district, the police here said. Acting on the information, a vehicle bearing a Delhi registration number was intercepted at a check-point on a service road going towards Ratangarh and the opium was found in the possession of its occupant, they said. The accused was identified as Ajit Singh, alias Pinder, of Dhakala, an officer from the Shahabad police station said. During interrogation, Singh confessed that he brought the drugs consignment from Jharkhand to supply to another person who is engaged in its trade, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/26-kg-opium-seized-1-held-in-haryana/article36997029.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Festival time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/festival-time/article36997041.ece
14 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Minister gets award for promoting vegan leather||People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) has named Meghalaya Environment and Forest Minister James Sangma the winner of the Progressive Business Concept Award for promoting vegan pineapple leather. Apart from encouraging farmers in the State to go for pineapple leather production, Mr. Sangma also had plans to introduce climate change in the school curricula, PETA said in a statement on Wednesday. According to the International Society for Horticultural Science, Meghalaya contributes about 8% of the total pineapple produced in India. Pineapple leather, a fairly new product that some global fashion design companies were adopting to lessen animal suffering, is considered sturdy and durable like animal skin. “Minister Sangma has rightly identified the climate crisis as a defining challenge of our times and he is already taking steps to address one of the biggest culprits — animal agriculture,” Radhika Suryavanshi, PETA-India’s senior campaigns coordinator, said. “PETA India looks forward to seeing Meghalaya create new opportunities for farmers while helping to save the planet and animals’ lives,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minister-gets-award-for-promoting-vegan-leather/article36996972.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Camp’s crowdpuller||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/camps-crowdpuller/article36996975.ece
14 October 2021||October 14 2021 00:00 IST,||K-drama’s new avenger||As Netflix’s bloody survival series, Squid Game ,  continues to break viewing records across the world, it is apparent that OTT viewers are developing an insatiable appetite for the crime and thriller genre. And who doesn’t like a good revenge story, especially if the protagonist is a woman who chooses to eschew moral codes and laws for justice? The streaming platform’s latest title, My Name , promises to be an edgy, high-octane drama. It tells the story of a high school student — bullied and ostracised for being a gangster’s daughter — who later becomes the sole witness of her father’s murder. Driven to seek revenge, she puts herself in the line of fire. Helmed by Kim Jin-min — known for the critically-acclaimed Extracurricular (2020) — the eight-episode crime thriller brings together actors Han So-hee, Park Hee-soon and Ahn Bo-hyun.  So-hee’s transformation   Thepetite actor may not come across as your classic action hero at first glance, but she admits to training hard in martial arts and gaining over 10 kg of muscle weight to headline My Name as Yoon Ji-woo. In the drama, her character gets help from her father’s close friend Mu Jin (Park Hee-soon), who also heads the biggest drug cartel. The actor reveals that Charlize Theron’s action scenes in Atomic Blonde and Old Guard inspired her, but she also looked within for references. “My character Ji-woo is a lot like me — we are driven to get to our destination once we have set a goal for ourselves,” she says.   The Godfather effect   Meanwhile,co-star Hee-soon describes his character Mu Jin as a “very complex man”. “There are not many movies or shows I could refer to for the role of a drug lord, so I had to rely on classics such as The Godfather over and over again,” he says. My Name will stream on Netflix from October 15.   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/k-dramas-new-avenger/article36997300.ece
