17 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Singhu murder: 1 more arrested, 2 ‘surrender’||A second arrest was made on Saturday in connection with the murder of a man at the site of the farmers’ protest at the Singhu border, with the “surrender” of Narain Singh at Amritsar in Punjab. Narain, a member of the Nihang Sikh community from Amarkot village, was arrested by the Amritsar rural police. News agencies reported late in the evening that two more persons, belonging to the Nihang order from Fatehgarh Sahib in Punjab, had “surrendered” before the Sonipat police in Kundli in connection with the killing. Lakhbir Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran in Punjab, was found dead at Sonipat in Haryana on Friday. The body was tied to a police barricade with the wrist and leg severed. He was “punished” for allegedly desecrating the holy Sikh scripture. The prime accused Sarabjit, also a Nihang Sikh, who was arrested by the Haryana police a few hours after the murder, was remanded in police custody for seven days by the District and Sessions Court in Sonipat on Saturday. Soon after his arrest, Narain claimed that he had informed the Senior Superintendent of Police, Amritsar, over phone that he wanted to surrender. He said he had sought permission to visit the Akal Takht, but the police took him into custody near Jandiala town, around 25 km from Amritsar. Talking to reporters before his arrest, Narain said Lakhbir was “punished” allegedly for the sacrilege. Members of many Sikh outfits reportedly garlanded him with currency notes when he paid obeisance at a gurdwara. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer organisations protesting against the three farm laws, has demanded an investigation into “the allegation of conspiracy to sabotage the movement through sacrilege and promotion of disturbance by hurting religious sentiments”. “From media reports, it appears that he had been receiving mysterious calls which he would take in secrecy. Lakhbir Singh is supposed to have told his sister that ‘his reach has increased now and has gone far’... All this information points to a deep conspiracy of some sort,” the Morcha said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-arrest-made-in-singhu-murder-case/article37034117.ece
17 October 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. announces organisational poll||In a clear message to the dissident-reformists or the group of 23 (G-23) Congress leaders who had sought internal reforms, party president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday told the Congress Working Committee (CWC) that she was a full-time, hands-on president and there was no need for colleagues to speak to her through the media. After nearly five-hour meeting, the CWC also announced an elaborate election schedule for organisational polls, according to which a new party president would be elected between August 21 and September 20 next year and thereafter, elections to the CWC would be held by October at the All India Congress Committee Plenary. Amid a chorus from party colleagues to take back the reins of the Congress, Rahul Gandhi, for the first time after he quit in May 2019, said he “will consider it”. But he also pointed out that the Congress should have clarity of thought and decide where it stands on the question of ideology. Mr. Gandhi then cited the example of the 2015 Dadri lynching incident, and said he had wanted to visit the family of Akhlaq, the Muslim man who was lynched by a mob but was prevented as some in the party had reservations. Similar sentiments were expressed when he visited Hathras to meet the family of a Dalit girl who was raped and murdered last year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-announces-organisational-poll/article37034119.ece
17 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Heavy rain lashes Hyderabad||Heavy rain accompanied by lightning and thunder lashed the eastern part of the city on Saturday, bringing with it the routine repercussions of flooding and chaos. While rain began across various localities in the city around noon, starting from about 1.30 p.m., it poured with unmitigated intensity. The onslaught continued for three hours up to 4.30 p.m., interspersed by deafening thunderbolts. Roads became virtual canals with waist deep water at times. Musarambagh causeway bridge was submerged owing to stagnation of rainwater, proving it dangerous for vehicles to pass on. Waist deep water obstructed vehicles near Malakpet railway bridge too, causing traffic slowdown. Water logging was reported on the main thoroughfares also at Lakdikapul, Khairatabad, Bahadurpura, Chilkalguda, Begumpet, Kharkhana, Dilsukhnagar, L.B.Nagar, Chintalkunta and other locations. Intensive downpour Streets became streams in several colonies of Dilsukhnagar, Malakpet, Saroornagar, and Uppal localities, where the rain fall was in excess of 10 centimetres. As per the data obtained from the automatic weather stations in the city, Saroornagar, Amberpet, and Uppal mandals received the highest rainfall which was over 10 centimetres, while Himayatnagar followed with over eight centimetres. Marredpally, Saidabad, Hayatnagar, Kukatpally, Malkajgiri, Balanagar and other mandals received above five centimetres of rainfall during three hours of intensive downpour. Officials from the L.B.Nagar Zone of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, where it rained the maximum, said there were no major incidents of flooding. Surplus weir of the Bandlaguda lake was deepened on emergency basis, to prevent further inundation of Ayyappa Colony, the site of chronic flooding, they informed. Weather report by the Meteorology department spoke of a low pressure area over coastal areas of North Andhra Pradesh and Odisha and adjoining West-Central Bay of Bengal, and cyclonic circulation up to 5.8 kilometres above mean sea level tilting South-Westwards with height.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-lashes-hyderabad/article37034450.ece
17 October 2021||Chennai,||Tiger being treated for severe cuts||The tiger, MDT23, which was captured after a 22-day operation in Mudumalai on Friday, is being fed and treated for its wounds at a rescue centre in Mysuru. Tamil Nadu Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj and his team had secured the tiger, which had killed two persons and over 20 head of cattle, after tranquillising it in the jungle. As the tiger had several injury marks and wounds, officials of the Tamil Nadu Forest Department had a detailed discussion with the doctors and rescue officials at Mysuru at midnight Friday and on Saturday morning. The tiger’s haemoglobin levels were falling gradually, and it was also found to be dehydrated. The doctors made an initial diagnosis and listed the problems, which included several body cuts, some of which had led to cell degradation and might cause septicemia, Mr. Niraj said. The canines have to be restored as erosion has left the tiger unable to eat properly. Swelling in the front legs is another issue, he said. After getting him back for feeding, the doctors will start the treatment in a day or two, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tiger-being-treated-for-severe-cuts/article37034370.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,||16 districts in Karnataka receive ‘large excess’ rainfall||In what is turning out to be a very wet October, Karnataka is seeing yet another prolonged monsoon season with over half the State receiving excess rainfall so far this month. According to data from KSNDMC, between October 1 and 13, as many as 16 districts had rainfall in ‘large excess’, which means 60% and above rainfall. Many recorded over 100% more rainfall than normal. These included Chickballapur, which had a departure from normal of a whopping 191%, Davangere (184%), Tumakuru (165%), Chitradurga (157%), Bengaluru Rural (147%), Kolar (119%), Chikkamagaluru (118%), Dakshina Kannada (115%), and Kodagu (103%). The remaining: Udupi, Shivamogga, Bengaluru Urban, Mandya, Haveri, Mysuru and Ramanagara had departures of 92% to 70%. Excess rainfall Five districts had excess rainfall: Uttara Kannada, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Belagavi, and Vijayanagar, while six had normal rainfall. Four districts, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Bidar and Ballari, had deficient rainfall. Looking at the actual southwest monsoon period — July to September — all regions had normal rainfall, though Malnad had a –18% departure from normal, Coastal Karnataka had a –13% departure, and the State overall had –8% departure; +19% or –19% departure is considered to be normal. Compare this with the 13-day data for October, and almost all regions — South Interior Karnataka (SIK), Malnad and Coastal — recorded large excess. While SIK has seen the largest departure: 124%, Malnad has seen a 90% departure and Coastal 85%. North Interior Karnataka is the only region which has had normal rainfall with no departure from normal whatsoever. Karnataka on the whole has recorded large excess rainfall with a 62% departure from normal. KSNDMC officials attributed the current rains to two troughs in the Bay of Bengal as well the Arabian Sea. “Last year too, we saw a similar prolonged monsoon,” a senior official said. In 2019 too, the monsoon had a late withdrawal in October.Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had recently said that in October, as many as 21 people had lost their lives in rain-related incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-districts-in-karnataka-receive-large-excess-rainfall/article37034396.ece
17 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Bulk waste generators who fail to set up on-site composting units have to pay fine||Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has said that it will impose penalty on bulk waste generators from November 1 if they failed to set up on-site composting units by the end of this month. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said in a press release on Saturday that in accordance with Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, and the MCC’s Solid Waste Treatment Bylaws, apartments and establishments such as hotels, hospitals, lodges, wedding halls, catering, etc., with more than 30 households are mandated to construct on-site composting units and process the waste at source. Several notices and press releases regarding the same have been issued to all the bulk solid waste generators. Yet, the directions have received only a few response. Hence apartments that fail to comply with the rules will have to deposit a sum of Rs. 15 per flat at the beginning of the month in advance. Later the fine receipts must be handed to the driver of the solid waste collecting vehicle before handing over the waste. This will be followed by a fine of Rs. 25 per flat in the second month. The challan for paying the penalty can be obtained from the health section at the corporation office. “In case of failure to produce the penalty paid receipts, waste will be rejected on the spot and legal action initiated against bulk waste generators,” Mr. Sridhar said. The Commissioner said that presently, the Karnataka High Court was hearing a writ petition on solid waste management by the corporation. A government inquiry was under way looking into the progress made in implementing solid waste management measures by the corporation. Taking serious cognisance of the matter, the MCC had directed all bulk waste generators to begin on-site composting of wet waste before October 31, 2021. However, several establishments have failed to comply with the guidelines. “The issue will be taken seriously and violators will be fined from November 1, 2021,” he said, adding that bulk waste generators could contact 0824-220310 (-318) for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bulk-waste-generators-who-fail-to-set-up-on-site-composting-units-have-to-pay-fine/article37034571.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,||High Court quashes case against ex-Minister Alagiri||The Madras High Court has quashed a private complaint preferred by the Returning Officer of the Madurai Parliamentary constituency against former Union Minister M.K. Alagiri for having allegedly suppressed certain details regarding his assets while filing nominations for the 2009 Lok Sabha election. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar quashed the case after advocate R. Srinivas contended that the complaint was barred by limitation. The counsel pointed out that the Returning Officer (Collector of Madurai) had preferred the complaint before a Judicial Magistrate only in 2014 for an alleged offence committed in 2009. The allegation pertained to non-disclosure of a piece of land owned by Mr. Alagiri in Tiruvarur. S. Jaganathan had reported the discrepancy in May 2013. The Returning Officer lodged the complaint in February 2014. Noting that the complaint had been lodged under Sections 177 (furnishing false information) of IPC and 125A (penalty for filing false affidavit) of the Representation of the People Act of 1951, the petitioner said both the legal provisions pressed against him were pari materia (one and the same). Since IPC was a common law and the Representation of the People Act was a special law, the petitioner contended that it was a well-settled position of law that only the provisions of a special law should be preferred by the courts whenever a person gets charged with similar offences under two different laws. He said Section 125A of the 1951 Act provided for a maximum imprisonment of six months if a person was found guilty under it, and highlighted that Section 468 of the CrPC prohibited a court from taking cognisance of such a complaint after the expiry of the limitation period of six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-quashes-case-against-ex-union-minister-alagiri/article37034251.ece
17 October 2021||YADGIR,||SC community people in Yadgir village enter temple along with DC||Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir district R. Ragapriya on Saturday sought to put an end to caste discrimination at Neelahalli by entering Anjeneya temple along with people from Scheduled Caste community during her village stay programme. People from the SC community were not allowed to enter the temple so far. When SC community people complained that were being discriminated against while serving food in hotels, the Deputy Commissioner convinced a hotelier and gave them a glass of water. The village stay programme, Zilladhikari Nade Halli Kade, which was suspended in view of the COVID-19 pandemic has resumed now. Dr. Ragapriya took officials and other staff to Neelahalli as part of the programme and heard the grievances of the residents. She handed over monthly pension letter to 40 eligible people. “We have received total 124 applications seeking relief. Of them, 63 involved revenue-related issues, four involved tippani and correction of RTC, 12 were about drainage issue, house sanction and other infrastructure works, and three were related to electricity,” she said, and added that steps would be taken to solve the problems. Dr. Ragapriya directed officials of the Minor Irrigation Department to prepare an action plan to construct a bridge-cum-barrage across a tank to enable farmers to reach their farmlands on the other side when the tank gets filled. The Deputy Commissioner promised to release Rs. 5 lakh to develop a graveyard on 1.25 acres of land in the village and asked officials to conduct a spot inspection for developing graveyards at Goudagera and Kudloor villages. Shankaragowda Somnal, Additional Deputy Commissioner; Prashant Hanagandi, Assistant Commissioner; Ramachandra Gola, Assistant Director of Social Welfare Department; and Channamallappa Ghanti, tahsildar, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-community-people-in-yadgir-village-enter-temple-along-with-dc/article37034398.ece
17 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||8 killed, several missing as rain causes havoc in Kerala||Torrential rain, powered by a low pressure system in southeast Arabian Sea, pummelled southern and central Kerala districts throughout Saturday, triggering landslips and floods which left eight dead and wreaked havoc across Pathanamthitta, Kottayam and Idukki districts. Six of a family were killed while 15 others were reported missing in landslips in Plapally and Kavali in Koottickal panchayat of Kottayam. Search and rescue operations were hindered by heavy rainfall and poor light. A man and a woman from Koothattukulam were killed after their car was washed away by the floodwaters at Kanjar in Thodupuzha in Idukki. Also in Idukki, seven people were feared missing in a landslip at Kokkayar. In Thiruvananthapuram, a migrant labourer went missing in the Amayizhanjan canal. With flood waters cutting off roads and access to several regions, the Army and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were deployed in various districts to coordinate rescue operations. The Air Force also is on standby. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who chaired a review meeting in the evening, described the situation as grave and promised all-out efforts to rescue people stranded in cut-off locations. Indications are that the weather situation will not worsen, Mr. Vijayan said. Scores of families have been relocated to relief camps in the affected districts. The torrential rains have also damaged houses, brought down trees and snapped overhead power cables across southern and central Kerala. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had put Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur and Palakkad districts on red alert for extremely heavy rainfall. Yellow and orange alerts were sounded in the other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8-killed-as-rain-causes-havoc-in-kerala/article37034115.ece
17 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||KSEB ready to supply 300 MW to Central pool||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has informed the State Government that it can supply 300 MW to the Central pool by increasing hydel generation during off-peak hours. In return, the KSEB has sought support from the Centre for meeting the high evening peak-hour electricity demand in the State. The KSEB has reportedly conveyed its stand to Chief Secretary V.P. Joy. In an October 14 letter to the Chief Secretary, the Union Power Ministry had sought hydropower support from Kerala till October 31 in view of the acute coal shortage crisis. The Ministry wanted the State to increase hydel generation, especially during the off-peak 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. period, from storage-based stations such as the 780-MW Idukki power project. State facing shortage Kerala is facing a shortage of about 300 MW daily in peak hour demand due to dip in Central supply caused by the coal crisis. The State is spending an additional Rs. 2 crore on power purchases on a daily basis to make up for the shortfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kseb-ready-to-supply-300mw-to-central-pool/article37034505.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Diesel price Rs. 100 per litre in Bengaluru||The price of diesel, which has been steadily rising over the last year and a half, has touched Rs. 100 per litre in Bengaluru. On Friday, it was selling at Rs. 99.63, but rose by 37 paise on Saturday morning. The price of petrol too shot up by 36 paise and is now Rs. 109.16 per litre. In other parts of the State, such as Ballari and Uttara Kannada, diesel price crossed Rs. 100 a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/diesel-price-rs-100-per-litre-in-bengaluru/article37034140.ece
17 October 2021||Coimbatore,||Woman washed away while crossing stream||A woman aged around 50 was washed away when she tried to cross a stream at Mathipalayam in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The Fire and Rescue Services said that M. Vijaya, a resident of Ambedkar Street at Mathipalayam, was reported missing. The incident happened around 3.30 p.m. when Vijaya, a farm worker, was returning to her home after the day’s works. Two more women were with her. Ms. Vijaya ventured into a stream, which locals call as Mathipalayam odai , hoping that she could cross it without difficulty. The Fire and Rescue Services said that the water level in the stream increased unexpectedly and she was carried away.  District Fire Officer R. Jegadheesh and senior officers camped at the place to lead the search operation which continued up to 7 p.m. An official said that search for the missing woman would continue on Sunday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-washed-away-while-crossing-stream/article37034259.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,||2.55 kg of gold seized||Three passengers were arrested for attempting to smuggle 2.55 kg of gold and electronic goods worth Rs. 1.16 crore by Customs at Chennai airport on Friday. Five passengers, who arrived from Dubai in different flights, were detained and officials found them carrying 10 bundles in the form of gold paste and electronic goods worth Rs. 4.7 lakh, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/255-kg-of-gold-seized/article37034211.ece
17 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Heavy rain lashes city||Heavy rain accompanied by lightning and thunder lashed the eastern part of the city on Saturday, bringing with it the routine repercussions of flooding and chaos. While rain began across various localities in the city around noon, starting from about 1.30 p.m., it poured with unmitigated intensity. The onslaught continued for three hours up to 4.30 p.m., interspersed by deafening thunderbolts. Roads became virtual canals with waist deep water at times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-lashes-city/article37034420.ece
17 October 2021||Bhopal,||Baghel takes potshots at U.P., M.P. Govts.||Friday’s Jashpur incident, in which a person died and over 16 others were injured when a speeding SUV allegedly hauling drugs from Odisha to Madhya Pradesh ploughed into a group of devotees, assumed political overtones a day later after Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath tweeted asking the Chhattisgarh Government to provide assistance to the victims. Stressing that the two accused — residents of Singrauli district in Madhya Pradesh — have been arrested, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday challenged his U.P. counterpart to arrest all the accused involved in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident of October 3. ‘Police shielding accused’ “Yogi Adityanath did not succeed in arresting the accused, instead Uttar Pradesh Police was shielding the son of the Union MoS (Home) in Lakhimpur Kheri violence... Here, action has been taken and the accused have been arrested,” Mr. Baghel said in Raipur. The Chhattisgarh CM also took potshots at the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP Government in Madhya Pradesh. “Both the accused are from M.P. and had reached Chhattisgarh with ganja. The probe continues. It is also necessary to investigate who is protecting them,” he said. The Jashpur Superintendent of Police said of the 16 injured, 12 are undergoing treatment at Pathalgaon Primary Health Centre and four have been admitted at Raigad District Hospital. The Chhattisgarh Government has suspended one policeman and announced a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh for the kin of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jashpur-tragedy-baghel-takes-potshots-at-up-mp-govts/article37034305.ece
17 October 2021||Vijayawada,||Rumours of power cuts dispelled||Dispelling “rumours” in the social media that there will be power cuts for several hours after Dasara in the name of ‘emergency load relief’, Energy Secretary N. Srikant, in a release, has said AP-Genco has been provided Rs. 250 crore for procuring coal from “wherever it is available in the country.” “The Discoms are taking steps to prevent prolonged power cuts and Genco is scouting for coal supplies,” Mr. Srikant said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rumours-of-power-cuts-dispelled/article37034687.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||New Delhi to host NSAs on Afghan issue||Two months after the Taliban takeover of Kabul, India is planning to engage regional powers on the future of Afghanistan. It is sending an official team to attend the Moscow process of talks on October 20 that will include the Taliban Government’s Deputy Prime Minister. India has also invited regional National Security Advisers to New Delhi for a meeting in November, including Pakistan’s NSA, Moeed Yusuf, in a rare departure from the otherwise bitter bilateral ties. According to sources, New Delhi has reached out to countries that participated in the “Regional Security Dialogue” in Tehran — Iran, Russia, China, Pakistan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan — for the meeting to be chaired by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. A Pakistani official confirmed receiving the invitation, but said a decision on participation was yet to be taken. The invitation to Pakistan for a multilateral format meeting follows weeks after a three-member Indian delegation participated in the Regional Anti-Terror Mechanism meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO-RATS) at Pabbi in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. According to a number of verified reports, which the government has not denied, Mr. Doval has led a series of back-channel consultations with the Pakistani military and security officials over the past year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-delhi-to-host-nsas-on-afghan-issue/article37034121.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Caught in the downpour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/caught-in-the-downpour/article37034569.ece
17 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Alert against infectious diseases||The Health Department has sounded an alert against the outbreak of infectious diseases now that heavy rain has inundated large parts of the State . Health Minister Veena George convened a meeting of District Medical Officers on Saturday to assess the preparedness of districts. She directed the Director of Health Services and the Director of Medical Education to ensure that hospitals are prepared to meet any emergency situation arising out of rain and flooding. If required, hospitals should arrange special care facilities for people. Adequate stock of drugs should be ensured and relief camps should be organised maintaining all COVID-19 protocols. Antigen test facilities will be arranged in camps The Health Department has sounded an alert against infectious diseases, which might break out in the aftermath of rain. People should be careful about drinking only water which is boiled and cooled. Water stagnation can lead to the breeding of Aedes mosquitoes which spread dengue and chikungunya. People in all flood-affected areas and voluntary workforce should be administered doxycycline as prophylaxis to prevent leptospirosis. The Principal Health Secretary and other senior health officials were present at the meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/alert-against-infectious-diseases/article37034460.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Police residential building develops cracks||A multi-storeyed police residential quarters near Binny Mills, which is less than three years old, developed a wide crack and started tilting on Saturday after a night of heavy rains. Thirty two families were evacuated, said Sanjeev Patil, DCP, West Division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-residential-building-develops-cracks/article37034142.ece
17 October 2021||Mumbai,||Detention of HIV+ sex worker upheld||A Mumbai court recently upheld a magistrate court order to detain a sex worker for two years as she was HIV-positive, and setting her free was likely to “pose danger to the society”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/detention-of-hiv-sex-worker-upheld/article37034530.ece
17 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot’s Delhi visit sparks speculation about rejig||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s visit to New Delhi to attend the Congress Working Committee meeting on Saturday has sparked speculation about a Cabinet reshuffle in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gehlots-delhi-visit-sparks-speculation-about-rejig/article37034531.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Tiger T23 fine , being treated for wounds||Indicating that there could be a change in resumption of the physical classes for nursery and kindergarten schools in the State, Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Saturday said a fresh notification on the matter would be issued soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fresh-notification-on-nurseries-soon-minister/article37034194.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||T.N. records 1,233 new COVID-19 cases||CHENNAI Tamil Nadu recorded 1,233 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 26,85,874. Fifteen new deaths pushed the toll to 35,884.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-1233-new-covid-19-cases/article37034195.ece
17 October 2021||New Delhi,||Marginal dip in DU third cut-off list||Delhi University released the third cut-off list on Saturday, with the required marks for admission seeing a decline of 0.25% to 1.5%. There is a glimmer of hope for students as seats in popular courses are still available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/marginal-dip-in-du-third-cut-off-list/article37034306.ece
17 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot’s Delhi visit sparks speculation about rejig||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s visit to New Delhi to attend the Congress Working Committee meeting on Saturday has sparked speculation about a Cabinet reshuffle in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gehlots-delhi-visit-sparks-speculation-about-rejig/article37034308.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Ayyappa temple opens||The Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala was opened in connection with the five-day monthly rituals at 5 p.m. on Saturday. In view of the heavy rain, District Collector Divya S. Iyer has banned the entry of pilgrims to the holly hillock on October 17 and 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ayyappa-temple-opens/article37034503.ece
17 October 2021||Mangaluru,||Rs. 18-crore areca package awaiting govt. nod: DC||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra says the government is expected to soon approve a Rs. 18-crore package for arecanut plantations hit by yellow leaf disease in coastal and Malnad belts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-18-crore-areca-package-awaiting-govt-nod-dc/article37034573.ece
17 October 2021||Hassan,||CM promises foodgrains at doorstep from Jan. 26||Preparations are being made to ensure that beneficiaries get foodgrains under the public distribution system at their doorsteps, according to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-promises-foodgrains-at-doorstep-from-jan-26/article37034567.ece
17 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||Siddaramaiah accuses Sajjanar of corruption||Congress leader has accused BJP candidate for Hangal bypoll Shivaraj Sajjanar and the former Minister late C.M. Udasi of large-scale corruption in cooperative sugar mill in Haveri district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/siddaramaiah-accuses-sajjanar-of-corruption/article37034400.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||In the line of defence, with growing powers||During the Kargil war in 1999, the Army and other intelligence agencies faced a peculiar problem. Their interception centres in the high-altitude region were unable to interpret the wireless communication of the Pakistani intruders. The Pakistanis spoke in Dardi, Balti, Pushto and Farsi as they occupied key heights along the Line of Control (LoC). A small unit of the Border Security Force (BSF), posted at Channigund, was asked to interpret and analyse the conversations taped by the agencies on a cassette. BSF Inspector Habibullah, a local from Drass, assisted the Army in translating the wireless conversations in Dardi and Balti. According to a book, BSF: India’s First Line of Defence , edited by Anirudh Deshpande, associate professor, History, Delhi University, the BSF Inspector “also helped in motivating local youths for working as porters” as large number of population had fled the area in panic due to shelling from across the border. Though the BSF played a key role in the Kargil war — it was the first to send five specific intelligence inputs about a Pakistani build-up, months before the war commenced in May 1999 — the achievements of the central armed police force (CAPF) that reports to the Ministry of Home Affairs, were lost in footnotes of government reports. The BSF was raised on December 1, 1965 after the India-Pakistan war. Till then, the border with Pakistan was guarded by the armed battalions of State police who were ill-equipped to stop trans-border crimes and infiltration. The then Prime Minister, Lal Bahadur Shastri, constituted a commission of secretaries and based on its report the BSF was raised. Its first director general (DG) was police officer K.F. Rustamji. Former police officer P.V. Rajagopal, who authored an autobiographical narrative on the founding DG, quotes Rustamji : “After handing over charge as IGP Madhya Pradesh, I reached Delhi and wrote my joining report on 21 July 1965…I became the head of a one-man organization. I was the sole Borderman; nobody below me, nobody above me...” Pivotal role It was raised by drawing personnel from the State armed police, the armed forces and from 25 battalions (a battalion is 1,000 personnel approximately). The BSF has now expanded to around 200 battalions. The BSF played a pivotal role in the 1971 Bangladesh liberation war. The BSF and its counterpart — the Border Guards Bangladesh — are now commemorating 50 years of Bangladesh’s liberation (formerly East Pakistan ) through year-long events. The 56-year-old force, deployed along the Bangladesh (4,096.7 km) and Pakistan (3,323 km) borders, is currently at the centre of a political storm after the MHA enhanced its operational limits in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. The MHA, through a notification in the Gazette of India on October 11, enhanced the “arrest, search and seize” powers of BSF up to 50 km from the international boundary in the States of Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. In Gujarat, the limit was reduced from the existing 80 km to 50 km and in Rajasthan, the 50 km limit has remained unchanged. Opposition parties have questioned the move, terming the order an attack on federalism. According to the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, policing is a State subject. However, according to the BSF Act, 1968, passed by Parliament and the rules framed in 1969, the BSF has been assigned three primary tasks while deployed along the borders — promote a sense of security among the people living in the border area; prevent trans-border crimes/unauthorised entry into or exit from the territory of India and prevent smuggling and any other illegal activity. In border areas, the BSF can “arrest, search and seize” in cases pertaining to smuggling of narcotics, prohibited items, illegal entry of foreigners and offences punishable under any other Central Act and select provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The BSF does not have policing powers and after apprehending a suspect, it can only conduct “preliminary questioning” and the seized consignment or a suspect have to be handed over to the local police within 24 hours. Such powers under CrPC are already available to other central forces such as the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). The ITBP (raised to protect the China border) and the SSB (for Bhutan and Nepal border) are also border guarding forces but can be deployed in the hinterland at the request of State governments. In 2011, the Congress-led UPA government proposed legislation to grant similar powers to the BSF across the country, but the Bill was not passed. In 2012, Narendra Modi as Gujarat’s Chief Minister had written to the then Prime Minister, Manmohan Singh, opposing the Centre’s proposed move. Over the years, the BSF’s role expanded and it was also deployed in areas affected by Left-wing extremism (LWE), for law and order situation and on election duty. The October 11 notification replaces a 2014 notification under the BSF Act, 1968, which also empowered the BSF to conduct counter-insurgency operations in the States of Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Territorial limit “The BSF does not have any investigating powers. Say, if a drone has been spotted near the Punjab border and has to be tracked beyond the 15 km limit, the present notification gives us a legal teeth to conduct the searches in nearby areas and not be constrained by territorial limit. We anyway alert all the agencies and the local police,” said a senior BSF official. The recent order only enhances the BSF’s “territorial jurisdiction”, said the official, giving the force an opportunity to also conduct independent searches. “But the FIR and investigation has to be done by the local police and concerned agency only, we have no such powers. The 50-km limit is being implemented to enforce uniformity,” the official added. Further explaining the order, the official said it would remove any confusion as the territorial limit was 15 km, 50 km and 80 km in different States. “In case of northeast States, except Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, the BSF’s jurisdiction was already there in the whole of the other five States. Even the Central Acts and CrPC, where the BSF is empowered to act, there are certain specified sections. There is no change in the sections and the Act, this notification has only increased the territorial jurisdiction.” After the Kargil war, a committee on internal security headed by retired IAS officer N.N. Vohra recommended that all internal security duties should be dealt by one force, which led to the gradual withdrawal of the BSF from Kashmir Valley. The BSF has a thin presence in the interiors of J&K now. Its primary responsibility is guarding the 192-km international border in Jammu and a few kilometres along the LoC that is protected by the Army. The force’s rise has not come without controversies. It has faced allegations of civilian killings and human rights violations. In 1993, BSF personnel opened fire at a procession at Bijbehara in South Kashmir, killing 43 people. In 2011, Felani Khatun, a 15-year-old girl from Bangladesh, was shot dead by BSF soldiers while she was entering Bangladesh from Cooch Behar district of West Bengal. Photographs of the teenager’s body that remained hanging on the barbed wire fence for several hours before being brought down created a huge public outcry in Bangladesh. This led to a policy change and the BSF was asked to use non-lethal weapons along the densely populated Bangladesh border. BSF officials later complained that they often came under violent attack by cattle smugglers active along the West Bengal border and the non-lethal weapon policy was an impediment to their operational capabilities. That issue remains unsettled. But now, with enhanced territorial limits in States, the border agency is set expand its operations, especially at a time when the borders remain tumultuous.  In Focus The BSF was formed on December 1, 1965 after the India-Pakistan war. Till then, the border with Pakistan was guarded by the armed battalions of State police departments It was raised by drawing personnel from the State armed police, the armed forces and from 25 battalions. The BSF has now expanded to around 200 battalions The force has also faced allegations of civilian killings and rights violations. In 1993, BSF personnel opened fire at a procession at Bijbehara in South Kashmir, killing 43 people   The BSF does not have policing powers and after detaining a suspect, it can only conduct ‘preliminary questioning’ and the suspect has to be handed over to the local police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-the-line-of-defence-with-growing-powers/article37034044.ece
17 October 2021||SRINAGAR,||Two more civilians killed in Kashmir||Two persons from outside Jammu and Kashmir and two suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants were killed in the Valley on Saturday. One of the militants is said to be behind the murder of a policemen. In Poonch, where anti-militancy operations in a forested area entered the sixth day, the bodies of two more Army jawans were recovered on Saturday. On the civilian killings, an official said suspected militants opened fire at Arvind Kumar from Bihar, a roadside vendor, in the Eidgah area of the old city in Srinagar. The victim suffered bullet injuries in the head. “He was declared brought dead to a nearby hospital,” the official said. Sajeer Ahmad, a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh, was shot dead in the Litter area of Pulwama. Ninth civilian killing This is the ninth civilian killing by militants in the Valley this month. Earlier, seven civilians, including a non-local Hindu vendor, a local Hindu teacher, a Sikh school principal and a Kashmiri Pandit chemist, were killed. J&K’s regional parties have condemned the killing. “This is yet another case of a civilian being targeted like this. All Arvind Kumar did was come to Srinagar in search of earning opportunities & it’s reprehensible that he was murdered,” National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said. Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said, “Strongly condemn today’s attack on a street vendor who sadly succumbed. Such unfortunate incidents only reinforce the immediate need to reach out to the people of J&K by initiating a constructive dialogue.” Peoples Conference chief Sajad Lone said, “This is pure terror. Yet again a golgappa vendor shot and killed. What a shame. How cowardly can it get.” “A top LeT ‘commander’, Umer Mushtaq Khanday, was killed along with an associate in the gunfight in Pampore [in Pulwama]. The bodies were retrieved from the debris after eight hours of search,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said. Khanday, a resident of Tulagh in Pampor, was involved in the killing of two police personnel at Baghat Srinagar on February 19, he said. A total of 13 militants had been killed in stepped-up operations against militants in Kashmir. These operations were launched immediately after militants killed seven civilians in the Valley. Poonch operation With the recovery of the bodies of two jawans, the death toll of soldiers has gone up to nine in two operations in Poonch since October 11. “Subedar Ajay Singh and Naik Harendra Singh were killed in action during search operations conducted by the Army along with the police in densely forested area of Nar Khas forest in Mendhar, District Poonch, on October 14,” an Army spokesman said. The twin operations were on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-more-civilians-killed-in-kashmir/article37034008.ece
17 October 2021||New Delhi,||Diabolical designs on farmers, says CWC||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Saturday adopted three strongly worded resolutions on inflation, the farmers’ protests and the country’s political situation, especially regarding the border stand-off with China and the deteriorating security situation in Jammu and Kashmir after the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan. The party also decided to take to the streets over runaway inflation by undertaking a Jan Jagaran Abhiyan between November 14 and 29. It also announced a series of training programmes for its leaders and workers on grassroots management, election management and the failures of the Narendra Modi Government. The first such training would take place at Sewagram in Wardha, Maharashtra, between November 12 and 15. On the issue of the farmers’ protests, the CWC said the past seven years had witnessed a “diabolical design” to attack the livelihood of the annadatas and the landless farm labourers. The CWC said the “brutal” mowing down of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri was a manifestation of the Union Government’s continuing “arrogance”. It slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not removing the Union Minister whose son had been arrested in connection with the incident. In a resolution on the political situation in the country, the CWC said the “assault on democratic institutions completes the sad and shameless narrative of the Modi Government”, and claimed that India was no longer regarded as a democracy and had earned the label of an “electoral autocracy”. The Congress alleged that independent watchdog bodies such as the Information Commission, the Election Commission and the Human Rights Commission had been “debased and rendered virtual ciphers”. The CWC expressed alarm over what it said was “rapid deterioration” in the security of the country, both external and internal. “Nearly 18 months after the clashes in Ladakh in which 20 soldiers lost their lives, Chinese troops continue to be in occupation of Indian territory,” the political resolution said. “The aggressive posture of China and the unabated infiltrations by Pakistan have resulted in a dramatic deterioration of the security of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K). After the change in regime in Afghanistan and the takeover by the Taliban, the situation is even graver, but the Government remains oblivious or in deep slumber,” it added. Calling the administration of J&K incompetent, the CWC demanded the restoration of full statehood and holding of democratic elections. Expressing grave concern over the move to grant the Border Security Force search and seizure powers up to 50 km from the border in States such as Assam, West Bengal and Punjab, the CWC said, “This is a dangerous encroachment on the exclusive power of the States and the powers of the State police.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/diabolical-designs-on-farmers-cwc/article37034022.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army Air Defence steps up procurement||After several delays in its modernisation process, the Army Air Defence (AD) is looking at major progress in the next few months in terms of deals and trials. These include additional indigenous Akash surface-to-air missile (SAM) systems, the under-development medium range surface-to-air missile (MRSAM) and Igla-S very short range air defence (VSHORAD) systems from Russia, according to defence officials. The Army had contracted a small number of Igla-S systems from Russia under emergency procurement through the Vice-Chiefs emergency financial powers and deliveries were expected soon, two officials confirmed. “The Army has two Akash regiments in service and negotiations are on for two more. Contract is expected to be concluded by January,” an official said. Akash is the indigenously designed and developed medium-range SAM system with a range of 25 km. In addition, the Army variant of the MRSAM, being jointly developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI), is nearing induction with the final stage of trials scheduled to be held in the next few months. “It’s in the penultimate state of induction,” the official said. Air defence functions at three levels – gun/missile system, medium range and high range. Within this, the AD guns are of two types: AD gun missile system and the AD self-propelled guns. The Army is looking for guns in both the categories. In the medium segment, it has the indigenous Akash SAM, while MRSAM fits in the high range. Last month, the first deliverable firing unit of the MRSAM System was handed over to the Indian Air Force (IAF), which can engage targets up to a range of 70 km. The repeatedly delayed Igla-S VSHORAD deal, which has seen several controversies over the past few years, was on track and close to conclusion, the two officials said. The contract should be concluded by January, one of them said. The Igla-S bid from Rosoboronexport of Russia was declared the lowest bid (L1) in the tender in 2018 from among three contenders. The other contenders, MBDA of France and SAAB of Sweden, lodged a protest after Igla-S was declared the winner. Further, SAAB lodged an official complaint detailing procedural violations in the evaluation process. The Request for Proposal (RFP) was first issued in October 2010 for over 5,000 missiles, 258 single-launchers and 258 multi-launchers with an estimated cost of Rs. 6,400 crore and trials began in 2012. Air Defence guns On October 14, 2021, the Army issued the Request For Proposal (RFP) for 220 air defence guns and 1,41,576 rounds of ammunition to be procured under the buy and make category of the acquisition procedure. Within this, 25 guns and 44,440 rounds of ammunition would be procured under the buy portion and the remaining under the make portion of the contract, as per the RFP. The last date for submitting bids is January 6, 2022. In another category, while a global tender to procure Quick Reaction SAMs (QRSAMs) has been delayed, an indigenous project by the DRDO is moving ahead. “The DRDO has presented the proof of concept, and so far, three trials have been conducted,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-air-defence-steps-up-procurement/article37034031.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Battle of the Buzzers at Sai University Quiz finals||The Sai University National Quiz 2021 organised in association with The Hindu In School, had three students emerge as winners in the finals held on September 24, following gruelling preliminary and semifinal rounds. V. Sohan from Bengaluru bagged the first place with 130 points and was given a trophy, a certificate, a tab and a 75% scholarship if he chooses to study at Sai University. Meenakshi R.S. from Kozhikode won the second prize with 80 points, and Navya Prakash J.K. from Bengaluru came in third with 65 points. They won smartphones, trophies, certificates, and a 50% scholarship if they choose to study at Sai University. A 25% scholarship was announced for the remaining 12 finalists, if they study at Sai University Over 1,040 students who passed out of class 12 in 2021 took part in the prelims and around 240 students qualified for the semifinals. From this, 15 students qualified from the finals. Participants were tested on their knowledge of a wide range of topics. Arvind Rajeev from ‘X Quiz It’ was the Quiz Master. The entire event took place virtually, with an exciting final buzzer round held via Zoom. The finalists had just 15 seconds to press the buzzer and answer the questions posed to them and the first three participants to press the buzzer were given the chance to answer. K.V. Ramani, Founder and Chancellor, Sai University, a special guest at the event, appreciated the enthusiasm, knowledge, and skills of the youyj. He applauded the uniqueness of the quiz in its format, content and participation, and the nature of its platform. The dignitaries included Dr. Jamshed Bharucha, Vice-Chancellor, Sai University, and Sridhar Aranala, Vice-President (Sales and Distribution), The Hindu Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/battle-of-the-buzzers-at-sai-university-quiz-finals/article37034005.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Father, son and a protest||When Ajay Kumar Mishra 'Teni', MP for the Kheri constituency in Uttar Pradesh, was inducted into the Union Council of Ministers in July, he was relatively unknown outside his close political circles. A Brahmin, Mr. Mishra was the only MP from the non-OBC and non-Dalit communities to feature among the seven inductees into the government from Uttar Pradesh. The Assembly elections are due in the State in early 2022, and the surprise induction of Mr. Mishra was seen as attempt by the BJP to reach out to the disgruntled Brahmins, the core support and ideological base of the party. In three months, however, Mr. Mishra would be at the centre of a political storm in the State. Mr. Mishra’s clout runs deep in parts of Lakhimpur Kheri, the largest district in U.P., located in the green belt of Terai close to the India-Nepal border, also known as the sugar bowl. On October 3, three cars from Mr. Mishra’s convoy ran over a group of farmers peacefully protesting against the visit of Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in Tikonia. The protest was fuelled by Mr. Mishra's provocative remarks a few days earlier, when he threatened to evict the farmers from the district. Four farmers and a local journalist were killed and several others injured. Three BJP workers, including a driver, were also killed in the clashes that followed. Ashish Mishra, alias Monu, Minister Mishra's son, was accused of being in the car leading the carnage and was arrested later. Before the media, father and son have claimed innocence in the murder case, and said Monu was not even at the site of the incident. They said he was in in their ancestral village Banveerpur, supervising the annual wrestling event held in the memory of Mr. Mishra’s father Ambika Prasad. Power-lifting and wrestling are among Mr. Mishra’s hobbies. According to a local source who was associated with the RSS, Ambika Prasad, who had moved to Lakhimpur from Kanpur, earned goodwill in the village initially by lending money and utensils for marriages and other events. Born in 1960, Mr. Mishra has an LL.B. degree from Kanpur and, apart from owning farming land, runs a rice mill. People of Tikonia alleged that during his early years, his family was associated with illegal smuggling of the Khair tree, which was once found in abundance in the region, sandalwood and foodgrains. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait had recently referred to these allegations. Political career Mr. Mishra’s political career has seen a constant upward trajectory, though his early days in public life were shadowed by allegations of a murder of a political rival. Mr. Mishra first won the Lok Sabha election in 2014 when the BJP under Narendra Modi’s leadership won a landslide. He ended the long streak of Kurmi (OBC) domination in Kheri, becoming the first Brahmin to win the constituency. Before contesting for Parliament, he was an MLA from Nighasan (2012). He was mentored by former MLA Ram Kumar Verma. In 2019, Mr. Mishra improved his margin, defeating the SP-BSP combine by almost 20% votes. From 2000 to 2005, Mr. Mishra served as the vice-president of the district cooperative bank. It was during this time that he was accused of shooting dead a Samajwadi Party youth worker, Prabhat Gupta, in 2000. A local sessions court, in March 2004, acquitted Mr. Mishra and three others in the case, but a criminal appeal filed by Prabhat’s brother Rajeev Gupta is pending before the Allahabad High Court. The last hearing was in February 2019. From 2005 to 2010, Mr. Mishra was a member of the Kheri Zilla Panchayat. On September 25, while warning protesting farmers to “mend themselves” or else he would not take more than two minutes to mend them himself, Mr. Mishra had also reminded them of his past record before he was elected a public representative. He asserted that he did “not run away from any challenge”. However, the Tikonia incident, which has led to demands for his dismissal from the Union government, has mounted pressure on the Minister. On October 5, he dismissed all allegations, regarding his past. “All cases against me had concluded in my favour,” he said, describing the cases as “fake”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/father-son-and-a-protest/article37034042.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The billionaire Prime Minister||On October 14, Hezbollah, the powerful Shia political party-cum-militia, took out a demonstration in the Lebanese capital against the judge leading the probe into the August 2020 Beirut blast. Hassan Nasrallah, Hezbollah’s leader, had termed the probe “political” that has “nothing to do with justice and truth”. The rally, Hezbollah later claimed, came under sniper attack from the city’s Christian quarters. In the ensuing clashes, which revived the memories of the country’s brutal civil war of the 1980s, six people were killed and more than 30 others were injured. Prime Minister Najib Mikati, who formed his government just weeks earlier, apologised to the public for the clashes and said the security situation had improved after the Army had been deployed. But the incident also showed the challenges he is facing as Prime Minister at a time when his focus is on addressing Lebanon’s economic woes. Mr. Mikati was invited by the President to form the government in July after two PMs-designate failed to win enough support in Parliament. The country had plunged into a political crisis after Prime Minister Hassan Diab announced his resignation in August last year following the blast. The Lebanese had to wait for more than a year to get another government, thanks to the country’s confessional political system in which sectarian blocs and leaders hold political sway. According to the Lebanese Constitution, the PM should be a Sunni, the President a Christian and the Speaker a Shia. Deep connections Mr. Mikati, a self-made billionaire, was a two-time Prime Minister with deep connections with Lebanon’s political elite as well as the Assad regime in neighbouring Syria. According to Forbes , he has a net worth of $2.9 billion. In 1982, Mikati co-founded Investcom with his billionaire brother Taha Mikati, which was selling satellite phones at the height of Lebanon’s civil war. Later, Investcom made billions from its businesses in Africa where the company built cellphone towers. In 2005, South Africa’s MTN bought the Mikati brothers’ stake in Investcom for $3.6 billion. By that time, Najib Mikati had become an influential member of Lebanon’s political elite. His political career started in 1998 when he was appointed the Public Works and Transport Minister. Two years later, he would be elected to the Lebanese Parliament for the first time from Tripoli, a seat he has held continuously except from 2005 to 2009. In 2005, when the country was still struggling to come out of the political crisis triggered by the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri, Mr. Mikati emerged as a consensus candidate as Acting Prime Minister, after Omar Karami’s resignation. He would hold that post for a few months. But his real stint at the top of the Government would come six years later. In January 2011, Mikati formed his Cabinet as the candidate of the March 8 alliance of Hezbollah, Christian politician Michel Aoun (currently Lebanon's President) and Druze leader Walid Kamal Jumblatt. The alliance wanted to keep the bloc of Saad Hariri, Rafiq Hariri’s son who was backed by Saudi Arabia, out of power. Mr. Mikati emerged the favourite of the Shia-Sunni-Christian-Druzecoalition. But the government would unravel within two years as he would fall out with his Hezbollah allies. This time, Mr. Mikati says he has formed a technocratic government and his focus would be on addressing Lebanon’s economic crisis. The Mediterranean country, which was once called ‘the Paris of the East’, is facing a once in a generation crisis. Even before the blast, the Lebanese economy was facing a steep contraction. It dates back to the 2019 financial meltdown, which saw the country defaulting on its bonds for the first time since its Independence in 1943. According to the World Bank, Lebanon’s GDP contracted by 40% between 2018 and 2020, pulling the country into one of the top three economic crises in the world in the past 150 years. Foreign reserves have plunged from $38 billion in 2019 to $15 billion this year. At home, many Lebanese receive just two hours of electricity, and the country is also facing an acute fuel shortage. Resolving these issues itself would take years and Mr. Mikati would like at least to start the process. But then comes sectarian violence, which has made his task even more difficult.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-billionaire-prime-minister/article37034046.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Shift focus to demand management of water’||Changing patterns and intensity of precipitation require greater emphasis on agility, resilience and flexibility in water management, says Mihir Shah , Distinguished Professor, Shiv Nadar University, and Chairman of the 11-member drafting committee of the country’s new water policy.  We have had a National Water Policy in 1987, 2002, 2012 and now the latest one that is in the works. Why do we need a new one, or is it necessary to have a review once a decade? We need to take very serious cognisance of the current context of climate change and the grave crisis of water facing the country. Recent estimates suggest that if the current pattern of demand continues, about half of the national demand for water will remain unmet by 2030. With water tables falling and water quality deteriorating, a radical change is needed in the approach to water management. Changing patterns and intensity of precipitation, as also rates of discharge of rivers, show that it can no longer be assumed that the water cycle operates within an invariant range of predictability. This requires greater emphasis on agility, resilience and flexibility in water management, so that there could be an adequate response to the heightened uncertainty and unpredictability of the future. What are two major recommendations of the proposed NWP? The two major recommendations are one: shift focus from endlessly increasing supply of water towards measures for demand-management. This means diversifying cropping pattern to include less water-intensive crops. It also needs lowering the industrial water footprint, among the highest in the world by reducing fresh water use and shifting to recycled water. Cities must mandatorily shift all non-potable uses, such as flushing, fire protection, vehicle washing, landscaping etc. to treated wastewater. Two: shift in focus within the supply-side also because the country is running out of sites for further construction of large dams, while water tables and groundwater quality are falling in many areas. There is mounting evidence across the globe in favour of “nature-based solutions” for water storage and supply. Thus, the NWP places major emphasis on supply of water through rejuvenation of catchment areas, which needs to be incentivised through compensation for ecosystem services, especially to vulnerable communities in the upstream, mountainous regions. Renewed thrust on local rainwater harvesting to catch the rain where it falls, when it falls, must be combined with demarcation, notification, protection and revival of traditional local water bodies in both rural and urban areas. This would form part of urban blue-green infrastructure for improved water levels and quality, as also flood mitigation. Does the policy have recommendations on having ‘more people pay’, or ‘some people pay more’ models for the use of water? We propose that economic services (like industrial and commercial use) be charged at a rate where the O&M (Operation and Management) costs and part of the capital cost would be the basis for the water service fees. At the same time, concessional rates should be provided for vulnerable social sections and care should be taken not to price out the poor from basic water service.  NWP places major emphasis on supply of water through rejuvenation of catchment areas, which needs to be incentivised||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shift-focus-to-demand-management-of-water/article37034034.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jaishankar to visit Israel for high-level engagement||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar will leave on a five-day visit to Israel on Sunday, for the first such high-level engagement with the four-month-old Government of Prime Minister Naftali Bennet, and his first visit to the country as Minister, the Ministry of External Affairs announced on Saturday. During the visit, Mr. Jaishankar will hold bilateral talks with Foreign Minister of Israel Yair Lapid, who is also the Alternate Prime Minister, and is expected to take over the PM’s post in 2023, as part of the coalition agreement of the Israeli Government that succeeded Benjamin Netanyahu. He is also expected to call on President Isaac Herzog, PM Bennet and the speaker of the Knesset Mickey Levy, all of whom have taken their new posts in the past few months. The Israeli Ambassador-designate to India, Naor Gilon, who has yet to present his credentials in India, said the visit would be “intensive”. “Awaiting to accompany Dr. S Jaishankar on his first visit as EAM,” Mr. Gilon wrote in a tweet, adding that “a very intensive visit is planned, aiming to further solidify the Strategic Partnership announced during the 2017 historic visit to Israel of PM.” The 2017 visit marked the first time an Indian Prime Minister had visited Israel. “Since then, the relationship between the two countries has focused on expanding knowledge-based partnership, which includes collaboration in innovation and research, including boosting the ‘Make in India’ initiative,” the MEA statement said, indicating that Mr. Jaishankar would also interact with business leaders in the hi-tech and innovation industry. Tribute to soldiers He is also expected to travel to Haifa to pay tribute to Indian soldiers who were killed during the First World War, and will hold meetings with the “Indian-origin Jewish community, Indologists and Indian students who are currently pursuing their education in Israeli universities”, the statement added. Mr. Jaishankar’s travel to Israel also comes close on the heels of the Pegasus surveillance controversy, and revelations that a number of Indian journalists and key political and business figures among people from other countries had their phones hacked using Israeli company NSO’s Pegasus software. While the company NSO insists it only sells software to government agencies, and deals must be cleared by the Israeli Government, New Delhi has denied carrying out the surveillance, that allegedly began after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Israel and meetings with former Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-to-visit-israel-for-high-level-engagement/article37034010.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Why didn’t the CWC react to the murder at Singhu?’||The BJP criticised the Congress Working Committee (CWC) that met on Saturday for not reacting to the ghastly murder of a Dalit man at the Singhu border, one of the sites of the farmers’ protests, and questioned if the Opposition party stood with the “Talibani mindset” behind the killing. At a press conference, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia described the CWC as a “ parivar bachao working committee [save the dynasty committee]”. Mr. Bhatia alleged that it offered no answers to the issues of the party’s internal rift and its leadership’s failures, and instead indulged in spreading lies. ‘Deafening silence’ “For the sake of petty and cheap vote bank politics, Opposition parties, especially the Congress, will maintain a deafening silence on this [Singhu border killing] key issue. They will not have courage to call spade a spade because it does not suit their political narrative,” Mr. Bhatia said. He attacked farmer leader Rakesh Tikait for his reported remarks that organisers could not be blamed for such an incident. Taking a swipe at Sonia Gandhi for her assertion that she was a “full-time and hands-on” Congress chief, he noted her status as the interim president of the organisation, and the demand of the group of disaffected party members, referred to as the G-23, that it should have a full-time head. ‘Black law in Punjab’ Mr. Bhatia cited the police lathi-charge on a group of protesting farmers in the Congress-ruled States of Punjab and Rajasthan. He remarked that a law on contract farming brought in by Punjab stated that farmers could be arrested for breaking the agreement. “This is what a black law is, and the Congress president should ensure that it is withdrawn,” he added. Mr. Bhatia also took a dig at Ms. Gandhi for the part of her statement in which she noted that all CWC members were now doubly vaccinated, paving the way for its first physical meeting since the COVID-19 outbreak. “The Congress should offer words of thanks to scientists and doctors when 100 crore doses of vaccines are completed in a few days,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-didnt-the-cwc-react-to-the-murder-at-singhu/article37034018.ece
17 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||SGPC comes out in support of farmers||While the BJP has targeted the farmers’ unions over the murder of a young Dalit man at the protest site at the Singhu border in Sonipat, Haryana, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) — the body responsible for the management of all gurdwaras — on Saturday said the “unfortunate incident” was being used to tarnish the ongoing farmers’ movement. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the unfortunate incident would not have taken place had the government been serious about resolving the issues of the farmers. “Some people were deliberately trying to tarnish the image of the peasant struggle and, as a result, such incidents were taking place. Conspiracies are being hatched to discredit the peasant struggle, which is worrisome,” she said. Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa demanded an inquiry from a sitting judge into the incident. Hitting out at the BJP-Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) Government in Haryana, he said the State Government and the police could not shrug responsibility for the incident as they were accountable for law and order. “This is very sensitive issue, which is related to the religious beliefs of the people and, on the other hand, is associated with the farmers who have been peacefully protesting from almost a year against the draconian farm laws of the Union Government.. At this crucial juncture, it was very important to identify anti-social elements inciting religious sentiments and defaming the farmers agitation as these kinds of desperate attempts, aimed to sabotage this most peaceful and well-disciplined agitation, were already being made by some disgruntled elements,” he said. On the other hand, BJP Punjab State president Ashwani Sharma blamed the farmer unions for the “rising violent and criminal incidents” at the protest sites at Singhu-Kundli on the Delhi border. Mr. Sharma said the farmer unions were responsible for the safety of people as they did not let the police come near those participating in the protests. “The farmer leaders have been giving provocative speeches only to spoil the peaceful atmosphere of the country. The protest sites have become areas of heinous crimes and every time a crime is committed, the union leaders immediately distance themselves from it. The recent murder of a Dalit is another example as the leaders have distanced themselves from the Nihangs,” said Mr. Sharma here. Complaint submitted Meanwhile, Several Schedule Caste (SC) organisations submitted complaints to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) Chairman, Vijay Sampla, seeking justice for the Singhu victim. The SC organisations included Bhartiya Baudh Sangh, Rashtriya Bhantu Sansi Samaj Vikas Sangh, Shri Guru Ravidas Vishwa Mahapeeth (Delhi Province), Jai Baba Rama Peer Janmotsav Committee, National Scheduled Caste Alliance, Delhi Prantiya Raigar Panchayat, Valmiki Mahapanchayat, Shri Sant Kabir Janmotsav Committee, Akhil Bhartiya Bairwa Vikas Sangh, SC/ST/OBC & Minority Employees Welfare Association and Jangpura Bhogal SC/ST Resident Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sgpc-comes-out-in-support-of-farmers/article37034024.ece
17 October 2021||SALARAPENTH (ODISHA),||Mining-affected villagers in Odisha denied relief||Ghasinath Penthei and fellow villager, Jaya, have been taking turns to stage a protest at the foothills of Gandhamardan Iron Ore Mines for the past fortnight. Joining them are the women of Salarapenth, a tiny village in Keonjhar district of Odisha. Putting their livelihood at risk, the villagers have decided to give up daily wage work and block traffic on the road near the iron ore mine to demand compensation. The residents of Salarapenth are protesting against their exclusion from welfare programmes meant for villages affected by the mines. Though Salarapenth is just two km from the iron ore mines, it comes under the jurisdiction of Keonjhar’s Sadar block whereas the mines are situated in the neighbouring Banspal block. These villagers have been deprived of relief. The Gandhamardan Loading and Transporting Cooperative Society was created to take care of villages situated around the mines. An amount is set aside for the society for every truck that rolls out with iron ore from the mines. According to local people, the cooperative society has recently started paying Rs. 5,000 per month for each family affected by the mining activities. Mr. Penthei said, “We are directly affected by pollution caused by iron ore mining. The waste water flows through our village and during summer, the dust blankets the whole village. But we have been denied benefits just because we come from a different administrative boundary.” They have tried to explain their woes to cooperative society office-bearers and the district administration. But, their pleas have fallen on deaf ears. ‘Sold land for jobs’ Mr. Jaya Penthei said, “About a decade and half ago, seven crusher companies set up their units in Salarapenth. Villagers were assured that they would get steady employment throughout the year, besides other indirect benefits. Villagers had sold all their land to these crusher units. After a few years, these units became non-functional due to a Government Order.” He said the villagers now neither have a job nor can retrieve their land from the crusher units. Another problem the villagers face is their caste identity. “We are from the Nahra community. Going by our social conditions and descriptions in the gazette, we should be included in the Scheduled Tribes list. Since we are very poor, our children cannot continue their studies beyond Class X. In Salarapenth, none of the residents has completed college studies,” said Sudarshan Penthei, another villager.  The waste water flows through our village and during summer, the dust blankets the whole village Ghasinath Penthei Resident of Salarapenth village||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mining-affected-villagers-in-odisha-denied-relief/article37034029.ece
17 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot’s Delhi visit sparks speculation about reshuffle||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s visit to New Delhi to attend the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Saturday has sparked speculation about its ramifications for the State’s politics. All eyes are on a Cabinet expansion and reshuffle as well as political appointments here, which have been inordinately delayed. Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s assertion at the CWC meeting that she was a “full-time, hands-on” party chief is likely to make an impact on the prospects for Mr. Gehlot, who has so far been unwilling to agree to a power-sharing arrangement with the rival faction. The camps led by Mr. Gehlot and his former deputy, Sachin Pilot, have been at loggerheads for more than a year, though the recent turmoil in Punjab had led to the hopes of an early settlement of the issues raised by the latter during his rebellion along with 18 MLAs in July last year. Party emissaries from New Delhi have been unable to convince Mr. Gehlot to carry out an early reshuffle. While Mr. Gehlot is visiting New Delhi after a gap of seven months, the Cabinet reshuffle took a back seat after the announcement of dates for byelections to Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad Assembly seats, which will be held on October 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehlots-delhi-visit-sparks-speculation-about-reshuffle/article37034016.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Industry seeks role in framing regulations for medical devices||The proposed drugs, cosmetics and medical devices Bill should align with the Medical Devices Rules (MDR), 2017, experts have said. They noted that an inclusive framework of industry experts and representatives was needed for a holistic understanding of all issues and perspectives while framing the new Act. Chairman of the Medical Technology Association of India Pavan Choudary said medical devices were governed by the MDR 2017, which were meticulously developed by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) after extensive consultations with stakeholders. “These rules also follow the World Health Organisation Regulatory Framework for Medical Devices (including in vitro diagnostics) and adhere to the step-wise approach to regulating medical devices based on guidance documents developed by the Global Harmonization Task Force (GHTF) and the International Medical Device Regulators Forum (IMDRF),” Mr. Choudary said. He pointed out that the harmonised regulations also enable Indian manufacturers to get greater acceptability of their products in global markets, furthering the Make in India objective of the Government and keeping India aligned to global supply chains. Sanjay Bhutani, country manager, Bausch and Lomb, explained that the industry had worked extensively with the CDSCO to strengthen the regulatory framework and would continue to do so to further patients’ access to quality medical devices. Managing director of German medical and pharmaceutical device major B. Braun Medical (India) Indranil Mukherjee said that over the last decade, and especially with the pandemic, the regulatory authorities and policymakers have realised the urgent need for establishing a well-defined and comprehensive framework for medical devices, diagnostics and equipment. “An inclusive framework of industry experts and representatives in this expert network is required and will help in a holistic understanding of all issues,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/industry-seeks-role-in-framing-regulations-for-medical-devices/article37034028.ece
17 October 2021||Kolkata,||Saline soil reclamation works wonders in Sundarbans||In the last week of May 2021, when large areas of the Sunderbans were inundated by saline water under the impact of Cyclone Yaas, farmers across the region had given up hope for fresh crop this season. Based on earlier experiences of cyclones, many farmers like Biswajit Jana thought that they might not cultivate for the next few years. However, a unique project of reclamation of soil salinity in the Sonagaon village in Gosaba block has given hope to many farmers of the region. Restoration project A group of conservationists and scientists has come together in this restoration project cultivating paddy in a 10-bigha plot months after the cyclone has ravaged the landscape. “Usually, the focus in the Sundarbans after a cyclone is on short term relief but what we tried to do is to provide a long-term sustainable ecological and economic empowerment to the people,” Diya Banerjee of Uttarayan Wildlife told The Hindu . Ms. Banerjee said initially those behind the desalination project were not very sure about the success but the yield of paddy has surprised everyone. The novel initiative is supported by the Uttarayan Wildlife and the Nature Mates provided logistical support to the initiative. Both the organisations have been working in the Sundarbans for quite some time. Pradip Sen, retired additional director research, Department of Agriculture, said the only technique known for desalination is freshwater irrigation which is very difficult in the Sunderbans. “The salinity of the plot after the cyclone was 17.4 dS/m [salinity is measured using deciSiemens per metre -dS/m] but after the desalination exercise it was down to 2.04 dS/m. We also cultivated a variety of paddy which is relatively less resistant to soil salinity and the output has been very encouraging,” said Dr. Sen, who is associated with the Uttarayan Wildlife and provided scientific support to the desalination exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/saline-soil-reclamation-works-wonders-in-sundarbans/article37034309.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Global Hunger Index not based on an opinion poll’||German non-profit Welthungerhilfe (WHH), which co-published the Global Hunger Index (GHI) this year, rubbished the Union Government’s allegation on Saturday that its ranking of India as among the 16 worst countries was based on an opinion poll. It also said the Government was wrong to confuse “undernourishment” with “undernutrition”. Following the launch of the GHI on Thursday that ranked India 101 out of 116 countries, the Government expressed its shock and questioned the “unscientific” methodology used by its two publishers, Concern Worldwide and Welthungerhilfe, which relied on a “four-question” opinion poll to calculate one of the four indicators used to arrive at the GHI score. The Government singled out the “undernourishment” indicator, because it was the only one where India’s performance deteriorated relative to previous years — undernourishment prevalence rose from 14% to 15.3% between 2017-2019 and 2018-2020. “The GHI uses the prevalence of undernourishment indicator, which is assessed by FAO [Food and Agriculture Organization] using Food Balance Sheet data from each country,” Miriam Wiemers, Advisor, Global Hunger Index, told The Hindu in an email. A Food Balance Sheet presents a comprehensive picture of the pattern of a country’s food supply during a specified reference period. It shows for each food item the sources of supply and its utilisation. The Ministry of Women and Child Development on Friday said instead of relying on a poll, the index should have used the measurement of weight and height to calculate the “undernourishment” indicator. “This represents a misunderstanding of the undernourishment indicator. Undernourishment is a measure of the proportion of the population with inadequate access to calories and is based on data regarding the food supply in the country. It is not a measure of weight and height,” said Ms. Weimers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/global-hunger-index-not-based-on-an-opinion-poll/article37034015.ece
17 October 2021||Mumbai,||Detention of HIV+ sex worker upheld||A Mumbai court recently upheld a magistrate court order to detain a sex worker for two years as she was HIV-positive, and setting her free was likely to “pose danger to the society”. On August 20, the lower court directed the detention of the woman for two years under the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act. The court directed the detention of the victim as she was found to be infected with HIV, observing that there was a possibility that the woman will transmit the virus through sexual intercourse. The magistrate directed that the woman was to be rehabilitated and stopped from sex work through counselling. The woman filed an appeal against the order before Additional Sessions Judge S.U. Baghele. The court said, “It is undisputed that she is suffering from HIV which can be easily transmitted through sexual intercourse. The setting of the victim at large is likely to pose danger to the society. The care and protection of the victim can also be ensured, by detaining her, as directed by the learned Magistrate, so as to ensure that the victim leads a normal life in future, after getting necessary brainwash.” It added, “There is no substance in the submission that the victim is not likely to indulge in such immoral activities, being financially sound. As prima facie apparent from the FIR, whereby the victim is said to have agreed to indulge in prostitution at the particular moment by accepting Rs. 1 lakh.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/detention-of-hiv-sex-worker-upheld/article37034039.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Eight killed as rain causes havoc in Kerala||A man and a woman from Koothattukulam were killed after their car was washed away by the floodwaters at Kanjar in Thodupuzha in Idukki. Also in Idukki, seven people were feared missing in a landslip at Kokkayar. In Thiruvananthapuram, a migrant labourer from Jharkhand went missing in the Amayizhanjan canal. With flood waters cutting off roads and access to several regions, the Army and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were deployed in various districts to coordinate rescue operations. The Air Force also is on standby. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who chaired a review meeting, described the situation as grave and promised all-out efforts to rescue people stranded in cut-off locations. Scores of families have been relocated to relief camps in the affected districts. The torrential rains have also damaged houses, brought down trees and snapped overhead power cables across southern and central Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-killed-as-rain-causes-havoc-in-kerala/article37033999.ece
17 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||All 6 policemen held in property dealer’s death||The Uttar Pradesh police on Saturday said they had arrested all six policemen accused in the death of Kanpur property dealer Manish Gupta. He had died allegedly in an assault in a hotel in Gorakhpur where he was staying with two friends. Gupta’s family had alleged that he had died after being assaulted by the police. The six policemen were suspended and booked for murder. The incident led to political outrage against the State Government, with Opposition parties questioning the conduct of the police. The Government then recommended a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe. It said a Special Investigation Team (SIT) would probe the matter till the CBI took over. Gupta’s wife was given a government job in the Kanpur Development Authority as an officer on special duty. On October 10, inspector Jagat Narayan Singh and sub-inspector (SI) Akshay Kumar Mishra were arrested. A reward of Rs. 1 lakh each was announced for information on the other four accused. The police later arrested SI Rahul Dubey and constable Prashant Kumar, head constable Kamlesh Yadav and SI Vijay Yadav. Vijay Yadav was the last to be nabbed on Saturday near the Railway Museum, said the police, adding that further action would be taken after informing the SIT and senior police officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-6-policemen-held-in-property-dealers-death/article37034004.ece
17 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||NSCN (I-M) remains firm on flag as talks resume||The resumption of peace talks with two sets of extremist groups has put the focus back on the Naga flag and the Yehzabo , or the Constitution. The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or the NSCN (I-M), said it would not forgo the ‘Naga national flag’ and the Constitution for arriving at an honourable solution to the peace process that has consumed more than 24 years. In a statement, the group said it would “not follow the forbidden route to the Naga solution that is linked to forgoing the Naga national flag and Constitution, which is the face of the Naga political struggle and identity”. It also said that the “Naga flag with divine origin cannot be traded or bargained”. It had been insisting on a federal form of arrangement that allows people across the Naga-inhabited landscape in the northeast to be a part of India but be governed by a separate Constitution and identified by a separate flag. The organisation also slammed New Delhi for indulging in divisive policy and flattery in the name of finding political solution. It also viewed rival organisations as being “made in India collaborators” planted to confuse and hoodwink the Nagas with high-sounding promises. This was in reference to the meeting of the leaders of the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), a conglomerate of at least six extremist groups, with representatives of the Union Government on October 13.  “The Government of India assured of giving the Naga flag appropriate respect and position it deserves… The flag’s unrestrained political usage would be pursued post-solution democratically,” N. Kitovi Zhimomi, convenor of the NNPGs said, adding that Delhi was clearly told about the historical, cultural and spiritual side of the flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nscn-i-m-remains-firm-on-flag-as-talks-resume/article37034099.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Singhu murder: 1 more arrested, 2 ‘surrender’||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer organisations protesting against the three farm laws, has demanded an investigation into “the allegation of conspiracy to sabotage the movement through sacrilege and promotion of disturbance by hurting religious sentiments”. “From media reports, it appears that he had been receiving mysterious calls which he would take in secrecy. Lakhbir Singh is supposed to have told his sister that ‘his reach has increased now and has gone far’... All this points to a deep conspiracy of some sorts,” the Morcha said in a statement. The autopsy report of Lakhbir has revealed 37 wounds, including six wounds caused by sharp-edged and pointed weapons. “The rest are lacerated and abrasion wounds caused by blunt weapons. The report attributed the death to haemorrhagic shock,” said Virender Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Law and Order, Sonipat. Later in the afternoon Lakhbir Singh was cremated at his native village in Punjab's Tarn Taran amid tight security in the presence of his family members. No Sikh priest was present to perform Ardas (Sikh funeral prayer) and no one from his village,Cheema Kalan, attended the last rites. “Sarabjit has named four people, including Narain Singh, for their involvement in the murder. He said that more people were involved and he could identify them,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu . Producing Sarabjit before the court of Kimmi Singla, Judicial Magistrate First Class, the Haryana Police sought 14 days remand.  (With inputs from      Vikas Vasudeva)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/second-arrest-made-in-singhu-murder-case/article37034002.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Congress announces organisational poll||Mr. Gandhi then cited the example of the 2015 Dadri lynching incident, and said he had wanted to visit the family of Akhlaq, the Muslim man who was lynched by a mob but was prevented as some in the party had reservations. Similar sentiments were expressed when he visited Hathras to meet the family of a Dalit girl who was raped and murdered last year, he said. Mr. Gandhi is learnt to have said that when rights of the poor and marginalised sections are “under attack” from the Narendra Modi government, the Congress should be able to defend them and not be concerned about “whose leadership is acceptable”. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was among a host of leaders who asked Mr. Gandhi “to lead the action”. But it was Ms. Gandhi’s opening remarks that set the tone for the marathon meeting of the CWC, the first physical meeting after a gap of 18 months because of the pandemic. Her assertion of being a hands-on president was a direct rebuttal of senior leader Kapil Sibal’s remarks that “in our party, at the moment, there is no president”. The entire organisation wanted its revival, but it required “unity, discipline, self- control and keeping party’s interest paramount,” Ms. Gandhi stated. “I am, if you will allow me to say so, a full-time and hands on Congress president,” Ms. Gandhi observed. In the past two years, a large number of young colleagues have taken leadership roles in taking party policies and programmes to the people, she asserted. “I have always appreciated frankness. There is no need to speak to me through the media. So let us all have a free and honest discussion. But what should get communicated outside the four walls of this room is the collective decision of the CWC,” she noted. Responding to her, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma, both members of the G-23, said there has never been any doubt over her leadership and that they were among the leaders who had requested her to take charge after Mr. Gandhi stepped down. Among the leaders who requested Mr. Gandhi to take over the reins were A.K. Antony, Ambika Soni, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Chhatisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel, Meira Kumar and Harish Rawat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-announces-organisational-poll/article37034011.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||New Delhi to host NSAs on Afghan issue||In another development, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla included Pakistan’s Senate Chairperson in an invitation to parliamentary leaders of Commonwealth nations for the centennial celebration of the creation of the Public Accounts Committee of Parliament in early December. A senior official told The Hindu that the invitation to Pakistan comes amid pressing need for discussions on terrorism and trans-national security emanating from the developments in Afghanistan and a surge in violent attacks inside that country, including two suicide bombings of mosques in Kunduz and Kandahar. In addition, India wants to ensure that the issue of recognition of the Taliban government, which Pakistan has been pressing for, is only decided after the Taliban government gives assurances on terrorism, inclusivity in government and rights of women and minorities. The Ministry of External Affairs has confirmed that India will send a senior official to the Moscow format conference on Wednesday, which includes delegations from Afghanistan, India, Iran, China and Pakistan. Taliban officials announced that a delegation led by its Deputy Prime Minister Abdul Salam Hanafi would attend the meeting. The Moscow meet will be the first time India is sending an official to attend a conference that includes the Taliban, after the fall of Kabul on August 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-delhi-to-host-nsas-on-afghan-issue/article37034012.ece
17 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||NSCN (I-M) slams New Delhi’s ‘divisive’ policy||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (I-M), has slammed New Delhi for indulging in “divisive policy and flattery” in the name of finding a political solution to the Naga issue. It also viewed rival organisations as being “made in India collaborators” planted to confuse and hoodwink the Nagas with high-sounding promises. This was in reference to the meeting of the leaders of the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), a conglomerate of at least six extremist groups, with representatives of the Union Government on October 13. “The Government of India assured of giving the Naga flag appropriate respect and position it deserves… The flag’s unrestrained political usage would be pursued post-solution democratically,” N. Kitovi Zhimomi, convenor of the NNPGs said, adding that New Delhi was clearly told about the historical, cultural and spiritual side of the flag. The NSCN (I-M) recalled past accords and agreements “never meant to be implemented in letter and spirit” to trash the “post-solution” proposition that “is being brought back to life” in desperation to “trap the Naga people again to accept whatever is being offered to hurry up the Naga talks”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nscn-i-m-slams-new-delhis-divisive-policy/article37034013.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||I-T searches bust racket on undervaluing imports||Searches by the Income Tax Department in and around Delhi, Haryana and West Bengal have revealed under-invoicing by an importer and trader of laptops, mobile phones and peripheral parts. The goods were being imported in the name of shell entities. While the value of imports declared at the port of entry through shell companies in the past three years was Rs. 20 crore, the agency has estimated that the actual value of the goods could be more than Rs. 2,000 crore. The search operations were initiated on October 10, and multiple locations were covered to gather evidence, revealing the group was involved in under-invoicing and wrongful declaration of goods. Unaccounted-for investment was made in properties too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-searches-bust-racket-on-undervaluing-imports/article37034032.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Heat of protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heat-of-protest/article37034001.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||RSS chief, deputy set to visit Ayodhya||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat and his second-in- command, Dattatreya Hosabale, will visitAyodhya between October 19 and 21, ostensibly for the conduct of the Sangh Sharirik Abhyas Varga (physical training component of the RSS training course). The senior RSS office-bearers will be staying at various rest houses on the Karsewakpuram campus close to the site where the Ram temple is being built. Such a high-powered delegation visiting Ayodhya is significant as also the fact that the physical training camp of the RSS is to be held there, whereas it is usually held in Nagpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-chief-deputy-set-to-visit-ayodhya/article37034003.ece
17 October 2021||Gurgaon,||NSG to offer anti-drone cover in J&K||The National Security Guard (NSG), the counter-terrorism commando force, has been deployed at the Indian Air Force (IAF) stations in Srinagar and Jammu to provide anti-drone security cover to these vital installations, M.A. Ganapathy, the force’s Director-General, said on Saturday. The first-ever drone attack took place on June 27 at the IAF station in Jammu, where two unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), which came from across the border, dropped bombs, injuring two airmen and damaging a portion of a building. The NSG chief said the federal counterterrorist and counter-hijack commando force was enhancing its “counterterrorism profile” and preparing itself to meet emerging security challenges. He was speaking at the 37th Raising Day celebrations of the force, also known as the “black cats”, at its garrison here in Manesar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nsg-to-offer-anti-drone-cover-in-jk/article37034006.ece
17 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Compensate kin of Singhu border victim’||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday asked Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to provide a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh to the kin of the Dalit labourer who was found brutally murdered at the Singhu border. Ms. Mayawati also demanded that the family of the Dalit labourer, whose body was found at the site of the farmers protest on Friday, be provided a job. The former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister referred to the Dalit background of the Punjab Chief Minister, and asked him to provide monetary compensation to the kin of the victim from the State just like he had announced a compensation for the victims in Lakhimpur Kheri, where three cars from the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra mowed down protesting farmers on October 3. Ms. Mayawati, in a tweet, described the murder of the Dalit youth as “extremely sad and disgraceful”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/compensate-kin-of-singhu-border-victim/article37034019.ece
17 October 2021||Srinagar,||Senior NC leader Rather’s son joins Sajad Lone’s party||Senior National Conference (NC) leader and former Finance Minister Abdul Rahim Rather’s son Hilal Rather joined Sajad Lone’s Peoples Conference (PC) on Saturday. This is the second known face’s exit from the NC in the past five days. “There are many soothsayers who refuse to see reality as it exists and want to create reality as they want to see it... The PC has arrived and will conquer for the best interests of the people of Jammu and Kashmir,” Mr. Lone, who quit the Gupkar alliance earlier this year, said after Mr. Hilal joined him. Mr. Hilal is facing a case of corruption in the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ABC) over loans taken from the J&K Bank. Mr. Lone termed Mr. Hilal “an enterprising, educated and capable young man who has the interests of the people of J&K at the core of his politics”. Mr. Hilal said the conflict had destroyed the youth of J&K to a great extent. “My dream is to see the youth of J&K prosper in every field they take the plunge in and make it a hub of peace, tranquillity and progress. As I decided to join politics, I didn’t think of anyone but Sajad Lone. He is a dynamic leader,” he said. Earlier this week, the NC’s provincial president, Devender Rana, had quit and joined the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/senior-nc-leader-rathers-son-joins-sajad-lones-party/article37034020.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Sacred rites||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sacred-rites/article37034026.ece
17 October 2021||Raipur/Bhopal,||Four CRPF personnel hurt in blast||At least four Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were injured after a box containing an igniter set fell on the floor in a compartment and caused an explosion at platform 2 of the Raipur railway station on Saturday morning. The explosion is said to have taken place when a few CRPF personnel were shifting boxes containing igniters in a compartment on a train going from Jharsuguda to Jammu Tawi at around 6.30 a.m. The train was standing at platform 2 of the station when the explosion took place. Senior CRPF officials visited the Raipur railway station, an official said. Government Railway Police (GRP) Superintendent of Police Rakesh Kukreja said the CRPF would investigate the case. A report would also be sent to the headquarters by the GRP, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-crpf-personnel-hurt-in-blast/article37034040.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Perfect synchronisation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/perfect-synchronisation/article37034311.ece
17 October 2021||New Delhi,||Govt launches song promoting India’s COVID-19 vaccination drive||Union Ministers Mansukh Mandaviya and Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday jointly launched an anthem on the country’s vaccination programme against COVID-19. The song is produced and sung by Kailash Kher. Expressing his gratitude to frontline and healthcare workers, Mr. Mandaviya said India has been able to “administer more than 97 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccine” so far. He said the government and the people reposed “faith ( Sabka Vishwas ) in our scientists, researchers and medical fraternity in developing the indigenous vaccine”. “Due to the efforts of all ( Sabka Paryas ), we were able to undertake the herculean task of delivering the vaccines to every nook and corner of the country, and vaccinating such a large number in a short period,” the Minister said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-launches-song-promoting-indias-covid-19-vaccination-drive/article37034100.ece
17 October 2021||Patna,||10 inmates escape from Bihar remand home||At least 10 juvenile inmates escaped from a remand home in Ara in western Bihar amid chaotic events following the death of another inmate on Friday. “Taking advantage of the commotion that erupted after an inmate was found hanging in the bathroom, 10 other inmates escaped from the remand home after breaking open the main gate. Search is on to locate and bring back them to the remand home,” said Ravi Shankar Verma, superintendent in charge of the remand home located at Dhanupara in Ara of Bhojpur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10-inmates-escape-from-bihar-remand-home/article37034027.ece
17 October 2021||New Delhi,||Singh diagnosed with dengue, condition improving: AIIMS official||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has been diagnosed with dengue, but his health condition is improving, officials from the All India Institute Of Medical Science ( AIIMS) said on Saturday. The 89-year-old Congress leader was admitted to AIIMS here on Wednesday. “His platelet count is now increasing and his condition is improving,” an AIIMS official said on Saturday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/singh-diagnosed-with-dengue-condition-improving-aiims-official/article37034036.ece
17 October 2021||Srinagar,||Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s grandson sacked from service||The grandson of pro-Pakistan separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani was terminated from government service on Saturday for allegedly aiding terrorist activities in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. Anees-ul-Islam, son of Altaf Ahmed Shah alias Altaf Fantoosh, was sacked using special provisions under Article 311, they said. In 2016, he was appointed as a research officer in the Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/syed-ali-shah-geelanis-grandson-sacked-from-service/article37034037.ece
17 October 2021||Agartala,||BJP’s ally IPFT offers to work with TIPRA on separate state demand, NRC||Tripura’s regional parties, including BJP’s ally IPFT, and some prominent intellectuals from the indigenous community on Saturday discussed a plan to streamline a movement for a separate tribal State and implementation of the contentious National Register of Citizens. They attended a meeting convened by IPFT general secretary Mevar Kumar Jamatia to chalk out programmes for a joint movement over the two key demands. Tipraha Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (TIPRA) chairman Pradyot Kishore Debbarman and president Bijoy Kumar Hrangkhawl attended the meeting held at a government guest house. After the meeting, Mr. Debbarman said the idea of his ‘Greater Tipraland’ (separate state for tribal people) and ‘Tipraland’ of the IPFT were almost the same. He asserted that both parties and others who believed in ‘Thansa’ (unity) could work together for the sake of ‘Tiprasa (indigenous people)’. “The IPFT will get back to me within a few days with some concrete proposals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjps-ally-ipft-offers-to-work-with-tipra-on-separate-state-demand-nrc/article37034038.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||BJP gears up for ‘tough’ anti-conversion law||The ruling BJP seems to be preparing ground for a “tough anti-conversion law” over alleged “forced conversions” in the State. The Legislature Committee on the Welfare of Backward Classes and Minorities has asked for a report on churches and missionaries, “both legal and illegal” in the State to check “forced conversion”. However, the proposed survey by the Minorities Welfare Department has been opposed by the Congress and heads of the Christian community on the ground that it is veiled targeting of the community. This comes in the wake of a string of at least four instances where activists associated with Hindutva organisations have barged into prayer halls claiming to have unearthed “forced conversion rackets” in Udupi, Bengaluru, and Chickballapur in the last month alone. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai recently asserted that a “tough anti-conversion law” is on the anvil. Multiple BJP-ruled States – Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat – have enacted similar laws in the last one year. Karnataka enacted a stringent anti-cow slaughter ban in February, 2021, taking a cue from Uttar Pradesh, but had so far bucked the trend on anti-conversion law and population policy. However, sources in the BJP said the government may soon bring a “tough law to check forced conversions”. The conversation around “forced conversions” regained momentum in September when Goolihatti Shekhar, BJP MLA, complained in the Assembly that his mother was allegedly converted by force to Christianity. Incidentally, he chaired the Legislature Committee meeting on October 13, issuing directions for the survey. “There is a mushrooming of prayer halls, Bible societies often in homes that are centres for conversion. The Karnataka police told us that there have been 36 cases of alleged forced conversion under probe. We have now sought a report on all such establishments. We will recommend to the government to enact a tough anti-conversion law,” Mr. Shekhar told The Hindu.  However, Congress members of the Legislature Committee opposed the move. “We said the committee had no jurisdiction to order such a survey, but BJP members went ahead anyway. It seemed pre-decided. Mr. Shekhar has conveniently become the face of this campaign. The party is raising the bogey of forced conversions to use it as a dog whistle to polarise society,” said P.R. Ramesh, Congress MLC, who was part of the meeting. Archbishop’s concerns Rev. Peter Machado, Archbishop of Bangalore, in a statement issued on Friday, expressed concern. “In the background of the conversion bogey and anti-religious feelings that are being whipped up, it is dangerous to make such surveys. With this, our community places of worship as also pastors and sisters will be identified and may be unfairly targeted. We are already hearing of such sporadic incidents in Karnataka….Further laws will only be tools in the hands of a few to hound and persecute the innocent,” he said. Reminding that the Constitution had guaranteed rights to profess, propagate and practice his/her religion, he questioned the need of an anti-conversion law given enough safeguards have been enshrined in the Constitution. He asked the government to instead survey education and health institutions run by the community “to get an idea of the service rendered towards nation building” and also posed if there was “indiscriminate conversion” at these institutions and if so why the population share of the community was reducing regularly compared to other communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-gears-up-for-tough-anti-conversion-law/article37034106.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The Coal Crisis||Coal shortage in the country has made the headlines recently with a few States enforcing load-shedding leading to the panic situation. While Tamil Nadu is not facing any coal shortage, the stock is a matter of concern for the State power utility, Tangedco, prompting officials to request the Union Power Ministry to increase coal supplies. A senior official of Tangedco says the utility has almost been pushed to a hand-to-mouth existence. The State, which was receiving 40,000 tonnes of coal last week, is getting 50,000 tonnes this week. The 50,000 tonnes is just enough for the operation of the three power stations at North Chennai, Mettur and Thoothukudi. These stations consume around 52,000 tonnes daily to produce 4,320 megawatts. With the limited supply, Tangedco has been able to produce 3,000 megawatts-3,500 megawatts daily from these plants. Though the State has wind and solar and non-polluting gas plants that account for 42% of the total installed capacity of 32,595 MW, thermal power has remained the staple for electricity officials to power up the State, especially to meet the peak demand in the morning and the evening. The short supplies from the coal mines has created a piquant situation for Tangedco officials. In the recent past, the State has not faced the situation of having coal stocks for 4-5 days against the mandated limit of 9-10 days. The State had stocks for 15 days last year. Officials have a reason to worry. The wind season is coming to an end. The peak power demand this year has been in the range of 13,000 MW to 14,000 MW, a tad above the levels in the previous years. Usually, the power demand in October will be around 12,000 megawatts. The State recorded an all-time high demand of 16,845.50 megawatts on April 10 and the highest consumption, at 9,372 million units, on April 9 this year. Since coal shortage started in the last week of September, the Union Power Ministry has been conducting weekly meetings with officials of the State power utility, along with various stakeholders, including Coal India and Southern Railway, to increase the coal supplies and take stock of the position on a day-to-day basis. “The Power Ministry has been steadily increasing the coal supply from 45,000 tonnes to 60,000 tonnes a day, and this has helped to maintain the average stock for four to five days,” said Tangedco CMD Rajesh Lakhoni. “We are also requesting the Power Ministry to increase the supply to 1 lakh tonnes.” Once the northeast monsoon sets in, Tangedco expects the electricity demand to fall further, helping it ramp up the coal stock. The power managers are happy that such a situation did not happen during the April-June period when the peak load would be in the order of 16,000 MW. The State had witnessed a major power crisis more than a decade ago. The officials say the Union Government’s decision not to allow the State utilities to import coal is not helping. Tangedco stopped importing coal after the Union Government issued guidelines in 2020, stating that 750 lakh tonnes of domestic coal was available in compensation for the end to imports. With no imports, Tangedco officials entirely depend on indigenous coal. This explains the current situation. Meanwhile, retired electricity officials want Tangedco to speed up the exploration of the Chandrabila coal block and get permission from the Union Government for importing coal from Indonesia. While the State has been requesting the Union Government for more coal, the Power Ministry has been asking it to take additional coal from the Central generating stations. But the supply to the Central generating stations is poor, the officials say. Worse is the position of private power generators who use imported coal. Private power generators have stopped producing electricity. This is forcing the officials to purchase power from the exchange. Tangedco, which has tied up with private generators for purchase of 2,830 MW in the long term, received only 800 MW-850 MW in the past one week. This forced the utility to buy nearly 3,000 MW from the exchange during peak hours. The Central power generating behemoth Neyveli Lignite Corporation (NLC), which operates thermal plants with a capacity of more than 2,000 MW, including NLC Tamil Nadu Power Limited (NTPL), has been assuring Tangedco that a sufficient stock was available to meet the requirements of NLC plants with excess coal being supplied to NTPC. An NLC official said that NTPL, a 1,000-MW coal-based plant in Thoothukudi, requires around 12,000 tonnes of coal every day, and there are no worries as coal is supplied from the Talabira II and III blocks in Sambalpur, Odisha. The two blocks were allotted to NLCIL by the Union Government on May 2, 2016, under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015, for optimum utilisation of collieries for the plants such as the Neyveli Talabira Thermal Power Plant (NTTPP) and NTPL. However, given the high demand for coal, the NLC is going all out to augment coal production to 1 metric tonne per annum from the current year and up to 20 metric tonne per annum from the next year. This will not only secure the supplies to the plants but also make coal available in the market, the official say. Tangedco has been suffering from poor coal supplies for several years, and owing to the delay in the linking of new coal blocks for fuel supply agreements. Confirming the allotment of the Chandrabila block to the State, a Tangedco official said the block was in the ‘exploration’ stage. Sources say the block has not been “renewed” by the Union Government. The Ministry of Coal had allocated the Chandrabila block to Tangedco in February 2016. Tangedco also signed a coal block development and production agreement with the Ministry of Coal in March 2016 for mining a total area of 9.32 sq km. However, as a portion of the mine is in the forest area, Tangedco has not been able to get environment clearances, sources said. Every year, there has been a shortfall in coal supplies from the Indian companies. The Ministry of Coal and the Ministry of Power have been requested to instruct Coal India to arrange the supply of the agreed quantities of coal to the State utilities. Though the State has renewable energy in the form of wind, solar and non-polluting gas plants, the electricity officials have always treated wind as an “infirm” energy and solar as unfit to meet the peak hour demand. Gas is costlier. Analysts feel wind energy has not been tapped fully. Vibhuti Garg, energy economist, Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, says the State with a huge potential of wind energy has not utilised it properly. Though the State is still leading in wind energy, the wind turbines, installed several years ago, have not been re-powered. If the turbines are replaced with the better designed and more efficient ones, wind energy can increase even further. This is better than purchasing costly power from the exchange. She suggests that the State invest in battery storage because the cost of the batteries is likely to reduce in the next few years and increase the hydro storage for tapping hydroelectric power. S. Gandhi of Power Engineers’ Society of Tamil Nadu says that until the State Government takes steps to restore coal imports at the earliest, the thermal power plants will have a tough time before April next. The cost of imported coal has increased from $60 to more than $250. The electricity officials have to import coal from Indonesia once the price comes down drastically; otherwise, the State may witness load-shedding again next summer. ( With inputs from S. Prasad in Cuddalore )  The wind turbines, installed several years ago, have not been re-powered. If the turbines are replaced with better designed and more efficient ones, wind energy can increase even further Vibhuti Garg Energy economist, Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis   The Power Ministry has been steadily increasing the coal supply from 45,000 tonnes to 60,000 tonnes a day, and this has helped to maintain the average stock for four to five days Rajesh Lakhoni Tangedco CMD||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-coal-question/article37034203.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,233 test positive for COVID-19||With 1,233 persons testing positive for COVID-19 out of the 1,30,251 persons tested in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, the total number of cases has climbed to 26,85,874. Fifteen deaths pushed the toll to 35,884. As many as 15,022 persons are under treatment. With the discharge of 1,434 persons, the number of recovered patients has gone up to 26,34,968. Chennai recorded the highest number of 160 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 136 cases. In Chennai, 5,52,617 persons have so far been infected and 5,42,283 have been discharged. It has 1,810 persons under treatment. The district has recorded 8,524 deaths, including that of four persons reported on Saturday. Salem, Tiruppur and Tiruchi recorded two deaths each. One person each died of the infection in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Mayiladuthurai, Kancheepuram and Coimbatore, the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health said. So far, 21,96,566 persons in the 13-60 age group; 1,01,026 children; and 3,88,282 senior citizens have been infected in the State. Among the dead was a 59-year-old man from Tiruppur, who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi on October 11 after testing positive on September 22. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on October 14. The others had pre-existing health conditions. Among them was a 90-year-old man from Thanjavur, who was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on October 14. He tested positive for the infection and died of COVID-19 pneumonia the next day. A total of 2,13,375 persons were vaccinated. Among them were 257 healthcare workers; 454 frontline workers; 1,28,908 persons aged 18-44; and 62,930 persons aged 45-59; and 20,826 senior citizens. So far, 5,06,67,232 persons have been vaccinated. They include 25,98,512 persons inoculated at private centres.  Among those vaccinated were 257 healthcare workers; 454 frontline workers; 1,28,908 persons aged 18-44; and 62,930 persons aged 45-59; and 20,826 senior citizens||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1233-test-positive-for-covid-19/article37034241.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two new varieties of cassava introduced in Tamil Nadu||The ICAR-Central Tuber Crop Research Institute, Thiruvananthapuram, has introduced two new disease-resistant and high-yield varieties of cassava ( Maravalli Kizhangu ) in three villages in Tamil Nadu. In Kolli Hills in Namakkal district, the institution has distributed the Sree Reksha sticks meant for planting since August-September is the season for planting in the hilly areas. These are more resistant to the yellow mosaic disease that leads to curling up of leaves and reduces the yield by about 20% to 80%. “Farms in Kolli Hills seem to have a higher incidence of this disease, which is why this variety is being introduced there. The idea is to provide the planting material to a few farmers this year and then distribute it to more farmers next year from this crop,” said R. Muthuraj, principal scientist, seed technology, division of Crop Production at the Institute. A team of scientists from ICAR-CTCRI, Thiruvananthapuram, including Mr. Muthuraj, K.M. Senthilkumar, scientist, biotechnology, division of Crop Improvement and P. Prakash, scientist, agricultural economics, extension, and social sciences, visited the villages and introduced the crop and their features to the farmers. The Sree Athulya variety, which is a high yield variety, was distributed to farmers in Gudamalai in Salem district and Gandarvakottai in Pudukottai district. “This variety gives a yield of 15-18 tonnes of cassava. The Thailand and the Muluvadi varieties of crop that are commonly used by farmers, give only around 10 to 12 tonnes an acre,” he added. Farmers in Salem had done their planting in February and their crop would be ready for harvest in November-December. All these farmers were provided inputs, including fertilizers without any cost, under the Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCSP) programme. “Cassava harvested in Salem is used to produce javvarisi or saabudhana, which is then sent to north India. In Kerala, it is consumed as kappa along with fish,” he added. The objective of the programme is to make farmers seed entrepreneurs to overcome the acute shortage of quality planting material for improved varieties of cassava. Cassava has been globally recognised as a potential candidate for climate resilient crop due to its ability to grow under low management conditions with economical yield. Cassava has been identified as part of the Centre’s “One District One Product” initiative for Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-new-varieties-of-cassava-introduced/article37034221.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flight fares skyrocket ahead of Deepavali||Those looking to fly out of the city ahead Deepavali are forced to spend extra as flight fares have shot up for the next few weeks. A one-way trip to New Delhi costs anywhere between Rs. 7,700 and Rs. 11,000, depending on the time of the flight. Travel agents say there is maximum demand for travel from Chennai to Delhi and Mumbai among metro cities. Fares to Mumbai range between Rs. 6,000 and Rs. 9,000. The fares, which were around Rs. 1,500 to Bengaluru, have more than doubled at Rs. 3,300. Much-needed boost Tushar Jain ofroundtrip.insays the demand in this festive season is akin to pre-COVID levels and comes as a much-needed boost for the airlines and travel industry. Most passengers taking the flights are those who work and get back home to spend a few days with their families. “Since many offices have opened, working professionals are returning home for Deepavali. Fully vaccinated people are confident of flying now, be it for leisure or business. They are inclined to take a flight instead of train because travel time is far less, even if it means spending more,” he says. S. Jeyasekaran of Travel Agents Association of India, Chennai Chapter says, apart from Delhi and Mumbai, many within the State travel to Coimbatore, Tiruchi and Madurai. The fares are exorbitant with a one-way ticket to Tiruchi touching nearly Rs. 7,000 almost as much as the fare to Delhi itself, sources said. The flight ticket from Chennai to Madurai is about Rs. 5,000, he said. “While there may be many who take buses or trains to these cities, there is also a section of last-minute travellers who take a flight to these places. We also had some families that are planning temple trips to places like Madurai and Kanniyakumari around this time,” Mr. Jeyasekaran says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flight-fares-skyrocket/article37034192.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation asks residents to support recycling of waste||The Greater Chennai Corporation has intensified its campaign against littering and dumping of construction debris in the city. The civic body has asked residents to support the campaign to promote recycling of waste. To create awareness among residents, the Corporation on Saturday shared information on Twitter about the fine amount to be collected for littering on streets. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has directed officers to penalise those who dump construction debris. Separate locations have been earmarked for dumping construction debris. The Corporation will process debris at Perungudi and Kodungaiyur. The civic body will levy a fine of Rs. 500 on those those who throw garbage in public and private places. Civic officials will collect a fine of Rs. 100 from households, Rs. 1,000 from apartment complexes and Rs. 5,000 from bulk waste generators for failure to segregate garbage. The fine amount for dumping construction debris in public places is Rs. 2,000 for a quantity of less than one tonne and Rs. 5,000 for more than one tonne. The fine amount for dumping waste in waterways and drains is Rs. 500. The fine amount for dumping waste from garden is Rs. 200. Residents who burn garbage in private land will pay a fine of Rs. 500. Those who burn garbage in public spaces will pay a fine of Rs. 1,000. The total waste generated in Chennai every day is 5,100 tonnes. The civic body is planning to focus on recycling to reduce the garbage reaching dump sites. A tweet on Saturday by the Greater Chennai Corporation read: “Hey Chennai. The waste you’re disposing can be recycled. Help us maintain the city clean! #NammaChennaiSingaraChennai #ThooimaiChennai.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-asks-residents-to-support-recycling-of-waste/article37034205.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu flyover nearing completion||The work on the 1.15-km flyover on Jawaharlal Nehru Salai at Koyambedu will be completed by October-end, Minister for Highways E.V. Velu said on Saturday. Responding to AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, he said in a statement that on the instruction of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, he had inspected the flyover twice since July and directed the officials to speed up the Rs. 93.50-crore project. The owner of a building that had encroached upon a portion of the service lane had gone to court, leading to a delay in the completion of the work. The court granted an order in favour of the Department of Highways only on September 29, and the building was being dismantled. The structure of the bridge, of which construction had commenced in June 2018, was complete, he said. On completion, the four-lane, bi-directional flyover would allow free flow of traffic at the important junction, which is near the Chennai Muffusil Bus Terminus and the Koyambedu vegetable and fruit markets. Around 70% of the over one lakh vehicles proceeding from and to Anna Nagar and Vadapalani would be able to take the flyover instead of waiting at the signal at the junction of Jawaharlal Nehru Salai and Kaliamman Koil Street. The Minister said level 2 of the Rs. 109-crore flyover at the Velachery junction would be ready by this month-end, and the first level by the year-end. Residents of localities, including VGP Selva Nagar and LIC Colony, have urged the Department of Highways to provide a U-turn beneath the flyover. The approach road to the Rs. 133.10-crore flyover at Medavakkam was being laid, and it would be completed by this year-end. Mr. Palaniswami called upon the government on Friday to inaugurate a few flyover projects in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koyambedu-flyover-nearing-completion/article37034217.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation evicts pavement dwellers near Egmore station||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Saturday evicted homeless residents from roads near Egmore railway station and provided alternative accommodation in shelters. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the homeless residents have been given accommodation and food in a shelter for the homeless ahead of the onset of the northeast monsoon. “We have provided shelter for 1,600 homeless persons in shelters in various parts of the city. We will develop more shelters for the homeless persons,” said Mr. Bedi. The Corporation is holding discussions with the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board to explore the possibility of providing new houses to the pavement dwellers. Those evicted from Egmore on Saturday requested the officials to allot them new houses in the vicinity as they had their source of livelihood in the neighbourhood. Velankanni said there were around 100 homeless families near Egmore railway station. “We have been homeless for many years. We request our Chief Minister to intervene and give all the families alternative accommodation near Egmore,” she said. A few of the homeless residents, including girls, in Egmore have completed graduation in city colleges in the last few years. They requested support for getting jobs, housing and welfare assistance from the State government. The Corporation is planning to send teams of officials to guide the homeless residents get better source of livelihood, housing, education and jobs. Officials said they have identified 54 families who were homeless in Egmore. The civic officials took the belongings of the residents to the homeless shelter on Saturday, with support from the police. However, a few residents marched towards the office of Egmore MLA I. Paranthaman in the evening, demanding his intervention. “We are planning to give accommodation in a new homeless shelter. The homeless will get alternative housing a few months later,” said Mr. Paranthaman. Late in the evening, some residents claimed that they would continue to reside along the pavement until they were allotted new houses in the vicinity. Officials said they would continue to persuade such residents to shift to the shelters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-evicts-pavement-dwellers-near-egmore-station/article37034224.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Healthy lifestyle can prevent stroke’||Did you know that every minute after a stroke occurs, 19 lakh brain cells die? These cells can never be replaced — but seeking medical attention immediately mitigates the after-effects of a stroke, said Shankar Balakrishnan, intervention neurologist at MIOT International. At a wellness webinar hosted by The Hindu jointly with MIOT International on Saturday, Dr. Shankar explained the need to keep diabetes and blood pressure under control. “Stroke doesn’t have to mean death and disability. The warning symptoms of stroke are FAST - facial drooping, weakness of arms, speech difficulty and knowing when to call an ambulance,” he said. Sometimes, loss of balance, vision and a tingling sensation in one half of the body should ring alarm bells in the brain, Dr. Shankar said. “Time is brain” — every moment after a stroke, blood supply is cut off to the brain. The patient should reach a comprehensive centre with imaging facilities and an intervention neurologist as soon as possible. “We have to remove the block and restore the blood flow. A brain scan will tell whether there is a bleed or a clot,” he said, based on which treatment is planned. A patient should reach a treatment centre within 4.5 hours of the onset of the symptoms so that treatment can be started immediately. “Stroke does not have to mean death and disability. Most patients do recover and rehabilitation is necessary,” he said. It is better to prevent strokes by improving one’s lifestyle instead of seeking medical help later, he added.  A patient should reach a treatment centre within 4.5 hours of the onset of the symptoms Shankar Balakrishnan Intervention neurologist, MIOT Hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthy-lifestyle-can-prevent-stroke/article37034237.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Demands of ASHAs will be forwarded to CM: Minister||The demands of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) will be forwarded to the Chief Minister for consideration, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian has said. The ASHA Worker’s Association which met him on Saturday had made several demands including salary hike, permanent job, incentivisation, pension, ID card, and free travel in buses. Identity cards “As far as identity cards are concerned we will take steps to issue them to the 2,650 persons employed across the State,” Mr. Subramanian said. On the issue of free bus travel for ASHA workers employed in rural areas, he said the matter would be taken to the Chief Minister for his consideration. They were appointed through National Health Mission as part-time workers for two hours a day 10 years ago and provided a monthly incentive of Rs. 5,000. But since they also take up other works in the State, discussions are on with officials regarding payment. “The workers are required to identify tuberculosis and pregnant women in the community. Registered ASHA workers would get Rs. 1,000 in addition to what they are paid now,” Mr. Subramanian said. Also, ASHA workers over the age of 42 would be selected for two years’ training and absorbed as nurses, he assured. Under the scheme, every year 60 workers would be trained. The department had also proposed to hold meetings next week with the health secretary and trade unions to find ways to address their requirements, he added.   The workers’ demands include salary hike, permanent job, incentivisation, pension, ID card, and free travel in buses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asha-workers-demands-will-be-forwarded-to-cm-minister/article37034239.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||WRD accelerates cleaning of waterways ahead of monsoon||In a bid to ensure free flow of floodwater, the Water Resources Department (WRD) has accelerated work to clear floating waste and vegetation from various waterways and channels in city, ahead of the northeast monsoon. The department has so far completed nearly 60% of the work in various surplus courses and waterways across the city and peripheral areas. While the department is keen on completing the work in a week, ecologists suggest that the vegetation cleared from waterways could be converted into manure instead of being sent to dump yards. On an average, a minimum of 15-20 truckloads of garbage and vegetation were being removed daily from the waterways, the officials said. Ecologist and soil biologist Sultan Ahmed Ismail said water hyacinth could be converted into manure. Such weeds could be spread in layers and simple techniques using diluted cowdung could turn them into manure. Sludge for composting Sludge from Chennai Metrowater’s sewage treatment plants too could be added to water hyacinth for composting. Research is being undertaken for developing other technologies too. The vegetation should be analysed before composting as those removed from polluted waterways and with presence of heavy metals could only be used for wasteland development. Mere dumping of such vegetation would only generate green house gases, he said. Officials said about 60 machinery had been deployed for the Rs. 7.8 crore worth works including in the river mouths of Araniar, Adyar and Cooum to drain floodwater into the sea. Portions of Kosasthalaiyar river that were breached would also be closed along villages such as Karanodai and Vannipakkam. Float-mounted machines are being used in portions of Buckingham canal where water depth is more. Silt remains a major challenge and projects are being chalked out to address the issues. As funds are limited, only vulnerable portions of some of the surplus courses are being deweeded and cleaned. An official said, “Vegetation removed are conveyed to Greater Chennai Corporation’s yards where measures are being taken to compost them. We plan to continue the cleaning exercise till the end of the northeast monsoon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wrd-accelerates-cleaning-of-waterways-ahead-of-monsoon/article37034207.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IOCL chief visits Nagapattinam||Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) Chairman S.M. Vaidya on Saturday visited the site of the proposed 9 MMTP refinery at Nagapattinam. The existing refinery is being dismantled so that an upgraded State-of-the-art facility can come up at the same site. The refinery is a joint venture of IOCL and Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd. The State government recently handed over documents pertaining to lands for the project to Mr. Vaidya. Composite cylinder Mr. Vaidya launched the sale of Indane’s composite LPG cylinder in the State. He handed over a cylinder to actor Aishwarya Rajesh. Speaking at the event, he said the company kept innovating to upgrade its products for the benefit of its customers. Ms. Rajesh appreciated the aesthetically designed lightweight cylinders. P. Jayadevan, executive director and State head, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, IOCL. and K. Sailendra, executive director (RS), southern region, IOCL, were present. With blow-moulded HDPE material inner lining, the new cylinder has a layer of polymer wrapped fibreglass and an HDPE jacket and is available in 10 kg and 5 kg variants in the domestic category. It weighs only 50% of the regular cylinders, making it convenient to handle and is rust-proof.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iocl-chief-visits-nagapattinam/article37034219.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New building of ICMR-NIE to come up at Ayapakkam||The foundation stone for a new building of Indian Council for Medical Research’s School of Public Health at ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology was laid on Saturday by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. The school, which will conduct public health capacity building programmes and public health research, will be built on one-and-a-half acres of land adjacent to the existing premises of ICMR-NIE in Ayapakkam. Balram Bhargava, Secretary of Department of Health Research and Director-General of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), presided over the ceremony. Tiruvallur district collector Alby John Varghese participated. The new building aims at training at least 150 mid-level public health professionals over the next three years with a special focus on States with inadequate trained work force, the officials said. The institute has been conducting field epidemiology training programmes (FETPs) to strengthen public health workforce in the country since 2001. Till date, over 300 public health professionals across the country, including 90 from the State, have been trained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-building-of-icmr-nie-to-come-up-at-ayapakkam/article37034226.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin recalls association with Loyola College||Inaugurating a new building for the Loyola Institute of Business Administration (LIBA) on Loyola College campus on Friday, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin recalled his long association with the institution over the years, even though he was not a student in the college. Mr. Stalin said former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi too had a deep association with the college, as his son (former Union Minister) M.K. Azhagiri, his grandnephews Kalanidhi Maran and Dayanidhi Maran and his grandson Udhayanidhi Stalin were all alumni of the college. “I have regretted not having been a student in this college. However, if there was a college I can never forget, it would have to be Loyola...Every time I was elected MLA, the votes were counted and results were announced here. I am a Chief Minister now after the votes were counted and results were declared here,” Mr. Stalin said. Pointing out that the college had completed 95 years, the Chief Minister hoped to take part in the centenary celebrations after five years. He said LIBA had created business leaders during its 42-year existence. Stressing on the need for imparting education along with social concern to students, Mr. Stalin said institutions like Loyola were already doing it. Noting that former CM Karunanidhi had inaugurated the engineering college in the campus in 2010 and Mr. Stalin had unveiled a building for the management institute, he contended that the DMK evolved in colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-recalls-association-with-loyola-college/article37034392.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gang attacks mother of man killed over inter-caste marriage||S. Chinnapillai, the mother of S. Murugesan, who was killed along with his wife D. Kannagi in 2003 over their inter-caste marriage, was allegedly attacked by a group of men near her house in Kuppanatham in Cuddalore district on Thursday. Vriddachalam police have registered a case. Ms. Chinapillai is recuperating at the government hospital in Vriddhachalam. While the seven men accused in the FIR belonged to the same Scheduled Caste (SC) community as Ms. Chinnapillai, her family alleged that the attack was motivated by the recent court verdict on the killing of Murugesan and Kannagi, who belonged to the Vanniyar caste, a Most Backward Community (MBC). Last month, the Special Court for cases filed under SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in Cuddalore awarded the death sentence to Kannagi’s brother and life imprisonment to 12 others, including her father, for the brutal killing of Kannagi and Murugesan. Verbal abuse S. Sundara Pandiyan, another son of Ms. Chinnapillai, alleged that the men hurled verbal abuse while attacking his mother for sending Kannagi’s family members and others belonging to the Vanniyar community to jail in the murder case. “These men, like many other people from my community in the village, are dependent on the Vanniyar community in Puthukooraipettai for livelihood. They still consider them their masters and act on their instigation,” he alleged. Kannagi’s family was from Puthukooraipettai village. S. Mahalakshmi, Ms. Chinnapillai’s daughter, said the attack was part of the troubles faced by the family ever since the murder of Kannagi and Murugesan. “It has become worse after the verdict in the case,” she said. Senior advocate P. Rathinam, who supported the family in fighting the murder case, blamed the Vriddachalam police for failing to properly register the recent case. “While attacking her, the men verbally abused Chinnapillai by blaming her and her family for sending their ‘masters’ to jail. Though this was mentioned in the complaint, it was excluded from the FIR, as including it would have necessitated invoking the provisions of SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,” he argued.  Her family alleged that the attack was motivated by the recent court verdict on the killing of Murugesan and Kannagi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mother-of-man-killed-over-inter-caste-marriage-attacked/article37034230.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nine arrested for murder of rowdy||Nine persons, including a woman, have been arrested for allegedly murdering a 32-year-old history-sheeter who held a post in Youth Congress. The name of the victim was given as Nagoor Meeran, 32, of Shastri Nagar, Adambakkam, and he had more than 15 criminal cases in Adambakkam, St Thomas Mount, Pallikaranai and K.K. Nagar police stations for offences, including two murders and three attempt to murder cases. He was cited as an accused in the murder of a customs officer in 2013. Meeran had been detained under Goondas Act. He was murdered by a gang when he was at the house of a woman in Ambedkar Nagar in Adambakkam police station limits on Thursday evening. On Friday, the police arrested six persons, including Seenu alias Seenivasan, 39, on their surrender. On Saturday, prime accused Robin, 27, Paulraj, 27 and Lokeshwari, 27 were arrested by the police. The police said Meeran had a running feud with Robin, who was also a history-sheeter. Robin hatched a plan to finish the former. Robin, with the help of other associates, allegedly barged into the house of Lokeshwari where Meeran was staying and executed their plan. Lokeshwari informed the assailants about Meeran’s presence, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-arrested-for-murder-of-rowdy/article37034208.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin begins retail sales of sweets for Deepavali||Minister for Dairy Development S.M. Nasar on Saturday launched retail sales of Aavin’s special sweets for Deepavali. Inspecting parlours at Nandanam and Besant Nagar where he interacted with consumers, the Minister said this year a sales target of 25 tonnes of special sweets had been set for Aavin. He said that temporary outlets had been opened at 30 locations. The sweets, which include moti pak (Rs. 170 per 250 g pack), nutty milk cake (Rs. 210 per 250 g pack), kaju pista roll (Rs. 275 per 250 g pack), coffee flavoured burfi (Rs. 210 per 250 g pack) and kaju katli (Rs. 225 per 250 g pack), have been prepared using Aavin’s ghee. An assorted 500 g packet containing all the five varieties is available at Rs. 425 a pack. Those interested in booking bulk orders, may call 9345660380 or 9566860286.  Temporary outlets had been opened at 30 locations, the Minister said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-begins-sale-of-deepavali-sweets/article37034218.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK to give more powers to district secretaries||A special general body meeting of the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) on Saturday resolved to do away with deputy general secretaries in every district and said the district units would henceforth come under the administrative control of its district secretaries. The virtual meeting decided to effect various changes in the party’s administrative structure with an intention to strengthen it. Rule No. 10 in the party’s bylaw was being amended to drop the post of deputy general secretary at the district-level , a release said. The PMK, which announced that it would contest the rural local body polls alone and not as an ally of the AIADMK, also resolved to evolve into a position where it can implement many of its ideas.  The virtual meeting decided to effect various changes in the party’s administrative structure with an intention to strengthen it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-to-give-more-powers-to-district-secretaries/article37034225.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Temple from Chola era in Munnuru is in dilapidated state’||The Adavallisvarar temple, one of the later Chola temples in Munnuru in Villupuram district, is in bad shape and the sanctum sanctorum has started leaking. Villupuram MP D. Ravikumar, who has adopted the village under the Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY), has asked Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister P.K. Sekarbabu to take steps to preserve the temple. “The last time kumbabishekam performed was in 1968. Vegetation has grown on the mandapam over the sanctum sanctorum, and it is in a dilapidated condition. It is leaking inside during rain. There is no adequate air or light in the mandapam in front of the sanctum sanctorum,” Mr. Ravikumar said in his memorandum to the Minister. There are more than 50 stone inscriptions, and one of them talks about Kidaram Konda Cholan Salai, where food was regularly served. It belongs to the period of Rajendra I. Historian S.R. Balasubrahmanyan, in his book, Later Chola Temples , had said the earliest inscription found on the wall of the temple relates to the 11th year of Rajakesarivarman alias Tribhuvanachakravartin Kulottunga Deva whose prasati (praise) begins with the introduction ‘ pu mevu valar ’. He is thus identified with Kulotunga II. The MP said the people in the village had started building a wall around the temple, and they could not complete the work because of encroachments on one side. “The stagnant water in the temple tank has turned green,” he added. Urging the HR&CE Minister to remove the encroachments and carry out renovation works, Mr. Ravikumar requested him also to launch the Annadhanam  Scheme in the temple as it was practised in the temple a thousand year ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-from-chola-era-in-munnuru-is-in-dilapidated-state/article37034232.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Girl, who attempted to end life after NEET, dies||A 17-year-old girl died of burns on Friday after she attempted to end her life a month ago. The police said K. Anu, 17, was studying in a private school in Chetpet here. Her parents Kamalanathan and Sheeba are teachers. Last month, she appeared for NEET and reportedly told her parents that it did not go well. She was under stress for three days after the examination. On September 16 morning, when her parents went to school, Anu was alone at her home in Gudvancheri and attempted to end her life. On hearing her cries, the neighbours rushed her to the Government General Hospital, Chengalpattu. She was later shifted to Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital where she died. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpling 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpling 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-who-attempted-to-end-life-after-neet-dies/article37034210.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Biographies of Mahatma Gandhi, Acharya Vinoba Bhave to be released||Gandhi Peace Foundation (GPF), Chennai, will celebrate the valedictory of the birth centenary of Gandhiya Mamani T.D. Tirumalai, its former secretary, in partnership with The Hindu.  Biographies of Mahatma Gandhi and Acharya Vinoba Bhave, penned by Tirumalai, would be released once again at the event to be held on October 26 at Rosary Higher Secondary School, Santhome, Chennai.  L.V. Navaneeth, C.E.O., THG Publishing Pvt Ltd. will preside over the programme. R. Sivakumar, auditor and long-time friend of Tirumalai, will release the first copy. The book would have questions on the lives of these great personalities meant for an open-book exam scheme. Around 400 students are expected to participate in the event and take the exam. This 284-paged book will be available on that day at Rs. 100 a copy against the actual price of Rs. 250. Students can read the book, complete the answer paper and e-mail it to GPF and receive a certificate too. Interested sponsors and schools may contact GPF Secretary, Dr. S. Kulandaisamy by email: info@gandhipeace.foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/biographies-of-mahatma-gandhi-acharya-vinoba-bhave-to-be-released/article37034249.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||YouTuber arrested||The police have arrested a YouTuber for circulating derogatory content on social reformer Periyar. The accused was identified as Seemayin Maindhan alias Dhakshinamurthy, 70, of Virugambakkam. He has been running Katchatheevu Meetpu Iyakkam and a YouTube channel. He was arrested following a complaint filed in Royapettah police station by Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam which charged that Dakshinamurthy was circulating defamatory content on Periyar and his ideologies in his video posts. Dhaksinamurthy has been lodged in Saidapet sub-jail after being produced in a court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youtuber-arrested/article37034209.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM distributes welfare assistance in Kolathur||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday distributed welfare assistance in his Kolathur constituency and dedicated an ambulance and other vehicles to the government peripheral hospital. He gave petrol-scooters to 16 differently-abled persons, marriage assistance and sewing machines to five persons each and monthly pension to 197 people, including differently-abled, widows, the elderly and women deserted by their husbands. He also gave financial assistance to the families of road accident victims and the children of those who died of COVID-19. A government press release said assistance to the tune of Rs. 2.87 crore was distributed and 560 people benefited. Later, the Chief Minister distributed study material and equipment to students in the Corporation School in GKM Colony. K.V. Ramamoorthy, MD of Mercantile Bank, donated Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister for the construction of a building in the school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-distributes-welfare-assistance-in-kolathur/article37034253.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic restrictions in Ayanavaram from Oct. 19||The traffic police have announced traffic restrictions to facilitate Chennai Metro Phase 2 work in Ayanavaram from Tuesday for six months. Anderson Road from RTO Office junction to Constable Road Junction is being made a one-way with entry from Konnur High Road. Pilkington Road Pilkington Road from Konnur High Road junction to Constable Road Junction will be a one-way. There is no diversion for the vehicles which are coming from Konnur High Road Junction to Constable Road Junction on Anderson Road, Ayanavaram. Motorcycles and light motor vehicles on Pilkington Road coming from Perambur, intending to go to Konnur High Road via Anderson Road, should proceed on Pilkington Road and reach their destination via Konnur High Road. Commercial and heavy vehicles on Pilkington Road coming from Perambur, intending to go to Konnur High Road via Anderson Road, should take a right turn at Constable Road junction and reach their destination via Constable Road (Railway Hospital), Portuguese Road, Konnur High Road. No left turn Vehicles on Konnur High Road coming from Joint Office junction would not be allowed to take left turn at Pilkington Road Junction towards Pilkington Road. Instead, these vehicles will go straight on Konnur High Road and reach their destination via Anderson Road – Constable Road.  These measures taken in the wake of Chennai Metro Phase 2 work being taken up in the area||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-restrictions-in-ayanavaram-from-oct-19/article37034215.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin must speak directly to CMs: OPS||AIADMK co-ordinator O. Panneerselvam on Saturday said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin must speak directly to his counterparts in various States that had banned the sale of firecrackers, ahead of Deepavali, and impress upon them that these crackers, made in Sivakasi, were green crackers that would not cause pollution. On Friday, Mr. Stalin had written to the Chief Ministers of four States — Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Odisha — urging them to lift the blanket ban on the sale of firecrackers. He had said that it would lead to the loss of livelihood for nearly eight lakh people in Sivakasi. On Friday evening, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot announced the lifting of the blanket ban. Mr. Panneerselvam said the crackers being made in Sivakasi now were non-polluting, and were made in adherence to the standards set by CSIR and NEERI. Those in the firecrackers industry in Sivakasi wanted the Central and State governments to lift the blanket ban, he said. Mr. Stalin should mount pressure on the Congress and the BJP to ask their governments in Rajasthan and Haryana respectively to lift the bans. He should use his personal influence with the Chief Minsters of Delhi and Odisha to get the same done, Mr. Panneerselvam said. He also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention to secure the release of 23 fishermen from Tamil Nadu and their trawlers from Sri Lanka. The frequent arrests and detention of fishermen from the State was worrisome, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-must-speak-directly-to-cms-ops/article37034235.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Juvenile accused of rape||The police secured a 15-year-old in connection with the rape and death of a 50-year-old tribal woman in Thirukazhukundram station limits. The victim had gone missing since Thursday night. Next morning, she was found dead near a rock half a kilometre from her house. After interrogating the family members of the victim, the police traced the boy. Although the body did not have any external injury, the postmortem report showed sexual assault and hence the boy was booked under Section 376 IPC (rape) and 304 IPC (Culpable homicide not amounting to murder).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/juvenile-accused-of-rape/article37034248.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No tribal representative on SC/ST panel’||The Tamil Nadu Tribal Association has alleged that there was not a single Scheduled Tribes (ST) member in the newly created Tamil Nadu State Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. P. Shanmugam, a senior CPI(M) leader and State vice-president of the association, said though there was one woman member, Leelavathi, she was actually from Karnataka. Her husband Dhanraj works among the tribes, but mostly in Coimbatore district, he said. ‘No lack of options’ “We do not know how she finds a place in the commission. There are many organisations and tribes, and the government is not able to find one from them,” said Mr. Shanmugam, who was in the forefront in the struggle to get justice for the tribes subjected to brutality in Vachathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-tribal-representative-on-scst-panel/article37034233.ece
17 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||PSG Hospital, ALERT sign MoU to train public in medical emergency response||Coimbatore-based PSG Hospital and Chennai-based non-profit organisation Amenity Lifeline Emergency Response Team (ALERT) have joined hands to train the public in medical emergency response in western districts of Tamil Nadu, including Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and Salem. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed on Saturday between PSG Hospital and Alert, which is involved in creating awareness and imparting skills on medical emergency response. The MoU was exchanged in the presence of Coimbatore District Collector G.S. Sameeran, City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor, Managing Director of Adwaith Lakshmi Industries Ravi Sam, Managing Trustee of PSG Group of Institutions L. Gopalakrishnan, Alert's Chairman V.M. Muralidharan, founder Kala Balasundaram and co-founder Rajesh R. Trivedi. A release said the students of PSG Group of Institutions will be among those who will be trained in emergency medical response management. As per the MoU, PSG Hospital will collaborate with ALERT in empowering people from different walks of life such as police personnel, corporate employees, shopkeepers, auto/cab drivers, and home-makers in emergency response management. The hospital will also act as an external assessor and co-certifier of the training programmes. ALERT and PSG will take up joint curriculum research in emergency response management, it said. Coimbatore chapter of ALERT Golden Army, a team of volunteers trained to save lives during the golden hour, was launched at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/psg-hospital-alert-sign-mou-to-train-public-in-medical-emergency-response/article37034267.ece
17 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SIMA seeks measures to stabilise cotton price||The Southern India Mills’ Association (SIMA) has called for measures to stabilise cotton prices. In a memorandum to the Prime Minister, association chairman Ravi Sam said cotton prices have surged recently. The New York Futures Index has increased around 25% in the last 15 days. The Indian cotton price, though currently attractive due to comfortable closing stock position, have also increased from Rs. 41,900 a candy of Shankar - 6 variety in December 2020 to Rs. 57,000 a candy during the first week of October 2021. The Indian cotton season 2021-2022 that started on October 1 with over 100 lakh bales opening stock, is likely to see production of around 355 lakh bales, consumption of around 330 lakh bales, and import of almost 10 lakh bales. The industry expects availability of around 135 lakh bales for export and carry over stock. Cotton exports from India may exceed 100 lakh bales in the current season due to US sanction on Xinjiang Chinese cotton that accounts for 10% of the world cotton production. An analysis of cotton price data for 10 years shows that the domestic industry procures just one-third of the cotton produced and the rest are mostly purchased by the trade or Cotton Corporation of India (CCI). The cotton prices remain low from November to March. The CCI offloads bulk volume to the trade, he alleged. The government should look at measures for price stability and the CCI should adopt policies that will enable the industry, especially MSME mills, to buy more directly from it, Mr. Sam said. The current market price is ruling very high and the CCI may not be able to procure any cotton under MSP operation during the current season, Mr. Sam said. He appealed to the Prime Minister to introduce an innovative Cotton Procurement and Trading Scheme for CCI by providing government funding to procure 10 to 15% of the cotton that arrive in the market during the season and create a strategic stock for price stability. The CCI should sell cotton only to the actual users in a staggered manner till the end of the season and maintain buffer stock for the next season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sima-seeks-measures-to-stabilise-cotton-price/article37034265.ece
17 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Flights diverted||A flight from Chennai to Coimbatore was diverted to Bengaluru due to heavy rain in the city on Saturday afternoon. S. Senthil Valavan, director of Coimbatore International Airport, said that an Air India flight (AI 429) from Chennai to Coimbatore was diverted to Bengaluru due to bad weather and poor visibility at the Coimbatore airport when the flight was about to land here around 2.45 p.m. The flight later returned to the city from Bengaluru and landed at Coimbatore at 4.40 p.m. He said that another Air India flight from Mangaluru had to hold over Coimbatore for around one hour due to bad weather. The aircraft landed at 3.05 p.m. Earlier on Saturday, two IndiGo flights were diverted from Cochin International Airport to Coimbatore after they could not land at the airport due to heavy rain there. Flight 6E 7964 from Hubballi to Kochi, landed at Coimbatore at 10.56 a.m. and a second flight, 6E 5313 from Mumbai to Kochi, landed at Coimbatore at 11.45 a.m. Both flights took off to Kochi at 12.45 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flights-diverted/article37034271.ece
17 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Foreign student officers of DSSC visit Madras Regimental Centre Museum||Student officers from friendly foreign countries who are undergoing the 77th Defence Command and Staff Course at the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC), Wellington, visited the Madras Regimental Centre Museum on Saturday. A release said the museum at Wellington stands as an epitome of military heritage and history of the Madras Regiment. After their visit to the museum, the student officers also went to the Srinagesh Barracks where they were briefed about the glorious heritage and significance of the barracks in regimental history. The release said that 22 student officers and their spouses from various friendly foreign countries visited the places. The student officers also interacted with the Commandant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foreign-student-officers-of-dssc-visit-madras-regimental-centre-museum/article37034269.ece
17 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco urged to refund excess amount collected from consumers||The Coimbatore Consumer Cause has appealed to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to refund the excess amount collected from electricity consumers in Coimbatore region for installation of distribution transformers with associated equipment. The consumer organisation secretary K. Kathirmathiyon said in a press release that the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission made amendments in December last year regarding installation of distribution transformer and associated equipment and these were notified on January 27 this year. One of the important amendments is related to Low Tension consumers where the distribution transformer is required on the consumers’ premises. The amendment said “installation of distribution transformer with associated equipment/accessories viz. AB switch, HG fuse, DT structure/pole shall be carried out by the licensee at the licensee’s cost.” However, the Tangedco had collected amount for the same from the consumers. The Consumer Cause had pointed out repeatedly the violation. The Tamil Nadu Electricity Ombudsman, in an order dated September 24 this year, said the licensee should prepare the estimate in line with Regulation 29 (11) (c) of the TNE Distribution Code. It should revise the estimate for all such cases and refund the excess amount collected from consumers. It is learnt that Rs. 1.5 crore should be refunded in Coimbatore region within 60 days. “We also require you to pay interest for the excess charges as per Regulation 12 (2) of Supply Code,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-urged-to-refund-excess-amount-collected-from-consumers/article37034264.ece
17 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ganja seized, three held||The Sulur police on Friday arrested two men on charge of possessing five kg of ganja. P. Malaisamy (36) and G. Sundhar (30), both natives of Usilampatti in Madurai district, were arrested by the police from a place near Sulur on Friday noon. They were produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody.  In another case, the Mettupalayam police arrested a 16-year-old boy with 1.15 kg of ganja. The police were on the lookout for his accomplice. The police said that the minor boy was involved in three cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ganja-seized-three-held/article37034270.ece
17 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 136 test positive in Coimbatore||A total of 136 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The Health Department said 148 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,575 active cases. A 58-year-old man died on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 70 new cases and 74 persons recovered. The district had 822 active cases. Two men from the district died on October 10 and 14. Both the districts had a test positivity rate of 1.4 % on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-136-test-positive-in-coimbatore/article37034272.ece
17 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Textile TUs submit bonus demands||Textile trade unions (TUs) here have submitted their bonus demands to the textile mills. The trade unions said they have asked for minimum 15% bonus. The textile mills have seen good performance last year and bonus talks are expected to be settled without any problem, union leaders say. The National Textile Corporation (NTC) mills have not operated after the first wave of COVID-19 and the workers are getting only 50% wages. The NTC management has not given the balance sheet. “We want the talks with NTC mills to conclude by October 25,” said M. Arumugam, AITUC leader. The focus is on re-opening the NTC mills, adds Rajendran of CITU. With regard to private mills, the unions have asked for minimum 15% bonus, added Rajamani, HMS union leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-tus-submit-bonus-demands/article37034273.ece
17 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The Department of Science and Technology (DST) has accorded recognition for 20 projects of Nehru Group of Institutions, both Kerala and Tamil Nadu, for the academic year 2021-2022 and extended Rs. 2.5 lakh financial support. The management of the Institutions has also sanctioned a sum of Rs. 25 lakh to take up 10 start-up programmes. Some of the innovative projects include, IoT based Smart Water Monitoring System, Women Safety Watches, Intelligent Body Temperature, and Mask and Facial Recognition, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37034266.ece
17 October 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain: normal life comes to a standstill in Dindigul||Widespread rain in Dindigul city and peripheries disrupted normal life to a great extent on Saturday with most of the residents staying indoors. The weather was pleasant early in the morning and around 9 a.m., it was sunny, but around 11 a.m., the weather changed and many parts of the city experienced steady rain, which went on till 4 p.m. The rain, no doubt, was welcome by farmers but it proved to be a dampener for those who wanted to go shopping on the weekend. Apart from extension areas, pockets like Sirumalai, Adalur, Panrimalai, Oddanchatram, Sembatti and Chinnalapatti experienced good rain during the day. However, there was no rain in Natham and Sanarpatti areas. With a steady stream of tourists arriving to Kodaikanal hills, the rain forced many to stay indoors. There were traffic jams in commercial areas near Seven Road junction and also near the tourist spots as many drivers had parked vehicles on both sides of the road giving little carriage space. Absence of police personnel in the hill station encouraged violators to neglect all road rules irritating the law abiding motorists. On Friday evening, there was heavy rainfall for over an hour and low lying areas were inundated. The poor upkeep of the civic authorities was exposed in the rain as gutters was overflowing in many residential areas. The farmers welcomed the rain as storage level in reservoirs were fast depleting. Floods in Tirunelveli Around 650 devotees, who had gone to the Nambi Temple near Thirukurunkudi to offer special prayers on Saturday got stranded at the shrine on Saturday following a sudden downpour along the Western Ghats that triggered a flood. Collector V. Vishnu, SP N. Manivannan and Sub-Collector, Cheranmahadevi, Siva Krishnamurthy rushed to Thirukurunkudi along with more policemen and Fire and Rescue Services personnel, who evacuated them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-normal-life-comes-to-a-standstill-in-dindigul/article37034345.ece
17 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Online application to set up cracker stalls||The district administration has invited online applications from traders by October 22 for setting up cracker shops in the district for Deepavali. Collector H. Krishnanunni in a release said that small traders can submit their online applications through e-service centres along with necessary documents and by paying a service charge of Rs. 500. The applicant should submit six copies of site map and construction plain along with the building ownership document or rent agreement documents, original receipt and five copies of the receipt of having deposited Rs. 500 in government account and should submit a proof of identity (Aadhaar card or PAN card or ration card) and receipt for payment of property tax. Also, they should submit two-passport size photographs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-application-to-set-up-cracker-stalls/article37034374.ece
17 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Temples witness crowds on last Saturday of Purattasi||Devotees in large numbers thronged Perumal temples across the district on the last Saturday on the Tamil month of Purattasi here. Due to COVID-19, temples were closed for many months and were re-opened a few months ago. However, temples were closed from Friday to Sunday to prevent gathering of devotees in large numbers. Recently, the State government announced that temples will remain open on all days and asked the devotees to follow COVID-19 norms. The month of Purattasi is believed to be auspicious and devotees waited in long queues outside Perumal temples and other temples in the city. Temple staff at Kottai Aranganathar Swamy Temple ensured that devotees wore masks, sanitised their hands and their temperatures were checked before entering the temple premises. Temple staff said that the crowd was more when compared to the normal days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temples-witness-crowds-on-last-saturday-of-purattasi/article37034380.ece
17 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Water logging cleared from residential area||Residents of Nagaratchi Nagar in Lakkapuram Panchayat in Modakkurichi Taluk heaved a sigh of relief after the stagnated rain water in their area was cleared by officials here on Saturday. Over 100 families were living in the area where rain water was stagnating for over 10 days in the reserved sites. The place soon turned out to be a breeding site for mosquitoes. Also, bad odour emanating from the stagnated water caused hardship to them. But, the water could not be cleared as the tar-topped road cannot be dug. Their efforts to get their problem solved with the panchayat also did not yield any results as officials asked residents to clear the water by themselves. On Friday evening, residents took up the issue with District Collector H. Krishnanunni who immediately asked the Assistant Director of Panchayats to look into the issue. Within an hour, officials inspected the spot and promised to clear the stagnated water. On Saturday, an earthmover was pressed into service and the tar-topped road was dug and a pipeline was laid to clear the water in the reserved sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-logging-cleared-from-residential-area/article37034378.ece
17 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode dist. reports 97 cases||Erode district on Saturday reported 97 new cases taking the total tally to 1,03,196. While 94 persons were discharged, 908 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 55 positive cases and two deaths. According to health officials, 45 cases were indigenous and 14 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 46 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Krishnagiri district recorded 19 cases, while 28 persons got discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 315 as of Saturday. A total of 43,295 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri recorded 24 fresh cases, while 34 persons got discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 335. As of date, a total 28,144 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-dist-reports-97-cases/article37034373.ece
17 October 2021||ErODE,TAMIL NADU||Patient ends life at government hospital||A 51-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment at the District Headquarters Hospital, ended his life here on Saturday. A resident of Pallipalayam in Namkkal district, Prakash went to the toilet and took the extreme step. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patient-ends-life-at-government-hospital/article37034375.ece
17 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work, power supply will be disrupted in Kodumudi sub-station limits from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on October 20 at Kodumudi, Salai Pudur, Kuppampalayam, Rasampalayam, Othakadai, Unjalur, Pilikalpalayam, Thamaraipalayam, Thaluvampalayam, North Moorthipalayam, Arasampalayam, North Pudupalayam, Solakalipalayam and Nagamanaickenpalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37034376.ece
17 October 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Cash award for wards of ex-servicemen||Wards of ex-servicemen are eligible for a cash award of Rs. 1 lakh and a sovereign of gold coin subject to academic achievements. According to an administration release, in compliance with the Madras High Court order, the Administrator General and Official Trustee of Tamil Nadu has announced cash award for wards of ex-servicemen. For details, contact: 04343-236134.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-award-for-wards-of-ex-servicemen/article37034372.ece
17 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Set up more industrial estates, says trade body||Four more industrial estates must be established in the district, as most of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) operate in residential areas, said Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA). Its president M. S. Sampath said that an exclusive zone must be established for the sector, as new entrepreneurs were in search of space while existing units needed more space for expansion. Most of the plots in the industrial estates in Kappalur, K. Pudur and Uranganpatti were occupied. With MSME units operating in residential areas, those living nearby complain to the authorities that they spoiled the tranquillity of the place. The entrepreneurs were ready to move if they were offered space in a place dedicated for such units. Also, the transportation cost had increased considerably. Most of the units began their operations in the city periphery. But residential areas grew around them and later the residents started complaining against the units, said MADITSSIA vice-president A. Kodeeswaran. The trade body’s other demands were: since the MSME sector lost heavily due to the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdowns, the State government must give them sops; the Madurai-Thoothukudi Industrial Corridor must be revived and big investments made in Madurai; interest subvention at 6 % should be revived; public sector enterprises and big companies should adhere to the mandatory procurement of 25 % of purchase from MSME; and MSME dues must be cleared in 45 days. MADITSSIA office-bearers met Minister for Rural Industries T. M. Anbarasan and submitted a memorandum with these demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-up-more-industrial-estates-in-madurai-says-trade-body/article37034391.ece
17 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Residents continue to dump garbage along Walkers’ Park||People continue to dump garbage along Walkers’ Park on the banks of Vandiyur lake in K.K. Nagar. The intermittent rain has led to waterlogging and the dumping of garbage has turned the place messy and adds to the woes. Two dumper bins placed on Lake View Road close to East Fourth Street in K.K. Nagar were removed sometime back. However, the residents continue to dump waste in the same place where the dumper bins used to be. Also, vehicle users who pass that way also throw garbage here. The Corporation must place the dumper bins at the appropriate place. Placing them on the main road would hinder traffic, said a resident, a retired school teacher. He said that since Lake View Road is busy, placing the bins here would shrink the carriage space. Stray cattle and dogs rummage through the garbage and scatter them. People also throw garbage haphazardly which falls on the pavement. Corporation authorities said that there was a shortage of dumper bins. Additional bins will be purchased. A meeting would be held with officials and the issue would be looked into.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-continue-to-dump-garbage-along-walkers-park/article37034561.ece
17 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||GRH tower block to be ready in a year, says health official||In all probabilities, the tower block, under construction on Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) premises would be ready in a year’s time, said Principal Secretary for Health J. Radhakrishnan here on Saturday. Accompanied by Collector Aneesh Sekhar, Dean A. Rathinavel and senior PWD officials, he inspected the building. Speaking to reporters, Dr. Radhakrishnan said that the Rs. 121.80-crore project, funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), and overseen by Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, would have ample car parking space, cardiac OPD, emergency and other sections. “There will be 23 additional operation theatres. It will be the second biggest in the State, after the one in Chennai, as GRH is the referral centre for southern districts,” he said. He also inspected the administration block behind this building which will also house separate hostels for boys and girls, library and other facilities, and buildings coming up on the Madurai Medical College premises. On prevalence of dengue, Dr. Radhakrishnan said that compared to 2012, 2015, 2017 and 2018, the number of cases were lesser. “It can be attributed to better awareness among people about keeping the surroundings clean and preventing freshwater from getting collected in empty vessels as they turned out to be breeding grounds for mosquitoes,” he said. Of the 351 dengue cases reported in the State this season, there were three deaths, he said. AIIMS status On the status of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) coming up at Thoppur near here, he said that an official had been appointed to oversee administrative works. When asked whether it would function on a rented premises till the buildings were ready for occupation, he said that it was the prerogative of the State government which was keen to expedite the project. A meeting chaired by the Chief Minister to discuss the AIIMS matter was scheduled for next week in Chennai, he said. On COVID-19 pandemic, Dr. Radhakrishnan said that 70% to 75% of the eligible population had received the first dose of vaccine. Only Chennai and Coimbatore districts in the State reported more than 100 fresh cases a day and many districts in the south reported cases in single digits. “But people have to be very cautious as there are many festivals till till January,” he said and added that people should avoid assembling in public places. Most of the fresh cases were reported due to people gathering in family functions, he added.  A meeting chaired by CM to discuss AIIMS matter is scheduled for next week in Chennai J. Radhakrishnan Principal Secretary for Health||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grh-tower-block-to-be-ready-in-a-year-says-health-official/article37034343.ece
17 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to open fertility centres in GHs and PHCs||The Tamil Nadu government should open fertility centres in government hospitals as it would benefit couples in below poverty line (BPL) category to undergo fertility treatment free of cost, said RTI activist A. Veronica Mary here on Friday. Speaking to The Hindu , she said that information obtained from the Department of Health Services through Right to Information (RTI) Act showed that none of the government hospitals had a fertility centre. As a result, thousands of couples approached private fertility centres which charged exorbitant rates and those who could not afford the treatment remained childless. The information obtained revealed that there were over 150 fertility centres in the State, including 59 in Chennai, 14 in Coimbatore, and 11 each in Madurai and Salem. When the Tamil Nadu government had State-run medical colleges in over 30 districts and another 40 headquarters hospitals in the districts, fertility centres could be opened in all these places. In other places As per another information obtained from the Union government, the AIIMS had fertility centres on its campuses since 2007. Similarly, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh governments also had fertility centres in GHs. A study showed that in urban locations, one out of six couples could not have children due to various reasons. Since the State government had good infrastructure in many of the GHs and PHCs, fertility centres could be established easily. The GHs may have laser hatching, PGD sperm bank, egg bank, embryo bank, fibroid clinic and perform laparoscopic surgery and other procedures, she said. The State government may open fertility centres in at least 20 districts and also appoint a high-level committee to fix guidelines for private centres to prevent them from charging exorbitant rates. The fee should be uniform in private fertility centres across the State, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-fertility-centres-in-ghs-phcs/article37034369.ece
17 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Exhibition held||An interaction of stakeholders in food industry with research scholars was organised recently by Community College and Research Institute, Madurai, and Directorate of Agribusiness, Tamil Nadu Agriculture University, Coimbatore. An exhibition of over 50 innovative food products, developed by researchers, was held on the sidelines of the event. Beverages, baked products, ready-to-eat products, dehydrated products and extruded products were on display.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exhibition-held/article37034559.ece
17 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Human rights bodies condemn ‘encounter’ killings||Human rights organisations based in Madurai — People’s Watch and Joint Action Against Custodial Torture (JAACT) — have condemned the recent police ‘encounter’ killings in Tamil Nadu. They urged the State Human Rights Commission to intervene in the issue. The executive director of People’s Watch, Henri Tiphagne, said the State police had gunned down Murthaza of Jharkhand near Sriperumbudur and V. Durai Murugan of Thoothukudi district in Kovalam in the same week. “This ‘encounter’ culture must stop. Cases were pending against both Murthaza and Durai Murugan. Trial would have led to their conviction. But instead, the police have gunned them down. There should be zero tolerance towards such killings,” he said. The State government should ensure that this is not repeated. Appropriate action must be taken against the police officials involved in the two killings. Inquiry should be initiated against them, he said. The JAACT said in both the cases, the police had nabbed the accused and then gunned them down. The members termed the incidents ‘fake encounters’, and demanded that appropriate action be taken against the police officers involved. “The State government should take responsibility and ensure that such killings are not repeated. If no action is initiated, it will lead to many more ‘encounter’ killings in the State,” the body said. Both the organisations urged the State Human Rights Commission to take suo motu cognisance of the ‘encounter’ killings and hold an inquiry into the issue.  The State government should take responsibility and ensure that such killings are not repeated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/human-rights-bodies-condemn-encounter-killings/article37034234.ece
17 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Special train welcomed||The Karaikudi Chamber of Commerce and Industries has welcomed the decision to introduce the special train from Secunderabad to Rameswaram. South Central Railway will run the special trains from October 19 to December 30. The Chamber members said that the request to run a train between the two destinations was a long pending demand of commuters in the area. The Chamber members also appealed to the railway to make the special train a permanent one on the route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-welcomes-special-train-to-rameswaram/article37034361.ece
17 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 128.80 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 1,438 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 55.61 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 907 cusecs and a discharge of 1,119 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,885 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37034363.ece
17 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Revive PDS outlets in Puducherry: CPI leader||The CPI has demanded immediate revival of public distribution outlets in the Union Territory. CPI secretary A.M. Saleem said the government should start distribution of essential items through the PDS outlets so that people could get some respite during a financially stressful time. The prices of essentials had gone up. The purchasing power of the people had come down drastically. So this was essential, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revive-pds-outlets-in-puducherry-cpi-leader/article37034649.ece
17 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||48 fresh COVID-19 cases in U.T.||The Union Territory on Saturday registered 48 new COVID-19 cases from 3,823 tests. No death was recorded in the 24 hours ending at 10 a.m. on Saturday. As per data released by the Health Department, of the fresh cases recorded in the Union Territory, 27 were from Puducherry region, 11 from Mahe, 9 from Karaikal and 1 from Yanam. The UT, with 598 active cases now, has so far recorded 1,27,344 cases and 1,24,897 recoveries. As many as 1,849 people died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/48-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-ut/article37034360.ece
17 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. student to participate in Greece chess championship||A final year student pursuing his integrated B.A. B.Ed programme in a private college here is all set to participate in the FIDE World Amateur Chess Championship which is being held at Rhodes in Greece. A. Peter Anand was among the four players selected from the country through an online competition conducted by All India Chess Federation. He had won several tournaments including university, district, State and national-level competitions. Mr. Anand’s father, Arokiyaraj, a retired government employee, said his son had left for Greece on Friday. “My son’s event will come on Monday. It's a prestigious competition for him. My son has scored 2nd rank in below 2000 category in the online competition,” he added. As a goodwill gesture and to promote local talent, the Rotary Clubs of Pondicherry came forward to sponsor Mr. Anand’s trip to Greece. A programme was held in the town recently to felicitate the boy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-to-take-part-in-chess-contest/article37034347.ece
17 October 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||11 temples in Salem now BHOG certified||As many as 11 temples in Salem received the BHOG (Blissful Hygienic Offering to God) certification issued by the Centre under Eat Right campaign. The the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department and Food Safety department are working on certifying more temples. The BHOG certificate is issued with an objective of ensuring safety and quality ‘prasadam’ to the devotees at places of worship as per food safety guidelines. According to officials, Sugaveshwarar Temple, Sri Kannika Parameshwari Temple, Vennakudi Munniyappasamy Temple, Vinayagar Mariamman Pidariamman Temple, Kumaraguru Subramaniasamy Temple, Palapattarai Mariamman Temple, Kottai Mariamman Temple, Prasanna Venkatesha Perumal Temple, Kottai Alagirinathar Temple and Karuppunathar Temple have received the certification. R. Kathiravan, Designated Officer, Food Safety, said that chefs at the temples preparing annadhanams were given food safety training. Temple authorities were advised on hygienic measures on storing food items, shelf life of cooked food and other safe practices. The audits were conducted by a third-party agency and certification was issued after the temples fulfilled all requisites. Mangayarkarasi, Joint Commissioner, HR and CE, said that related staff members underwent training. Mminor improvements were made according to the guidelines. She said that they are working on including more temples under the certification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-temples-in-salem-now-bhog-certified/article37034382.ece
17 October 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||1 lakh doses of vaccine to be administered on Monday||The Salem district administration has targeted to administer 1 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine during the vaccination camp on Monday. District Collector S. Karmegham said in a release that the administration has planned a vaccination drive at 1,392 places on Monday. The district has stock of 1,76,080 Covishield and 14,360 Covaxin doses. The vaccination drive would be conducted between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Monday. The Collector said that second dose is due for 1.36 lakh persons who took Covishield and 48,000 who took Covaxin in the district. According to a release, in the five special camps conducted in the district, 3,11,667 persons have taken first dose vaccination and 1,87,750 second dose. Sixty-four percent of targetted population in the district have taken first dose and 24% second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1-lakh-doses-of-vaccine-to-be-administered-on-monday/article37034384.ece
17 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Yercaud ghat road reopened for traffic||The district administration has reopened Yercaud ghat road for light vehicles following completion of repair works. The ghat road was damaged between hairpin bend 2 and 3 in the landslide caused due to continuous rain in the district on October 11. The landslide that occurred for a height of 25 m caused cracks on the road. Considering the safety of the public, the district administration stopped traffic through the ghat road and diverted it through Kuppanur road. The Highways Department carried out the repair works on a war-footing. In a release, Collector S. Karmegham said sand bags had been arranged on the affected area. The road had been reopened for one-way traffic for light vehicles. Heavy vehicles would be diverted via Kuppanur road to reach Yercaud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yercaud-ghat-road-reopened-for-traffic/article37034387.ece
17 October 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Action will be taken against corrupt officials: SP||Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav said that stern action will be taken against police personnel against whom complaints related to corruption are received. In an advisory to Deputy Superintendents of Police here, Mr. Abhinav tabled range of money allegedly taken by police personnel from ranks of police station writer to inspector, special branch personnel and highway patrol for conducting inquiries on petitions and some police personnel receiving money from anti-social elements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-will-be-taken-against-corrupt-officials-sp/article37034383.ece
17 October 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects dengue preventive measures||District Collector S. Karmegham inspected dengue preventive measures at Vellakalpatti. Mr. Karmegham checked the water storing drums at a few residences and advised the public to prevent stagnation of rainwater on their premises to avoid breeding of dengue mosquitoes. The district administration has deployed over 780 workers in the Corporation limits and 1,034 workers in rural limits for dengue prevention activities in respective areas. The Collector said that officials have been advised to ensure chlorination of water in overhead tanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-dengue-preventive-measures/article37034385.ece
17 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Prison inmate dies of heart attack||An inmate serving jail term at Salem Central prison died of heart attack on Saturday. According to police, the deceased has been identified as Subramani (58) who is under judicial custody in a case registered by Salem Railways. The prisoner complained of chest pain was rushed to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. However, doctors pronounced his death, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prison-inmate-dies-of-heart-attack/article37034386.ece
17 October 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK’s 10-year-rule ruined the State: CPI||It may not be an easy task for the DMK to set right the defects committed by the AIADMK over the past 10 years in Tamil Nadu government, said Communist Party of India State secretary R. Mutharasan here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he charged that the height of corruption was at its peak in the State, run by Edappadi K Palaniswami. The new government has various issues before them. Not only the former ministers, but even some officials too were ‘behind’ the corruption. All those, who were responsible for ruining the State and looting the people’s money would not be spared by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin. The BJP, he said, was bent upon creating panic among the people, all for their political gains. While the BJP in the Centre says that there shall not be any festival in shrines due to COVID-19 pandemic, the BJP in Tamil Nadu wanted the temples to be opened and blamed the State government. Such double standards would be exposed and people were not fools to believe such politicians. The outcome of the rural local body polls showed that people had faith in the DMK. “We will be a responsible ally of the DMK,” he said. To another query, he said that it would not be right to disinvest the Public Sector Undertakings, especially, those, which were doing well. By selling the shares, the Union government had committed a major blunder and may have to face the people’s wrath soon. The CPI state secretary was here to preside over a training camp for cadres - ‘Senthondar payirchi’ in which former CPI MLA Gunasekaran, district secretary Kannagi and others addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmks-10-year-rule-ruined-tn-cpi/article37034368.ece
17 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Agriculture operations in State hit by fertilizer shortage: associations||The Coordination Committee of All Farmers’ Associations in Tamil Nadu has called upon the State government to ascertain and explain the factors that led to the alleged ‘shortage’ of fertilizers to the farming community. Talking to reporters at Okkanadu Melaiyur on Friday, the committee president P.R. Pandian said while the Union government sends SMS to the farmers stating subsidies had been allotted to encourage production of urea/fertilizers, the agriculture operations in Tamil Nadu were bogged down by the shortage in availability of fertilizers. Stating that unofficial reports received by the farmers revealed that the manufacturers had reduced the quantum of production drastically citing the difference in cost of production and sales realisation, he said the situation turned grim with lesser quantum of import of fertilizers though there were no restrictions laid on the import of fertilizers. Hence, the State government should ascertain the actual cause for the shortage of fertilizers and ensure that necessary steps were initiated to help the farmers take up ‘samba’ and ‘thaladi’ cultivations without much difficulty. Pointing out that the present storage at Mettur would not be sufficient to fulfil the irrigation requirements for ‘samba’ and ‘thaladi’, he urged the Tamil Nadu government to persist the Cauvery Water Management Authority to visit the dams in Karnataka, which have reached their full water storage capacity due a good South West monsoon season, to ensure that the upper riparian State release the Tamil Nadu’s share in Cauvery without fail. Desilting He had also pleaded that the State government should ensure that the work of desilting/renovation of waterodies/courses and irrigation channels in the State were taken up in February every year to ensure smooth and assured supply of water for irrigation during the cultivation seasons, Mr. Pandian added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agriculture-operations-in-state-hit-by-fertilizer-shortage-associations/article37034348.ece
17 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Graduates should take roads less travelled ’||Graduates should take the less travelled roads to achieve their ambitions once they step out of institutions, said Sandeep Verma, Secretary, Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), while speaking online during the 35th convocation function of SASTRA, a deemed-to-be university, on Saturday. He said though taking a less travelled road would be a bit difficult in the beginning, problems and obstacles encountered in that route would help hone the adaptability and skills of individuals, who were out to prove themselves as successful, and contributing to the betterment of the society. Mr. Verma said the board’s vision was to position the science and technology as the fulcrum for socio-economic transformation by supporting relevant scientific research and deep expertise in specific domains that address challenging national problems. Presenting the annual academic report, SASTRA vice-chancellor S. Vaidhyasubramaniam said the knowledge acquired by the students was evaluated by conducting ‘hybrid assessments’ during the COVID-19 pandemic period and ‘examination incentive’ of Rs. 500 each was provided to students to help them to get the required broadband bandwidth to attend the tests. Several training sessions were also conducted for the faculty to help them adopt the new teaching-learning mechanism induced by the pandemic, he added. Degrees were awarded to more than 4,500 students of various courses at the convocation, which was called to order by the Chancellor R. Sethuraman. Earlier on Friday, an integrated administrative and student’s hostel block, constructed at a cost of Rs. 160 crore on SASTRA’s Thanjavur campus, was declared open by T.V. Narendran, chief executive officer and managing director, TATA Steel Limited.  Problems and obstacles encountered in that route will help hone adaptability and skills of individuals Sandeep Verma Secretary, Science and Engineering Research Board||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/graduates-should-take-less-travelled-roads/article37034229.ece
17 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Proposed revival of train service welcomed||The Thanjavur District Railway Users Association has expressed its gratitude to Southern Railway for the proposed revival of Hyderabad-Rameswaram weekly service through Thanjavur and Kumbakonam. The weekly service connecting Ramewaram with Hyderabad was suspended a year ago in view of COVID-19, the association said on Friday. Since the pandemic situation had eased, TDRUA made an appeal to Southern Railway to revive the weekly service passing through Kumbakonam and Thanjavur. As a fall out, it claimed, Southern Railway has also decided to revive the weekly train service (07685/07686) between Secunderabad and Rameswaram from October 19, which will pass through Guntur, Tirupati, Thiruvannamalai, Mayiladuthurai, Kumbakonam, Thanjavur, Tiruchi, Pudukottai and Karaikudi. The train (07685) will leave Secunderabad every Tuesday night at 9.25 p.m. and arrive at Mayiladuthurai at 6.45 p.m. on Wednesday, Kumbakonam and Thanjavur at 7.15 p.m. and 8.25 p.m., respectively, on the same day before reaching Rameswaram at 3.10 a.m. on Thursday. In the return direction (train no:07686), it will leave Rameswaram at 11.55 p.m. on every Thursday and arrive Thanjavur at 6-10 a.m. on Friday, Kumbakonam and Mayiladuthurai at 6.45a.m. and 8 a.m., respectively, on the same day before reaching Secunderabad at 7-10 a.m. on Saturday. The revival has opened up avenues for direct travelling.from delta districts to the destinations, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proposed-revival-of-train-service-welcomed/article37034349.ece
17 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||The Great Indian Kitchen gets Kerala’s best film award||Jeo Baby’s The Great Indian Kitchen , which won praises from all across for its portrayal of a woman’s bold fightback within an oppressive patriarchal family, has been chosen as the best film at the 51st Kerala State Film Awards. The awards were declared on Saturday afternoon. Jeo Baby also won the award for the best original screenplay. Choosing the film, which insisted that democracy should start at home, was a unanimous decision for the jury, according to jury chairperson Suhasini. Jayasurya won his second State award for best actor (male) for his performance in Vellam , which kept afloat an archetypal drunkard tale, while Anna Ben won the best actor (female) for her performance in Kappela as a naive young woman who has to negotiate many a pitfall when she goes out into the big world. Sidhartha Siva won the award for the best director for Ennivar . Writer-director Sachy, who passed away last year, also found a place in the winner's list for his last film Ayyappanum Koshiyum , which won the award for the best film with popular appeal and aesthetic value. These are the first awards after amending the rules to introduce a two-level mechanism for the jury in the wake of an increase in entries for the awards. The main jury had to view around 30 films selected from 80 submissions by a preliminary jury. The jury also includes eight-time national award winner and Kannada director P. Seshadri and director Bhadran, who were also the chairpersons of the two committees of the preliminary adjudication committee. Declaring the award, Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian said the award would send across a message that women coming forward in all walks of life, including in cinema, was the need of the hour. Ms. Suhasini said Kerala had to be appreciated for going ahead with organising the award during the COVID-19 pandemic period, providing inspiration for artistes. “The quality of all the films have been good. Only when there is a calamity, people think differently. It will bring out different emotions in people. Production would have been difficult during this period, yet we had 80 films for consideration,” said Ms. Suhasini. She said the competition for the best actor (female) award was tough with seven contenders in the final round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-great-indian-kitchen-gets-keralas-best-film-award/article37034078.ece
17 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Garbage piles up at Tiruchi MGMGH||Patients and attenders at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital are irked by the failure of authorities to clear the garbage accumulated at the rear of the building. The waste, dumped since Wednesday, has not been cleared due to their lax attitude during the festival. Hundreds of plastic bags filled with leftover food, plastic and other waste are lined at the backside of the hospital. Sanitary workers at the hospital have been instructed to accumulate biodegradable and non-biodegradable non-medical waste at the back of the Super Speciality Block from where a vehicle from Tiruchi Corporation will collect it on a daily basis. However, there has been no collection since Wednesday, the workers say. The accumulated garbage had begun to emit a foul smell, following which the workers sprinkled disinfectant on it. The workers say the hospital authorities can set up collection points with large dustbins on the hospital campus instead of individual bags. “With the recent rain, the bags get wet and the food and other material inside will decompose and potentially cause infection," a worker points out. She was tasked with sprinkling the infectant the previous day. “We are risking our lives with this work. They can set up dustbins with lids so the waste can be collected there until the collection vehicle arrives,” she adds. Attenders of patients, especially those admitted to the newly set up dengue ward, are unhappy because the section is near the dumpsite. “Patients from various districts come here for treatment, but the smell of garbage puts them off,” P. Saraswathi, an attender said. With diseases such as dengue and malaria common during the season, the hospital authorities must be watchful, she adds. Another attender says the garbage piles attract stray dogs, posing a threat especially to children and elderly people. When contacted, officials of the Corporation said they were unaware of the issue and would attend to it soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garbage-piles-up-at-tiruchi-mgmgh/article37034351.ece
17 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 140-crore allocated for integrated bus stand: Nehru||Administrative sanction has been given for the integrated bus stand to be established at Panchapur on the outskirts of the city, according to Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of foundation laying for construction of an overhead water tank near Central Bus Stand, Mr. Nehru said preliminary steps had been taken and Rs. 140 crore earmarked for a component of the project. All other steps, including preparation of the Detailed Project Report (DPR), were on. Mr. Nehru said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin would be invited to lay the foundation for the project. Steps had been taken to start construction as early as possible. Preparation of DPR was also on for the elevated corridors between Mela Chinthamani and Kambarasampettai and the Head Post Office and the District Court complex in Tiruchi. Detailed plans of the proposed projects would be known shortly. A new bridge would also be constructed across the Cauvery in the city at an estimated cost of about Rs. 90 crore. The bridge would come up adjacent to the existing bridge, which had suffered damages in recent years. To a question on conducting elections to urban local bodies, he said preliminary steps had been taken for the purpose. A Government Order had been issued to upgrade Kumbakonam municipality to corporation and 19 town panchayats to municipalities. After completion of all mandatory procedure and delimitation process, the State Election Commission (SEC) would announce the dates. On criticism levelled by the AIADMK that the DMK government tasted success in the rural local body polls in nine districts with the tacit support of the SEC, Mr. Nehru said the elections were conducted in a free and fair manner. Officials acted in an impartial manner in holding the polls. There were posts in which the DMK nominees were defeated by a single digit. The AIADMK too won in several panchayat union wards. If the DMK influenced the SEC, the party nominees, who lost the election by a narrow margin, could have been declared winners. The new overhead water tank near the bus stand would come up at a cost of Rs. 4.5 crore. It would have a capacity of five lakh litres and would facilitate the uninterrupted water supply to residents in Pirattiyur and Karumandapam areas. Steps were also being taken to build a overhead tank at Milaguparai to ensure equitable water supply, he added. Collector S. Sivarasu, Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman and others took part in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-140-crore-allocated-for-integrated-bus-stand-nehru/article37034356.ece
17 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||AC buses to ply on two routes in Tiruchi||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Saturday formally inaugurated the air-conditioned bus service on Thuvakudi-Central Bus Stand route at Tiruverumbur Bus Stand. Speaking at the inauguration, Mr. Poyyamozhi said the bus route from Central Bus Stand to Thuvakudi was crowded on a daily basis. The Government Arts College, National Institute of Technology, and industries such as Bharat Heavy Electricals and Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project were among a few on the route. Hundreds of buses plied from both Central Bus Stand and Chathram Bus Stand along the route daily and , but all buses run full, he said. The services were introduced after a section of bus users expressed the need for an air-conditioned service along the routes. The service would make eight round trips a day, the Minister said, adding that the minimum fare would be Rs. 15 and the maximum Rs. 40. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation introduced air-conditioned bus services on two routes in the city on Friday. The buses would operate on the Central Bus Stand-Thuvakudi (Route No.128) and Central Bus Stand-Srirangam (9E) once every hour. The 9E bus goes through Thillai Nagar to Srirangam and returns through the same route. The buses, which were launched on Friday on the occasion of Ayudha Puja, saw a good response with families travelling to visit their near and dear ones during the festival. Aa large percentage of the people taking the bus were occasional travellers. “If we were to take an auto rickshaw, it would cost Rs. 150 to Srirangam, but the bus costs much less. For people like us who take these buses on occasion, this is comfortable, said M. Anish, a passenger. The ticket from Central Bus Stand to Srirangam costs Rs. 30. The public were appreciative of the efforts taken by TNSTC to introduce air-conditioned service at nominal costs. “At Rs. 30, we can conveniently take the bus to the temple and offer our prayers during the festival season,” another passenger added. Speaking about the service, an TNSTC official said that a section of travellers who were willing to spend extra on comfort would prefer these buses. “If more such buses are deployed by the State government, we will be able to extend the services to other popular routes too." Battery-operated buses, too, were in the works but were yet to be finalised, he added. A few years ago, an air-conditioned service was introduced between Srirangam and the airport, but was discontinued subsequently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ac-buses-to-ply-on-two-routes-in-tiruchi/article37034359.ece
17 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh notification on reopening nurseries soon, says Minister||Indicating that there could be a change in resumption of the physical classes for nursery and kindergarten schools in the State, Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Saturday said a fresh notification on the matter would be issued soon. In an informal chat with the reporters here, he said the need for reopening anganwadis only came up for discussion when Chief Minister M.K. Stalin held a meeting a few days ago. The discussion was on how to ensure that children were provided with the nutritious meal at the anganwadis. However, it was misconstrued that nurseries and kindergartens would also be opened. A revised notification would be issued within a day or two, he said. He said that a section of parents still had apprehensions over sending their children to schools although there seemed to be a decline in learning ability of students due to the prolonged closure of schools. Hence, even though physical classes had resumed and the COVID 19 cases were on the decline, online education through social media platforms and Kalvi television would continue. Mr. Poyyamozhi said school heads and teachers had been asked to encourage the students to attend classes regularly. No student should be punished for failing to turn up at the schools. Referring to allegations that children wearing ‘rudraksh’ were not being allowed to attend classes in a few schools, the Minister said no such restriction should be enforced. Action would be taken on such complaints, he said. To a query, he said the special coaching for NEET would continue although the government was waging a legal battle against the medical entrance exam.  A revised notification would be issued within a day or two Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi Minister for School Education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-notification-on-nurseries-soon/article37034243.ece
17 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Senior officers of RPF to check alertness of train escort teams||The alertness of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) escort teams of Tiruchi Division deployed on board express trains to ensure security for travellers and act in times of emergency situation is being checked by senior officers by carrying out escort checking en route. This system has been put in place in accordance with a recent direction from the Railway Board which has issued a circular in this connection to all railway zones. Senior RPF officers from the rank of Inspector, Assistant Security Commissioner and Senior Divisional Security Commissioner/ Divisional Security Commissioner have been instructed to ensure alertness of the escort teams and effectiveness by conducting escort checking en route between 10 p.m. and 4 a.m. A schedule has been drawn up for the officers from the rank of Inspector to Senior Divisional Security Commissioner in this regard. Schedule drawn up As per the schedule, the Senior Divisional Security Commissioner / Divisional Security Commissioner has been asked to conduct escort checks en route four times in a month. The Assistant Security Commissioner will conduct the checks en route twice in a week and the Inspectors, who are also the Post Commanders, have been instructed to carry out the task thrice in a week. A set of guidelines have been issued in the Railway Board circular to streamline the train escorting system so as to make it more effective. One of the guidelines is that every escort team should consist of a Subordinate Officer as far as possible. A Head Constable should lead the escort team in the absence of a Subordinate Officer, it further states. Another guideline was that the escort teams should be briefed about the dos' and don'ts while escorting and about criminals / anti-social elements active in the section where the teams are being deputed. The circular has also drawn up the escorting schedule for RPF Subordinate Officers to ensure that maximum number of escort teams are headed by them. The Inspector of RPF Post who is also the Post Commander has been directed to head the escort team once in a fortnight, while the Sub Inspector attached to RPF posts would head the escort teams once in a week and the Assistant Sub Inspector of RPF Posts would head the team twice in a week. A separate schedule has been drawn up for Inspectors, Sub Inspectors and Assistant Sub Inspectors posted at Reserve Lines/ Train Escort/Cash Escort Company. The effectiveness of escort checkings, gaps noticed during such checks and system improvement should find place in periodic crime meetings convened by the Senior Divisional Security Commissioner / Divisional Security Commissioner and follow up action taken in this regard, the circular further said. RPF sources here say the recent instruction of the Railway Board has been put in place in Tiruchi Division to streamline the escort teams in order to serve the passengers. Over 90 RPF personnel including 20 Subordinate Officers were being deployed daily on board several trains being operated on the Tiruchi- Vriddhachalam - Villupuram chordline section and on the Villupuram - Thanjavur via Chidambaram, Mayiladuthurai and Kumbakonam mainline section. In addition to these, escort teams are also being deployed on board bi-weekly trains originating from Tiruchi Division and those passing through it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-officers-of-railway-protection-force-to-check-alertness-of-train-escort-teams/article37034346.ece
17 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||216 fresh cases, five fatalities reported in central districts||The central region reported 216 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. The number of cases continued to reflect a downward trend across most districts in the State. Five deaths due to the viral infection were registered in the region. Two patients succumbed to the illness in Tiruchi, while one each died in Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam districts. Thanjavur district reported a slight increase in the number of cases compared to Friday. On Saturday, 71 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported 47 fresh cases of COVID-19. The other seven districts in the region reported less than 30 fresh cases. In Tiruvarur, 29 patients reported COVID-19 positive, while Nagapattinam registered 21. Mayiladuthurai district registered 15 cases, Karur 12 and Pudukottai 11. In Ariyalur, eight patients tested positive, while Perambalur continued to retain its spot as the district with the least number of fresh cases with two new cases reported on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/216-fresh-cases-five-fatalities-reported-in-central-districts/article37034353.ece
17 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Identities of OFT, HEPF change as DPSUS come into existence||With the inauguration of seven defence public sector undertakings (DPSUSs) in the place of Ordnance Factory Board on Friday, the identities of the Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, and High Energy Projectile Factory have gone through a change. While OFT has become a part of Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Ltd., HEPF will henceforth function under Munitions India Ltd. Besides the two DPSUs, the remaining 39 defence units have been subsumed by India Optel Limited, Troop Comforts Limited, Liders India Limited, Armour Vehicles - Avani, and Yantra India Limited. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh dedicated the seven new defence companies to the nation through an online function even as defence civilian employees of the seven DPSUs boycotted the virtual event relayed on giant screens. However, Group A and Group B employees were asked to be present, sources said. The All India Defence Employee's Federation, Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh, Confederation of Defence Recognized Associations, and All India Bahujan Defence Employees' Federation have termed the inauguration of the "seven non-viable undertakings" as an enaction of drama. Despite assurances from the Central government that the service conditions of the employees on deemed deputation will be protected, the DPSUs are issuing orders for increasing weekly working hours, lifting of piece work ceiling, side stoppage of overtime, and reduction in labour estimates without assigning proper reason, representatives of trade unions said. Thanking employees, retired employees, and all their families besides the elected representatives for extending support to the boycott of the virtual function, general secretary of AIDEF S. Srinagar said the protest was a total success. The protests would continue and the employees would continue to fight for restoration of Ordnance Factory Board, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/identities-of-oft-hepf-change-as-dpsus-come-into-existence/article37034336.ece
17 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CII delegation meets Indonesian Consul General||A delegation of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Tiruchi Zone, called on the Consul General of Indonesia, Agus P. Saptono, in Mumbai recently to discuss bilateral trade and investment opportunities and the scope for direct air link between Tiruchi and Indonesia. Purpose The purpose of the meeting was to promote Indonesian trade and investment opportunities and the potential for business and investment opportunities in Tamil Nadu, a press release from CII, Tiruchi, said. Various issues relating to CII’s role towards the promotion of India-Indonesia bilateral relations were also discussed at the meeting. The meeting was also intended to promote the forthcoming annual Tradexpo Indonesia 2021 to be held from October 21 to November 4 on virtual mode and the forthcoming ‘TrichEConnect’ and upcoming conference and exhibition on ‘World-class Healthcare : Destination Tiruchi,’ the release added. Air connectivity The CII Members also discussed the scope for introducing direct air connectivity between Indonesia and Tamil Nadu, Tiruchi in particular. The CII delegation comprised D.Senguttuvan, Chairman, CII, Tiruchi Zone, M.Somasundaram, Vice Chairman, N.P. Sukumar and B.V.Ramanan, Past Chairpersons, and V.Narayanan, Convenor, Information and Communication Technology Panel, CII, Tiruchi. Kumara Jati, Director, Indonesian Trade Promotion Center, Chennai, and other Indonesian officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cii-delegation-meets-indonesian-consul-general/article37034337.ece
17 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Navalpattu Viji held under IT Act||Police on Saturday arrested Navalpattu S. Viji alias Vijayakumar, 50, of Poolangudi Colony in Navalpattu on the charges of uttering derogatory remarks against Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Minister for School Education and in charge of DMK Tiruchi district (south). According to sources, Viji posted several messages on WhatsApp and Facebook on January 29 against Mr. Poyyamozhi and his style of functioning. Viji also posted a voice message threatening the Minister. Acting on a complaint lodged by M. Mariappan, 42, of Guntur, Navalpattu police registered a complaint against Viji under sections 505 (II) (criminal intimidation), 294 (b) (using obscene words) of Indian Penal Code and 67 (posting obscene message) of Information Technology Act. Viji, who was believed to be a loyalist of K.N. Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, was suspended from the DMK a few months ago for anti-party activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/navalpattu-viji-held-under-it-act/article37034338.ece
17 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Stranded devotees rescued as heavy downpour triggers flash floods||Around 650 devotees, who had gone to the Nambi Temple near Thirukurunkudi to offer special prayers on Saturday got stranded at the shrine on Saturday following a sudden downpour along the Western Ghats that triggered a flood. The devotees had gone to the temple in the Western Ghats to offer special prayers on the occasion of ‘Purattaasi’ last Saturday. They were stranded at the shrine as the rocky road leading to the temple and the road between Thirukurunkudi and the forest check-post were cut off due to the sudden downpour. “We were held-up at the temple due to the sudden rain. The low-lying bridge at Vattakulam near Thirukurunkudi was submerged by the flood around 10.45 a.m. forcing the police to use jeeps to ensure a safe crossing on the inundated bridge,” said Rukmani, one of the stranded devotees. When the officials were informed about the devotees stranded in the temple in the inaccessible hilly region, Collector V. Vishnu, Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan and Sub-Collector, Cheranmahadevi, Siva Krishnamurthy rushed to Thirukurunkudi along with more policemen and Fire and Rescue Services personnel, who tied ropes across the bridge to ensure save evacuation. When asked, forest personnel said they initially advised the devotees not to go to Nambi Temple as the entire Western Ghat was experiencing heavy rainfall, which usually resulted in the submerging of the Vattakulam low-lying bridge. “After the devotees contacted persons including office-bearers of Hindu outfits to tell that they were not being allowed to offer ‘Purattaasi’ last Saturday prayers, we were under immense pressure and we allowed the devotees to the temple,” said a senior forest official.  Areas close to the Western Ghats in Tenkasi district also experienced good rainfall on Saturday. Courtallam waterfalls witnessed heavy water flow following overnight rains in the hilly region. Following incessant drizzle since morning, the 30-minute-long downpour that started at 10 a.m. inundated the roads and the fields. After a brief interval of 30 minutes, another round of heavy downpour made the situation more difficult for the public. “After intermittent drizzle for the past few days, the downpour we experienced on Saturday will badly affect vegetable farming in Tenkasi district. Since harvest of onion was going on, the standing crop, which is ready for harvest cannot be reaped due to the unexpected rains. Similar conditions prevail in farms where other vegetables have been cultivated,” said K. Arunachalam, a farmer from Paavoorchathram. Rain also battered various parts of Kanniyakumari on Saturday with Nagercoil recording 63 mm rainfall even as other parts of the district also experienced decent rainfall ranging from 10 mm at Colachel to 50 mm at Kottaaram. Catchment areas of Petchipaarai, Perunchaani and other dams also recorded significant rainfall. Following heavy downpour, country boat fishermen did not venture into the sea for fishing on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-stranded-at-temple-near-thirukurunkudi-rescued/article37034228.ece
17 October 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Police seeks farmers’ help to prevent soil erosion at firing range||K. Sollai, 62, a marginal farmer in Balur village near Gudiyatham in Vellore, is busier than usual these days. After finishing routine work — irrigating his paddy field, removing weeds and checking crop growth — he steps out for a long walk on his three hectares of farmland, collecting fallen palm seeds every afternoon. He stores them in a gunny bag near the motor room, before it is picked up by a beat policeman in the evening. For weeks now, farmers like Mr. Sollai, from the village and its neighbouring hamlets such as Bojanapuram, Charakkal, Chengundram, Gundalapalli, Karkur, Mordona and Pattu in Gudiyatham, have been carrying out the work, voluntarily, to help the local policemen. The palm seeds were sown along the boundary of the firing range of the Vellore district police in Thalanatham village and a hillock in Vellore, bordering Tiruvannamalai, to prevent soil erosion, by a team of 700 police personnel, led by Superintendent of Police (SP), Vellore, S. Selvakumar, on Saturday. A month and a half of hard work by farmers and officers, mainly from the Armed Reserve wing, had yielded over 5,000 seeds. “We have been using the firing range for a decade to train our policemen. Soil erosion is a major problem. So we decided to seek help from farmers in Vellore and neighbouring Ranipet districts for the sowing drive,” Mr. Selvakumar told The Hindu . Spread across 83 acres, the firing range trains personnel to handle all kinds of weapons. It helps personnel train themselves at different distances — short (300 yards), medium (500 yards) and long (800 yards). Botanists said the palmyra tree, with its fibrous root system, is known for its bund-strengthening qualities. “The palm is a water conserving tree, and is also a native species,” said D. Narasimhan, head, Centre for Floristic Research, Department of Botany, Madras Christian College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-seeks-farmers-help-to-prevent-soil-erosion-at-firing-range/article37034683.ece
17 October 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Virudhunagar govt. medical college can admit 150 students’||With the Union government’s clearance, three medical colleges – Virudhunagar, The Nilgiris and Kallakurichi – can admit 150 students each from the ensuing academic year, said Principal Secretary (Health) J. Radhakrishnan here on Saturday. Accompanied by Collector Meganath Reddy and Medical College Dean J. Sangumani, he inspected the newly constructed government medical college and hospital. Speaking to reporters, he said that the Centre had given its nod to open 11 medical colleges. With funds from both the Union and State governments, the buildings were almost completed in most of the locations, he added. Appreciating the team of officials in Virudhunagar district from the revenue, PWD, Health and among others for their swift action, he said that the medical college, which is close to the District Collectorate and on the NH four-lane, would be an added advantage for both the students and the patients. To a query, he said that in four other districts - Ariyalur, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam and Dindigul – where medical colleges were coming up, the Centre had given its nod for admitting a total of 100 students. “We will make a representation for another review and enhance the admission to 150 students,” he added. Vaccination On questions regarding COVID-19, Dr Radhakrishnan said that 5.4 crore doses had been administered till now in the State. For people above 60 years, 67 lakh doses had been administered. From the special camps held since September 12, 1.13 crore doses had been given. Asked about trauma care facility at the Virudhunagar GH, he said, it would be provided shortly. He also said that with schools reopening from November 1, the Health department would closely coordinate with the School Education Department. He appealed to the people to use masks in public places and avoid visiting markets or other places unnecessarily. There was utmost need to be careful till January as there were many festivals around, he stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-medical-college-can-admit-150-students/article37034367.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Flight fares skyrocket||Tushar Jain ofroundtrip.insays the demand in this festive season is akin to pre-COVID levels and comes as a much-needed boost for the airlines and travel industry. Most passengers taking the flights are those who get back home to spend a few days with their families. Preferred option “Since many offices have opened, working professionals are returning home for Deepavali. Fully vaccinated people are confident of flying now, be it for leisure or business. They prefer a flight instead of train because travel time is far less, even if it means spending more,” he says. S. Jeyasekaran of Travel Agents Association of India, Chennai Chapter says, apart from Delhi and Mumbai, many within the State travel to Coimbatore, Tiruchi and Madurai. The fares are exorbitant with a one-way ticket to Tiruchi touching nearly Rs. 7,000 almost as much as the fare to Delhi itself. The flight ticket from Chennai to Madurai is about Rs. 5,000. “While there may be many who take buses or trains to these cities, there is a section of last-minute travellers who take a flight. We also had some families that are planning temple trips to places like Madurai and Kanniyakumari,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flight-fares-skyrocket/article37034222.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sea of visitors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sea-of-visitors/article37034245.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Traffic hit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-hit/article37034276.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||17-10-2021-city-cinema||Music Dance Drama BRAHMA GANA SABHA/ NARADA GANA SABHA Ph: 9444444767 Today at Narada Gana Sabha Hall, 6.45 PM Ajay Entertainers Presents "PAADHUKA PATTABHISHEKAM"- Historical Drama. Tickets available at Hall from 6pm. Covid safety precautions applicable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-10-2021-city-cinema/article37034213.ece
17 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||MLA’s supporters disrupt art exhibition inaugural||Some BJP workers and followers of Abhay Patil, MLA, on Saturday tried to disrupt the inauguration of a painting exhibition that was being organised by Gulmohar BAG, a group of city-based artists, as they felt it was sending a wrong message among the public about their leader’s efforts. Despite delay, the event was successfully help. The five-day exhibition ends on October 20. Artists have exhibited paintings as a means of creative protest against the felling of trees in the name of development at Vaccine Depot, a lung space in the city. When the inauguration was going on, BJP members barged into the venue and asked the organisers to stop it as it was sending a wrong message about the development works taken up by the MLA. Praveen Pilankar and others, who identified themselves as followers of the MLA, said the exhibition was making false allegations of tree cutting on the Vaccine Depot premises. Mr Palankar said the theme of the exhibition ‘Save Vaccine Depot’ was wrongly chosen. “It sends a message that a large number of trees are being cut at the depot. This is false. Not even a single tree has been cut there,” he claimed. He accused them of turning a blind eye to the illegal activities going on inside the depot. Keerti Suranjana, secretary of the organisation, and members such as Sachin Upadhyaya tried to speak to the protesters. They said their effort was creative and not political. Mr. Upadhyaya said they were artists and were choosing creative ways of responding to the developments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlas-supporters-disrupt-art-exhibition-inaugural/article37034410.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pvt. hospitals bank on approval for use of Covaxin for children||Private hospitals in the State, whose unused stock of COVID-19 vaccines is nearing expiry, are now banking on the rollout of paediatric vaccination. It is estimated that Karnataka has over 1.5 crore people who are under 18 years and the State will require over three crore doses to fully vaccinate this beneficiary group. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) is expected to approve the emergency use of Covaxin in child vaccination in a few days. Worry over wastage “With hardly any takers for this vaccine in private hospitals, we were worried about the stock going waste. However, we are now banking on the government’s approval for use of Covaxin in paediatric vaccination and are hopeful of getting the DCGI approval in a few days,” H M Prasanna, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) told The Hindu on Friday. The demand for COVID-19 vaccines in private hospitals dipped drastically after the State Government started free vaccination for all above 18 years at State-run vaccination centres. “The government is aggressively conducting special drives to maximise coverage. Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) and NGOs are being involved in the free vaccination drives and there are hardly any takers for the vaccine in private hospitals,” Dr. Prasanna said. All put together, private hospitals in Bengaluru have nearly six lakh doses of which nearly two lakh are Covaxin. “There was a craze for Covaxin after Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the vaccine. The demand had also surged earlier due to the shorter 28-day interval between the first and second dose. But, now there are few takers for the inactivated-virus vaccine, largely due to the cost factor,” he said. While the procurement price of one dose of Covaxin is Rs. 1,260 per dose, it is being given at Rs. 1,410 in private hospitals (including service charge of Rs. 150). This is almost double the cost of Covishield that is priced at Rs. 780. “Since Covaxin is available for free in government hospitals, no one wants to pay for it in our hospitals. Even companies are not keen on using their CSR funds on Covaxin as they can sponsor two doses of Covishield at the cost of one dose of Covaxin,” Dr. Prasanna pointed out.  Hospital heads said there was no issue with Covishield as it is getting used up. “Covishield stocks arrived only recently due to the high demand and this vaccine has a shelf life till March. We expect the demand to pick up in the coming days when many due for the second dose will start taking it,” said R. Ravindra, former president of PHANA. Doctors are hoping the same Covaxin doses can be used in the prescribed 0.5 ml dosage in paediatric population. “But, it is still not clear until the guidelines for child vaccination are issued after DCGI approval. It will be a national waste if the Covaxin stocks expire,” Dr. Ravindra said. “Some hospitals, whose Covaxin stocks are higher than others, have spoken to manufacturers to take back the doses from them. But the manufacturers are yet to get back on that. This may be a challenging task as it involves a huge process of validating the stocks again. If the vaccines are not stored properly in cold-chain facilities, they may go waste. But we are confident our stocks will get used once the DCGI gives its approval,” Dr. Prasanna added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-hospitals-bank-on-approval-for-use-of-covaxin-for-children/article37034179.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A gecko named Jackie Chan in the Western Ghats||A new revision of Cnemaspis geckos (day gecko) in the Western Ghats has described 12 new species, including ones named, among others, after Jackie Chan and dragons from Game of Thrones and Lord of the Rings. Of the 12 species, 10 were found in southern Western Ghats. The paper, ‘Diversifying on the Ark: multiple new endemic lineages of dwarf geckos from the Western Ghats provide insights into the systematics and biogeography of South Asian Cnemaspis (Reptilia: Squamata)’, authored by Saunak Pal, from the Bombay Natural History Society, Mumbai, Princia D’Souza and Kartik Shanker from the Centre for Ecological Sciences, Indian Institute of Science (IISc.), Bengaluru; and Zeeshan A. Mirza from the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Bengaluru, was published in Zoological Research recently. “Thegekkonid genus Cnemaspis Strauch is polyphyletic, with three distantly related and geographically isolated clades from Africa, South Asia (SA) and Southeast Asia. At present, there are 85 known species within SA, although the number continues to increase rapidly with focused surveys and rigorous taxonomic work,” the paper says, adding however that most studies lack sufficient sampling in the Western Ghats (WG), where the genus has its greatest diversity. Prof. Shanker from Centre for Ecological Sciences, IISc., told The Hindu that historically, species have been described on the basis of morphology for centuries. “However, in the last couple of decades, genetic data has shown that morphology might not tell the whole story i.e., some species might be deeply genetically separated without looking any different from each other. Hence, today we try and use a combination of genetic data, geographical separation and morphological distinctiveness to determine whether something is a new species.” How did they get such eye catching names? “Typically, species are named for a morphological character, a geographical location or after someone well known in the field (such as Cnemaspis wallaceii, after Alfred Russel Wallace). However, sometimes its also fun to name them after cultural or musical icons. Saunak Pal, who worked on this project over the last decade, decided to name a species after one of his movie idols, Jackie Chan ( Cnemaspis jackeii ) for its tendency to move rapidly; he also named Cnemaspis balerion and Cnemaspis smaug after the dragons in Game of Thrones and Lord of the Rings, ” he said. But in the paper, the researchers have pointed out that despite being one of the world’s “hottest biodiversity hotspots”, the Western Ghats have undergone substantial habitat loss and degradation due to changes in land-use patterns, and it has been suggested that significant parts of it will be urbanised by 2030 due to population expansion and development. “Our work broadly shows that if you take a systematic approach to sampling, taking into account the different geographical regions and environments, you can uncover much of the hidden diversity in groups as we have done here for Cnemaspis geckos. While this has been done for groups such as frogs, lizards, birds and mammals, there are many others (including many fish and most invertebrates) that have not received the same attention,” said Prof. Shanker, adding that this means that we do not know the extent of diversity of these groups or their distributions, which is essential for making conservation plans. What measures does this call for? On the one hand, development has to be done in a planned manner to minimise impact on the environment, especially in areas of high diversity and endemism, while on the other, it is absolutely critical to involve local people and communities, he said. “Conservation cannot come at a cost to people, especially already marginalised communities. A conservation approach that provides benefits to local stakeholders and at the same emphasizes the cultural and biological heritage that these habitats and fauna has the best chance of succeeding in the long run,” Prof. Shanker added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-gecko-named-jackie-chan-in-the-western-ghats/article37034151.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police residential building develops cracks, tilts||A multi-storeyed police residential quarters near Binny Mills, which is less than three years old, developed a wide crack and started tilting on Saturday after a night of heavy rains. The crack, which looked more like a gap, ran all the way from the top floor right down to the basement. Thirty two families from the B-block of the Binny Mill quarters were evacuated and allotted newly constructed quarters at Nagarabhavi, said Sanjeev Patil, DCP, West Division. The incident has come as a huge embarrassment to the Police Housing Corporation as the complex was inaugurated in 2018. A senior police officer, who visited the spot, said work on the residential quarters began in 2016. It was completed in two years. BBMP officials said they had only issued a no objection certificate to the Police Housing Corporation and had no role in the plan sanction or regulation. “Families started moving into the new quarters by December 2019. Two rounds of inspections had been conducted since then,” said the senior police officer. ‘Shoddy construction’ A.S.N. Murthy, managing director, Karnataka State Police Housing Corporation, said they have initiated a probe. While he refused to comment on the cause stating that an investigation was under way, occupants said the work undertaken by the contractor was substandard work. “This was made worse as the building had been constructed in the lake bed area,” said one occupant. Another resident, who was evacuated from the flat, said the crack began to develop on their block after construction of an adjacent block began. A wife of a police officer, who had moved to a flat on the seventh floor a little over a year ago, said, “Immediately after I moved in, I spotted a 1.5 inch crack along the beam next to the lift area. We brought it to the notice of the engineers who told us not to worry. The crack developed till the basement, and appears to be as wide as 7 inches,” she said.  Immediately after we moved in, I spotted a 1.5 inch crack along the beam next to the lift area. We brought it to the notice of the engineers who told us not to worry. The crack developed till the basement and appears to be as wide as 7 inches. Resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-residential-building-develops-cracks-tilts/article37034154.ece
17 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Radiologists join hands to fight sex determination||The fight against sex determination and female foeticide got a boost with women radiologists of Karnataka coming together to form an association to launch a campaign for women’s empowerment and protection of girl child. Indian Radiological and Imaging Association’s Karnataka, Shakti Wing, has on its agenda, among other things, a campaign against sex determination. “Being radiologists, we will keep a vigil through the organisation against any attempts at sex determination,” said Dr. Varsha Kale, coordinator of Bengaluru IRIA Shakti Wing. According to her, the organisation wants to create awareness about the importance of girl child in society in a bid to prevent female foeticide. The organisation would also focus on creating awareness about women’s safety, hygiene and mental health, she added. Awareness on cancer Dr. Rupa Ananthasivan, State IRIA Shakti Wing coordinator, said the organisation would also create awareness among women about breast and cervical cancer. There is a dire need to educate women about the importance of early screening for these cancers, she noted, while pointing out that they could be treated if detected early. The organisation wants to use education as a tool to achieve its goal of women’s empowerment. It is keen to work towards education of underprivileged girls. It took out a walkathon from Ulsoor Lake to Cubbon Park in Bengaluru on October 11 to mark International Girl Child Day. About 40 women radiologists who took part in the event and have taken a pledge to sponsor education of one underprivileged girl child each, said Dr. Varsha. There are about 250 women radiologists in Karnataka, she added.  The organisation will also focus on creating awareness about women’s safety, hygiene and mental health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/radiologists-join-hands-to-fight-sex-determination/article37034177.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Victoria Hospital emergency ward crowded due to non-COVID patient flow||The State-run Victoria Hospital, affiliated to Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), which was a dedicated COVID-19 facility till June, now has a rush of patients seeking non-COVID services. The patient flow is heavy in the emergency and casualty triage areas, especially on holidays when many are referred from other hospitals to Victoria, resulting in a shortage of beds. Following this, hospital authorities are now contemplating freeing up the Trauma and Emergency Care Centre (TECC) for non-COVID. “We have only 30 COVID patients in the TECC and they can be shifted to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) or Charaka super-speciality hospital (affiliated to Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College Hospital) so that TECC can be completely utilised for non-COVID purposes,” said Ramesh Krishna K., Medical Superintendent of Victoria Hospital. On Friday, there was chaos at the hospital following a rush of patients at the emergency and casualty triage areas. Nearly 80 patients turned up at the emergency in the evening as all out-patient departments close at 4 p.m. On account of Vijayadashami, which is a holiday, many patients were referred from district hospitals and the rains added to the problem. Beds full Members of Karnataka Rashtra Samithi (KRS) visited the hospital and captured the overcrowding at the emergency on Friday. “All the ICU beds were full and many critical patients were forced to wait in the emergency triage area. While some patients were eagerly waiting to get medical attention inside the triage area, some others were waiting to get wheeled into the emergency room from ambulances. There was chaos and commotion and the duty doctors were helpless,” said Ravi Krishna Reddy, KRS president. Raghu Janagere, KRS Youth Wing State president, said one woman from Kunigal, whose sister-in-law needed ICU care was forced to take the patient to Tumakuru district hospital where an ICU bed was available. Dr. Krishna said the rush is mainly seen on holidays as many patients are referred from other hospitals. “As TECC is a COVID facility, we have set up a makeshift emergency and casualty triage in the annexe Master Plan Building (MPB). As this is a makeshift arrangement, there are only 15 beds for general medicine patients and eight each for surgery and orthopaedics. The rains added to the problem as many patients were not able to get out of the building after consultation. As the entry ramp does not have a roof, there was a slight delay in bringing the patients on stretchers from ambulances into the emergency room. We have a proposal to put a roof on the ramp now,” he said. “As soon as we learnt about the commotion and rush in the emergency, I along with our Resident Medical Officer (RMO) and other doctors went there and personally monitored the situation,” he said. He added as the 45-bed ICU at the MPB building was full, those who needed critical care were referred to Bowring and K.C. general hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/victoria-hospital-emergency-ward-crowded-due-to-non-covid-patient-flow/article37034185.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Registered drug-related cases at a high in Bengaluru this year||From monitoring the trade of synthetic drugs on the darknet to rounding up peddlers and dealers smuggling marijuana and cocaine into the city through more traditional channels, the Benglauru police have been on their toes trying to keep a check on the growing pervasiveness of the drug-trafficking industry. Till October 7 this year, the city police had registered 3,337 cases related to narcotics, seized 3,255 kg of drugs and arrested 4,210 persons. This is the highest number of arrests and seizures in the last few years. While 768 cases were registered in 2019, it rose to 2,766 cases in 2020. Cases registered this year and have already crossed the 3,000 mark. “The total value of seized drugs in the last nine months is over Rs. 45 crore which is 13 times the value of drugs seized in 2018 and 2019,” said Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. In 2019 for instance, the police seized 1,053 kg of drugs but this spiked to 3,912 kg in 2020, an increase of 271% in one year. Police officials estimate that by December 2021, the quantity of drugs seized will surpass that of last year’s. It’s no coincidence that the number of drug-related cases rose during the first two waves of COVID-19 infections. “During the pandemic, drug dealers took advantage of the uncertainty and the fact that police personnel were assigned to COVID-related duties. Even during lockdown, they tried to peddle drugs as movement of essential items were allowed,” said a senior police official. Marijuana peddling Though there has been a steep increase in synthetic drugs, marijuana peddling is still the highest in the city compared to other forms of narcotics, and accounts for more than 90% of the total seizures so far in 2021. “This is because of its easy availability, and is smuggled into the city from neighbouring States,” said the police official. Data from the Bengaluru City Police show that as on October 7, 2021, the police have seized 3,182.6 kg of marijuana from peddlers and consumers. In 2019, of the total seizure of 1,053 kg, marijuana accounted for 1,047 kg. The rise in seizures also coincides with the city police’s action against the use of narcotics, including raids on rave parties. In 2020, the Central Crime Branch had conducted a high profile investigation into the alleged use of drugs within the Kannada film industry. The investigation uncovered a nexus between DJs, event managers, actors and socialites. “In order to convey a clear message and to eradicate drug abuse, more than Rs. 50 crore of drugs were dispatched for destruction,” said Mr. Pant. The special drive launched against the drug-related cases is not only to crack the whip on the peddlers and consumers but also put an onus on the police officers which led to crack maximum number of cases . According to a senior police officer, the jurisdictional police officers under whose jurisdiction the case of peddling and consumption is reported, have been asked not to come to the station until he or she cracks the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-register-3337-drug-related-cases-this-year-the-highest-so-far/article37034157.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fuel price increase: Transport sector for govt. intervention||The price of diesel, which touched Rs. 100 per litre in Bengaluru on Saturday, as well as the consistent rise in petrol, LPG gas cylinders and edible oils, has set the tone this festive season, with households tightening their budgets. People relying on private vehicles as well as transport operators are unhappy with the fuel price, and have demanded that both the State and Union Government intervene to reduce taxes and lessen the burden. The cost of diesel has come as no surprise. Rajeeva H., a car owner, said he was expecting it. “This excessive collection of tax on fuel is burdening the general public. Those who are running the government are indifferent to our plight,” he said. The transport sector, which is reeling under heavy losses is staring at a bleak future. “The rising cost is badly impacting the finances of the road transport corporations,” said a Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) official. The corporation, which purchases fuel at bulk prices, is not immune to the rise. “On October 1, we purchased fuel at Rs. 91.63 per litre. But by October 15, it touched Rs. 96.16. This is a Rs. 5 increase in two weeks. Every day we purchase 5 lakh litres of diesel and the increased price has resulted in an additional expenditure of Rs. 25 lakh per day,” said the official. K. Radhakrishna Holla of Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association demanded both the State and Union Government step in to ‘rescue’ the transport sector which is in severe financial distress. “In February 2020, the diesel price per litre was around Rs. 67 and now it has touched Rs. 100,” he said. This is a nearly 49% increase. “Most of the companies we were relying on for business are still asking employees to work from home, so we are not getting good bookings. The operational cost has increased drastically due to fuel and other expenses. To compensate for the loss there is a need to increase tariff by 25% but our customers will not agree to that,” said Mr. Holla. G.R. Shanmugappa, president of the Federation of Karnataka State Lorry Owners and Agents’ Association, threatened to go on a strike. “Owing to consistent increase in the fuel prices, our operational cost has increased over 40%. There are 6-7 lakh vehicles in the state providing transport services. The state government is not listening to us. If they continue to ignore us, we have no option but to go for an indefinite strike. We will take a decision on our future course of action.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fuel-price-increase-transport-sector-for-govt-intervention/article37034160.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||LSD strip seizures double in less than one year||Over the last year, the Central Crime Branch has been cracking down on the purchase and sale of drugs on the Darknet. Besides monitoring social media platforms, police teams scan parcels shipped to Bengaluru from other countries to check for psychotropic substances concealed (often done without the knowledge of courier companies) in the contents. Ecstasy and Ya-Ba pills and LSD are some of the more sought-after narcotics. In less than a year, the number of LSD strips seized has more than doubled from 5,049 in 2020 to 11,204 this year. MDMA seizures have increased by a whopping 546% during the same period. Demand for Ecstasy and Ya Ba pills has also increased from 1,539 two years ago to nearly 7,600 in 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lsd-strip-seizures-double-in-less-than-one-year/article37034152.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: State sees 264 new cases, six deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 264 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,83,133. Bengaluru Urban reported 121 cases and three deaths. With six deaths, the toll rose to 37,937. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 421 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 29,35,659. The State now has 9,508 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.43%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.27%. As many as 60,141 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 47,396 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 4,93,32,368.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-state-sees-264-new-cases-six-deaths/article37034183.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Habitual offender externed||The East Division police externed a rowdy-sheeter, Amir Khan alias Pappu (36), son of notorious slain gangster Fayaz, from the city for a period of one year. Khan became a part of the underworld in 2003, eight years after his father was killed by his rivals in 1995. He is allegedly involved in 22 cases, including two murders, attempts to murder, robberies, extortion, kidnap and drug peddling. “As he is a habitual offender posing threat to the lives and property of the public, DCP (East) S.D. Sharanappa banished him to Bengaluru Rural district for one year,” said a senior official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/habitual-offender-externed/article37034158.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Open primary classes after Dasara break’||The National Coalition on the Education Emergency, a group of individuals, organisations and networks across the country which have come together to demand “resume and renew” school education, have demanded that primary classes in Karnataka start immediately after Dasara. The coalition said in a release that they were dismayed that the department was considering discussing the school opening issue with parents before deciding the opening date, as this may delay the opening further. “Parents across the State have overwhelmingly stated that they want schools to open. One study found 95%+ rural parents want schools to be opened. Parents want their children to access learning opportunities. They want nutritious hot cooked meals for their children,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/open-primary-classes-after-dasara-break/article37034167.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||On reopening of schools||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said the State Government will take a decision on reopening schools as COVID-19 positivity rate had come down below 1% in the State, including border districts. A meeting of experts would be held on opening schools and lifting other restrictions, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-reopening-of-schools/article37034173.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Case filed against online gambling company||The Special Inquiry Wing of the Central Crime Branch, on Friday, lodged a complaint with the Cottonpet police against an online gambling company charging its owner under various sections of the Karnataka Police Act, 1963. CCB Inspector Shivaprasad said he posed as a player and logged on to the game run by SilkRummy. Once a player starts playing with a minimum amount, the company allegedly lures him or her to deposit Rs. 10,000 to play. This amounts to a game of chance which is in violation of the ct, Mr. Shivaprasad said. A case was filed against SilkRummy and the owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-filed-against-online-gambling-company/article37034162.ece
17 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power disruption tomorrow||There will be no power supply on Monday in the following areas owing to maintenance work. The areas to be affected are: Naganathapura: CB Gate, AECS Layout, B Block and surrounding areas from 10.30 a.m. to 2 p.m. Velankani: Electronics City, Konappana Agrahara, Doddthoguru and surrounding areas. 10.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. HSR: Back side of GAIL Gas Office, 7th Sector, HSR Layout and surrounding areas 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-disruption-tomorrow/article37034148.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Conman arrested||The S.J. Park police on Friday arrested a man for allegedly selling 3 kg of fake gold to a Bengaluru-based jeweller for Rs. 1.3 crore. The accused, Ilyas Khan, recently, sold three gold bars weighing 1 kg each for Rs. 1.3 crore to the jeweller, Rahul Kumar. The cheating came to light when Rahul sold one of the bars to his friend who, on verification, realised it was fake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conman-arrested/article37034161.ece
17 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Continuous rain hits pepper||Pepper growers are worried about the dip in production this year due to erratic climate in parts of Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu districts. Continuous rains increased the moisture level in the soil, causing damage to pepper vines. Several growers fear the yield will not be even 50% of last year. In 2020-21, production was 65,000 tonnes. “Many estates, where annual yield was around 40 tonnes, may not get more than 10 tonnes,” said Prabhu who manages an estate in Mudigere taluk in Chikkamagaluru district. Continuous rains increased the moisture level in the soil and did not allow formation of catkins. Harvesting normally begins in February, he added. K.R. Keshava, chairman of Black Gold League (BGL), a body of pepper growers, said pepper vines require a 40-day break from rains. This time, there was no such gap, which will impact the yield. “There is hardly any crop in most of the estates. There could be a major dip in production this year,” he said. At present, pepper is sold at Rs. 410 per kg. While growers were expecting a good price given the dip in production, they are also anxious due to the uncontrolled import of inferior pepper. “Import of pepper is going on despite repeated appeals to stop. The government is not doing anything to curb imports,” said Mr. Keshava. ‘Illegal trade’ Growers have been demanding that the Central government take measures to restrict the import of pepper. Considering their demand, the Centre fixed an invoice price for import from Sri Lanka at Rs. 500 per kg. “These restrictions have had no impact on imports. There is an illegal trade in pepper,” alleged Kishore Shamji, a trader based in Kochi in Kerala. He said import of pepper had been high this year, compared to previous years. “People into such trade are over-invoicing and are also into illegal practices. We have brought this to the notice of ministers and officers concerned on several occasions. The Central government talks of Atma Nirbhar and Vocal for Local. But, there is no such a thing when it comes to the pepper trade,” Mr. Shamji said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/continuous-rain-hits-pepper/article37034166.ece
17 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||CM promises foodgrains at doorstep from January 26||Preparations are being made to ensure that beneficiaries get foodgrains under the public distribution system at their doorsteps, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday. He was speaking at the relaunch of the Deputy Commissioners’ grama vastavya (village stay) programme at Surahonne village in Nyamathi taluk of Davangere district on Saturday. The door delivery programme would get under way on January 26 next year. Similarly, the government has also decided to provide benefits of the social security schemes to doorsteps, Mr. Bommai said. “The government will deliver all services at the gram panchayat level. People need not visit government offices,” he promised. The Chief Minister said that Janasevaka programme, meant to supply benefits at doorsteps, will be launched in 28 Assembly constituencies of Bengaluru on November 1 on a pilot basis, and later expanded to other places. People will get services through their mobile phones. “The beneficiaries of social security schemes had been getting pension online. If there were difficulties in getting the benefits, the beneficiaries could get it corrected at the gram-panchayat level. Not just the Deputy Commissioners, but all senior officers are visiting the villages,” he said, adding that the administration will not be Vidhana Soudha-centric. Answering a question on the benefits meant for construction workers allegedly reaching non-beneficiaries, Mr. Bommai said the Central Government had introduced a new portal E-Shrama through which labourers could get benefits by linking their Aadhaar number. This system will help avoid misuse of benefits and only genuine beneficiaries will have access, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-promises-foodgrains-at-doorstep-from-january-26/article37034172.ece
17 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Modi blamed for India’s decline in hunger index||“Thanks to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India has now fallen to 101st position in the Global Hunger Index,” Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah said on Satutday. Speaking to presspersons at the Hubballi Airport, he sought to know where were the “achhe din” promised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “He had promised progress and heaven and now he has made people starve,” he said. On the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s statement that the Anna Bhagya scheme, launched when Mr. Siddaramaiah was Chief Minister, had made people lazy, he said only those who had their stomach full would make such remarks. “Those who are starving will never comment like this. Let the poor say it. Will they say they don’t want rice?” he asked. Reacting to the former Minister C.M. Ibrahim’s statement that minority leaders were not being given positions in the Congress, he sought to know who made him an MLC. “Ibrahim, Rizwan [Arshad], Zameer [Ahmed Khan] all share good rapport with me. If I happen to meet Mr. Ibrahim, I will tell him to read about Tipu Sultan. It is not right to oppose Tipu Jayanti now,” he said. On bypolls, he said there was congenial atmosphere for the Congress in both Hangal and Sindgi segments. In order to cover more places, it was necessary to campaign separately, he said clarifying the reason for him and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar campaigning separately. ‘Inevitable’ Mr. Siddaramaiah said it was inevitable for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to praise the RSS in order to save his chair although neither he nor his father had any allegiance with the right-wing organisation. On the race for the chief ministerial candidate in the Congress, he said he would have no qualms if a Muslim or a Dalit was made the Chief Minister after the party came to power as it was a matter left to the discretion of the party high command. Mr. Siddaramaiah said that the former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar was lying about the caste census report. “Had the caste census report been completed during my term, I would have released it immediately.” Regarding Mr. Shettar’s comment about him being involved in the release of a video clip on conversation between Congress leaders Saleem Ahmed and V.S. Ugrappa, the former CM said that being a former Chief Minister, he should indulge in such activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-blames-modi-for-indias-decline-in-global-hunger-index/article37034407.ece
17 October 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Parties design campaigns on caste calculations||As campaign fever is catching up in villages of Hangal taluk, which will go to bypolls on October 30, the mainstream political parties have designed their campaign strategy based on caste lines in the constituency, where the electorate has not favoured any one political party continuously. What is interesting in the constituency is that from 1978 onwards, only two candidates have shared the seat between them. While one is the former Minister C.M. Udasi (BJP) who won six times and whose demise has necessitated the byelection, the other one is former Minister Manohar Tahasildar (Congress) who after having represented the constituency four times is out of the race now.  In a constituency where Lingayat community is numerically strong, it has been witnessed that consolidated votes of other communities have tilted the victory in favour of the non-Lingayat candidates. As if in a bid to stop any such consolidation, the BJP has lined up leaders from every community to canvass for it. The party has come out with its own assessment of number of voters belonging to various castes and communities which puts Lingayats on the top with an estimated over 70,000 voters. As per its assessment, Muslim voters are second in line, which however is disputed by some. According to political observers, the JD(S) choice of Muslim candidate for Hangal is probably based on this number. The next in line are the voters of scheduled castes, closely followed by members of Gangamatastha community. According to a rough estimate, both Maratha and Scheduled Tribes have over 10,000 votes each and the Congress candidate belongs to Maratha community. And the next in line are the Kuruba voters with over 6,000 voters followed by members of Kamati and Brahmin community of around 3,000 each, as per calculation of the political parties. And based on this calculation, the BJP has lined up leaders of every community with sizeable number of voters in the constituency. As Lingayat community is demographically strong in the constituency, BJP has appointed Ministers Murugesh Nirani, B.C. Patil, J.C. Madhuswamy, MP Shivakumar Udasi, MLAs Arunkumar Guttur, Virupakshappa Ballari, and office-bearer Mahesh Tenginakai as election-in-charge for Hangal. On second thoughts, BJP added B.Y. Vijayendra, son of former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to the Hangal list. MLC N. Ravikumar is already camping in the constituency to woo the electorate of backward classes and Ministers Sriramulu, K.S. Eshwarappa, B. Basavaraju, and Govind Karjol will do their bit. Meanwhile, the Congress is banking on Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and the poll strategy of KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar who are being assisted on the ground by KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi. Senior leaders and former Ministers H.K. Patil, S.R. Patil, and MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar are doing her bit to woo the Lingayat electorate. Muslim leaders from Congress U.T. Khader and Saleem Ahmed have been given the responsibility of winning over the Muslim voters. JD(S) factor As the JD(S) has field a Muslim candidate, their task seems to be bit hard. JD(S), which had good base in the constituency three decades ago, has lost it completely and now former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has taken up the herculean task of regaining it through a Muslim candidate, whose candidature however, seems to be more beneficial to the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parties-design-campaigns-on-caste-calculations/article37034169.ece
17 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad DC receives 300 applications during village stay||After a long gap owing to COVID-19 pandemic, the village stay programme of Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil was held on Saturday, at Vanahalli in Dharwad taluk. Officials received close to 300 applications pertaining to various grievances. The grievances included demand for increasing frequency of the State transport buses, clearing encroachment of government school campus, speedy distribution of title deeds, and applications seeking benefits under various social security schemes. On Friday, the Revenue officials had visited houses in five villages under the Kanakur Gram Panchayat and had received 139 applications. On Saturday, two counters, set up at Vanahalli village, received over 138 applications, the officials said. Mr. Patil who addressed the village residents, said the whole exercise was to take the district administration to the doorstep of people so that their problems were resolved immediately. “The administration has taken some key initiatives to solve the issues of the villagers in their respective gram panchayats. This novel programme of the government has enabled the villagers to air their grievances directly and to avoid visiting district headquarters for every small work,” he said. Mr. Patil said the programme had also helped the administration to ensure that social welfare schemes of the government reached more number of people in rural areas so as to make them empowered. Earlier, Mr. Patil who was accompanied by a team of officials and employees was accorded a traditional welcome. Before reaching Vanahalli, Mr. Patil also visited Kavalgiri and Chandanmatti villages and inspected schools and other facilities at the villages. At Vanahalli, the Deputy Commissioner was taken in a procession to the programme venue on an embellishedbullock cart. But before attending the stage programme at the government school campus, he visited anganwadi centres and government schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-dc-receives-300-applications-during-village-stay/article37034404.ece
17 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah accuses Sajjanar of corruption||Accusing BJP candidate for Hangal bypoll Shivaraj Sajjanar and the former Minister late C.M. Udasi of large-scale corruption in cooperative sugar mill in Haveri district, Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah sought to know from the electorate on whether they would vote for such people. Addressing an election rally at Malgund in Hangal taluk on Saturday, Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged that both Mr. Sajjanar and Mr. Udasi were responsible for the downfall of the cooperative sugar mill. “The sugar mill has now been handed over to a private company. Such person has now become BJP candidate and is seeking votes from you. Will you vote for him or show him the door? People of the constituency should think over it,” he said. Accusing Mr. Sajjanar of corruption, Mr. Siddaramaiah sought to know whether they would vote for “corrupt” candidate or a clean-handed person like Srinivas Mane, who has been working for the people even after his defeat in the last election. He said that as no political party was given a clear mandate in the last election, the Congress chose to join hands with the JD(S) for the sake of preventing a communal party from coming to power. Although B.S. Yediyurappa came to power by purchasing 17 legislators of the Congress and the JD(S), he did not last long as Chief Minister. Now following repeated appeals from Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Mr. Yediyurappa had agreed to canvass for the party, he said, asking the people whether they would vote for such leaders. Listing out various welfare measures of the previous Congress government led by him, he said after the BJP came to power, the quantity of rice under Anna Bhagya scheme was reduced and supply of milk to anganwadis and schoolchildren was stopped. “We had introduced loan waiver, Indira Canteen, Bhagyajyoti, free houses, Shadi Bhagya, Krishi Bhagya and other schemes. Where are they now? All have been stopped,” he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah said that during his period as Chief Minister, 15 lakh houses were allotted to the poor. “Under the BJP rule not a single house has been built. Anugraha scheme, under which the loss of livestock was compensated, has been stopped now. Backward classes have been affected a lot under the BJP rule. After all this, now they are trying to burden the farmers’ lives by installing meters for borewells,” he said. The former Chief Minister accompanied by former Ministers Santosh Lad and Manohar Tahasildar, KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed, MLA Byrati Suresh, Mr. Mane and others subsequently visited several villages in the constituency, held roadshows, and addressed public meetings to appeal for votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ex-cm-accuses-sajjanar-of-corruption/article37034406.ece
17 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||911 degrees to be conferred by UAS-Dharwad||A total of 601 graduates and 247 postgraduates will be conferred various degrees and 63 will get doctoral degrees during the 34th annual convocation of the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Dharwad, to be held on Monday. During the convocation to be held at 11 a.m. on Monday, at Farmers’ Knowledge Centre, UAS, Dharwad, founder and CEO of SELCO India Harish Hande will deliver the convocation address. Governor of Karnataka and Chancellor of the university Thaawarchand Gehlot will preside over the convocation ceremony while Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil will be present. According to a press release issued by Vice-Chancellor of UAS, Dhawrad, M.B. Chetti on Saturday, a total of 911 candidates, including 63 research students, 247 postgraduates and 601 graduates would be conferred various degrees during the convocation. This apart, 53 gold medals and nine cash awards would be presented to meritorious students during the convocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/911-degrees-to-be-conferred-by-uas-dharwad/article37034408.ece
17 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Voters’ enrolment for Council poll||Enrolment of voters for the Karnataka West Teachers Constituency of the Legislative Council has begun. According to a press release from Deputy Commissioner of Haveri and Assistant Enrolment Officer for the Karnataka West Teachers Constituency Sanjay Shettennavar, eligible voters are required to submit their application forms in the requisite format (Format No. 19) before by November 6. For further details, teachers are requested to visit www.ceokarnataka.kar.nic.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/voters-enrolment-for-council-poll/article37034409.ece
17 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Experts to visit tremor-hit Kalaburagi villages today||A team of scientists from the National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) will, on Sunday, visit the villages that were frequently hit by the low-intensity earthquakes for the last 10 days, said Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna. Addressing a gathering at Hosalli (H) in Kalagi taluk, one of the tremor-hit villages, on Saturday, the officer said the expert team from the Hyderabad-based premier geoscientific research organisation would visit the tremor-hit villages and take stock of the situation by conducting a study. Ms. Jyothsna was in the village as part of her village-stay programme.  Low-intensity tremors “The intensities of the tremors reported from different Kalaburagi villages in the past 10 days range from 1 to 3 on the Richter Scale. Since these are the low-intensity tremors, there were no major damage except for the collapse of five houses at Gadikeshwar village,” Ms. Jyothsna said. On the precautionary measures taken in the tremor-hit villages, Ms. Jyothsna said the district administration had opened relief centres in the villages and was providing all basic needs, including food and blankets, to the people in need. “We have formed six teams comprising the officials and Public Work Department engineers. These teams are surveying the damage in each affected village. They would also help the residents in getting their damaged houses repaired. The damaged houses of the economically poor people will be repaired or rebuilt by the administration itself,” she said appealing to the people to cooperate with the officials. Scientific knowledge Attempting to inculcate scientific knowledge about tremors and infuse confidence among people, Ms. Jyothsna called upon the people not to be frightened but be cautious. “In the matter of floods, we know the time and the areas to be hit. Thanks to the coordinated efforts from the different government departments and weather forecasting agencies, we can have a rough idea of the time floods and the areas they affect and take precautionary measures well in advance to protect the people. However, in the matter of earthquakes, it is unfortunately not possible. We cannot predict the place and time of an earthquake and it is the limitation of science,” Ms. Jyothsna said. Grand welcome The villagers offered a grand welcome to Ms. Jyothsna by playing traditional drums and showering flowers as she entered the village for her village-stay programme. Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat Dileesh Sasi, Assistant Commissioner Mona Roat, Deputy Director of Land Records Shankar, Public Works Department Executive Engineers Mallikarjun Jeratagi and Krishna Agnihotri, Deputy Director of Agriculture Samad Patel and other senior officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/team-of-experts-from-ngri-to-visit-tremor-hit-kalaburagi-villages-today/article37034395.ece
17 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Our politics is based on ideals: DKS||Responding to reports that the JD(S) decision of fielding minority candidates in the byelections to Hangal and Sindgi constituencies will harm the Congress prospects, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar has said that his party’s politics is based on ideals and not on castes. He was speaking tomedia representatives at the Kalaburagi Airport on Saturday. He was here on his way to Sindgi for byelection campaign. “Our politics is based on ideals and not on caste calculations. Minority people are now conscious and they know whom they should vote for... The people of Sindgi want Congress candidate Ashok Managuli to fill the place of his father [M.C. Managuli, JD(S) MLA whose death necessitated the byelection]. I have full confidence on the Sindgi voters. They have seen the BJP rule. Now, they are feeling the need of a Congress MLA for the development of their constituency,” Mr. Shivakumar said. Contending JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s calim that late Managuli had not met Congress leaders, Mr. Shivakumar reiterated that the JD(S) MLA had met Congress leaders appealing to them to ensure better political career for his son. “M.C. Managuli is not with us now. His son Ashok Managuli is the witness for his father’s meeting with Congress leaders. You can verify it with him,” Mr. Shivakumar said. Congress leaders Ajay Singh, Jagadev Guttedar, Sharankumar Modi, and Allamprabhu Patil were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/our-party-politics-is-based-on-ideals-dks/article37034402.ece
17 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 18-crore package for areca plantations hit by YLD awaiting govt. approval: DC||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said on Saturday that the government is expected to soon approve a Rs. 18-crore package for arecanut plantations hit by yellow leaf disease (YLD) in coastal and Malnad belts. Speaking during his village stay programme at Kukkujadkka in Sullia taluk, he said the Horticulture Department has sent the package to the government for approval. The village stay programme had been organised to address the grievances of people residing in the jurisdiction of Amara Mudnur and Amara Padnur Gram Panchayats in the same taluk. Earlier, an arecanut grower raised the issue pertaining to YLD at the meeting. The Deputy Commissioner said that the package proposes government assistance for cultivating alternative crops in the plantations hit by the YLD under the National Horticulture Mission. He said that growers have also sought compensation for losing arecanut palms because of YLD and this would be brought to the notice of the government. Dr. Rajendra said that the district administration has planned to take up a drive to administer vaccine against COVID-19 at the doorstep of the disabled and those who can not make it to the vaccination sites due to health and age-related issues. He said that Sullia taluk had only one active COVID-19 case and steps were being taken to declare the taluk COVID-free in some days. Minister in charge of Dakshina Kannada and Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport S. Angara said that a meeting would be held with Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Monday in connection with granting Kana, Bane and Kumki rights to farmers. Earlier the Cabinet had approved this proposal. But later, it did not become a reality. He said that another meeting would be held in Kukkujadkka on October 29 to dispose of the pending applications. The Minister released a booklet containing statistics pertaining to the two gram panchayats. More than 130 applications were filed. Some of them were disposed of on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-18-crore-package-for-areca-plantations-hit-by-yld-awaiting-govt-approval-dc/article37034577.ece
17 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Electrification of Konkan rail route may be over by Dec.’||The electrification of Konkan Railway route is in the final stage of completion and is expected to be completed by December 2021, according to Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. It has got a new coal traffic from New Mangaluru Port. A new Roll On - Roll Off (Ro-Ro) service has started between Ankola and Surathkal. This will increase its earnings, the corporation said on the occasion of it completing 31 years of service on Friday. Currently, 42 pairs of mail/express and five pairs of passenger train services are running on the Konkan Railway route. Work completed The work on eight crossing stations and eight looplines were completed in the last one year. Automatic Block Signalling has started between Madgaon Junction and Majorda section, it said. Nepal Railways has entrusted the work of starting train operations in Jayanagar–Kurtha to Konkan Railway. This is Konkan Railway’s first international operational and commercial project. The pandemic phase has been very challenging, despite several COVID-19 restrictions, employees have put in their best effort for ensuring the smooth functioning of the organisation, according to the corporation. The progress and growth of the organisation cannot be achieved without the contribution of its employees, it said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/electrification-of-konkan-rail-route-may-be-over-by-dec/article37034578.ece
17 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yeneopya NSS unit gets State awards||The National Service Scheme (NSS) unit of Yenepoya Deemed to be University has been honoured with State-level Best NSS Unit Award and its programme coordinator Ashwini S. Shetty has received the Best NSS State Programme Coordinator Award by the State Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports. Registrar of the university Gangadhar Somayaji and Ms. Shetty received the award from Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports K.C. Narayana Gowda in Bengaluru recently, a release from the university said. A team of the university works on cancer awareness outreach programme in which the university has trained the programme officers and volunteers of Karnataka who in turn create awareness among the community at large, particularly the rural population in early detection of cancer. More than 28,500 NSS volunteers and programme officers have been trained in the State so far, it said. The NSS unit of the university has adopted five villages. Its volunteers discuss the issues of social relevance, which keep evolving in response to the needs of the community, through regular and special camping activities. Such issues include, health, family welfare and nutrition, environment conservation, social service programmes,, etc. The NSS unit is actively involved in nutrition programme, women wellness programme, COVID-19 prevention programme, stress management, yoga for health, Swachtha Hi Seva, and Ek Bharath Srest Bharath programmes. The NSS programme coordinator of the university acted as State Coordinator for Karnataka and collected 2,788 blood units in the 68 camps organised in a day across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yeneopya-nss-unit-gets-state-awards/article37034580.ece
17 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Endosulfan victim sexually assaulted||The Puttur Town police have arrested Mohammed Haneef on the charge of having unnatural sex with a 20-year-old man who is an endsulfan victim. According to the police, the victim had gone for an evening walk on Friday and met Haneef near Mura Railway Cross. On the pretext of getting him sugarcane, Haneef took the victim to a secluded place and allegedly had unnatural sex with him. He also allegedly threatened the victim against revealing about the incident. The victim returned home around 7 p.m. and told about the incident to his father, who filed a complaint with the Puttur Town police. The police arrested Haneef for offences under Sections 377, 323, and 506 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/endosulfan-victim-sexually-assaulted/article37034589.ece
17 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘House panel not authorised to survey missionary activities’||The legislature committee on backward classes and minority welfare has no authority to direct district officials to survey the activities of Christian missionaries and institutions, said former Mangaluru City South MLA J.R. Lobo on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Lobo said that at the meeting of the committee recently chaired by Gulihatti Shekar, MLA, the district officials were asked to carry out a survey on the activities of Christian missionaries and institutions and submit a report. The committee members also decided to visit churches every Sunday. Mr. Lobo, who was a member this committee between 2015 and 2018, said the committee has gone beyond its purview in ordering a survey. “Mr. Shekar has earlier spoken in the legislature accusing Christian missionaries of religious conversion. Ordering a survey is nothing but a ploy by BJP legislators to fix Christian missionaries on conversion,” he said. The former MLA also said there were enough legal provisions to act against groups indulging in religious conversion. “The committee should work for the welfare of the minorities and backward classes and not indulge in policing of activities of Christian missionaries and institutions, which are ably contributing to society’s welfare,” he said. “The Congress will not tolerate selective targetting of missionaries,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/house-panel-not-authorised-to-survey-missionary-activities/article37034591.ece
17 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rider sustains fatal injuries while trying to avoid hitting blackbuck||A 53-year-old man died following the injury he sustained while trying to avoid hitting a blackbuck at Kulkunda in Subrahmanya village of Kadaba taluk on Saturday morning. The Subrahmanya police said Ramachandra Arbittaya, 53, was riding a two-wheeler with his younger brother Ravindra as pillion. Around 6 a.m., Ramachandra encountered a black buck and he applied brakes to avoid hitting it. Ramachandra lost control of the two-wheeler and he fell off the vehicle along with his brother. Ramachandra sustained injury on his head and died on the spot. Murdered A 20-year-old man was murdered allegedly by his five friends following a late-night party at a lodge near Pumpwell Circle in the early hours of Saturday. The police have arrested three persons. The police identified the victim as Dhanush and the accused as Pareet, Jason, Karthik, Durgesh, and Prajwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rider-sustains-fatal-injuries-while-trying-to-avoid-hitting-blackbuck/article37034592.ece
17 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Foundation stone laid for bank centenary building||Karnataka Bank Chairman P. Jayarama Bhat and Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the bank Mahabaleshwara M.S. laid the foundation stone to construct the centenary building of the bank on the premises of its headquarters here on Friday. Established in 1924, the bank will observe the centenary year during the financial year 2023-2024. The building will be constructed adjacent to the present Head Office premises at Pumpwell. The bank started its journey with a single branch opened at Dongerkery, Mangaluru, in 1924. It was housed on a small premises primarily to cater to small farmers and traders. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Mahabaleshwara said that the bank is going through a new phase of growth backed by optimum use of new age digital technologies enabled by machine learning/ artificial intelligence and business intelligence. The proposed centenary building of 2,41,000 sq ft area will be a state-of-the-art infrastructure capable of housing the various operations for future banking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foundation-stone-laid-for-bank-centenary-building/article37034574.ece
17 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Biotherapeutics research centre inaugurated||Chairman of Manipal Education and Medical Group Ranjan R. Pai said on Friday that globally, biotherapeutics is growing fast in the pharma industry today. If the country needs to compete with those developed, there is a need to get deeper in the area of innovative cell therapies for regeneration and cancer treatment, gene therapy, monoclonal antibodies and vaccines. He was speaking at the inauguration of Manipal Centre for Biotherapeutics Research (MCBR) at Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) in Manipal. Dr. Pai said that although biologics produced in the developed countries provide hope for many unmet medical needs, their high costs pose an entry barrier to the developing markets. “I call upon pharma/biopharma companies to reduce the load on their in-house R&D units and focus more on strategic partnerships with high-ranking institutions to manage time and money more efficiently,” he said. Chairman and CEO of Kemwell Biopharma, Bengaluru, Anurag Bagaria, who inaugurated the centre, said that biotherapeutics research continues to gain momentum in the universities of the developed countries. In the last 40 years, biotherapeutics have become an important part of modern medicine with a great focus on the areas of cell therapy, gene therapy, protein therapy and biomaterials. “With advances in biotherapeutics research, especially cell and gene therapy, we are starting to see cures for certain diseases, for example, CAR-T products for leukaemia and gene therapy for spinal muscular atrophy. Without academia-industry collaboration, none of these would have been possible,” he said. Vasanti R. Pai launched the webpage of the centre. ProChancellor of MAHE H.S. Ballal said the new centre is expected to create novel intellectual property and innovative products.  With advances in biotherapeutics research, we are starting to see cures for certain diseases, for example, CAR-T products for leukaemia and gene therapy for spinal muscular atrophy Anurag Bagaria, Chairman and CEO, Kemwell Biopharma||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/biotherapeutics-research-centre-inaugurated/article37034593.ece
17 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||One death, 44 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 34 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. With 53 patients being discharged, there were 340 active cases in the district. The test positivity rate was at 0.45 %. Udupi district reported a death due to COVID-19 and 10 new cases. After 12 patients getting discharged, the active cases stood at 82. The district has one active mucormycosis case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-death-44-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article37034587.ece
17 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Youth drowns in Udupi||A 23-year-old man from Mandya, identified as Vishwas, drowned in Malpe beach in Udupi on Friday. The police said he had come to the beach with his eight other friends from Mandya on four bikes. Vishwas was washed away when he went deep into water. Lifeguards at the beach later found his body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-drowns-in-udupi/article37034581.ece
17 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||There will be no power supply in A.B. Shetty Circle area, Pandeshwara New Road, Mahalingeshwara temple, Amrutnagar, and nearby areas on October 18 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is for maintenance works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37034586.ece
17 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||365-day expo planned at Dasara exhibition grounds: Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said his government wants to make use of the Dasara exhibition grounds here round-the-year and added an action plan will be evolved soon for establishing a permanent exhibition at the grounds that could be visited throughout the year. Speaking to reporters here before leaving Mysuru after participating in Dasara festivities, he said a decision on developing a tourist circuit with Mysuru in focus will be taken soon, while thanking the people of Mysuru for their support and cooperation for the success of the festivities. Mr. Bommai promised to celebrate the next year’s festivities in a grand way if the pandemic situation was conducive. He expressed confidence that his party would win the by-elections to Sindagi and Hanagal constituencies and added that he would be campaigning for the party candidates in the next four days in both the segments. The Chief Minister, accompanied by his family members and local elected representatives, went on a tour of Mysuru city on Friday night to glimpse the Dasara illumination. He watched the illumination travelling on the roof-top of Ambari, the double-decker hop-on hop-off bus introduced as the newest tourist attraction by the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC). Asked about his opinion, he said the illumination has been one of the highlights of this year’s festivities and it has received appreciation from everybody. In view of positive feedback and the demand for its extension, the illumination has been extended for nine days from Friday. “I had only one meeting on Dasara and everything was organised in a systematic manner. The Minister in charge of Mysuru district and the local elected representatives did a good job with the support of the people of Mysuru,” he replied. Mr. Bommai said the credit for putting up an impressive illumination must go to the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation, its officials, engineers and the linemen. “I am sure the extension of lighting will help in tourism promotion. I felt very happy to have seen the grand illumination,” he told reporters. The efforts put up in Mysuru for organising the festivities and the outcome has also been commended on social media platforms, he added. Master plan The proposal to convert the expo grounds into a permanent exhibition is not new as efforts were done in the past for making it happen. But, no headway was made. The master plan for converting the Dasara exhibition grounds into a round-the-clock exhibition and events hub is yet to get the nod. With the exhibition grounds now limited to holding Dasara events, leaving it unused for a good part of the rest of the year, the Karnataka Exhibition Authority (KEA) had earlier proposed to hold exhibitions, events, conventions and amusement activities there on all 365 days of the year. Subsequently, the government asked a private agency to prepare the master plan, incorporating all the infrastructure and attractions for turning the ground into a hub for tourists through the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/365-day-expo-planned-at-dasara-exhibition-grounds-bommai/article37034181.ece
17 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Temple circuit fuelling tourism revival||Post-Dasara, pilgrimages and temple tourism has kept the travel and hospitality sector afloat even as stakeholders are upbeat about the increase in visitors’ footfall in the current season. There is demand for rented cabs and taxis for private visits to pilgrim centres not only in and around Mysuru but to other places such as Dharmasthala, Subrahmanya, Sringeri, Horanadu, Udupi, Kollur, Melkote, and Srirangapatna. The long weekend starting Durgasthami celebrated on Thursday followed by Ayudha Puja and Vijaydashami has seen a veritable rush to some of the major temples that were out of bounds for many devotees after the onset of the pandemic. “There is an increase in enquiries and bookings for cabs and cars on rentals from tourists visiting Mysuru for their onward journey to cover places such as Nanjangud, Melkote, M.M.Hills, Chamarajanagar, and Madikeri besides locals keen to visit temples outside the region as they were pending since at least 2 years now’’, said B.S.Prashanth of Safe Wheels Group. He said the bookings for both vehicles and hotel accommodation have breached the 60 per cent mark and at this rate, is expected to reach the pre-pandemic levels by December. The just-concluded Dasara festival saw a surge in the tourist traffic and the stakeholders were dismayed that the government did not allow more visitors to view the Jamboo Savari. Mr. Prashanth pointed out that though the district administration had stated that not more than 400 people would be allowed to view the Jamboo Savari at the palace, there were thousands to witness the events on Friday. Had they foreseen such a situation and lifted the curbs, perhaps more tourists would have visited Mysuru, he added. Meanwhile, the number of visitors to the Mysuru palace was high on Saturday a day after the Jamboo Savari, and there are perceptions that these are early signs that the tourism sector is in for a quick revival. The lighting and illumination was a big draw this year and this has increased the tourist footfall and the stakeholders are thankful to the government for extending the period of illumination till October 24, said Narayana Gowda of Mysore Hotel Owners Association. The increase in footfall to the palace is underlining the steady inflow of tourists not only from Karnataka but also from other parts of the country, he added. However, the tourist inflow from Kerala has dwindled and this is expected to be a temporary lull due to the pandemic and is bound to improve in the months ahead, according to Mr. Prashanth. Tourism and hospitality sector in Mysuru generates 80,000 to 100,000 jobs and not less than 3.5 million tourists used to visit the city every year on a conservative estimate. The sector collapsed after the onset of the pandemic and there is a perception that if there was no surge in the COVID-19 cases in the next few days post-Dasara, then the fear of the third wave will also subside and the sector could witness a further revival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-circuit-fuelling-tourism-revival/article37034145.ece
17 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Lakhs watch Dasara virtually||Even though the Dasara celebrations remained low-key in view of the COVID-19 restrictions, lakhs of people watched Mysuru Dasara programmes virtually. Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, who is also the Minister in charge of Mysuru district, told reporters on Saturday that an estimated 5.3 lakh people watched the programmes including the famous Jamboo Savari and the inauguration of the festivities atop Chamundi Hills. The Department of Information and Public Relations, which livestreamed the procession on its Facebook account, logged more than 2 lakh views on Friday. “We had given access of the livestream to more than 20 television channels that telecast the procession live”, said Raju, Assistant Director of Department of Information and Public Relations, Mysuru, who is also the nodal officer for virtual streaming of the Dasara programmes. Apart from the views logged on the Department’s Facebook account, more than 33,000 views were recorded on its Youtube account and 5,300 views on the official Dasara website https://mysoredasara.gov.in, he added. Though the celebrations were scaled down this year, thousands made a beeline to Mysuru and thronged its illuminated roads and palace this year, giving the COVID-19-hit tourism industry in Mysuru, particularly hotels, lodges and restaurants the much-needed relief. A total of 105 km of roads covering 119 stretches and 96 circles and junctions were illuminated in a variety of designs and decorations. More than 400 personnel from Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) including 60 engineers worked hard to provide an enthralling lighting experience to the visitors in Mysuru, said Mr. Somashekar. Allocation Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had sanctioned Rs. 6 crore for Dasara celebrations this year and an account of the expenditure incurred on the festivities will be made public like last year soon, he said. Out of the Rs. 6 crore, Rs. 50 lakh each had been released for Dasara celebrations in Chamarajanagar and Srirangapatna. Another Rs. 20 lakh had been given for Dasara celebrations in Araalgud, he added.  Department of Information and Public Relations livestreamed the procession on its Facebook account More than 33,000 views were recorded on its Youtube account and 5,300 views on the official Dasara website A total of 105 km of roads covering 119 stretches and 96 circles and junctions were illuminated in a variety of designs and decorations Out of the Rs. 6 crore budget, Rs. 50 lakh each had been released for Dasara celebrations in Chamarajanagar and Srirangapatna||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lakhs-watch-dasara-virtually/article37034612.ece
17 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Demand survey for MUDA’s group housing schemes elicits good response||The ongoing demand survey for apartments to be constructed by the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has evoked encouraging response. The survey has received over 35,000 responses so far and has encouraged the authority to go ahead with the construction of the multi-storeyed apartments that have already received administrative clearance. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev said the plan is to construct 1,960 flats that will include 1BHK and 2BHK units and will be affordable to the general public. “The apartment culture has caught up in the city given the demand for housing and the MUDA apartments will match the private projects in terms of quality and civic amenities.’ The MUDA Chairman conceded that it difficult to provide plots for all site aspirants given the paucity of land and the premium it commands which threatens to derail the dreams of thousands of citizens keen to own a house of their own. Hence the MUDA’s plan of constructing apartments on the lines of projects taken up by the BDA in Bengaluru is expected to get good response. The plan is to construct G + 13 storeyed apartments at Sathgalli (1BHK units) and at Sharada Devi Nagar (2BHK units). The DPR for the project is ready. Such apartments will be constructed across the city where MUDA land is available. This includes 4 acres in Vijayanagar 2nd stage where 560 units are slated to be constructed. About 390 units will be constructed on a 3.08 acre plot in Dattagalli while 1008 units are slated to come up at Sathgalli. The plots identified for the group housing schemes are within the Outer Ring Road and located in developed residential areas and hence will generate demand, according to Mr. Rajeev who vowed that there will be no compromise on quality of construction. The project also signals MUDA’s admission that Mysuru had to shift to a vertical growth model given the paucity of land. The unending horizontal sprawl was no longer feasible unless one preferred to pay a premium for vacant sites and opt for individual houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-survey-for-mudas-group-housing-schemes-elicits-good-response/article37034605.ece
17 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Minister calls for more thrust to marketing Mysore Silk saris||Minister for Sericulture K.C. Narayana Gowda on Wednesday called upon Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation (KSIC) officials to not only step up the production of quality silk saris, but also give more thrust to marketing them and other products such as silk shirts, kurtas, dhotis, and ties. Mr. Gowda, who visited the KSIC weaving factory in Mysuru and held a review meeting with officials, emphasised the need for increasing the sale of its products. While instructing officials to come up with more designs that attract women, Mr. Gowda said there may be a need to change the marketing strategy of KSIC. He suggested that officials come up with schemes to lure people to purchase expensive saris with offers such as a special handbag or suitcase. He said more customers can be attracted to KSIC products by offering special “couple packages”. He asked officials to immediately take steps to open Mysore Silk showrooms in Bengaluru, New Delhi, and Mumbai airports. He also directed officials to consider setting up a showroom of Mysore Silk on the Karnataka Handloom Development Corporation premises in New Delhi. While directing the officials to increase the production at the weaving factory in Mysuru, Mr. Gowda asked them to purchase the necessary looms and start a second shift for the purpose. He also asked officials to outsource the required personnel for increasing production through contract employees. The Minister said there were around 150 looms lying idle in the Sericulture Department and asked officials to repair them and deploy them for use at KSIC’s silk weaving factories in Mysuru and Channapatna for increasing production. Referring to the annual expenditure of Rs. 5 lakh incurred for power at KSIC’s Mysuru unit, the Minister suggested that officials should consider installing solar panels. With an investment of around Rs. 2 crore, about 500 kW of solar power can be generated, he said, before asking officials to take steps for installing a solar power generation system in the next two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-calls-for-more-thrust-to-marketing-mysore-silk-saris/article37034594.ece
17 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Theerthodbhava at 1.11 p.m. today||The Cauvery Theerthodbhava will occur at Talacauvery in Kodagu on Sunday at 1.11 p.m. Unlike last year, devotees are allowed to witness the proceedings complying with the COVID-19 norms. Last year, devotees were not allowed to witness the occasion in view of the pandemic. This year, the curbs have been eased to some extent. Former Speaker and MLA K.G. Bopaiah, who inspected the arrangements at Talacauvery on Saturday, told reporters that COVID-19 norms had been relaxed so that devotees, particularly locals, could witness the occurrence. These measures had been taken to ensure that the locals are not hurt since the event is most awaited by the people of Kodagu. He, however, urged the devotees to cooperate and follow the guidelines. Barring the priests, nobody is permitted to take the holy dip at the pond after Theerthodbhava. The police will ensure that the curbs are enforced strictly, he said, adding that the event was expected to witness a large turnout. The MLA also said that expert divers will be present at Triveni Sangama in Bhagamandala where the devotees take the holy bath. In total, 450 police personnel have been deployed for security. In view of scarcity of parking space, Mr. Bopaiah urged the devotees to cooperate. Due to rains and accumulation of silt, vehicles cannot be parked at the designated spot.. A gallery has been established at the temple for the VVIPs to watch the proceedings. Mr. Bopaiah said devotees can visit Talacauvery for one month. The Health Department has been asked to deploy teams at Talacauvery for ensuring SOPs. The district administration had asked the officials to make all arrangements for the event. A few days ago, it had asked the officials to ensure cleanliness drive at Bhagamandala and Talacauvery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/theerthodbhava-at-111-pm-today/article37034596.ece
17 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Some hotels had 100% occupancy||The stakeholders in the hospitality sector have averred a significant revival of fortunes during Dasara with some hotels reporting 100 per cent occupancy. Narayana Gowda of Hotel Owners Association said the occupancy rates ranged from 50 per cent to 60 per cent between October 7 and 13 and increased to nearly 90 per cent from October 14 to 17. The festival spirit and holiday season has fuelled the traction in the travel sector and more than 50 per cent of the rooms are full for the period October 18 to 24. The cancellation of food mela during Dasara due to the pandemic has led to good turnover in restaurants and hotels, and has helped in the revival of fortunes of sweet marts. A similar trend is expected till the last week of October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/some-hotels-had-100-occupancy/article37034606.ece
17 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MLC poll: Lobbying gathers momentum||Lobbying for nomination by mainstream political parties for the elections to Legislative Council from South Graduates’ constituency has begun to gather momentum after the Election Commission of India notified the process of preparation of the electoral rolls for the constituency earlier this month. The Regional Commissioner of Mysuru, who is also the Electoral Registration Officer (ERO) for the constituency spread across Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Mandya and Hassan, has called upon eligible persons to submit their applications for inclusion in the electoral rolls before November 6. Even though Srikante Gowda, sitting MLC representing South Graduates constituency from the JD(S), is unlikely to return to the fray, the party will be making all efforts to retain the seat in its stronghold. The BJP, which lost the last elections held in 2016 by a margin of less than 300 votes, has already begun the process of identifying a candidate while entrusting to party functionaries the key task of voter enrolment Meeting The Congress, meanwhile, has also taken seriously the elections, which is likely to be held sometime in 2022. A meeting attended by Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) chief D.K. Shivakumar was held in Bengaluru on Friday to shortlist the candidates. The leaders had shortlisted the names of Madhu Made Gowda, son of late Made Gowda, the former MP and farmers’ leader from Mandya, and Ravi Krishnappa, son of former MLA representing the erstwhile Bannur constituency Krishnappa, for the seat. The BJP too held its core committee meeting in Mysuru earlier this week and decided to start the preparations early. Former Chairman of Mysore Paints and Varnishes Ltd M.V. Ravishankar, who finished runner-up in the last elections, and former MLC G. Madhusudan are among the aspirants. If sitting MLC Srikante Gowda opts out of the fray, the JD(S) is expected to consider the candidature of either Keelara Jayaram or S.K .Ramu, said party sources. Unlike other elections, the preparation for graduates’ constituency elections starts quite early. The prospective candidates and their supporters play an active role in registering the names of graduates in the electoral rolls for the constituency. “Also, a recent order by the Supreme Court has made it clear that graduates or teachers have to be registered afresh for every election. Earlier, it used to be carried forward. But, not anymore,” said a party functionary. The Election Commission of India has also imposed restrictions on bulk submission of applications for enrolment and directed the EROs to reject bulk applications. “But, what happens on the ground is quite different”, said the leader of a political party familiar with elections. While candidates and their supporters are planning to enrol graduates based on their caste, community and political affiliation, the leaders of different political parties expect the registrations to cross 2 lakh for South Graduates constituency this time, up from around 1.8 lakh recorded in the last elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlc-poll-lobbying-gathers-momentum/article37034607.ece
17 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tiger caught in T.N. under treatment, but still critical||The tiger (MDT23) that was captured at Mudumalai Tiger Reserve in Tamil Nadu and shifted to the Chamundi Wildlife Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre on the outskirts of Mysuru on Friday is critical. According to the authorities, the male tiger has suffered multiple injuries following infighting and has also been infested with maggots. The wounds have been cleansed and antibiotics have been administered. Veterinarians say a lot will depend on how the animal responds to the treatment. The tiger is critical, said the authorities. But an official said there have been instances of animals with more severe injuries pulling through, and some others of animals with seemingly minor injuries succumbing. Hence, nothing can be said at this juncture. An activist who interacted with officials said the tiger, apart from having multiple wounds, was dehydrated and its haemoglobin levels too had dropped when the treatment commenced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tiger-caught-in-tn-under-treatment-but-still-critical/article37034186.ece
17 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Illumination at Rail Museum extended till October 24||The illumination at the Mysuru Rail Museum will continue till October 24 in view of the good response from the public. This will benefit the tourists visiting Mysuru post-Dasara and hence a decision has been taken to extend the illumination by another 9 days. This is also in sync with the extension of the city illumination till October 24 announced by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday. The railway authorities also said that there will be no holiday for the Rail Museum on Tuesday in view of the tourist inflow and the museum received a record footfall of over 3,500 on Friday. This trend is expected to continue for some more days, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illumination-at-rail-museum-extended-till-october-24/article37034610.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Heritage vandalised||photo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heritage-vandalised/article37034609.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Wading through||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wading-through/article37034615.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||DC in village||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-in-village/article37034599.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bidding farewell||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bidding-farewell/article37034576.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Festivities end||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festivities-end/article37034175.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cold pressed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cold-pressed/article37034414.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Festival waste||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festival-waste/article37034147.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Udupi  Udupi district administration: Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat inaugurates beach cleaning as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebration, Malpe, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article37034588.ece
17 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Rain pummels Alappuzha district||Incessant rain along with an increase in flow of water from the eastern side reignited fears of another flood in Alappuzha district on Saturday. The water level in all major rivers, including Pampa, Manimala and Achencoil, in the district has recorded a steady rise. With the water flow through the rivers expected to increase further due to heavy downpours in the neighbouring districts, Kuttanad and other low-lying areas in the district are on the edge. The district administration has urged the people living along the banks of rivers in Kuttanad, Chengannur, Mavelikara and Karthikappally taluks to exercise caution. As there is a high possibility of opening the shutters of dams in the Pathanamthitta district and the chances of rivers flowing in full spate, District Collector A. Alexander has urged the people not to venture into rivers. In Kuttanad, waterlogging has been reported from several low-lying areas. Floodwaters have entered some houses and inundated parts of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road and some rural roads. A number of paddy fields in the region have been submerged and floodwaters are threatening to damage harvest-ready crops. The region also witnessed a couple of bund breaches, but no crop loss was reported as a result of it. The Irrigation Department has opened 35 shutters of the Thottappally spillway to ensure the smooth flow of floodwaters from Kuttanad into the sea. "Water level is on the rise. But, the situation is under control and there is no need to panic. All arrangements are in place to meet any emergency situation," said an official. Apart from Kuttanad, several low-lying areas in Cherthala, Chengannur, Karthikappally and Mavelikara taluks have been waterlogged. According to officials, one house in Chengannur taluk was destroyed and eight houses were damaged in different parts of the district. The district administration has opened 11 relief camps at different places. Officials said that a total of 116 people were shifted to the camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-pummels-alappuzha-district/article37034545.ece
17 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Farmers in Kuttanad shifting to new rice varieties||Uma, the most popular rice variety in the State, is being cultivated in about 60% of the paddy fields across Kerala. In Kuttanad, the rice bowl of the State, it is well liked and grown in over 90% of the fields. However, after remaining a farmer-favourite for the past several years due to its relative high-yield and pest resistance, paddy farmers in the region appear to be ready to ditch Uma for more hybrid varieties. The 200-acre Vadakara Edassery Varabinakam padasekharam (paddy field) at Edathua is among the first to cultivate Manuratna, a rice variety developed by the Agricultural Research Station under Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) in the region. “In the last 20-odd years, we have only cultivated the Uma variety. Over the years, its resistance started to decline and we shifted to Manuratna variety in the additional (second) crop season (May/June-September/ October). One big advantage is that Manuratna has a shorter duration for harvesting. While Uma takes around 145 days for harvest in the second crop season, Manuratna takes only 100-105 days. The new variety is also highly resistant to pest attacks,” says Cyriac Jose, secretary, Vadakara Edassery Varabinakam padasekharam. Rain, a dampener The incessant rain in the last couple of weeks has partially destroyed the harvest-ready crop at Edathua. “We could have received a yield between 2.5 and 3 tonnes from an acre if not for the downpour. The new variety provides yield almost on a par with Uma,” says Mr. Jose. Apart from the paddy field at Edathua, a few other such as Chooravady Varambikanam padasekharam and Undhumveli padasekharam have also shifted to Manuratna. “My experience is that the Manuratna is a good substitute for Uma. The seed shattering is less and it helps increase the yield. It also tastes better,” says Sasidharan Nair, secretary, Chooravady Varambikanam padasekharam at Thakazhi. The Agriculture Department expects at least a few more padasekharams to ditch Uma for Manuratna and Manuvarna among other varieties in the upcoming ‘puncha’ season. Cultivating different varieties decreases the chances of diseases. “Farmers always look for yield and pest resistance. Of late, there has been a shift from Uma, with some fields cultivating new varieties. We are ready to provide farmers with seeds of their choice,” says K.J. Mercy, deputy director, Agriculture Department, Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-in-kuttanad-shifting-to-new-rice-varieties/article37034519.ece
17 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Car washed off bridge at Thodupuzha, two dead||The bodies of two persons were recovered from a car that got washed away in surging floodwaters from the Moonnunkavayal bridge, near Kanjar, in Thodupuzha, on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Koothattukulam residents Nikhil and Nima. According to reports, the car that was washed off the flooded bridge was blocked by a protection wall. The police and the Fire and Rescue Services personnel recovered Nima’s body from near the car. Nikhil’s body was found within 100 metres, trapped in bushes. A major landslip was reported at Pullupara, near Kuttikkanam, on the Kollam-Theni national highway in the morning. Many regions in the high ranges witnessed landslips, and remained almost isolated from the low ranges. Traffic suspended The Karinkulam Chappathu bridge across the Periyar was flooded, due to which traffic on the Kottayam-Kattappana State highway was suspended. The water level in the Idukki reservoir rose over 2.25 ft in a single day. The water level at 6 p.m. was 2,393.18 ft, which was 88.87% of the storage level. The full reservoir level is 2,403.50 ft. The dam safety wing on Friday issued a blue alert at the dam when the water level reached 2,390.86.ft. An orange alert will be announced when the water level reaches 2,396.86 ft followed by the red alert at 2,397.86 ft. Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) chief engineer (dam safety) Supriya S. said the situation in Idukki and other hydel dams was being closely monitored. Shutters opened The shutters of the Kallarkutty, Malankara, and Lower Periyar dams were opened. The district administration has banned tourism-related activities such as kayaking. Traffic has been banned on the Gap Road stretch of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway. Landslips and flash floods disrupted traffic on the Kollam-Theni national highway and the Thodupuzha-Puliyanmala route. Protection walls of many houses on the hills collapsed. Many houses were damaged. Standing crops in a large area were destroyed, according to initial reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/car-washed-off-bridge-at-thodupuzha-two-dead/article37034529.ece
17 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Forum to submit charter of demands to CM||The Adi Shakti Summer School (ASSS), a collective of Adivasi and Dalit youths under the Adivasi Gothra Maha Sabha (AGMS), is gearing up to submit a memorandum to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on a host of issues being faced by tribal children in the State. The pandemic situation and online education had made the tribal education sector more complex in the State, AGMS leader M. Geethanandan said. As many as 2,287 tribal students have passed SSLC examination this year in the State, but only 730 seats were allocated for their higher studies, Mr. Geethanandan said. Though the organisation had requested K. Radhakrishnan, Minister for Tribal Welfare, and Tribal Development Director T.V. Anupama to evolve a permanent solution to the issues by increasing the number of seats in Model Residential Schools for tribal students and opening special batches, any positive steps were yet to be adopted, Mr. Geethanandan said. Hence, the organisation was planning to submit a memorandum to the government on a host of issues being faced by tribal children in the State, he said. The memorandum would be submitted to Mr. Vijayan on November 1 as part of launching an indefinite protest, K. Mary Lydia, coordinator, Adi Shakthi Summer School, said. More than 600 tribal students in the State got guidance for various courses and 100 students got admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses with the assistance of the helpdesk of the summer school during the academic year, Ms. Lydia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forum-to-submit-charter-of-demands-to-cm/article37034500.ece
17 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||CM opens cargo service from Kannur airport||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that he expects a favourable decision from the Central Government in allowing foreign airlines from the Kannur airport. He was inaugurating online the launch of the international air cargo movement at the air cargo complex. He said that if this was approved, the development of the airport would be expedited. With the commencement of international shipments from Kannur, goods could also be exported from Kasargod, Wayanad, a part of Kozhikode district, and places including Coorg in Karnataka. He said that Kannur airport was going to become the air cargo hub of Malabar. The cargo complex covers an area of 9,000 sqm. It can handle 12,000 tonnes of cargo. Freight movement is controlled through an electronic data interchange system. Mr. Vijayan said the spread of COVID-19 had adversely affected the operations of the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-opens-global-cargo-service-from-kannur-airport/article37034496.ece
17 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Continuous rain slows down life in Ernakulam||From Chellanam panchayat on the Kochi coast to Kuttampuzha panchayat about 71 km east of Kochi sharing border with Tamil Nadu, heavy and light spells of rain throughout Saturday slowed down life in Ernakulam district. While no loss of life has been reported, the rainwaters, especially in the eastern areas, have flooded rice paddies and vegetable fields and disrupted traffic. Vazhakulam town near Muvattupuzha, the heart of Kerala’s pineapple belt, was flooded, said Ullas Thomas, president of Ernakulam district panchayat. He said the Muvattupuzha-Thodupuzha road was flooded at Vazhakulam and only heavy vehicles were able to negotiate the floodwaters. He said the waterlogging was the result of torrential rain that began from the early hours of Saturday even as the weather records showed Muvattupuzha received 29 mm of rain between 8.30 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. on Saturday. The Kochi Corporation area has not seen any major disruption in life due to the rain. No serious flooding has been reported from any part of the city till about 5 p.m. on Saturday, said Henry Austin, member of the development standing committee. The situation is not distressing for Eloor and Kalamassery areas, which are among the first urban bodies in the district to face the fury of heavy rain and subsequent flooding. In Mattoor village in Aluva taluk, members of two families, including a newborn, were shifted to shelters after their houses were flooded. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted extremely heavy rainfall, up to 204 mm, on Saturday while the district is likely to receive light to medium rainfall between Sunday and Thursday. Director of Cochin University’s Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research S. Abhilash said it looked like instances of mini cloud bursts had occurred over the region. Mini cloud bursts are occurrences of intense short spells which may not exceed 100 mm of rain an hour. It was possible that several spots could receive up to 200 mm of rain till 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, he added. The Muvattupuzha block has seen vast swathes of paddy cultivation being flooded as farmers were getting ready to harvest the crop. There is serious fear of losing at least a part of the harvest to the flooding. Vegetables and tapioca are among other crops that have been affected. The coastal village of Chellanam appears to have been spared by the weather. Despite heavy rain pounding the coast from the early hours of Saturday, there has been no flooding. The sea was rough but not threatening so far, said T.A. Dalphin of Paschima Kochi Theera Samrakshana Samithi. Meanwhile, the neighbouring panchayat of Kumbalanghi has not been so lucky. Low-lying areas close to the Kochi backwaters have been flooded though no families have been relocated so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/continuous-rain-slows-down-life-in-ernakulam/article37034509.ece
17 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam spared of heavy rain, yet put on high alert||The district was by and large spared of extreme or heavy rainfall till Saturday evening with light to moderate rain being the norm throughout the day. A bout of heavy rainfall in Kothamangalam taluk that lasted all of 15 minutes in the morning was the only such instance to be reported at the emergency operations centre (EOC) being set up at the District Collectorate. No casualty or large-scale damage to properties was reported from the district except for partial damage to two houses in Muvattupuzha and North Paravur taluks. “The impact in Muvattupuzha taluk from the inflow of water due to the opening of the Malankara dam remains the primary concern. The 11-member team of the National Disaster Response Force stationed in the district has been despatched to the taluk,” said EOC sources. Though a few houses were inundated from an overflowing canal at Avoli in Muvattupuzha taluk, people were not moved to relief camps. They had temporarily shifted to nearby homes on their own, said taluk control room sources. The water level in Idamalayar dam was recorded at 164.36 m as against the full reservoir level of 169 m at 1 p.m. The water level in the Periyar river remains more or less normal except for a slight rise. The district, however, remains on high alert on account of the Red Alert issued by the India Meteorological Department and the continuing heavy spells in the neighbouring districts. The District Disaster Management Authority held an emergency meeting chaired by Additional District Magistrate S. Shajahan to take stock of the situation and preparedness. The meeting observed that the district was fully prepared to meet any emergency. Round-the-clock control rooms have been opened at taluk, village, and local body levels. Arrangements have been made for opening emergency relief centres. The Health Department has also been asked to take necessary precautions in view of COVID-19. People will be admitted into camps only after antigen tests, for which arrangements have been made at primary health centres. Ernakulam and Muvattupuzha Regional Transport Officers have been asked to take steps to arrange vehicles. Police geared up The Ernakulam Rural police have made all arrangements to deal with potential flood-related emergencies. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthick said special arrangements had been made in all rural police stations. A control room has been opened at the rural police headquarters at Aluva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-remains-on-high-alert/article37034513.ece
17 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kerala Bank targets NRI deposits, seeks RBI nod||The Kerala Bank has applied for permission from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for receiving deposits from NRIs, targetting about Rs. 1,50,000 crore that reaches the State’s commercial banks. The bank deposits in both private and public sector banks went into investments in stock markets, securities and as loans to major corporates, said Minister for Cooperation and Registration V.N. Vasavan here on Saturday. The Kerala Bank planned to use the remittances from Kerala NRIs to develop basic infrastructure in the State. Mr. Vasavan said the application had been submitted and speedy processing was expected. He was speaking after launching the IT integration programme, which is expected to turn the Kerala Bank into a new generation, fully IT-equipped bank offering all services online, including money transfers and mobile banking. While Wipro has been entrusted with the task of IT integration, Infosys will provide the service platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-bank-targets-nri-deposits-seeks-rbi-nod/article37034510.ece
17 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No reason for panic, says Revenue Minister||There is no need for panic notwithstanding the extremely heavy rainfall across the State, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. Talking to reporters here on Saturday, he said none of the dams, including the six already opened, were in danger of spate. He said the prediction of a deluge was premature at present. It helped that rain had intensified in regions where it had petered out in the last couple of days, he said. “Six teams of the National Disaster Response Force have been deployed in the State. Round-the-clock control rooms have been opened at the district and taluk centres. Scaremongering on social media will be sternly dealt with by district collectors. People should instead rely on official reports being updated hourly,” said Mr. Rajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-reason-for-panic-says-revenue-minister/article37034515.ece
17 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man involved in cheating cases arrested||A special squad of the city police has arrested a man who, along with his wife, was allegedly involved in large-scale cheating running into crores of rupees. The arrested was identified as Reji Paulose, 47, of Thripunithura. He was picked up from Kamudam Nagar in Coimbatore, where he was hiding. The man was arrested by the Ernakulam Town South police on a petition by the branch manager of the Panampilly Nagar branch of Federal Bank in a case dating back to 2018. His wife, Ajitha Reji, 43, also an accused, is absconding. The couple allegedly submitted forged documents to secure vehicle loan, home loan, property mortgage loan, and asset guard loan to the tune of Rs. 1.59 crore between July and August, 2018. They failed to repay the loan and ran up dues of Rs. 1.83 crore. “The accused has submitted fake IT returns and audit report to secure the loans. We also seized two bags containing 12 PAN cards, 10 voter id cards, multiple Aadhaar cards in different addresses, two driving licences, and 22 ATM cards and credit cards of various banks,” said M.S. Faisal, Station House Officer, Town South. It has now emerged that the couple had cheated many more people across the State by arranging loans against their properties. There are complaints against them lodged in Palarivattom, Kadavathra, Hill Palace, Aluva, and Cherthala police stations. They used to target property owners with low CIBIL score and properties against which banks would not have lent money. “They either approached victims through brokers or advertised about arranging property loans for otherwise ineligible people. They then secured loans against the guarantee of victims’ properties using forged documents. While the original loan amount is shared with the property owners, they later top up the loan for huge amounts with the connivance of banks,” said Manual Jacob, one of the victims who formed an action council and petitioned the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-involved-in-cheating-cases-arrested/article37034511.ece
17 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Labour Code only after talks: Minister||Kerala would accept and implement the Labour Code, based on the idea of ease of doing business but denying several rights of workers, only after getting the opinion of workers, managements and stakeholders, said Labour Minister V. Sivankutty here on Saturday. He was inaugurating a two-day workshop organised by the Kerala Institute of Labour and Employment. The Centre was not according importance to workers but to the interests of corporates, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/labour-code-only-after-talks-minister/article37034506.ece
17 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police accidentally arrest accused in two cases||The Kalady police accidentally stumbled upon the accused in two cases when they arrested a man found in suspicious circumstances. Arun, 22, of Kuttichira, was held and questioned by the police at Manjapra during patrolling. It emerged that the motorcycle he was using was stolen from Palakka Junction near Chalakudy. He and an accomplice also allegedly snatched away the bag of a woman riding pillion on a scooter at Vaikom Junction near Koothattukulam. The bag contained Rs. 20,000, two mobile phones and cards were later found abandoned in a canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-accidentally-arrest-accused-in-two-cases/article37034514.ece
17 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Galloping ahead with their unique love for horses||Hooves hitting the ground in a rhythmic trot and two young girls on horseback – this is a sight the residents of rural Kadamkulam at Kottarakara in Kollam have grown familiar with over the last few months. When 14-year-old Archa Krishnan and 16-year-old Aswathy Krishnan got an equine companion during the first lockdown, they had no concrete plans. But today, the siblings have a team of five horses and together they run Khedar Horse Riding Academy that trains novices from all parts of the State. "Our family is into farming and we grew up with all kinds of livestock. While visiting Tamil Nadu to buy a cow, our father came across a horse. When he shared the details, we were smitten and started researching. We knew horses are high-maintenance, but our father supported us, saying it's just an extra member to feed among our cows and goats," says Aswathy, a Plus Two student. Sultan, a Kathiawari with amber-champagne coat and chestnut mane, was picked after contacting several farms and browsing through a series of videos. “We just wanted to own a horse and, initially, Sultan was considered only as an addition to our drove,” says Aswathy. Challenging task Gradually, the girls were drawn to riding, but acquiring the skill was not easy. “Forget handling the horse, we hardly knew how to saddle it. We tried some online tips, but nothing worked,” she says. Though the family started looking for a trainer, none was available in Kollam or nearby districts. "We couldn't afford the fee and other expenses in places that offered riding lessons, but finally a person from Karunagappally offered to train us," she adds. The training continued for around 30 days and it took the sisters another couple of months to become confident riders. "You will learn the nuances only through experience and some minor injuries and bruises are part of it," says Archa, a Class X student. It was a bumpy ride initially as the girls had to brave the disapproving looks of villagers. Riding lessons However, they themselves slowly started approaching the duo for riding lessons. Since Sultan was not really safe for beginners, they exchanged him for a calmer mare. Presently, Khedar Horse Riding Academy has five horses — Rani, Radio, Appu, Ria and Raja. In the last few months, the sisters have trained over 25 persons, both children and adults. “Usually, we train them on morning hours and weekends. When our school reopens, we will change the schedule accordingly and add an evening session,” says Archa. Popularising hobby The course fee is minimal compared to most places and Archa says they want to make riding popular among all sections. “Riding is considered a hobby of the affluent class and it can be an expensive affair. At the same time, there are many like us who are interested in riding but can't afford to learn the skill. We want to offer them an opportunity to learn,” says Archa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/galloping-ahead-with-their-unique-love-for-horses/article37034547.ece
17 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Low-lying areas in Kollam under water||Several low-lying parts of the district were inundated as heavy rains continued to lash Kollam on Saturday. The water level of Kallada dam touched 113.75 m around 7 p.m. and a blue alert was sounded by District Disaster Management Authority directing all panchayats on the river bank to stay cautious. The three shutters of the dam were raised by 80 cm and the shutters will be raised further to 90 cm on Sunday if the water level keeps going up. While a portion of Anchal-Ayoor road caved in, fissures developed on Kollam-Thirumangalam National Highway in Aryankavu village. Pallickal, Kallada and Ithikkara rivers remained in spate and traffic was affected. More than 50 houses were damaged in the district due to heavy rains and strong winds in the last 24 hours. Relief camps have been arranged in all taluks. A total of 12 families from Kulathupuzha and Punalur were moved to nearby schools. While five houses were partially damaged in Punalur, the taluk officials have readied around 33 camps. In Kollam taluk, Munroe Thuruth is the only village that reported severe flooding. Eight houses were partially damaged. In Karungapplly taluk Pavumba and Churuli villages were flooded and at present 55 camps have been readied in 17 villages. While one house was fully destroyed in the rains, five others were partially damaged. In Kottarakara, one house was destroyed while 22 others were partially damaged. Five houses and a cattle shed were partially damaged at Kunnathur and the taluk has arranged 22 camps. Alimukku witnessed heavy flooding. The officials have readied 29 camps and opened one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/low-lying-areas-in-kollam-under-water/article37034549.ece
17 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Projects to be done in time-bound way: Minister||Projects for the comprehensive development of the Kottarakara Assembly constituency will be implemented in a time-bound manner, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. Speaking at a development seminar in Kottarakara on Saturday, Mr. Balagopal said that traditional industries, education, health, employment, drinking water, road, tourism and agriculture would be given priority. “Scientific projects have been devised to solve traffic congestion, drinking water problem and water logging. Existing projects will be completed shortly and infrastructure development projects will be finalised in consultation with experts,” he said. Mr. Balagopal said that necessary steps would be taken to generate more job opportunities and the infrastructure development of the taluk hospital would be expedited. Local body officials, heads of various departments and representatives from socio-political fields pointed out issues related to various sectors along with suggestion and it was also decided to convene further meetings. Constituency convener K.S. Indusekharan Nair presided over the function. Suffragan Metropolitan Euyakim Mar Coorilos, district panchayat president Sam K. Daniel, vice president Sumalal, Kottarakara municipal chairman A. Shaju, former MLA Aisha Potti, and heads of various departments were present.  K.N. Balagopal says steps would be taken to generate more job opportunities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/projects-to-be-done-in-time-bound-way-minister/article37034548.ece
17 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Floodwaters submerge major townships in Kottayam||From claiming lives to inundating houses and disrupting traffic, the heavy rain and strong wind that lashed Central Travancore from Friday evening left a trail of destruction in Kottayam on Saturday. Water level in all major rivers recorded a steady rise. Floodwaters gushing from the upper reaches inundated houses and shops in several areas. Meenachil river The Meenachil river and its tributaries breached the banks at Poonjar, Peringalam, and Adivaram, destroying bridges and roads. As per reports, several people were stranded on the terraces of their houses in anticipation of assistance. Almost all major townships on the eastern side of the district, including Kanjirappally, Erumely, Mundakkayam, Kuttikkanam, and Erattupetta remained submerged. Several vehicles floated and sank in the run-off water. Relief camps About 60 families from Ilamkadu were relocated to a relief camp opened at the J.J. Murphy school in Enthayar. Several families in Mundakkayam were also relocated. Cooperation Minister V.N. Vasavan coordinated the rescue operations. Villages on the high ranges have been on their toes all through the day. Landslips were reported from Kanikuzhicherry in Kumbazha Malayalappuzha, besides in Cholathadam, Kaipally, and Pathambuzha in Poonjar-Thekkekkara. Landslips were also reported from the Erattupetta-Wagamon road. At least nine relief camps were opened in the region, accommodating about 60 families. As per local people, Poonjar witnessed its worst-ever flood situation with the Aruvithura bridge across the Meenachil river getting totally submerged. Passengers of a Kerala State Road Transport Corporation bus, which got stuck in the floodwaters near Pallipady in Poonjar, were rescued because of timely intervention by local people . Tahsildar rescued The Erattupetta tahsildar, who had been stranded during the rescue operations, was rescued with the help of the police and the Fire and Rescue Services. The Manimala river crossed the warning level at Mundakkayam, submerging the Mundakkayam causeway and disrupting traffic along the Kanjirappally route. Traffic to all locations on the eastern side of the two districts has been banned. Red alert declared District Collector P.K. Jayasree declared a red alert for Kottayam and advised the public to exercise caution. The Collector sought the help of the Indian Air Force to evacuate people stranded in the high ranges. The authorities have issued a warning for Pala and Kottayam towns, where the run-off water is expected to reach by Saturday night and Sunday morning respectively. The river-view road in Pala town, which runs parallel to the Meenachil river, has already submerged and traffic, cut off .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/floodwaters-submerge-major-townships-in-kottayam/article37034521.ece
17 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Koottickal panchayat ravaged by landslips||Six members of a family are feared killed and 15 others are missing in landslips in the eastern high ranges of Kottayam on Saturday. Koottickal grama panchayat suffered the worst damage, where at least three houses and a tea shop were washed away in two landslips at Plappally and Kavali. Three of family were killed and three others went missing in Kavali. The deceased were identified as Claramma Joseph, 65, Simi, 35, and her 10-year-old daughter Sona. Eight persons were missing in Plappally. The body of a person missing from Plappally was found in Peruvanthanam downstream. Seven persons reportedly went missing in a landslip in Poovanchi in Kokkayar panchayat on the Kottayam-Idukki border. Several villages on the high ranges have been marooned with the washing away of a bridge at Yendayar. Traffic restored Water started receding from the town areas by evening. Authorities have restored vehicular traffic in arterial roads including NH-183 (Kottayam-Kumily), Kanjirappally-Erattupetta, Mundakkayam-Koruthodu, and Kanjirappally-Manimala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/koottickal-panchayat-ravaged-by-landslips/article37034522.ece
17 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Judicial probe sought into KSRTC complex construction||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has alleged that the construction of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) terminal complex is the biggest daylight robbery in history of the State. Inaugurating a protest organised by the District Congress Committee (DCC) in front of the twin tower complex on Mavoor Road here on Saturday, he alleged that the decision to lease out the commercial space to ALIF Builders was a clear scam. The mediators of the deal had links with the CPI(M), Mr. Satheesan charged. He demanded that the State government order a judicial inquiry into the construction of the building and a vigilance inquiry into irregularities in the contract. Mr. Satheesan said a team of the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) had submitted a report pointing out serious defects in the construction of the complex. As such, the irregularities will affect even the existence of the complex, he added. However, he said it was shocking that the KSRTC and the department concerned had hidden the report that pointed out serious flaws. “The government should clarify on what basis the contract was awarded to ALIF Builders for Rs. 17 crore without a tender,” he said. The Opposition Leader also alleged that the Vigilance Department was trying to whitewash the wrongdoings of the government in the incident. “If the government failed to expose the culprits, the Congress party would initiate legal action to expose irregularities in the construction and corruption in the contract,” Mr. Satheesan warned, saying that the United Democratic Front (UDF) would intensify the agitation until those responsible for corruption are brought to book. DCC president K. Praveenkumar presided. M.K. Raghavan, MP, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) general secretary P.M. Niyas, former DCC president U. Rajeevan, UDF district chairman K. Balanarayanan, and Kerala Students Union State president K.M. Abhijith spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/judicial-probe-sought-into-ksrtc-complex-construction/article37034493.ece
17 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Residents up in arms against landscaping at East Hill Junction||Local residents have raised objections against what they called a Bodhi Tree project at East Hill Junction, saying that landscaping activities around an old peepal tree is done in an unscientific manner that could result in accidents in future. While they appreciate the beautification drive at the junction on the mini bypass stretch from West Hill Chungam to Karaparamba, residents feel that the construction of an Arayal Thara around a peepal tree is ill-conceived. “The tree is fully engulfed by ‘leech plants’ giving a false impression to everyone that it is more of a ‘leech tree’ than a Bodhi Tree. Left unattended, parasites breeding on the tree will kill the host in a not-too-distant future for sure,” Ashok Veetil, joint secretary, Navarang Residents Association, said. What surprises the neighbourhood residents is that none in the project team, from contractors to supervisors to officials, seem to have ever noticed the “health” of the tree, which they propose to preserve and fortify by this project. Mr. Veetil said the modification involved seating arrangements for the public at the junction where road accidents are common. Speeding vehicles, sharp bent at the junction, and the presence of Kendriya Vidyalaya and Regal Theatre make East Hill Junction an unsafe spot, he pointed out. “We were wondering whether it would be a prudent idea to turn this corner into a recreational joint for the public. Though we are not raising any objection to the seating plan, we would request you to verify whether these critical factors have been realistically taken into consideration in its design,” Mr. Veetil said in a petition addressed to District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy. Several residents said another old peepal tree at the spot had been uprooted a few years ago. Besides, a huge branch of the existing tree had fallen earlier. Its roots also appeared to be damaged, they said. North Kozhikode MLA and former Mayor Thottathil Raveendran said the beautification of East Hill Junction was part of the Kozhikode City Road Improvement Project. It was envisaged by the Kerala Road Fund Board during the tenure of former legislator A. Pradeepkumar, he said. “The junctions at West Hill Chungam, East Hill, and Karaparamba have a fresh look. The issue of beautification of the peepal tree will be examined,” Mr. Raveendran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-up-in-arms-against-landscaping-at-east-hill-junction/article37034491.ece
17 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Ensure natural flow of Kallai to stop waterlogging in city||Last Monday night was dreadful for residents of Kozhikode city. Incessant rain throughout the night resulted in several parts of the city getting submerged. While places like Kannadikkal, Thadambattuthazham, and other low-lying areas are used to floods, places like Govindapuram and Vellayil were once again in turmoil, thanks to improper drainage system. However, public ire was mostly due to waterlogging on Mavoor Road in the heart of the city, mofussil bus stand, Stadium Junction, and nearby areas. Naturally, questions arose as to what happened to crores spent by the city corporation for construction of stormwater drains. Incidentally, stormwater drains that formed a network on major roads and are covered with tiles simply failed, as the waterlogging remained the order of the day. At the same time, locals complained that wires inside the drains had resulted in garbage accumulation, leading to flooding. Even the recently renovated S.M. Street was partially drowned, causing severe loss to merchants. “Garbage in drains is a minor problem and was not the reason for flooding. As for the stormwater drain, there is a bend near Arayidathupalam. It needs to be straightened to ease the flow of water. We are working on it,” said corporation works standing committee chairman P.C. Rajan. “Our drains empty into Conolly canal. But when the canal itself is swollen, it cannot take any more water from drains, resulting in water flushing into drains from the canal,” he added. On the other hand, Conolly canal is swollen, as water from it is blocked at the exit, where it opens into the Kallai river. Hence, clearing drains and cleaning the canal will not resolve waterlogging, unless the natural flow of the river is restored, Mr. Rajan explained. The project for dredging Kallai has been pending for years. “We have devised a project in association with the Irrigation Department at an estimated cost of Rs. 7.5 crore for de-silting Kallai. It will take off as soon as the environment report from the Centre for Water Resources Development and Management [CWRDM] is available,” Mr. Rajan said, hoping that the project would be completed in a year to find a lasting solution to waterlogging in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-natural-flow-of-kallai-to-stop-waterlogging-in-city/article37034495.ece
17 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Global fair to boost tourism in Western Ghats zone||The Wayanad Chamber of Commerce, in association with several trade, communication and tourism companies and organisations in the country, is organising “Sahyadri 2022”, an international trade fair in Wayanad from March 5 to 13, 2022. Sahyadri 2022 will comprise three international festivals simultaneously, the Western Ghats International Green Film Festival, Western Ghats International Conclave and Western Ghats International Expo, which will be held at Kalpetta and Vythiri in the district. Secretary of the Chamber and CEO of the fair, Milton Francis, told reporters here on Saturday that it was for the first time in Kerala that three international events were being held at the same place. He said Union Ministers Bhoopeendar Yadav, G.Kishan Reddy, Pashupathi Kumar Paras, V.Muraleedharan, L.Murugan, Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi, and CEO of Neethi Ayog Amithabh Kanth would take part in the event. “International companies will take part in the conclave and expo. Two B2B meets, to facilitate the sale of products readily available in Western Ghats, will be held and several contracts will be signed on the occasion. The fair will be instrumental in rejuvenating the tourism sector along Western Ghats, including Wayanad, Kodagu and Ootty”, Mr. Francis said. Governors and Ministers from States along the Western Ghats such as Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Goa, and Tamil Nadu will be invited. The fair may lead to the formation of a Western Ghats Development Council, president of the chamber, Johny Pattani, said. The one-week-long International Film Festival will focus on “Green Cinema’ in three categories, movies on environment, short films and feature films, on 10 themes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/global-fair-to-boost-tourism-in-western-ghats-zone/article37034499.ece
17 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||A talented actor gets his due at last||There is recognition for Sudheesh, finally. Thirty-four years after making a fine debut in Adoor Gopalakrishnan’s Anantaram , he has won the State award for the best supporting actor. Few actors in Malayalam cinema have had to wait this long for an honour like this. Fewer have deserved as much. Stellar roles In a career that has spanned over four decades, he has come up with some stellar performances, in films like Aadhaaram and Mudra . It was not often that he got such demanding, lengthy roles, though. He was reduced to playing the hero’s friend or the young good-natured guy next door most of the time. Of late, however, he has been cast in more varied roles. Like he was in Ennivar and Bhoomiyile Manohara Swakaryam . It was for his performances in those films that he won the State award. “I am delighted that I am recognised for those two films, as both were excellent roles, vastly different from what I have been doing,” Sudheesh told The Hindu. “I played the heroine’s father in Bhoomiyile Manohara Swakaryam and as a politician with negative shades in Ennivar .” He said he was happy that he was getting more such roles. “I knew that I was getting typecast,” he said. “But things began to change with Theevandi .” Things could get even better for him now that he has joined that formidable list of supporting actors honoured with the State Award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-talented-actor-gets-his-due/article37034465.ece
17 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Rain in torrents forces Palakkad dams to open shutters||The Malampuzha dam raised its shutters by 15 cm as the water level in the reservoir reached 114.25 metre on Saturday afternoon. The dam’s capacity is 115.06 metre. The district administration has warned the people living along the banks of the Bharathapuzha to maintain vigil against flooding. The Aliyar dam too raised its shutters as the water level reached the maximum capacity. The water from the Aliyar dam and the Malampuzha dam will reach the Bharathapuzha. The Aliyar dam registered a water level of 1,049.65 ft on Saturday afternoon. The dam’s capacity is 1,050 ft. Up by 5 cm All four shutters of the Pothundi dam were raised by 5 cm. The shutters of Kanjirapuzha dam were raised by 15 cm, and the shutters of Mangalam dam were raised by 32 cm. One shutter of the Chulliyar dam was raised by 5 cm, and the river sluice shutter of the Siruvani dam raised by 10 cm. The water level in the Mangalam dam reached 77.31 metre. Its capacity is 77.88 metre. The water level in the Pothundi dam reached 107.13 metre. The dam has a capacity to contain 108.204 metre water. The water level registered in the Meenkara dam was 156 metre. The dam’s capacity is 156.36 metre. The water level in the Chulliyar dam touched 153.73 metre. Its capacity is 154.08 metre. The water level in the Walayar dam reached 200.92 metre. Its capacity is 203 metre. The water level at Siruvani dam registered 876.43 metre. Its capacity is 878.5 metre. The water level at Kanjirapuzha dam touched 95.22 metres on Saturday afternoon. It has a capacity of 97.50 metre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-palakkad-rain-in-torrents-forces-dams-to-open-shutters/article37034552.ece
17 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Widespread flooding across low-lying areas in Palakkad||Heavy rain caused widespread flooding across the district on Saturday afternoon. Roads and canals were flooded and almost all dams opened their shutters as the water level soared to a high. The downpour lasting for a few hours terrified the people as the sky remained too cloudy and dark. Low-lying areas Almost all low-lying areas were submerged, as it rained non-stop for three hours. Robinson Road and GB Road in Palakkad Town were flooded. Power supply was disrupted for hours at different places, as uprooted trees snapped the power lines. Hill areas such as Agali and Nelliampathy were gripped with the fear of landslides. The authorities advised the people to avoid night travel to the hill areas. Forecast said the district would get about 200 mm rain in 24 hours. Flooding took place at Olavakkode, Aiswarya Colony, Kamalalayam, Manakkalthodi, and Kunduthode. The health wing of the municipality removed the blocks. Health wing The health wing had kept 60-odd workers and earth movers on standby anticipating an emergency. The intervention of this team led by standing committee chairman P. Smithesh helped prevent inundation in several areas. Temporary ban Entry to tourist places in the district such as Nelliyampathy, Parambikulam and Silent Valley was banned in view of potential threats that floods could cause. The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) also decided not to allow the public to the dams in the district. Control rooms Control rooms were opened at taluk level to address any emergency due to the incessant rain. The contact numbers are Palakkkad (0491 2505770), Chittur (0492 3224740), Alathur (0492 2222324), Pattambi (0466 2214300), Ottapalam (0466 2244322), Mannarkkad (0492 4222397), Attappady (9846243440, 6282905701).  Hill areas such as Agali and Nelliampathy in the district are gripped with the fear of landslides||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/widespread-flooding-across-low-lying-areas-in-palakkad/article37034645.ece
17 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Heavy inflow into dams worries Pathanamthitta||In an unrelenting downpour on Saturday, the Pampa, Kallada, Kakkattar, and Achencoil rivers in Pathanamthitta district flowed in spate throughout the day. The tributaries of the major rivers too witnessed a heavy gush of water from the upper reaches, triggering flood threats downstream. The rain led to heavy inflow to the dams, bringing the district on the edge. Water level at the Kakki-Anathodu reservoir of the Sabarigiri hydro power project, where a red alert had already been declared, is close to attaining the full reservoir level with the live storage crossing 88%. Water level in the Pampa dam too is rising sharply to touch 981 metres as against the full reservoir level of 986.33 metres. Two shutters of the Maniyar and five gates of the Moozhiyar reservoirs have remained open for days on end in view of the continuing heavy rain. The run-off water from the upper reaches gushed into commercial establishments in areas including Ranni and Vechoochira. Patients of the intensive care unit at the Ranni taluk hospital were evacuated in view of the rising water level. A couple of houses at Vadasserikkara reportedly developed minor cracks on walls. The Konni-Nedumankavu bridge was submerged in water. Several families in low-lying parts of Kalanjoor were relocated. Minor landslips were reported in villages on the forest fringes, including Thannithodu and Chittar. Car passengers rescued Three passengers of a car which fell into a canal near Kadassanad were rescued. Traffic disruptions were reported from various routes, including the Punalar-Muvattupuzha road Health Minister Veena George convened a meeting of the revenue officials and legislators in Pathanamthitta to asses the situation. Control rooms have been opened in Pathanamthitta municipality to coordinate the rescue and relief operations Directive to devotees The flood situation in Pampa has cast a shadow over the Sabarimala pilgrimage, which opened for the five-day monthly pujas on Saturday. Devotees have been barred from bathing in the river in view of the flood situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-inflow-into-dams-worries-pathanamthitta/article37034524.ece
17 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Mar Thoma Church budget presented||Establishment of a Mar Chrysostom chair at Mahatma Gandhi University, construction of an office complex at the Church headquarters, and schemes for the welfare of the poor and marginalised communities including the transgenders figure prominently in the annual budget of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church for the fiscal 2021-22. The budget, presented by the outgoing treasurer P.P. Achankunju and approved by the Prathinidhi Mandalam (representative council) of the Church, envisages an income and expenditure of Rs. 155.61 crore. The Metropolitan of the Church Mar Theodosius Mar Thoma presided over the budget presentation. According to Mr. Achankunju, an allocation of Rs. 1 crore each has been made for the Mar Chrysostum chair while Rs. 20 lakh has been set aside for COVID-19-related works. A sum of Rs. 45 lakh has been set apart for providing treatment assistance under the Snehakaram project while Rs. 50 lakh has been allotted as assistance from the natural calamity relief fund. The budget has also made an allocation worth Rs. 1.5 crore for provision of land or homes to the poor and Rs. 3.5 crore for providing pension to the clergy. An amount of Rs. 13 lakh has been allotted for publishing a clergy directory of the Church. Fr C.V. Simon has been elected the new secretary of the Mar Thoma Church at the Mar Thoma Prathinidhi Sabha Mandalam meeting. Fr Moncy K. Philip is the new clergy trustee while Rajan Jacob is the new laity secretary and treasurer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mar-thoma-church-budget-presented/article37034550.ece
17 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,KERALA||Model code will continue: SEC||Puducherry State Election Commissioner (SEC) Roy P. Thomas has said the the model code of conduct will remain in force as the Madras High Court has not stayed the local bodies elections. Mr. Thomas made his stand clear in a letter addressed to the legislators on Friday after they cut across party lines and called on him to demand the withdrawal of the code following the Madras High Court’s direction to keep further proceedings in “abeyance”. He said the notification issued by him for the fresh election has been challenged. “The matter is sub-judice... The order of the court is implemented in letter and spirit and the code will continue as there is no stay by the High Court. Any further deviation in the election notification cannot be done without court orders,” he said. An official said withdrawal of the code warranted issuance of another notification which would amount to contempt of court as the High Court had directed the SEC to keep all further proceedings in “abeyance”. The MLAs wanted the code withdrawn, saying its enforcement prevented the government from taking policy decisions. Mr. Thomas clarified that the quota for the Backward Classes and the Scheduled Tribes was a policy decision and the SEC had no role in it. But it was bound to act upon the rules framed by the government. Time limit “It is the constitutional mandate to conduct election once in five years and in the present case, the Supreme Court has fixed a time-limit for conducting election in the contempt of court proceedings against me. Therefore, it is incumbent upon SEC to conduct the election within the time-frame,” he said.  The matter is sub-judice... The order of the court is implemented in letter and spirit. Any further deviation in the election notification cannot be done without court orders||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/model-code-will-continue-puducherry-sec/article37034258.ece
17 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Several families evacuated to safety||The heavy rainfall that pounded the capital district on Saturday caused waterlogging in low-lying areas, damaged houses and forced the district administration to evacuate several families to safer locations. Search will resume on Sunday for a Jharkhand native who went missing in the Amayizhanjan Canal on Saturday afternoon. The missing man, reportedly a migrant labourer, has been identified as Nagardeep Mandal (30). He had fallen into the canal reportedly on the stretch between Pettah-Kannamoola and Chennilode, according to the district administration. Although Fire and Rescue personnel, including a scuba team attached to the Chakkai station, conducted a search till Saturday night, he could not be located. Orange alert Heavy rainfall had battered the district since the early hours of Saturday. The India Meterological Department (IMD) had put the district on orange alert, prompting the district administration to quickly shift to disaster mitigation mode. Low-lying areas in Muttathara and Ambalathara were inundated in the steady rainfall. Several houses were damaged in Neyyattinkara, Varkala and Nedumangad. The occupants were shifted to the houses of relatives and relief camps. Wells cave in Wells caved in at Anavoor village in Neyyattinkara taluk and at Balaramapuram. At Vanchiyoor, the compound wall of a house collapsed on to the road. However, no one was hurt. Two relief camps have been opened in the district at the MN LP School, Kalliyoor, and at the Government UP School, Enchakkal. Trees were uprooted in the rain havoc in around 25 locations across the district. Given the rainfall situation, the district administration has imposed a ban on quarrying and mining activities for the time being. The administration has also banned travel to the Ponmudi Hill Station due to the possibility of landslips in the region. The district administration has also urged the public to avoid night travel. Dam shutters opened The shutters of the Peppara, Neyyar and Aruvikkara dams are open. The district administration has urged people residing near the reservoirs and on the banks of rivers to remain alert. Control rooms The city Corporation has set up a round-the-clock control room to aid the public who are facing issues due to floods. The public can contact 0471-2377702, 0471-2377706.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/several-families-evacuated-to-safety/article37034676.ece
17 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Jury foregrounds gender politics||Awards, by their patterns, often send out a message, although the ones giving it out rather dismiss it all as a coincidence. Over the past few years, there has been a conscious shift towards awarding non-superstars while choosing the best actor at the State film awards. This year, one can sense the jury rooting for films with women protagonists who assert their rights in an emphatic manner. That the jury picked The Great Indian Kitchen as the best film is perhaps the biggest pointer towards how it foregrounded gender politics, along with artistic value. Triggering debates With a narrative centred on a drab, unremarkable kitchen, with the mundane, everyday activities that would happen in any such kitchen getting played out for a considerable part of its run-time, The Great Indian Kitchen did not initially find favour with the big OTT platforms. Yet, when it was released in a new, lesser-known platform, the word spread around, setting off the kind of discussions that were not witnessed for any film in recent years. Speaking to The Hindu after winning the State award, its director Jeo Baby said he had always wished for awards and festival runs, but never expected the kind of reception the film received. "Not in our wildest of imagination did we expect such a reception. We knew it would evoke some discussion, but not such a wide debate. It is the pathetic condition of women inside houses that led to the making of such a film. I thought of making this movie only after I experienced the drudgery of cooking day in and day out. Many men have a passion for cooking, but they need to cook only when it suits them. But that is not the case with the majority of women who run a house and have to do this round the clock," says Jeo. In several mainstream movies of the past, this work had been glorified as something that completes the woman. Here, the film places it as something being imposed on her by the men around her. The men, including her husband and the father-in-law, are not portrayed as angry or violent characters, but as soft-spoken ones who calmly impose their will on the woman, like slow, sweet poison. The script also takes head on regressive notions of impurity associated with menstruation, and places them firmly in the context of the Supreme Court verdict on women’s entry into Sabarimala. Woman’s choice Incidentally, the verdict and its aftermath come across as a plot point in Senna Hegde's Thinkalazhcha Nishchayam , which has won the award for the Second Best Film. It also has a woman’s choice at its centre. This year, the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy instituted also a special award in any category for transgender persons or women. It went to Nanjiyamma for the ‘Kalakkatha’ song from Ayyappanum Koshiyum .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jury-foregrounds-gender-politics-artistic-value/article37034484.ece
17 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State on self-sufficiency path in food: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said Kerala has been making steady progress towards achieving self-sufficiency in food production by inching closer towards becoming a State free of fallow lands. He was speaking while inaugurating the Kerala Food Conclave jointly organised by The Hindu and the Department of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs to mark the occasion of World Food Day here on Saturday. Having been able to ensure that fallow lands were completely utilised for cultivation in several villages, block panchayats and constituencies during the last few years, the State has been targeting a similar achievement across districts. The government has been striving to increase paddy coverage to meet the State’s demand for food grains, he said. Sustainable practices Mr. Vijayan added that there has also been significant progress in vegetable cultivation, with many households taking up terrace farming and other cultivation methods within limited spaces. Such practices have led to a culture shift that instilled among various sections the importance of engaging in such sustainable activities. He highlighted the initiatives undertaken during the pandemic-induced lockdown to ensure that no one starved in the State. Mr. Vijayan stressed the need to take such pro-people efforts forward to address the long-standing problem of malnourishment among children. Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil, who presided over the function, said that the Global Hunger Index published a day ago does not bring concern for the State, which has been able to ensure an efficient food distribution system unlike many others. It, however, stands as an indicator of how external factors such as climate change could disrupt the food supply chain, he said. Leaving no stones unturned in its efforts to achieve food security, the Government recently delivered special food kits to tribal settlements and other inaccessible areas during Onam. While the supply of food grains and other commodities has continued for the last two months, the Government intended to make it a permanent system. Traditional crops Mr. Anil said the Government will soon supply traditional food crops, including millets, coconuts and value-added crops, through ration shops. T. Nandakumar, Resident Editor, The Hindu , welcomed the participants. K.K. Joshy, Senior General Manager (Advertisement) and Kerala Business Head, The Hindu , delivered the vote of thanks. Kairali News was the TV partner for the programme.  The government has been striving to increase paddy coverage to meet the State’s demand for food grains Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-on-the-road-to-food-self-sufficiency-cm/article37034481.ece
17 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kozhikode is Nipah-free: Minister||Kozhikode district can now be said to be free of Nipah virus infection as no new case has been reported in the last 42 days (a double incubation period from the day the last case was reported), an official statement issued by Health Minister Veena George has said. A Nipah control room which was opened in connection with the infection outbreak would be closed, even though the Health Department would continue its vigil, the statement said here on Saturday. Ms. George said it was the systematic and coordinated manner in which the department and others functioned which led to the control of the outbreak. She expressed appreciation and gratitude to the health-care workers who had relentlessly worked to organise control activities. As soon as the first case was reported, the department had got together its resources to set up 18 core committees, which prepared a clear action plan to be followed for the next few days. Within 36 hours of the outbreak, a point-of-care lab was set up at the medical college hospital and community surveillance was initiated. A medical team, which included Kudumbashree workers, volunteers and panchayat members, was put together for surveying Karasseri, Kodiyathur, Mavoor, Mukkam and Chathamangalam grama panchayats. The medical team surveyed 16,732 households and the route map of 240 cases was published. The team also got across to every single person on the contact list. The bat survey team of the National Institute of Virology, Pune, had collected samples from 103 bats in the locality and the presence of IgG antibodies had been detected in some bat samples. Against this background, more studies would be conducted regarding the origin of the virus. The results of the bat samples which were collected and sent to Bhopal by the district Animal Husbandry Department were, however, negative for Nipah antibodies. While adequate stock of drugs was maintained by the Kerala Medical Services Corporation, a clinical data management system software had been readied by e-Health. All health-care workers in the government and private hospitals were trained in Nipah prevention and control activities and adequate mental health care services were ensured for those who were put in quarantine. All Nipah prevention and control activities were led by the Secretaries of various departments, District Collectors, District Medical Officers and other administrators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-is-nipah-free-says-health-minister/article37034516.ece
17 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Thrust on achieving optimum nutrition||From adopting the rainbow diet to promoting the use of millets, the round-table discussion at Kerala Food Conclave on Saturday threw up several proposals to achieve optimum nutrition and address the worrying rise in lifestyle diseases in the State. Suma Divakar, Head of the Department of Community Science, College of Agriculture, Vellayani, called for focus on the changing dietary patterns of Keralites that have led to lifestyle disorders, including diabetes, cardiovascular disease and cancer. She recommended adopting a “healthy plate” or a rainbow diet that involved consuming a significant quantity of fruits and vegetables, and refraining from junk foods. Preethi R. Nair, chief clinical nutritionist, SUT Hospital, stressed on the role of parents in creating healthy eating habits among children to address the prevalence of obesity among youngsters. Kerala State Food Commission member secretary Sreeja K.S. said the quasi-judicial authority has been focusing on ensuring food security among tribals and other marginalised sections. She cautioned against thrusting ration goods upon tribespeople who are often compelled to deviate from their traditional dietary habits. This could lead to lifestyle diseases among such sections. Beela G.K., Professor of Community Science, College of Agriculture, Vellayani, advocated steps to encourage the consumption of millets that had once been the staple food in the State. The Government must adopt steps to encourage millet farming on account of its health benefits, she said. Video clip A video clip by actor Ahaana Krishna, who spoke on healthy consumption and the need to attain food security, was played on the occasion. Santhosh Vidhyadaran, chief of Perspective Planning Division, State Planning Board; and Dilip Kumar and P. Vasantham, members of State Food Commission, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrust-on-achieving-optimum-nutrition/article37034678.ece
17 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Jayasurya clinches it again, Anna Ben basks in award glory||For someone who is just four films old, Anna Ben is already counted among the most promising young actors of this generation. The Special Mention at the Kerala State film awards for Helen last year and the best actor award this year for Kappela only helps in cementing that impression. Noted debut She announced her arrival with the role of an easy-going, but assertive, Baby in Madhu C. Narayanan’s Kumbalangi Nights . Though the film had a star cast of performers, she more than managed to get noticed. Her second film, the survival thriller Helen, not only challenged her acting skills but also her physical endurance, with the story of a part-timer at a restaurant getting trapped inside a meat freezer. In Kappela , Anna plays Jessy, an academically weak girl living in an orthodox, lower middle class family, in a high range village with hardly anything to look forward to. In contrast The emotions she was required to portray here as a vulnerable young woman were in contrast to that required of her in Kumbalangi Nights . Speaking of her performance, jury chairperson Suhasini said she effectively portrayed the transformation in losing her innocence and coming to terms with the reality. Anna Ben has proved to be adept at choosing varied roles that can challenge the actor in her, In her fourth film Sara’s , she played a woman who wishes to remain child-free. Her assured performance went a long way in propping up the film even in places where it was let down by the writing. For, Jayasurya, this is the second Best Actor award within three years. Giving it all While Jayasurya won the previous award for the role of footballer V.P. Sathyan in Captain in 2018, this time, it is the role of a drunkard in Vellam , portraying effectively the sheer helplessness of someone wanting to get over addiction. Jayasurya gave it his all as the man who cannot imagine life without alcohol, even crawling on the floor and licking drops of spilt spirit. Even the movie, which does not otherwise spring much surprises, was saved by his earnest performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anna-ben-jayasurya-bask-in-awards-glory/article37034487.ece
17 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Health alert in capital against scrub typhus||Scrub typhus has been reported in the capital district, prompting the Health Department to sound a public health alert. Scrub typhus spreads to people through bites of infected chiggers (larval mites) and the most common symptoms include fever, headache, body aches, rash, and dry cough. People who work outdoors or are engaged in clearing shrubbery, grassy plains should pay special attention if they develop these symptoms, as the larval mites causing Scrub Typhus are found in the sand or amidst shrubs. They should seek care at the nearest Public Health Centre, district medical officer, K.S. Shinu said. Shrubs and overgrown grass should be cleared from house premises and clothes that fully cover the body should be worn. Clothes should not be left to dry on grass or on ground. Doxycycline Doxycycline is effective against Scrub Typhus and can be had on advice of a physician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-alert-in-capital-against-scrub-typhus/article37034671.ece
17 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rain damages KSEB power lines||Saturday's heavy rainfall caused heavy damage to power supply infrastructure, including high voltage lines, in at least four districts, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) said. The State power utility has scrambled to restore supply in areas hit by outages, with priority being given to hospitals, COVID-19 treatment centres and oxygen plants. Uprooted trees and falling branches snapped overhead power cables and damaged hundreds of electric poles in various districts. The KSEB sustained the heaviest losses to infrastructure in Kottayam district. The utility reported damages in Pathanamthitta, Palakkad and Thrissur districts also. KSEB officials were expecting to restore supply at least in some areas on Saturday night itself. In carrying out repairs, priority is being given to the 11 KV lines. Low tension lines used for power distribution come next after which complaints filed by individual consumers will be taken up, the KSEB said. The KSEB has urged the public to remain alert for snapped power lines as rainfall is continuing in several parts of the State. KSEB section offices should be alerted immediately about electrical mishaps (Emergency number: 9496010101). For registering complaints regarding power supply, dial 1912.  The public has been urged to remain alert for snapped power lines as rain is continuing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-damages-kseb-power-lines/article37034677.ece
17 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||7,955 new cases in State, 11,769 persons recover||Kerala reported 7,955 new cases of COVID-19 when 79,722 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The active case pool on Saturday had 90,885 patients, with 11,769 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health Department, only 9.8% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres A bulletin by the Health Department said that during October 8-14, the average active cases were 1,04,626, out of which an average of around 2% only were admitted in oxygen beds and 1.5% were in ICU. During this period, there was a reduction of around 16,588 new cases. New COVID-19 cases decreased by 20% during this week, in comparison to the previous week. The number of active patients declined by 20% and hospitalisations dropped by 15% this week when compared to the previous week. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 26,791 with the State adding 57 recent deaths to the official list on Saturday. Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 1,280, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 985, Kozhikode 937, Thrissur 812, Kottayam 514, Kollam 500, Palakkad 470, Idukki 444, Malappuram 438, Pathanamthitta 431, Kannur 420, Alappuzha 390, Wayanad 217 and Kasaragod 117.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7955-new-cases-in-state-11769-persons-recover/article37034526.ece
17 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Experts bat for smarter strategies to up output||Having established one of the most efficient public distribution systems in the country, the State must now focus on improving food production notwithstanding its challenges. The need to achieve self-sufficiency in this regard resonated among experts who participated in the Kerala Food Conclave in the capital on Saturday. Teeka Ram Meena, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, said Kerala currently produced only 19% of rice it required for consumption, even while the State Planning Board has recommended steps to increase this to 30%. He recommended substituting the existing monoculture farming method with double cropping to improve productivity within space constraints. Intercropping was also recommended in coconut plantations to enable the State to produce more food grains. State Planning Board member R. Ramakumar stressed on the need to abandon unscientific farming practices to plug crop yield gaps and realise increases ranging from 100% to 500% in productivity of various crops as postulated by Kerala Agricultural University through studies. He claimed that the wide disinclination towards applying chemical fertilisers has brought soil fertility to dangerously low levels in the State. “We used to apply 110 kg of NPK fertiliser on every hectare of farm land 10 years ago. Our use has presently come down to 36 kg. The fall in usage is not an achievement worth celebrating, but demanded remedial measures since it has led to a dearth of vital plant nutrients such as nitrogen, phosphorus and potash in the soil,” said Prof. Ramakumar. Productivity puzzle Kerala State Food Commission chairman K.V. Mohankumar cautioned that the increasing food mile (a measure of how far food travels from the place of creation to where it is sold for consumption) is bound to have multiple consequences, including the increased use of chemical preservatives as well as fuel required for transportation. The cost of perishables is also bound to increase, he said. State Planning Board member K. Ravi Raman said the State faced a “productivity puzzle” since only 27% of its farm households relied on agriculture as their main source of income. Food security can be attained only by bringing such tenant farmers, who constitute 10-15% of the section, under the ambit of the policy framework. Emphasising the need for a new development perspective, State Planning Board member Jiju P. Alex said enhancing food production is going to become the prime goal of the 14th Five Year Plan. Besides, the State must target generating 20 lakh job opportunities in the food manufacturing sector. Director of Civil Supplies D. Sajith Babu said the public distribution system, which had achieved a record of 97% off-take of ration goods in September, could soon enable ration card holders to procure ration items “anytime and anywhere”. Meenakumari S., assistant professor, Government Law College, Thiruvananthapuram, who elaborated on the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act 2019, urged the Government to establish adequate laboratory facilities to redress complaints and facilitate speedy testing of food products.  Teeka Ram Meena recommends substituting monoculture farming method with double cropping||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-bat-for-smarter-strategies-to-up-output/article37034463.ece
17 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||985 new COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 985 COVID-19 cases and 1,351 recoveries as the active caseload fell to 11,127 on Saturday. A test positivity rate of 10.5% was recorded on the day. According to official statistics, a total of 47,742 people are currently in quarantine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/985-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article37034672.ece
17 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation staff arrested||The Nemom Police on Saturday arrested Sunitha, the cashier at the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation's Nemom zonal office, in a case involving misappropriation of revenue funds. The police had been on the lookout for her for the past few days and she was finally arrested from her relative’s house in Poovar. This is the second arrest that is being made in the cases related to fund misappropriation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-staff-arrested/article37034673.ece
17 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Meet reviews school reopening||Creative interventions by local self-government institutions are needed to bring children back to the pre-COVID academic environment, district panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar has said. He was inaugurating a review meeting under the umbrella of the district panchayat on basic school infrastructure, comprehensive cleaning, and safety of students ahead of school reopening next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-reviews-school-reopening/article37034669.ece
17 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MoU on nutraceuticals||The CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) has inked an MoU with an Ernakulam-based start-up for the development of nutraceutical products from fermented turmeric powder and selected Zingiberales. “The turmeric-based fermented products will be in the form of dietary supplements, sports medicine and functional foods and drinks and could also have probiotic content for added health benefits,” the CSIR institute at Pappanamcode here said. The MoU has been signed with AbrinAldrich Agronic Products Pvt. Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mou-on-nutraceuticals/article37034670.ece
17 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Downpour in Thrissur, red alert sounded||Red alert has been declared in Thrissur as torrential rain has been lashing the district since Saturday morning. As water reached near the maximum, shutters of all dams were opened. Maximum damage has been reported from the Chavakkad and Chalakudy areas. As water level increased in the Chalakudy river, authorities asked the people residing on the banks of the river to be alert. Night traffic in high range areas of the district has been banned till October 18. The ban is from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. However vehicles of emergency services including police, disaster management force, health department, fire and rescue force, local bodies, KSEB, and water authority have been exempted from the ban. District Collector has asked people in the areas where there is threat of landslides to cooperate with relief workers and to shift to relief camps immediately after getting the alert. People from Puthur and Madakkathara panchayats, where there is threat of landslides, have been asked to shift to relief camps. People have been banned from taking bath or washing in rivers and other water bodies. Mining activities too have been banned in the district till October 18. Fish workers were banned from venturing into the sea. People were banned from taking selfies at river sides, bridges and high range areas. Reports of flood Severe flooding has been reported from the Nelluvai, Vellattanjur and Velur areas of Kunnamkulam taluk. Athirappilly and Malakkappara tourist centres were closed. Visitors will not be allowed to beaches too. As the Malambuzha and Aliyar dams opened, water level rose in the Bharathapuzha. Currently two relief camps are functioning in the district—one at Pariyaram village and other at Kodakara village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/red-alert-in-thrissur/article37034554.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tribal farmer comes up with rare cultivars||The rare collection of cultivars of tuber crops, banana, and rice and its propagation through farmer collectives make Babu Nellara, a Kuruma tribal farmer at Nellarachal in Wayanad district, different. As many as 14 varieties of tuber crops, 12 of banana, and nine varieties of traditional rice in addition to coffee, arecanut, and pepper vines have been cultivated on 2.75 acres. The strict adherence to organic cultivation is the peculiarity of the garden where cow dung and urine are value-added by making fermented products like Jeevamrutha and Beejamrutha. Among the banana varieties conserved, the Wayanadan Vazha (plantain) is unique, with its leaves and bunches being used on special occasions like marriage. It has huge demand across the region and even outside the State. “Every farmer should cultivate at least one seedling of the variety, as it is appealing and highly pest- and disease-resistant,” said Mr. Babu. Since micro families prefer small varieties of tuber crops, the farmer started field trials and experiments in that dimension with micro tuber cultivation. Accordingly, the smallest pieces of dioscorea (Inchikachil) are used as planting material and are given minimum inputs to grow. Finally, Mr. Babu succeeded in developing small tuber with a maximum yield of 3 kg compared to the conventional yield of 8 kg to 10 kg from a plant. Seeds of traditional varieties are collected from farmers’ consortiums, and the networks enable free exchange of seeds among farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-farmer-comes-up-with-rare-cultivars/article37034489.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Setting new standards||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/setting-new-standards/article37034498.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kumaraswamy calls Siddaramaiah ‘anti-Muslim’||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who in a series of tweets was dubbed “anti-Hindu” by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, on Friday faced attack by JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy who called him “anti-Muslim”. Mr. Kumaraswamy, who has been attacking Mr. Siddaramaiah on various fronts in recent times, on Friday held him responsible for rajakeeya naramedha (“political genocide”) of several Muslim leaders in the party and called him “terminator of minority leaders”. He alleged that Mr. Siddaramaiah was the force behind the declining political fortunes of several Muslim leaders in the Congress, including Roshan Baig, Tanveer Sait, and Iqbal Ahmed Saradagi among others. Mr. Kumaraswamy held Mr. Siddaramaiah responsible for the recent expulsion of M.A. Saleem for making disparaging remarks about KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar. Interestingly, without directly naming him but calling him “Siddha shoora”, Mr. Kumaraswamy said that soon the “true colours” of Mr. Siddaramaiah would be exposed to the minority community. He added that neither the Congress nor Mr. Siddaramaiah held any “patent” for minority welfare. The war of words between the two former Chief Ministers comes in the backdrop of JD(S)’s decision to field Muslim candidates in bypoll-bound constituencies of Hangal and Sindgi, which Mr. Siddaramaiah said was a ploy to divide Muslim votes, thereby directly helping the BJP. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who was campaigning in Hangal constituency for party candidate Srinivas Mane, refused to comment on the tweets by Mr. Kumaraswamy. Earlier this week, Mr. Bommai and Mr. Siddaramaiah had engaged in a Twitter war over the latter’s criticism that the former was “handing over law and order to RSS and was establishing a Jungle Raj” in Karnataka. Mr. Bommai’s statements that moral policing in coastal districts has to be seen from the prism of “action and reaction” and such incidents occur when there is moral degradation in society was criticised by Mr. Siddaramaiah. ‘In competition’ Meanwhile, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi dismissed the criticisms of the RSS and the BJP by both the former Chief Ministers and said they were “in a competition” to garner minority votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kumaraswamy-calls-siddaramaiah-anti-muslim/article37034070.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||I-T search was political, says DesignBoxed||DesignBoxed, a political campaign management firm working for the Opposition Congress and recently the target of search and seizure operations by the Income Tax Department, has alleged that the raids were ‘obviously political’ and ‘part of the process of stifling the Opposition through State power’. Naresh Arora, MD, DesignBoxed, said I-T sleuths ‘found absolutely nothing — no unaccounted valuable of any kind’.  “They targeted me and my colleagues only because we have been working for the Opposition, and mainly the Congress. Apart from trying to find anything remotely incriminatory against top Congress leaders, the raids were intended to intimidate a self-made professional and political campaign management firm so that we don’t work for India’s main Opposition party. It is unfortunate that even after being so powerful, the ruling dispensation needs to intimidate those working with the Opposition. An outright abuse of tax agencies for political aims is not what democracies do,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/i-t-search-was-political-says-designboxed/article37034069.ece
17 October 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists bid final farewell to leader Ramakrishna||Dozens of Maoist cadres bid a final farewell to the CPI (Maoist) Central Committee Member Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna (RK) at his funeral held in accordance with revolutionary traditions in Pamed-Kondapalli forest area in Chhattisgarh’s s Bijapur district, bordering Telangana’s Bhadrachalam Agency area, on Friday afternoon. The Maoists released pictures of the mortal remains of RK wrapped in a Red Flag at the funeral held in dense jungles in the presence of several Maoists clad in olive green uniforms with weapons slung over their shoulders somewhere in the dense forests in the Maoists' area of influence. RK, the 63-year-old top Maoist leader, a senior member of the outlawed CPI (Maoist) apex body, died due to kidney failure in Chhattisgarh’s south Bastar division on Thursday morning. He hailed from Guntur district in Andhra Pradesh. The pictures released by Maoists were widely circulated on social media on Saturday. One of the pictures showed a Maoist woman cadre sorrowfully sitting beside the body of RK while other Maoist guerrillas standing around the mortal remains of RK as a mark of respect to the departed Maoist leader. Another picture showed a group of Adivasis comprising several women carrying some leaves in bamboo baskets over their heads at the funeral site. Meanwhile, the CPI (ML-New Democracy) State committee condoled the death of RK and paid tributes to him. In a statement, the party State Assistant Secretary Potu Ranga Rao said RK treaded the revolutionary path chosen by him with resolute ideological commitment with indomitable spirit for nearly four decades. "RK made a significant contribution to the revolutionary struggle and uphold the cause of oppressed and marginalised sections of the society in the face of repression by the bourgeoisie and feudal class till his last breath," the party State Assistant Secretary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoists-bid-final-farewell-to-leader-ramakrishna/article37034084.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sasikala visits Jayalalithaa’s memorial on eve of AIADMK’s 50th anniversary||V.K. Sasikala, close aide of Jayalalithaa, visited the former Chief Minister’s memorial on the Marina beach Saturday on the eve of the start of the AIADMK’s 50th anniversary celebrations. She left her T. Nagar residence around 10.30 a.m. in a car fitted with the AIADMK flag and reached the memorial an hour later. Her supporters lined the route sporting the flags of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) and the AIADMK. This was Ms. Sasikala’s first visit to the memorial after serving out her jail term in Bengaluru in the disproportionate assets case. A teary-eyed Ms. Sasikala spent some time at the memorial and paid floral tributes. “Amma [Jayalalithaa] and I were inseparable. I placed my heartache of the past five years at her memorial today. I also told her about what has happened so far and assured her that there would be better days for the party. I have confidence that Amma and MGR will save the party and the cadre,” she told reporters. However, she refused to answer a question whether she would try to take control of the AIADMK. Later, she visited the MGR and Anna memorials. Her nephew and AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran did not accompany her. On the day she left Chennai to begin her prison term in 2017, she visited Jayalalithaa’s memorial en route and took a vow by slapping the ground multiple times. The AIADMK wrote that day on its official Twitter handle that Sasikala, who was then the party’s interim general secretary, had vowed to “overcome the conspiracy, treachery and crisis against her”. She was later ousted from her position. The AIADMK is now led by former Chief Ministers O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami. When Ms. Sasikala was freed in February this year, she could not visit the memorial while returning home because it was shut on account of COVID-19. Over the past few months, her team released the recording of Ms. Sasikala’s phone conversations with disgruntled AIADMK functionaries with the aim of “bringing back the glorious days of the AIADMK”. While she stayed away from active politics ahead of the Assembly election for the benefit of the AIADMK, her recent overtures are seen as an attempt to revive her political career after the party’s drubbing in the recent rural local bodies elections in nine districts. ‘No major impact’ Meanwhile, former Minister and AIADMK leader D. Jayakumar termed her visit to the memorial artificial. He said lakhs of people were visiting the memorial every day, and Ms. Sasikala would be counted as one of them. “There will not be any major impact. The AIADMK is like a big elephant. If a mosquito sits on the elephant and claims it is bearing the weight of the elephant, people will not take it seriously,” he said. If she wanted to be in politics, Mr. Dhinakaran could give her a post in the AMMK, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sasikala-visits-jayalalithaas-memorial-on-eve-of-aiadmks-50th-anniversary/article37034164.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tiger being treated for severe cuts||The tiger, MDT23, which was captured after a 22-day operation in Mudumalai on Friday, is being fed and treated for its wounds at a rescue centre in Mysuru. Tamil Nadu Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj and his team had secured the tiger, which had killed two persons and over 20 head of cattle, after tranquillising it in the jungle. As the tiger had several injury marks and wounds, officials of the Tamil Nadu Forest Department had a detailed discussion with the doctors and rescue officials at Mysuru at midnight Friday and on Saturday morning. The tiger’s haemoglobin levels were falling gradually, and it was also found to be dehydrated. The doctors made an initial diagnosis and listed the problems, which included several body cuts, some of which had led to cell degradation and might cause septicemia, Mr. Niraj said. The canines have to be restored as the erosion has left the tiger unable to eat properly. Swelling in the front legs is another issue to deal with, he said. After getting him back for feeding, the doctors will start the treatment in a day or two, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tiger-being-treated-for-severe-cuts/article37034247.ece
17 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Concern over repeated sighting of leopard at SVU||The repeated sighting of a leopard on the campuses of Sri Venkateswara University and Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University in Tirupati has led to an uneasy atmosphere, instilling fear among students and hostellers to move freely after dusk. A leopard has been on the prowl on the twin campuses during the last one month, but its presence is now confirmed by the Tirupati wildlife division officials, after some of the students recorded its movement on their mobile phones a couple of days ago. Students and staff on night duty on the campuses informed the forest officials that the leopard moved close to the hostels, and sometimes making a catwalk on the compound walls. Divisional Forest Officer (Tirupati Wildlife) Pawan Kumar told The Hindu that going by the movements of the leopard, it showed a tendency that it was a stray animal, “strongly attracted to its favourite prey, the dogs, which hang around the trash bins at the hostel messes.” The official said during the last one month, special teams were on duty to detect the presence of the leopard. “So far it has not attacked or even crossed the path of students. The only reason for its moving close to hostel messes, located close to the Tirumala foothills, is the teeming population of dogs. “We advise the authorities of both the universities to address the canine menace,” the DFO said. Mr. Kumar said a strategy was being readied to drive the leopard back into the forests. “If we find any signs of the leopard turning aggressive towards humans, we will not hesitate to write to the superiors to seek its capture,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/concern-over-repeated-sighting-of-leopard-on-svu-campus/article37034126.ece
17 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth rescue 12-foot python near Kuppam||A group of youth on Friday rescued a huge python from the Handri Neeva branch canal, at Jarugu village, on the outskirts of Kuppam and released the reptile into the forests close to the Tamil Nadu border. According to information, the youth while returning from the forests after a vain search for honeycombs reportedly spotted a 12-foot python struggling to come out of the shallow waters of the canal. They captured it using gunny sacks and forked sticks. Later, they informed the forest officials at Kuppam. Guided by the forest staff, the youth carried the reptile in jubilation to a nearby forest location and released it into the bushes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-rescue-12-foot-python-near-kuppam/article37034627.ece
17 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Clues team did not follow my instructions’||The videographer of Clues Team of Hyderabad city police failed to follow his instructions while recording the topography and other evidence of the alleged encounter spot at Chatanpally on December 6, 2019, and he had realised it only after he received the copies of the videographs, said J Surender Reddy, DCP, Rachakonda SOT who was appointed to probe the incident. “I had instructed the videographer to record the position of the dead bodies, scene of the place. Until I received the videographs on December 10, 2019, I was under the impression that the former has acted according to my instructions, but not,” he told the three-member commission of inquiry, appointed by the Supreme Court to probe the Disha gang rape and murder case and the aftermath, on Saturday. Mr. Reddy submitted the two USB flash drives containing 25 videographs and 51 photographs of the alleged encounter spot. However, the SC panel members expressed disappointment over the duration of the videos submitted before them as the majority of the clippings were only of a few seconds. “Did it not give you the impression that the videos are too short and some editing has been done. And reasons for not getting a continuous recording” Bombay High Court’s former judge Rekha Sondur Baldota asked the IO. Mr. Reddy murmured and said the submitted videos show the topography of the spot. The panel further asked why videos do not show the topography and they were limited to the cordoned area, and did it not occur to him to record the point from where the police party had opened fire at the accused, the place where panchs stood, the embankments on the spot should have been recorded for proper investigation? “Yes, it occurred to me, but I was giving instructions to the officers for managing the mob gathered on the spot, as it was disturbing the investigation,” he said. Was your job to manage the mob or investigate?, the members asked, for which Mr. Reddy replied ‘investigate’. “We hardly see mob around the spot in the video clippings. It is at a distance on the highway and near the highway, so how could the mob disturb you?” they questioned. Mr. Reddy told the commission that the mob was present on the spot, but the videographer did not cover them. Further, the investigating officer was asked whether he instructed the videographer and photographer to cover the path through which the accused, police party and panchs approached the scene of the offence. Mr. Reddy was also asked whether he did not consider it necessary to cover the spot from which Dishas’s articles were recovered, for which he replied ‘it was not covered by the videographer and photographers.’ According to one version, the whole incident was sparked at that spot? “Go home and think on this question and answer it on Monday,” Justice V S Sirpurkar informally told Mr. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clues-team-did-not-follow-my-instructions/article37034071.ece
17 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Task Force sleuths seize 300 kg ganja||Around 300 kgs of ganja was seized by Hyderabad Police Commissioner’s Task Force and Malakpet Police from two people at Moosarambagh cross roads on Saturday morning. The accused procured the contraband from Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, and were taking it to Ahmed Nagar, Maharashtra. The bags filled with ganja were concealed under empty plastic trays. The accused were identified as Vilas Bhausaheb Dhokane, 33, and Dnyaneshwar Mohite, 26, are from Maharashtra. Vilas used to transport goods from Maharashtra to Vizag. He came in contact with ganja peddlers in Narsipatnam during this process. His associate Dnyaneshwar too used to go with goods vehicle as support driver. Both had invested in ganja trading, said Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar. They used to purchase ganja at Rs. 1,500 per kg and transported it from Vizag to Ahmed Nagar (Maharashtra). They sold it to customers at around Rs. 10,000 per kg or at a price depending on customers. After gaining confidence in the contraband business, the accused came in contact with their agent V Naga Sai in Vizag and purchased about 300 kgs of ganja. The duo went to Nakkapalli crossroad, Vizag, with their goods vehicle along with empty trays, stayed for a few days at trucks parking points. The ganja was loaded into the goods carriage near Nakkapalli crossroad to transport to Ahmed Nagar, the police said. Based on a tip off, a team led by Task Force inspector K Nageswar Rao, and others, caught the accused on Saturday morning.  Accused Vilas Bhausaheb Dhokane and Dnyaneshwar Mohite from Maharashtra invested in ganja trading. Anjani Kumar, Hyderabad Police Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/task-force-personnel-seize-300-kgs-of-ganja/article37034444.ece
17 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State’s development suffered under YSRCP’||Former Minister D.L. Ravindra Reddy, who had taken a break from active politics after the Samaikhyandhra movement, says that his contest in the 2024 Assembly elections is certain. He has expressed the confidence that his win is unstoppable even if he is in the fray as an independent candidate. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Ravindra Reddy said, “Development of the State has suffered under the YSRCP dispensation. Those who fought desperately for a government run by the Reddy community are now a disillusioned lot.” Targets Sajjala Mr. Ravindra Reddy alleged that the ruling party MLAs and Ministers were behind encroaching both government and private lands. “Government Adviser Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy is calling the shots in the administration by donning the role of the Ministers,” he alleged, and urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to focus on the ground reality. The agriculture sector was in a crisis as the farmers were not getting remunerative prices for their produce, Mr. Ravindra Reddy alleged. Responding to the question on whether he got an invite from the YSRCP, he said, “People with a straight forward attitude are unwelcome in that party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-development-suffered-under-ysrcp/article37034636.ece
17 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||B.Tech dropout booked under PD Act for ‘harassing’ women||The police booked Chennupalli Prasanna Kumar (23) alias Prashanth Reddy, a habitual offender from Proddutur, under the Preventive Detention (PD) Act on charges of harassing and cheating a number of women in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana by misusing social media platforms. According to Kadapa Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, the accused, a B. Tech dropout, resorted to crimes to make quick money. “Prasanna Kumar has been allegedly snatching chains and committing burglaries since 2017. The Proddutur III-Town police have opened a suspect- sheet against him. He would go to Kadapa, Vijayawada and Hyderabad, and use social media platforms to befriend women. After winning their confidence, he would pursue them to send their intimate photographs and later blackmail them,” the SP said. The accused allegedly forced the victims to send him money. He allegedly sexually exploited some victims, besides taking away their gold jewellery. The accused allegedly duped some others by promising jobs, besides his alleged involvement in several housebreakings reported from across the district. According to the police, the accused was allegedly involved in 26 cases in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. However, many victims did not approach the police either out of fear of Prasanna Kumar or losing their reputation. Prasanna Kumar was also wanted in many chain-snatching and cricket betting cases. He has been remanded and shifted to the Central Prison at Kadapa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/b-tech-dropout-booked-under-pd-act-for-harassing-women/article37034628.ece
17 October 2021||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child drowns in river, father arrested||The Kerala Police arrested a man on Saturday for allegedly pushing his wife and his one-and-a-half-year-old child into the Vallayi river at Kathirur here. The child’s body was later retrieved from the river. In her statement to the police, Sona, the woman, alleged that she and her daughter, Anvitha, were pushed into the river by her husband, K.P. Shiju. She said the three of them had come to the riverside on Shiju’s motorbike around 6 p.m. on Friday, when the incident happened. Local people found Sona, 25, holding onto a bush on the edge of the river and calling for help. However, Anvitha could not be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/child-drowns-in-river-father-arrested/article37034072.ece
17 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, a trip to Russia for globetrotting tea-seller couple||For those who have not heard about the couple Vijayan and Mohana, the banner in front of their unassuming coffee shop next to Salim Rajan Road at Gandhi Nagar in Kochi may appear intriguing. It declares that the shop will remain closed from October 21 to 28 as the couple will be away on a trip to Russia. But, it hardly evokes curiosity among the local people as they know that it is just another foreign trip for the globetrotting tea-seller couple who has visited 25 countries across six continents in the past 14 years. “We will be visiting Moscow and St. Petersburg in the week-long visit. Russia is a country that has always fascinated me right from the Soviet Union era. It is the land of the bloody October Revolution and of people who suffered not just at the hands of occupants but also that of their own rulers,” said Mr. Vijayan. The trip would have happened last year if not for the pandemic. The couple took bank loans to fund their initial trips and repaid it from what little they could save from the coffee shop. They run the shop alone and leave for themselves the daily wages, which they would have had to pay had they engaged others. But, as the number of trips increased, so did the loan, which last year stood at around Rs. 4 lakh. However, as their fame spread, they started getting sponsors to the point that they need not have to pay for their trips any longer. Their last trip to Australia and New Zealand was sponsored and so is their latest trip to Russia, which is being funded by a travel agency. Unlike their past trips, this time they will be accompanied by their two daughters and their families who, however, will have to fund the trip on their own. “It will take around Rs. 13.50 lakh, which they will raise by taking loan from their provident fund or pawning their ornaments,” said 71-year-old Mr. Vijayan, who considers life as countless journeys strung together. He also has a trip to Singapore lined up to inaugurate the office of a travel agency, of which he is the brand ambassador, a role for which he is being paid. Japan is where he wants to head next followed by Vietnam and Cambodia with his 69-year-old wife who is also enthusiastic about travelling. The couple brought out a book last year, Chaaya Vittu Vijayanteyum Mohanayudeyum Loka Sancharangal , which loosely translates into ‘The global tours of Vijayan and Mohana by selling tea’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/now-a-trip-to-russia-for-globetrotting-tea-seller-couple/article37034110.ece
17 October 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||60 injured in Banni festival||Sixty people were injured, four of them critically, during the Banni festival organised as part of the Mala Mallanna Swamy Kalyanotsavam in the early hours of Saturday. As per the tradition, people take part in stick fight during the festival. Unconfirmed reports said that the number of injured were more than 100. Some people sustained injuries on their heads, while some others in the stampede. The injured are undergoing treatment in a hospital at Adoni and the Kurnool Government General Hospital. The month-long efforts by the district administration and the police to stop the violence that had claimed several lives in the past by limiting the number of devotees from each village to 150 did not yield the desired results. Around 40,000 to 50,000 devotees from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh reached the temple. After the midnight of Vijaya Dasami, more than 4,000 villagers clashed to take control of the idols. At the Devaragattu Hill on the outskirts of Neraniki , it is a tradition in eight to 11 villages to fight with sticks and take the idols to their village with a belief that it would bring prosperity and good agricultural yield. In response to a petition filed by the Human Rights committees, the courts imposed a ban on this ritual in 2008. The villagers of Neraniki, Neranikitanda and Kothapeta represent the side of Lord Siva, take the idolfrom Devaragattu to the temple while the villagers of Ellarti, Arikara, Maddigeri, Nitranatta, Sulavai, and Hebbetam, representing the demons, obstruct them. Adoni DSP Vinod Kumar said the festival concluded with some minor injuries. No complaint has been filed, but cases would be registered against some people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/60-injured-in-banni-festival/article37034068.ece
17 October 2021||ONBOARD USS CARL VINSON (SOMEWHERE IN BAY OF BENGAL),ANDHRA PRADESH||Carl Vinson, a floating city on sea||Many born before 1986 would have seen the movie Top Gun directed by Tony Scott, where Tom Cruise is seen flying F-16s, at top speed, from onboard aircraft carrier USS Enterprise, or would have at least seen the hit video of the song ‘ Take my breath away ’ from the movie. A visit to USS Carl Vinson, a Nimitz-class super carrier, can take away one’s breath. Not only the size of the ship, but the flurry of activity, its fire power, its fighter jets on board and the enthusiasm of the crew on board, is worth a take. The nuclear-powered super carrier was here off Visakhapatnam coast in Bay of Bengal, as the lead ship for the just concluded naval exercise Malabar-2021, along with other assets from the US Navy and navies of India, Japan and Australia. The 1.13 lakh-tonne behemoth from the US Pacific fleet is part of the Carrier Strike Group One and its crew say that it is floating city at sea. And they have reasons to say that, as the ship carries about 5,000 crew members, including close to 1,000 women and a number of of them are in key command structures that includes fighter and helicopter pilots. According to the executive officer of the ship Ryan Richards, being a nuclear-powered ship, it has unlimited range and endurance capabilities. “The only need is food replenishment, which can be done by helicopters if required. We can take fuel, as well as supply fuel mid-sea to our support vessels,” he said. The ship has a huge desalination plant to take care of its water needs and usage of plastic is minimal. To take care of the plastic, it has a recycling plant. The ship has two galleys to take care of the meals of the 5,000 crew members and officers and two laundries. It has two hospitals, with one with a medical board to take care of surgical needs and an exclusive bakery. Despite its size, the crew have their anxious moments on rough seas. When the sea is rough due to bad weather and the swell is high, despite its size, the behemoth pitches and rocks, said Ryan. The ship has 10 floors and a few of them act as hangars for its assortment of aircraft. Onboard it boasts of carrying the world’s top-class fighter jets such as F-18 Super Hornets, F-35 lightning the all-weather stealth multirole combat aircraft, Hawkeye the all-weather carrier-capable tactical airborne early warning aircraft, Seahawk Romeos and V22 Osprey multi-mission tiltrotor military aircraft, which is capable of vertical landing and takeoff. According to P. Scott Miller, Commanding Officer of Carl Vinson, the ship carries about 70 aircraft, including helicopters. The ship, played a key role in Operation Desert Strike, Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation Southern Watch, and Operation Enduring Freedom, apart from carrying the body of Osama Bin Laden for giving a burial at sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/carl-vinson-a-floating-city-on-sea/article37034083.ece
17 October 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sabarimala Ayyappa temple opens, rain restricts pilgrims||The Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala was opened in connection with the five-day monthly rituals at 5 p.m. on Saturday. Under the guidance of Tantri Kandararu Mahesh Mohanararu, Melsanthi V.K. Jayaraj Potti opened the sanctum sanctorum at 5 p.m. This was followed by the opening of the various upadevatha temples and the lighting of the aazhi near the 18 holy steps. As there were no special rituals on the opening day, the temple was closed for the day after the Harivarasanam rendition by 7.30 p.m. It will reopen at 5 a.m. on Sunday for nirmalya darsan . After Usha Puja at 7.30 a.m., the selection of the new melsanthis through a draw of lots will be held at 8 a.m. The new melsanthis, to be appointed for a year, will take charge on the first day of the Malayalam month of Vrischikam, when the annual pilgrimage season begins. In view of the heavy rain, District Collector Divya S. Iyer has banned the entry of pilgrims to the holly hillock on October 17 and 18. A meeting convened by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to assess the rain situation later extended the ban to October 19 as well. After the Thulam month rituals, the temple will reopen for Chithira Aattatirunal on November 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sabarimala-ayyappa-temple-opens-rain-restricts-pilgrims/article37034074.ece
17 October 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP has no scope for revival: ZP chief-elect||Srikakulam Zilla Parishad chairperson-elect Piriya Vijaya on Saturday claimed that the district had turned into a bastion of the YSRCP and there was no scope for the revival of TDP. Speaking to media here, she said that the opposition party had lost its ground completely in the district, with the rejection from all sections of the people. Ms. Vijaya, wife of former Itchapuram MLA Piriya Sairaj, will take charge officially on October 18 (Tuesday) at the Zilla Parishad office. She said that the TDP had been rooted out from the district, with the YSRCP winning wresting all the 37 ZPTCs. According to sources, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is keen on strengthening the party in Itchapuram, where YSRCP was defeated in the 2019 general election. Elevation to the Sairaj’s family is expected to strengthen the vote bank of the Kalinga community which has been playing key role in Srikakulam politics, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-has-no-scope-for-revival-zp-chief-elect/article37034654.ece
17 October 2021||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GST officers seek gazetted rank||Highlighting that around 800 GST officers don’t have any specific responsibility and power, Andhra Pradesh GST Officers’ and Employees’ Association has urged the government that only gazetted rank and powers would enable them to discharge their duties efficiently. The GST officers, who were formerly known as Assistant Commercial Tax Officers (ACTOs), have been striving hard for gazetted rank, saying that without it, they are not able to verify the records and audit the details of shops and business establishments, leading to tax evasion. Till the introduction of the Goods and Service Tax (GST) on July 1, 2017, ACTOs used to inspect the goods transported from one place to another. At present, the Assistant Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner rank officials have powers of inspection and audit. With the heavy load, they are unable to inspect the records of nearly 3,000 dealers in each district, association members pointed out. Meet CM A.P. GST Officers and Employees Association president Chowdary Purushottam Naidu and general secretary Allina Ramesh Kumar, Commercial Taxes NGOs Association of Vizianagaram Division president R.Venugopal recently met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in Amaravati and explained the difficulties being faced by the GST officers. They informed him that the GST officers in other States were given gazetted rank and powers which helped the respective governments to generate additional revenue with the bringing many traders into the GST net. “The Chief Minister responded positively to our proposals and directed the CMO to look into the matter. We hope the government would issue orders at the earliest. There will not be any financial burden in the form of payment of extra salary to the GST officers. But, it helps the government generate additional revenue by bringing more dealers into the GST net,” said Mr.Purushottam Naidu, who is also the associate president of the A.P. NGOs Association. Mr. Venugopal said that the government had already ensured gazetted rank to Deputy Tahsildars, Sub-Registrars, and Executive Officers of Panchayat Raj Department, Excise Inspectors, Grade-III Municipal Commissioners and Co-Operative Sub Registrars who joined the service along with them after clearing the Group-II examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gst-officers-seek-gazetted-rank-power/article37034653.ece
17 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMD issues yellow alert for 7 districts in Kerala||Several Kerala districts are poised to receive isolated heavy rainfall on Sunday also, but the rain fury which swept central and southern districts on Saturday is expected to abate by then. A low pressure area over the southeast Arabian Sea, which powered the intense spells on Saturday, is expected to move inland over Kerala on Saturday night and weaken thereafter, according to officials at the IMD Meteorological Centre here. Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Malappuram, Kannur and Kasaragod districts are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall on Sunday, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) update said. The IMD has forecast light to moderate rainfall for the other districts. Fishers have been advised against venturing out to sea till Sunday, given the possibility of squally weather along the Kerala coast and Lakshadweep. Cyclonic circulations which persisted over the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal had organised into low pressure areas, bringing rainfall over Kerala over the past week. But the IMD had predicted that both systems will not intensify further. Over the past few days, the IMD had issued heavy rainfall alerts for Kerala with the low pressure system over the southeast Arabian Sea in close proximity to the Kerala coast. In the first 16 days of October, all 14 districts had reported excess rainfall, with 11 districts recording a 'large excess' (percentage departures of more than 60% from the normal) during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/imd-issues-yellow-alert-for-7-districts-in-kerala/article37034081.ece
17 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fishing harbours and landing centres to be linked||In a bid to give a fillip to the fishing industry and improve the living standards of the fishermen, a programme is on the anvil to link fishing harbours and fish landing centres in the country, Union Minister of State for Fisheries L. Murugan has said. Speaking to the media on his arrival here on Saturday, Mr. Murugan pointed to the proposed linkage of the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) with the ‘Gati Shakti’ programme to improve multi-modal connectivity to the fishing harbours. He said the linkage would help enhance logistics network and ensure faster movement of cargo. “PMMSY is not only about catching fish but also improving fish landing centres,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fishing-harbours-and-landing-centres-to-be-linked/article37034637.ece
17 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Energy Secretary dispels rumours of prolonged power cuts in State||Dispelling “rumours” in the social media that there will be power cuts for several hours after Dasara in the name of ‘emergency load relief’, Energy Secretary N. Srikant,in a release, has said that the AP-Genco has been provided Rs. 250 crore for procuring coal from “wherever it is available in the country,” and that eight extra coal rakes have been allotted to the State. “Logistical problems that affected production of coal around the world and the disruptions in supply have indeed stifled power generation in Andhra Pradesh, but the Discoms are taking all steps to prevent prolonged power cuts. They are permitted to buy power from the spot market to the extent required even as the AP-Genco is scouting for coal supplies,” Mr. Srikant said in the release. The prices in the spot market, where private players dictate the terms, will be higher as power will be traded for immediate delivery. Plea to Ministry “Besides, the government has requested the Ministry of Power to allot 400 MW available with the Central generating stations to the State at nominal rate to help meet the burgeoning demand,” he said, and added that the mining companies had been asked to supply coal to the power plants without insisting on payments for purchases made earlier as per the Ministry’s guidelines. Further, Mr. Srikant said efforts were being made to buy coal from the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) in Telangana to supplement the existing coal reserves. Steps were also taken to start generation at the new 800-MW units at the Dr. Narla Tatarao Thermal Power Station (NTTPS) near Vijayawada and the Sri Damodaram Sanjeevaiah Thermal Power Station at Krishnapatnam in Nellore district at the earliest, he added. Deficit Meanwhile, the AP-Transco officials said in a high-level review meeting that energy deficit in the State for the last five days was about 1.22 MU, but it was far higher in States such as Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Of the average daily demand of 185 MU, the State had a deficit of less than 1 MU per day during the last 16 days. There were supply interruptions, but the situation was well under control, the officials said. The power purchase price in the open market slid to Rs. 6.11 per unit from Rs. 20 from Friday, which was a huge relief for the utilities, they said. The coal stocks (in tonnes) at the AP-Genco plants on Saturday were as follows: Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant (RTPP) - 76,943, SDSTPS - 59,926, and NTTPS - 17,493, which would last for 3.66, 3.15 and 0.61 days. The average quantity of coal (in tonnes) required per day for full generation at these plants is: 21,000, 19,000, and 28,500 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/energy-secretary-dispels-rumours-of-prolonged-power-cuts-in-state/article37034632.ece
17 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cinemas see full occupancy in city||Several cinemas in the city witnessed “house full” occupancy in the festive weekend after a gap of several months since the second wave of COVID infections. With the State government relaxing COVID safety norms and allowing four shows per day from Thursday, occupancy in most of the cinemas increased. Until a few days ago, the government allowed only 50% occupancy in places with fixed seating, including theatres, restaurants and others. A day before the festival weekend, the government issued a G.O. relaxing the restrictions. “The requirement of keeping alternative seats vacant in public places or venues with fixed seating arrangements is dispensed with,” the government order said. Multiplex and single-screen theatres in the city witnessed high footfall as youth and families ventured out to watch the movies released on Thursday and Friday. However, there were no movies from star directors and actors who could draw crowds to the theatres to make the best of the festival season and the relaxation of norms. Only about five movies, including three new releases, were being screened in the cinemas. “After a long time, we are witnessing house-full shows. Because of the festival holiday, the rush was more, but the movies released this season were not much of crowd pullers. Usually, star-studded movies are lined up for festivals like Dasara, Diwali and Sankranti,” said Ram Kumar, representative of a single screen theatre in the city. On the other hand, the situation at the cinemas was worrisome as COVID safety protocols were hardly followed by the managements as well as movie-goers. “I have come to the movie with friends as it was a holiday. We haven’t been to a theatre for months. But we regret coming now as few persons who sat near us did not wear masks throughout the movie. Though the government relaxed all the norms, one should consider going to the movie as a risk and take a wise decision,” said M. Tilak, an engineering student at a theatre in the city. Major movie production houses have thanked the State government on social media for lifting the restrictions on occupancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cinemas-see-full-occupancy-in-vijayawada/article37034067.ece
17 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thousands witness Teppotsavam||Scores of the Bhavani devotees from across the State and neighbouring States visited the Kanaka Durga Temple atop Indrakeeladri on Saturday after the nine-day festivity was concluded on Friday. More rush is expected on Sunday. A large number of Bhavanis who came on foot from far off places to the temple had a darshan of the presiding deity of the temple and relinquished the “Bhavani deeksha”. Krishna river ghats turned red as thousands of Bhavanis left their clothes after a shower and relinquishing the deeksha as part of the ritual. Due to the heavy rush of Bhavanis, all special queue lines, VIP visits were cancelled by Krishna Collector J. Nivas. Mr. Nivas inspected the arrangements at the temple on Saturday morning as asked officials not to allow any vehicles on the ghat road to the temple during the next two days. He asked the officials concerned to remove the clothes left on the Krishnaveni and Sitammavari Padalu ghats from time to time. On Friday, Teppotsavam, the celestial ride of Hamsa Vahanam carrying the presiding deities of the Sri Durga Malleswara Swamivarla Devastanam in the Krishna river marked the conclusion of the nine-day festivity. Hamsa Vahanam Thousands thronged the Krishna river ghats, Prakasam Barrage, Kanakadurga Flyover and other areas to witness the Hamsa Vahanam. Andhra Pradesh High Court judge U. Durga Prasad Rao, Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Endowments Principal Secretary G. Vani Mohan, mr. Nivas, Commissioner of Police B. Srinivasulu, MLA Malladi Vishnu, temple bboard chairman P. Sominaidu, Temple EO D. Bramaramba, Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha, Sub-Collector G.S.S. Praveen Chand and others took part in the Teppotsavam while chief priest D. Siva Prasad Sharma and others performed puja to the deities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-make-a-beeline-for-kanaka-durga-temple/article37034690.ece
17 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 recovery rate crosses 99%||The State reported seven more deaths due to COVID-19 and 332 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The cumulative tally and toll reached 20,60,040  and  14,302 respectively. The number of active cases came down to 6,193  as 585 patients have recovered in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stands at 20,39,545 and 99.01%. The recovery rate crossed 99% for the first time in the past seven months (213 days). The death rate remains at 0.69%. The daily positivity rate of the 29,243 samples tested was 1.14%, the lowest in the past six and a half months. The overall test positivity rate of the 2.89 crore samples tested remain at 7.11%. Kadapa and Krishna reported two deaths each in the past day while East Godavari, Guntur and Visakhapatnam reported one death each. Chittoor reported 55 more infections in the past day. It was followed by Kadapa (43), Guntur (42), West Godavari (36), Krishna (32), East Godavari (32), Visakhapatnam (28), Prakasam (25), Nellore (22), Anantapur (7), Srikakulam (4), Kurnool (3) and Vizianagaram (3). East Godavari has more than one-fifth of active cases (1,372) in the State, while all other districts have fewer than 1,000 cases. Over 85% of the cases are in six districts – East Godavari, Chittoor (996), Nellore (844), Prakasam (762), Krishna (749) and Guntur (645). Seven districts together have only 825 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-recovery-rate-crosses-99/article37034630.ece
17 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sacked 1,700 UHC employees: Veerraju||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Saturday alleged that the State government had sacked 1,700 employees of the Urban Health Centres (UHCs) that were set up under the National Health Mission (NHM), and issued a notification to fill these posts. Wondering if it should be construed as creating jobs as per the much-hyped job calendar, Mr. Veerraju expressed regret that the “strenuous efforts of these employees in containing the COVID-19 pandemic culminated in their job loss.” In a release, Mr. Veerraju said, while the Central government was giving funds to the UHCs through the NHM, the State went about removing the employees. “The NHM has been a major programme in improving the health standards since its inception in 2000,” he said, and alleged that it was being undermined by the State government, which removed the employees of 222 UHCs in contrast to the promise to increase their number in a phased manner. Meanwhile, during his visit to West Godavari district, Mr. Veerraju told the media that he would write a letter to the Central government on the alleged misuse of funds under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sacked-1700-uhc-employees-veerraju/article37034633.ece
17 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sudarshan Bharat Parikrama rally by NSG commandos reaches city||The “Sudarshan Bharat Parikrama” rally taken up by 47 National Security Guard (NSG) commandos to celebrate “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” to commemorate the 75th anniversary of India’s independence reached the city on Saturday. The rally of 15 Tata Dark Harrier sport utility vehicles (SUVs) is set to pass through18 prominent cities covering 7,500 km in less than a month and had arrived in the city from Visakhapatnam. Earlier, the rally passed through the cities of Delhi, Agra, Lucknow, Varanasi, Gaya, Jamshedpur, Kolkata, Bhubaneshwar and Behrampur. The rally left for Hyderabad later and will continue to make pitstops at TML dealerships on the way, according to a release. War memorials The rally was flagged off at the Red Fort in New Delhi it will further touch the cities of Ongole, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hubli, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Jaipur, celebrating the dedication and perseverance of the nation’s protectors. Visiting war memorials and monuments was one of the important aspects of the tour.  The rally was flagged off at the Red Fort in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sudarshan-bharat-parikrama-rally-by-nsg-commandos-reaches-city/article37034688.ece
17 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Society for research in medicine with AI formed||A team of researchers from the field of engineering and medicine came together and formed the Artificial Intelligence Medical and Engineering Researches Society (AIMERS). AIMERS president and cyber security expert D. Sai Satish, in a release, announced that the society comprising a group of enthusiastic researchers from engineering and medicine backdrop joined hands under the umbrella of AIMERS to improve healthcare using Artificial Intelligence (AI). He said the society would research biosciences using AI to help doctors find patterns and abnormalities in medical records. The members of the society include Saveetha Institute of Medical And Technical Sciences deemed to be University rector Dhanasekharan, Manohar and Sai of Varya Eye Hospital, Ravi Kiran from Pinnameneni Siddhartha Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Foundation, Suvarna Vani of V.R. Siddhartha Engineering College, KVN Sunitha, Subrahmanyam and Ramabai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/society-for-research-in-medicine-with-ai-formed/article37034124.ece
17 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC advocate felicitated||Acharya Nagarjuna University Law College alumni president N. Srinivasa Rao, government pleader P. Venkateswara Rao and others felicitated D. Khasim Saheb, who has been elected as the joint secretary of AP High Court Bar Association, at Guntur on Saturday, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-advocate-felicitated/article37034125.ece
17 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe into Rs. 14.6-crore bank fraud cases begins||The city police have taken up investigation into the cases of alleged siphoning of Rs. 14.6 crore from bank accounts of A.P. Cooperative Oilseeds Growers Federation Limited (APOILFED) and A.P. State Warehousing Corporation (APSWC). Following a complaint from the manager of APOILFED, Ch. Ramamurthy with Atkur police on October 14, an investigation was taken up, a press release said. In the complaint, it was alleged that fixed deposits worth Rs. 5 crore in a bank were siphoned off to other banks by forging the identities of APOILFED and its employees. Similarly, it was found that fixed deposits worth Rs. 9.6 crore of APSWC were allegedly diverted and misused. APSWC general manager Y. Pattabhi Ramaiah complained with the police on October 15 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-into-rs-146-crore-bank-fraud-cases-begins/article37034692.ece
17 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to visit Sachchidananda ashram tomorrow||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will visit the Marakata Rajarajeswari Devi temple of Sri Ganapati Sachchidananda Ashram in Patamata in the city on Monday. Krishna District Collector J. Nivas and other officials visited the temple of Saturday and inspected arrangements being made in view of the Chief Minister’s visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-visit-ganapati-sachchidananda-ashram-today/article37034123.ece
17 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials plan to crack down on ganja cultivation in Agency areas||The district administration is gearing up to tackle ganja smuggling in the Agency. The authorities are preparing an action plan to destroy ganja plantations in the Agency areas. The decision was taken in the recently held ganja crop destruction coordination meeting at the Collectorate a few days ago. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna told the officials that the State government is focussed on curbing ganja smuggling. He said that there was a need to stop growing ganja cultivation in the Agency and motivate farmers to take up alternative crops. He stressed on the need for Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Police, Forest Department, Revenue, Sachivalayam staff and Sarpanches to coordinate and work towards destroying ganja plantations. He instructed the enforcement agencies to take strict action against the accused involved in ganja smuggling. SEB DIG Rama Krishna said that wherever ganja is caught in the country, news reports say that the ganja is smuggled from Visakhapatnam Agency. He said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is very serious on the issue. Officials should identify the places where the ganja is being cultivated and the plantations should be destroyed immediately, he said. “Ganja plantations are estimated to be cultivated over a spread of 10,000 acres in the interior Agency areas. Between October and December, the crop is ready for harvest. Teams should prepare an action plan and conduct raids to destroy the plantations,” he said. Mr. Rama Krishna expressed concern that cases of smuggling of liquid ganja or hash oil are being reported from the Agency. Awareness camps should be increased by distributing pamphlets and making videos informing the consequences of being involved in ganja smuggling, he said. The DIG said that a special nodal officer should be appointed to take up these works and additional check-posts should be created to detect cases in the Agency. Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna, officials from the Forest, Revenue and other departments were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-plan-to-crack-down-on-ganja-cultivation-in-agency-areas/article37034696.ece
17 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman Maoist surrenders||A senior leader of the banned CPI (Maoist), Korra Kumari (26) alias Swetha, surrendered before Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao and CRPF Commandant Kavindra Kumar Chand here on Saturday. A native of Mettaguda village of G.K. Veedhi mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency, Swetha had joined the movement about 11 years ago. She had risen to the rank of area committee member (ACM). Swetha had earlier been inducted into the Galikonda dalam. She was later moved to the Peddabayalu Area Committee. With a reward of Rs. 4 lakh on her head, Swetha was allegedly involved in about 46 offences, which included six murders, and five exchanges of fire, including the ones at Teegalametta in June this year and Landulu in July last. She was also allegedly involved in two landmine blasts, three arsons and two kidnappings. At the time of her surrender, she was wielding a self loading rifle (SLR). She is also the niece of the dreaded Maoist leader, Gemmili Narayana Rao alias Jambri, who had been killed in an exchange of fire in 2017. Reasons Speaking to the media, Swetha cited ill-health, fear of being killed or arrested due to heightened combing activity by the security forces, and discord between the tribal and non-tribal Maoist leaders as the reasons for her surrender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-maoist-surrenders/article37034640.ece
17 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RK, the elusive top Maoist leader, dead||One of the senior most leaders in the Central Committee and the Polit Bureau of the banned CPI (Maoist), Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna alias RK, who had a reward of over Rs. 1 crore on his head, had died of kidney ailment on October 14 at a secret location in the Bastar region of Chhattisgarh. RK’s death is a big setback to the Maoist movement, especially in the Andhra Odisha Border (AOB) region, as he was the chief adviser of the Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC) that controls the movement in Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. RK had been one of the most elusive leaders, who escaped by the skin of his teeth at least on 20 occasions. “There were a number of times when we thought that we had him in our net only to realise that he had given us the slip once again,” said a senior police officer engaged in the anti-Maoist operations. RK had been caught in at least 20 exchanges of fire in the AOB region alone, but the closest miss was in the Ramaguda exchange of fire in October 2016. Though encircled by the Greyhounds, the elite anti-Naxal force, he had escaped despite being hit by a bullet in the leg. About 31 Maoists had been killed in the incident, including the secretary of the MKVB division, Bakuri Venkataramana alias Ganesh. RK’s 25-year-old son, Prudhvi alias Munna alias Sivaji, was also killed in the encounter. The last time he had escaped was on July 19, 2020, near Landulu of Pedabayalu mandal. A chronic diabetic, RK had moved to Chhattisgarh fearing his safety as the security forces started targeting the Maoists in their strongholds. RK was one of the few committed leaders from the first batch of recruits of Kondapalli Seetharamaiah, the founder of the People’s War Group (PWG). In 2004, the PWG and the MCCI had merged to form the CPI (Maoist). RK was a contemporary of the present and former general secretaries of the party Nambala Keshava Rao alias Basavraj and Muppala Lakshmana Rao alias Ganapathi. Peace talks He had joined the movement in 1978, and after serving in key positions in Guntur and South Telangana, he had moved to the AOB some time around 2004 after the peace talks with the Congress government failed. It was RK who had represented the Maoists in the talks. He had moved to the AOB region to give a fillip to the movement in the Agency area, which was started by Basavraj and Cherukuri Rajkumar alias Azad. RK had played a key role in constituting the committees such as Galikonda, Korukonda, Pedabayalu, MKVB and the AOBSZC. He was also the chief architect of the AOBSZC. He had inspired many to join the movement. “It is now up to Gajarla Ravi alias Uday, who is also a CC member, to take the movement forward,” said a surrendered Maoist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rk-the-elusive-top-maoist-leader-dead/article37034642.ece
17 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records one death, 120 new COVID cases in 72 hours||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 120 new COVID-19 infections in the last 72 hours (from October 13 to October 16), taking the cumulative tally to 1,57,771. In the last 24 hours, the district saw only 28 new infections, according to the officials. The toll also rose to 1,093 after one more person succumbed to the infection during the same time period. As many as 117 persons recovered from the virus in the last three days. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,55,832 and active cases stand at 846. Around 43.44 lakh people from the district have received at least one dose of vaccine till date, according to the statistics from the CoWIN portal on Saturday evening. Among them, about 28.50 lakh people have received the first dose, while 14.93 lakh people have received both the doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-one-death-120-new-covid-cases-in-72-hours/article37034698.ece
17 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre not allotting blocks to Coal India to privatise it: analyst||Members of the CPI(M) party organised a meeting on ‘Coal Shortage – Electricity Crisis,’ here on Saturday. Speaking at the meeting, political analyst K. Nageswara Rao alleged that the Centre was not allotting coal blocks to the Coal India, with the intention of privatising it. He said that scarcity of coal will further burden consumers as it would lead to an increase in power tariff. He alleged that the Centre had not also allotted captive mines to the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). He questioned why there is a shortage of coal when the country has the fourth largest coal reserves in the world. Former Energy Secretary E.A.S. Sarma said that lack of far-sightedness and planning by the Centre led to the coal shortage. He alleged that the private companies are not allotting electricity as per the agreement, but are selling the same to other States at a high price. He found fault with the State government for not imposing fines against such companies. CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Narsinga Rao alleged that the Centre is cheating the public by announcing that the coal shortage was due to low production because of the rainy season. The Centre is creating a coal shortage to benefit private companies, he alleged. Mr. Narsinga Rao said that once the coal reserves go into the hands of private people, power charges will see a steep increase. CPI(M) leaders B. Ganga Rao, K. Lokanadham and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-not-allotting-blocks-to-coal-india-to-privatise-it-analyst/article37034658.ece
17 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dead, eight injured in accident at Kasimkota||One passenger died and eight others were injured when an RTC bus reportedly rammed a tipper near Gobburu Junction on NH-16 under Kasimkota police station limits, in the Visakhapatnam district on Thursday. According to the police officials, the incident allegedly occurred when the RTC bus was heading to Visakhapatnam from Nidadavolu in West Godavari district. Nine passengers in the bus received severe injuries and were shifted to a hospital. Among them, A. Hanumanthu Rao (50) from Kovvuru in West Godavari district died while undergoing treatment at the hospital. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-dead-eight-injured-in-accident-at-kasimkota/article37034657.ece
17 October 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||National Postal Week ends||The week-long celebrations carried out by the Postal Department officials on the occasion of National Postal Week, concluded here on Saturday. As part of the week, Mails Day was observed here on Saturday. The Visakhapatnam Postal Region has taken up repainting of 774 letter boxes located in its eight divisions. On October 9, World post Day, all the post office buildings throughout Visakhapatnam Postal Region consisting of eight postal divisions in East Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts have been illuminated. On Banking Day (October 11), special drives were conducted throughout the region and secured 6,461 Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Accounts. On Postal Life Insurance Day (October 12), 152 melas were conducted in the region securing 399 new PLI proposals and new premium collection of Rs. 28.55 lakh. On the occasion of Philately Day” (October 13), the region released a special cover onfreedom fighter Sardar Gouthu Latchanna in Srikakulam district. On October 14, Business Development Day, special camps for aadhaar enrolments/updations have been conducted throughout the region, apart from regular aadhaar centres located in post offices and secured a total of 4,882 aadhaar updations and 5,099 transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/national-postal-week-ends/article37034701.ece
17 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tigress dies at Vizag zoo||A female tiger aged around 20 years died due to health issues at Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) here on Saturday. IGZP Curator Nandani Salaria, in a release on Saturday, announced that ‘Sita’, a Royal Bengal tigress, died in the early hours of Saturday, in its enclosure. Metastasis She said that the tigress died due to metastasis of the tumour and severe endocarditis due to senility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tigress-dies-at-vizag-zoo/article37034697.ece
17 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel plant stir: 25-hour hunger strike on Oct. 19||About 250 people would take part in a 25-hour-long hunger strike on October 19, as part of the protest against privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). October 19 marks the 250th day of the protests against the move to privatise the VSP by the Union government, said members of the Visakhapatnam Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee, in a release here on Saturday. They said that protests are being staged from February 12. The hunger strike is to send a strong message to the Centre, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-plant-stir-25-hour-hunger-strike-on-oct-19/article37034699.ece
17 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foundation stone laid for convention centre||Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy along with Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao laid the foundation stone for the construction works of a convention centre at Cheemalapalli area in Ward no. 95 under Pendurthi Assembly constituency on Thursday. He said that about 50% of the project cost will be borne from his Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme(MPLADS) funds. The centre will come up in a stretch of two acres. Only 25% of the two acres will be used for construction, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foundation-stone-laid-for-convention-centre/article37034700.ece
17 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Abdul Kalam Prerana Sthal inaugurated at NSTL||As part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, and on the occasion of the 90th birth anniversary of former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam,‘Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Prerana Sthal’ was inaugurated at the Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL), the premier naval research laboratory of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), in Visakhapatnam on Friday. Outstanding Scientists P.V.S. Ganesh Kumar, B.V.S.S. Krishna Kumar, A. Srinivas Kumarand others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/abdul-kalam-prerana-sthal-inaugurated-at-nstl/article37034702.ece
17 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP spreading lies: Minister||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu has slammed the TDP leaders for resorting to false propaganda on the use of funds. “Welfare schemes have not been stopped even during the COVID-19 pandemic. The government has extended a helping hand to the poor to overcome the crisis,” Mr. Kannabau had told the media here on Thursday. It was the TDP government that had left a pile of debts and ruined the State’s finances, he alleged. Referring to the power crisis, the Minister said the TDP had no moral right to speak on it. “The entire country is facing power shortage due to the coal crisis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-spreading-lies-minister/article37034638.ece
17 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kabaddi tourney to be held in floodlight||Vizianagaram District Kabaddi Association president Eswar Kaushik on Saturday said that a competition would be organised on Sunday night in flood lights on the sidelines of the Sri Pydimamba festival. He said that as many as 20 teams would participate in the competition to be organised in the Rajiv stadium. Association district secretary Kalla Suribabu and organising secretary Pativada Srinivasa Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kabaddi-tourney-to-be-held-in-floodlight/article37034655.ece
17 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor shops and bars to remain closed on Oct. 18, 19||All liquor shops and bars in Vizianagaram will remain closed on October 18 and 19 in view of the Sri Pyditalli Ammavari Tholellu and Sirimanotsavam. District Collector A. Surya Kumari has asked the Prohibition and Excise Department officials to ensure complete closure of liquor shops and bars under the jurisdiction of Vizinagaram Municipal Corporation. She asked the officials them to take stern action against the violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-shops-and-bars-to-remain-closed-on-oct-18-19/article37034656.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bidding adieu||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bidding-adieu/article37034652.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Endurance test||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/endurance-test/article37034704.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||The river turns red||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-river-turns-red/article37034694.ece
17 October 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Rain lashes coal belt||Light to moderate rains lashed the coal belt region and several other parts of the district during the past 24 hours. The sudden spell of rain on Friday night partially affected coal production and overburden removal work in the Opencast Projects in Yellandu and other parts of the coal belt region on Saturday, sources said. The water level in the Kinnerasani dam in Palvancha mandal reached almost its brim following significant inflows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rain-lashes-coal-belt/article37034666.ece
17 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Students of Sri Chaitanya, Narayana ace JEE (Advanced)||The results of JEE (Advanced) are out and it’s time for coaching centres to celebrate their students’ achievements. Students of Sri Chaitanya Institutions have proved their mettle yet again bagging top ranks in all India open category — Mridul Agarwal (first), Chaitanya Aggarwal (8th), M. Hrushikesh Reddy (10th) and S. Divakar Sai (11th). In the open category, its students also grabbed 26 ranks in top 100 ranks and 124 ranks in below 1,000 ranks, according to a statement issued by the academic director, Sushma. In all categories, she said students bagged nine out of the top 10 ranks, 93 in top 100 ranks and 436 in below 1,000 ranks. Online, offline learning “JEE (Advanced) 2021 results are a testimony to invaluable add-ons to online and offline learning, extraordinary programmes, micro-schedules, internal exams, ranking system, and hardworking faculty,” said Ms Sushma. Founder-chairman of Sri Chaitanya B.S. Rao extended his appreciation to students, teachers and parents on this extraordinary feat. Meanwhile, Narayana Group is also basking in the glory of its students’ performance in the crucial entrance test. Its students bagged 30% of the all-India ranks taking the first, fourth and fifth ranks in the top 10 and also the top position in south India among girls, said managing director P. Sindhura Narayana. Santhosh Reddy has emerged state topper securing all India fourth rank and bagged the first rank in the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) category. He hails from Pochampally. Palle Bhavana secured first rank in girls’ category in south India. In the open category, 24 Narayana students figure in the top 100 ranks. In all categories, 13 Narayana students are in top 10 and 74 are in top 100. All-India topper Mridul Agarwal was an online training course student. Santosh Reddy and Sai Lokesh Reddy, who bagged the fourth and fifth positions, respectively, were classroom students, Narayana group said. Key factors P. Sharani Narayana of Narayana said the good results were possible due to the changed academic curriculum and examination pattern designed by the group to prepare students for online exam. Exclusive focus on error analysis, special sub-topic and topic-wise online mock test helped them excel, according to Puneet Kothapa, executive director of Narayana Group.  Our students bagged 30% of the all-India ranks taking the first, fourth and fifth ranks in the top 10 and also the top position in south India among girls P. Sindhura Narayana, Managing director, Narayana Group||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/students-of-sri-chaitanya-and-narayana-ace-jee-advanced/article37034433.ece
17 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bathukamma festivities bloom on college campus||Students from different States dressed in resplendent attires celebrated Bathukamma, the floral festival of Telangana, at the Regency College of Hotel Management. The atmosphere was lively as the students from across the country picked up the nuances of creating Bathukamma, considered a symbol of the beauty and eternal glory of Goddess Gauri, and played around them, singing Bathukamma songs, so unique to Telangana culture. “The festival is celebrated to make students aware of the authenticity of culture, tradition and food,” said P. Ramesh Kumar Reddy, principal of the college. Since flowers, colours and celebration are an integral part of this festival, the girl students also wore the traditional ‘Langa Oni’ and adorned themselves with gold jewellery. A special sweet dish called maleeda made of jaggery was prepared for this festival and distributed among the students. The guests who witnessed the event appreciated the students and the faculty members for encouraging togetherness, passion of creativity, team building spirit, learning and honing hospitality awareness through the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bathukamma-festivities-bloom-on-college-campus/article37034428.ece
17 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stage set for first Sunday Funday at Charminar today||Hours to go for the ‘Sunday Funday’ event in the Charminar precinct, there is a tizzy of activity amid heavy rain. A dog-catching squad of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation swings into action, catching two strays hiding near the Traffic Police Station. Another set of workers uses cutting tools to bring down a CCTV camera pole with a tangled set of cables. But the word on the street is that of confusion. “I think they will divert the traffic from Medina Junction. Nobody spoke with us. We are getting information from other shopkeepers,” says a restaurant owner about Sunday’s event. But closer to the city’s iconic monument, hawkers and kiosk owners have been told to shut shop by 4 p.m. “It won’t affect our business as it is likely to be a once-a-month event,” said Afzal, who sells artificial jewellery in the area. Though Charminar has been a pedestrian zone for the past two years, it has been overrun by hawkers and hustlers who number hundreds in the 800-metre radius of the monument and sell everything from surgical masks to pani-puri  to sunglasses. The event at Charminar will replicate the successful pedestrian-only zone for five hours on Sunday evening at the Tank Bund promenade. Among the events listed by Municipal Administration Special Chief Secretary Arvind Kumar are Deccani Mazahiya Mushaira, police band until midnight and food stalls, distribution of free saplings and child-friendly activities. Gentrification concern While Tank Bund is one of the arterial roads for Hyderabad, the Charminar area is one of the most densely populated areas with thousands of families residing in the area. It is also one of the busiest business areas with the stretch from Medina to Pathergatti being popular for wedding shopping among other things. This has led to misgivings among the business owners about gentrification of the area. “The people who will come on vehicles will not be interested in shopping here. They will come to have fun. We will have to say goodbye to business for the day,” said Shaik Rasool, who has been hawking clothes in the area for the past 30 years. “We don’t have a union. The number of hawkers has increased after buses stopping plying on the road,” says Mr. Rasool who remembers giving 25 paise for the union then led by Nayani Narasimha Reddy. ‘Adequate parking’ “We have created adequate parking at 11 spots to ensure the event passes off smoothly,” informed Srinivasa Rao of Hyderabad Traffic Police at Charminar.  The people who will come on vehicles will not be interested in shopping here. They will come to have fun. We will have to say goodbye to business for the day. Shaik Rasool, A hawker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stage-set-for-first-sunday-funday-at-charminar-today/article37034436.ece
17 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Homage paid to martyrs on 79th EME Corps Day||Commandant of Military College of EME and Colonel Commandant Corps of EME Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan conducted a Special Sainik Sammelan addressing all ranks including defence civilian employees of MCEME on the occasion of the 79th EME Corps Day on Friday. The General Officer highlighted the glorious history of the Corps and its evolution into a force that has provided a cutting edge to the army through dedicated and intimate engineering support in every operation since independence. Lt Gen Narayanan paid homage to the brave soldiers of the Corps of EME who had made the supreme sacrifice, by laying a wreath at a solemn ceremony at the EME War Memorial, Secunderabad, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homage-paid-to-martyrs-on-79th-eme-corps-day/article37034424.ece
17 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Metro Rail comes out with another edition of festive offers||The L&T Metro Rail-Hyderabad Limited (LTMRHL) has come out with another edition of festive offers by rolling out the 'Metro Suvarna Offer 2021', effective from October 18 onwards till January 15 including a trip pass, special fare on 'Green Line' and monthly lucky draw for metro travellers. Under the ‘Trip Pass’ offer, a metro passenger can purchase 30 trips of any fare zone by paying only for 20 trips, which have to be utilized within 45 days. This offer is applicable only on Metro Smart Card (old and new). Special fare on ‘Green Line’ offer is where one can travel between MGBS and JBS Parade ground metro stations by paying a maximum fare of only Rs. 15 for each trip. There is a monthly lucky draw with attractive prizes to be won from October 2021 to April 2022.  Five winners per month Every month five winners will be decided by random lucky draw from among CSC (Contactless Smart Card) card users who have travelled at least 20 times in the relevant calendar month. Users need to register their CSC on TSavaari or at metro stations to be eligible for this scheme, according to metro rail CEO and managing director K.V.B. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/metro-rail-comes-out-with-another-edition-of-festive-offers/article37034446.ece
17 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Admission to TRS Plenary by invitation||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) working president K.T. Rama Rao has said that about 14,000 delegates to be invited for the party plenary on October 25 at HICC will be given identity cards and only the invitees will be allowed entry. The Minister, who reviewed the arrangements at the venue including the entry of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, said the invitees would get messages and letters from the party office. He asked the Ministers and MLAs to ensure that only invitees from their constituencies attended the meeting. The Minister said the plenary will review the development activities and the party’s role in propagating the government’s achievements. He said Telangana had emerged ideal state in the country with its innovative development model. Earlier, the country used to adopt policies of West Bengal but now the entire country was looking at Telangana. Several committees have been formed to ensure smooth conduct of the meetings and coordinate in proper arrangements for the invitees. Former Minister and senior politician, Motkupalli Narsimhulu will join the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) on Monday in the presence of the Chief Minister at Telangana Bhavan. Mr. Narasimhulu who worked in Congress and Telugu Deshm Party (TDP) in the combined Andhra Pradesh joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) last year. However, he quit the party recently claiming that his political experience was being wasted in the Bharatiya Janata Paty. It was expected that he would join the TRS after he attended the meeting called by the Chief Minister to discuss Dalita Bandhu though the BJP officially stayed away. He has been recently praising Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao for launching the Dalita Bandhu scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/admission-to-trs-plenary-by-invitation/article37034456.ece
17 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lorry owner grilled||The three-member commission constituted by the Supreme Court to inquire into the Cyberabad police alleged encounter killings of the four accused in the rape and murder of Disha, a 27-year-old veterinarian, in December 2019, has found inconsistencies in the statements of Srinivas Reddy, the owner of the lorry used by the accused persons, given to the NHRC, recorded after the incident. Mr. Reddy was questioned at length by former judge Justice V. S. Sirpurkar, former Bombay High Court judge Rekha Sondur Baldota and former director of the CBI D. R. Karthikeyan, and the commission’s advocate Parameshwar. Mr. Reddy told the commission that his driver and accused Mohammed Arif’s phone was seized by the officials of Road Transport Authority, but it was not mentioned in his statement to the NHRC. “When you know that Arif’s phone was seized by the RTO, why did you say that it was switched-off?” the commission questioned, for which Mr. Reddy replied: The occasion to say that Arif’s phone was seized by the RTO at Mahabubnagar did not arise during my examination. Mr. Reddy had described one of the rape and murder accused, Ch. Chennakesavulu, as having long curly hair which looked like the hair of Sathya Sai Baba. “When police showed me the video footage of surveillance cameras in which the accused persons movements were captured, I could not identify all of them as the faces were not clear, and sent the same to another driver Jaffar, who identified and told me that it was Chennakesavulu,” he said. On November 28, 2019, Mr. Reddy took the police to the residence of lorry driver Arif at Jaklair in Narayanpet district, which led to the arrest of the latter and three others — Chennakesavulu, Jollu Shiva and Jollu Naveen. He said that on the night of November 26, 2019, lorry driver Arif called him from Chennakesavulu’s phone to inform him that they reached Tondupally toll plaza. “When I asked why Chennakesavulu and Naveen were with him, as the vehicle cleaner was Shiva, Arif told me that they had a party and therefore he brought them,” Mr. Reddy said. Later, the panel grilled the transporter for not paying the Income Tax and not maintaining accounts for his business. They posed 120 questions to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lorry-owner-grilled/article37034455.ece
17 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three-day course on AI||NALSAR University of Law, Center for Human Security Studies will be organising a three-day executive certificate Artificial Intelligence (AI ) for Smart Policing at the Dr. MCR HRD Institute, Road No.25, Jubilee Hills, from November 18 to 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-day-course-on-ai/article37034425.ece
17 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New judges sworn in||Seven new judges, who were appointed for Telangana High Court recently, were sworn in. Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma had administered the oath of office for them at First Court hall of the HC on Friday. Judges Perugu Sree Sudha, Dr. Chillakur Sumalatha, Dr. Gurijala Radha Rani, Munnuri Laxman, Noonsavath Tukaramji, Addula Venkateshwar Reddy and Patolla Madhavi Devi were sworn in. They would hear cases from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-judges-sworn-in/article37034453.ece
17 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||111 new COVID cases detected as testing dips||The daily COVID-19 caseload in Telangana dropped drastically on Saturday as fewer samples were tested. The tests per day gradually dropped to around 45,000-50,000 by end of September. And on Saturday (October 16), the day after Dusshera, only 30,050 samples were examined and 111 people were found to have coronavirus. People are on a long weekend starting from Thursday, hence very few of them have been getting tested. The new 111 infections included 29 from Greater Hyderabad region and 11 from Khammam. No infection was detected in 11 districts. The death toll stands at 3937. Of the total cases, 3,979 were active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/111-new-covid-cases-detected-as-testing-dips/article37034421.ece
17 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||House burgled||Burglars broke into a locked house and decamped with cash and gold and silver ornaments worth several lakhs of rupees at Kurnavalli village in Thallada mandal on Friday night. The burglary took place when the inmates of the house had gone out to attend Dasara celebrations in the village, sources said. They lodged a complaint with the local police. Police estimate the value of the booty at Rs. 10 lakh. The Thallada police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/house-burgled/article37034667.ece
17 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||PD Act if pharmacists sell medicines without prescription, says SP||District Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath on Wednesday cautioned medical storekeepers, representatives of chemists and druggists associations and other agents, that the Preventive Detention Act would be invoked against them if they sell intoxicating medicine without appropriate prescription. Addressing members from the group, he said the district police is acting tough on drug peddling and distribution of psychotropic and contraband substances such as ganja in the district for over two months. As a result, several channels have been identified and closed. However, he said, youths who are used to the intoxicating drugs, are turning to synthetic drugs such as those available at medical stores. Mr. Ranganath observed that several of the drugs, which cause an intoxicating effect on the consumer, were available over the counter and without any prescription. He cautioned that such medical stores, if identified, would be seized as per law and its personnel too would be invoked under PD Act. The district police chief, however, requested the chemists and druggists to keep a tab on regular buyers of such medicine and to inform the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pd-act-if-pharmacists-sell-medicines-without-prescription-says-sp/article37034662.ece
17 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Sagar, Musi projects brimming||With flood being received, in the wake of sudden downpour in the upstream regions, officials opened crest gates of the already brimming Nagarjunasagar and Musi projects in Nalgonda on Saturday. While water level at Nagarjunasagar was at almost at its 590 feet full reservoir level, the Musi project was just a foot short of the 645 feet FRL. According to official estimates, NSP was receiving about 1.30 lakh cusecs from the upstream Srisailam Project and outflows to downstream projects was also being maintained around the same mark. Ten crest gates were being operated. Musi Project officials, according to figures available at 3 p.m., were operating three crest gates to balance the outflow with corresponding 2800 cusecs inflows. It was being estimated that heavy rains in Hyderabad and the project's ayacut in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri and Suryapet would cause flood accumulation at Musi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sagar-musi-projects-brimming/article37034452.ece
17 October 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Will not criticise KCR: Jagga Reddy||Even while the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC), led by its president A. Revanth Reddy, has been making all efforts to take the fight against Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to his doorstep by holding a protest meeting at Gajwel recently, there appear to be differences within the Congress with some senior leaders taking a variant stand. Exemplifying the differences within the party were the comments made by TPCC working president and Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy on Friday night at a public gathering in the district headquarters town. The senior Congress leader has been regularly organising annual Dasara celebrations at the Stadium grounds, the celebrations were cancelled last year due to the pandemic. “I will not criticise Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for the next two years, though we have fought in the past. If we wish to have development in the constituency we have to make requests and get the things done. See how we got the medical college. We can get other development works in the constituency, in a similar way. I am also working on house sites for the poor. Be patient, we will get all development works completed,” said Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy while addressing a huge gathering at the stadium grounds. He has also referred to establishment of IITH and agriculture engineering college in the district. Significantly, Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy has always been highly critical of Minister of Finance T. Harish Rao while sparing TRS working president and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao. The recent comments by Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy have not come as a surprise to many as he was openly critical about the appointment of Mr. Revanth Reddy to the post of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president, which he had aspired for.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-not-criticise-kcr-jagga-reddy/article37034457.ece
17 October 2021||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||IRS officials visit KJS India||The 74th batch of IRS officers visited KJS India Private Limited, located at Pashamylaram, as part of industrial visit. The officials were accompanied by Gayatri, Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax. The event commenced with the flag hoisting headed by Ms. Gayathri, following which all the Directors of KJS India Pvt Ltd. - Girish Jain (director and promoter), Mr. C P Ranka (director and promoter), M Sarveswara Rao (director operations), G Narendra Reddy (director business development) assembled to address the gathering. Mr. Girish Jain said that he is proud to be part of young team (employees) who have great desire to grow individually and take the organization to the greater heights in the coming future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/irs-officials-visit-kjs-india/article37034447.ece
17 October 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Aqua screen floating musical fountain inaugurated||It’s colourful evening for residents of the district headquarters town. Those who came to Komaticheruvu to spend the festival, had a surprise in store on Thursday evening. Fountains spreading water through nozzles added with colourful lighting and music became the centre of attraction and all those present, enjoyed the visual feast. Local MLA and Finance Minister T. Harish Rao inaugurated the entertainment facility. With this facility, one more attraction was added to the district headquarters town. On the occasion of Dasara, aqua screen floating musical fountain was established at Komaticheruvu, which already has several activities running. The Government of Telangana sanctioned Rs. 4.20 crore during the year 2021-22 for the establishment of musical fountain, including four years operation & maintenance. The size of fountain is 46x30 metres. Components of the Project include 2D nozzles - 8, 3D nozzles -8, arching jets -2, inward/outward crown nozzles - 180, chasing jets - 108, sunburst jet nozzles - 7, centre jet nozzles - 3, flame jets - 4, video projection on water screen - 2, and 5W RGB laser - 2. “The aqua screen floating musical fountain is an added attraction to Komaticheruvu. Nowhere in Telangana such entertainment facility was created with such cost,” said an official on condition of anonymity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aqua-screen-floating-musical-fountain-inaugurated/article37034664.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Maha Samudram’ movie review: Director Ajay Bhupathi’s ode to Visakhapatnam and the sea needed a sharper script||Maha Samudram is director Ajay Bhupathi’s ode to the port city of Visakhapatnam; it is also his hat tip to mainstream cinema. His second outing, after RX-100 , has the grand sweep and a few edgy characters that wear their shades of grey with elan. It is a story of romance, friendship, betrayal and redemption, led by talented actors such as Sharwanand, Siddharth, Aditi Rao Hydari, Jagapati Babu and Rao Ramesh. But ultimately, what was intended to be a soaring saga falls short. In the 1970s, Arjun (Sharwanand) and Vijay (Siddharth) could have been the quintessential Jai and Veeru of Sholay — thick as thieves and taking on the big, bad Gabbar. In the mushy 1990s, they could have been Vineet and Abbas of Prema Desam pining for the same woman. In 2021, the friends needed to be more multi-dimensional and Ajay has attempted that by showing us the possible areas of friction early on. As the camaraderie between Arjun and Vijay plays out against the sun-kissed landscape to Chaitan Bharadwaj’s peppy friendship song, Ajay tempers it with the presence of Chunchu uncle (Jagapati Babu). Chunchu hints at a sore past that daunts Vijay and perhaps shapes him the way he is. We will never know, because this angle is under-explored, save for an exchange of dialogues in the pre-climax portions. What we get is a self-centred Vijay whose intention to become a police officer doesn’t stem from idealistic notions. He deceptively appears to be the calmer one among the two friends, showing his true self only to Maha (Aditi Rao Hydari), who is blinded by love. In this predictable tale, we can guess the beats of the relationship and know who will step up to restore some semblance of sanity. Parallel to the bromance and the romance, Ajay Bhupathi shows another facet of the port city, which eventually takes centre stage, as do Chunchu uncle and Babji (Rao Ramesh). These talented actors make their parts appear a lot more interesting than the way they have been written. The biggest issue with Maha Samudram is that despite its grand intent, it never feels enough. The whistle-worthy masala moments are few and far between and the story doesn’t suck us into the whirlwind of proceedings completely.   (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maha-samudram-movie-review-director-ajay-bhupathis-ode-to-visakhapatnam-and-the-sea-needed-a-sharper-script/article37034440.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Most Eligible Bachelor’ movie review: Pooja Hegde and Akhil Akkineni prop up a part-fun, part-preachy romantic comedy||The film’s title is less of a statement and more of a question, and thereby hangs a tale. In conventional societal norms, Harsha (Akhil Akkineni) would tick all the boxes to qualify as the most eligible bachelor. He has a well-paying job in the US, invests in a new house and sets up everything to move in with his soulmate. But does Harsha really know what he wants from marriage? The story throws this question at Harsha by pitting him against a more worldly wise woman, Vibha (Pooja Hegde). The shallowness in the approach of Harsha’s large, doting family is evident in the way they make arrangements for his wedding, despite the fact that he is yet to choose his bride. Many women who have gone through the rigours of matchmaking might have come across NRI grooms visiting India barely for a few days and wanting to find a life partner in that period. That sort of entitlement from a groom’s family might be accepted by some, but there will be women like Vibha who will question it. It’s a relevant and interesting premise for a rom-com. Harsha’s meetings with prospective brides, interspersed with the comedy of errors when he runs into Vibha’s father (Murali Sharma) are fun to watch. What happens when Harsha, who does not know the world outside his cocoon, is smitten by Vibha and begins absorbing every line she says, is narrated hilariously. To give Vibha’s character an extra edge, she is portrayed as a stand-up comic. Her jokes are almost always on marriages and relationships but the lines are rather bland. As the story progresses, we understand what gnaws at her and how she turns her agony into jokes. So far so good. But after posing the question of what Harsha wants from marriage, the story falters. In real life, had Harsha returned from the US the second time, driven by the eagerness to meet Vibha and mend things after a spat, he might have gone and had a chat with her. But this is a rom-com without much imagination. In the garb of adding humour and drama, the narrative shows Harsha shadowing Vibha. He isn’t a creepy stalker but it still doesn’t feel like the right way to do it. In the process of Harsha and Vibha finding their soulmates in each other, the story ends up painting all the other couples around them as people stuck in unhappy marriages. A major portion of the story is narrated in the presence of real-life couple Rahul Ravindran and Chinmayi Sripada who are adored for standing by each other in times of turmoil. This story ends up painting even their characters as people who go through their marriage with compromises and adjustments.  Most Eligible Bachelor has technical finesse, a pleasing lead pair, offers a few laughs and hummable songs, but doesn’t sweep you off your feet. Pooja Hegde is lovely as Vibha and shows that she has more acting potential waiting to be tapped. Akhil Akkineni shows a lot of improvement as an actor and is good as Harsha. In the film, Harsha tells another character that she has seen the length and breadth of an issue but not its depth. And the same goes for this film. Its understanding of what makes relationships click remains at a surface level.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/most-eligible-bachelor-movie-review-pooja-hegde-and-akhil-akkineni-prop-up-a-part-fun-part-preachy-romantic-comedy/article37034443.ece
17 October 2021||Bhopal,||Mob forces girl to take off burkha, shoots video||A girl was forced to remove her burkha and face covering by a group of people in Bhopal on Saturday afternoon after suspecting that the man on whose scooter she was riding pillion was a Hindu, the police said. No case has been registered in this connection with the incident that took place in Islam Nagar. A video of the incident went viral soon after, but preventive action had been taken under Section 151 of Indian Penal Code against two people, Intkhedi police station in charge R.S. Verma said. In the video, a man from the group, who is apparently shooting the video, is heard telling the girl her act was disgracing “our” community, while some women can be seen trying to force her to show her face. “Two men seen in the video were let off with a warning to not repeat such an act,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mob-forces-girl-to-take-off-burkha-shoots-video/article37034331.ece
17 October 2021||Bhopal,||Yellow alert for thunderstorms issued in M.P.||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday issued a yellow alert for thunderstorms accompanied by lightning in four divisions and as many districts of Madhya Pradesh. The alert, which is valid till Sunday morning, has come at a time when the mercury has dipped below 20 degrees Celsius, marking the onset of winter in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/yellow-alert-for-thunderstorms-issued-in-mp/article37034290.ece
17 October 2021||Firozabad /Budaun,||6 feared drowned during idol immersion in U.P.||Six people, including two children, are feared to have drowned in rivers during idol immersion in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad and Badaun districts, while the body of a 12-year-old boy has been fished out from the Yamuna, officials said on Saturday. The incidents took place of Friday on the occasion of Dusshera, they said. In Budaun, four people are feared to have drowned, the officials said. There were six people and two were saved, they said. In Firozabad, three people went missing during idol immersion in the Yamuna, Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sadar, Rajesh Kumar Verma, said on Saturday. The body of Gopal Rathor (12) was fished out on Saturday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/six-feared-drowned-during-idol-immersion/article37034533.ece
17 October 2021||Gumla,||3 dead, 9 hurt after coming in contact with live wire||Three labourers, including two women, were killed and nine others injured after they came in contact with a high-tension electricity wire in Jharkhand’s Gumla district, the police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday in Dumartoli Mohalla when the labourers, carrying a concrete mixture machine, touched the live wire, they said. Two of them died on the spot while another succumbed to injuries at RIMS, Ranchi, on Saturday, an officer said. The injured are undergoing treatment. Deputy Commissioner of Gumla Shishir Kumar Sinha announced ex-gratia for the next of kin of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-dead-9-hurt-after-coming-in-contact-with-live-wire/article37034288.ece
17 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Small growers edging out big players, says tea association||Small tea growers are threatening to push estates in the organised sector out of the competition because they are not burdened with welfare responsibilities, the Tea Association of India (TAI) has said. In its paper “Sustainability of tea industry in India”, the TAI said the small tea growers or STGs are no longer small or a minority as they produce more than 50% of India’s green leaf output. An STG is a person who cultivates tea in an area up to 25 acres. There are more than 2 lakh STGs in Assam and West Bengal. Dichotomy in industry The STGs are not burdened by the welfare activities that organised estates provide to their labour force, the TAI paper said. “This creates a dichotomy in the industry, with the estates and the small growers having significantly different costs of production, with different welfare responsibilities, yet they compete with each other,” it pointed out. “The low-cost tea available from small growers undercuts the teas from the organised estates that have a much higher cost of production and a more stringent requirement of regulations to follow. The organised sector cannot remain sustainable in such a scenario. This will lead to continued hardship for workers, and closure of estates in the organised sector, causing wide-scale strife and unemployment. “The emergence of the STGs as a major player has affected the tea economy too.” The paper said production has increased from 945 million kg in 2005 to 1,255 million kg in 2020, a 33% rise in 15 years. In-kind benefits The organised estates, apart from cash wages, provide many in-kind benefits to their workers: free housing, subsidised food, free medical facilities, primary education for children of the workers, and retirement fundsthe TAI said. “These were regulated under various laws including the Plantation Labour Act, 1951. While this Act is being replaced by the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020, the same responsibilities will remain with the management of tea estates,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/small-growers-edging-out-big-players-says-tea-association/article37034297.ece
17 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan plans IT use for social security schemes||Plans are afoot to use information technology in a big way to extend the benefits of social security schemes to the people in Rajasthan. An IT action plan has been formulated for “proactive identification” of beneficiaries under multiple schemes, which will also streamline the delivery of public services, official said. The action plan comprised the software applications which would ensure that if a scheme’s beneficiary was eligible for the benefits of another scheme as well, he or she would automatically get the information about it, Social Justice and Empowerment Secretary Samit Sharma said here on Friday. IT would be used as a powerful medium to assist in the implementation of schemes, he said. Dr. Sharma said the IT applications would cover all aspects, including access, application, approval and disbursement, for the schemes such as social security pensions, post-matric scholarship, Chief Minister’s Kanyadan Yojana, Palanhar Yojana for orphans, silicosis grant and residential school and hostel scheme. Online mode The Social Justice and Empowerment Department is also preparing web portals and software applications for bringing all other welfare schemes from the offline to online mode. Besides, e-profiles of hostels, residential schools, old age home, children’s homes and women’s shelters will be prepared to make their complete details and photographs available online. Dr. Sharma said the concept of e-governance would be promoted through WhatsApp chatbot, mobile phone-based application process and transparency in financial management for a better communication between the service providers and beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rajasthan-plans-it-use-for-social-security-schemes/article37034294.ece
17 October 2021||Mumbai,||‘MVA govt. most corrupt in Maharashtra’s history’||A day after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at Shiv Sena’s annual Dussehra rally over the use of investigation agencies for political gains against the Opposition, BJP leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the present tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is the most corrupt in the history of the State. Countering Mr. Thackeray’s claim that the Centre was encroaching on the States’ rights by violating the principle of federalism, the BJP leader claimed that the Shiv Sena president was taking along individuals of Left and communist ideology to change the constitution prepared by Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar. ‘No misuse of agencies’ “Had the ED, CBI and other agencies been misused, half of the State Cabinet would be in jail. But we believe in democracy and will not misuse these agencies,” Mr. Fadnavis told reporters in Nagpur. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would never let agencies be misused. The Leader of the Opposition in Assembly went on to say that the present State government would be recorded in the history as the most corrupt. “There is only one agenda of this government and that is extortion,” he claimed. “ Dalali in this government has reached such levels that some Ministers have even got extortion software created to know how much money has been extorted. Why blame the ED and the CBI if such things are happening?” he asked, adding that the Central probe agencies were acting on the directions of the court and had no political motive. Commenting on Mr. Thackeray’s statement about the BJP not fulfilling the promise of making a Sena worker Chief Minister, Mr. Fadnavis countered saying the MVA government is formed through dishonesty. ‘Ambitious Uddhavji’ “Respected Uddhavji should accept that he had ambitions of becoming a Chief Minister. In politics, having ambitions is not wrong. But if you wanted a Sena worker at the helm, then why didn’t you choose senior Sena leaders like Divakar Raote, Subhash Desai or Eknath Shinde?” he asked. Mr. Thackeray had on Friday appealed to the Sena workers to fight against the BJP the way Mamata Banerjee did in West Bengal. Mr. Fadnavis said the CM wants to turn Maharashtra into West Bengal where no industry could flourish due to union activities and extortion. “People are beaten up there for speaking against the government. The BJP will never let Maharashtra turn into West Bengal,” he said. Asked about Mr. Thackeray’s challenge to the BJP to dare and topple his government, Mr. Fadnavis said the BJP was not interested in it. “We are interested in issues concerning the people. If the government has to fall, he would not even know,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mva-govt-is-the-most-corrupt-in-maharashtras-history-fadnavis/article37034334.ece
17 October 2021||New Delhi,||Marginal dip in DU 3rd cut-off list||Delhi University released the third cut-off on Saturday with the required marks for admission to courses seeing a decline of 0.25% to 1.5%. Even though the cut-offs continue to remain on the higher side, there is a glimmer of hope for students as seats in popular courses are still available. Over 51,000 students have secured admissions to various colleges under the first two cut-offs. The admission process under the third cut-off will start on October 18. BA (Honours) economics is open at Hansraj College, Lady Shri Ram College and Hindu College at a cut-off of 99%, while the course has been closed in Janki Devi Memorial College, Kalindi College, Kamala Nehru College, Kirori Mal College and Miranda House. The Indraprastha College for Women has pegged the cut-off for BA (Honours) economics at 98%, while at Ramjas College, the cut-off is pegged at 98.75%. Shri Ram College of Commerce has kept the highest cut-off for the course at 99.5%. Sri Venkateswara College is seeking 98.5% for admission to the same course. BA (Honours) English is available at Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College, Aryabhatta College, College of Vocational Studies, Daulat Ram College, Delhi College of Arts and Commerce, Gargi College and Hansraj College. It is, however, closed at Hindu College and Bharati College. The LSR has pegged the cut-offs for BA (Honours) English at 98.5%, down from 98.75%, while Hansraj and Kirori Mal College have pegged the cut-off at 98%. Political Science (Honours), which is one of the most sought-after courses, is closed at Aryabhatta College, Miranda House and Hindu College. Lady Shri Ram College has pegged the highest cut-off for the course among all colleges at 99%, down from 99.5% in the second list. Seats for the course are also available at ARSD (98%), Daulat Ram College (98.5%), DCAC (98%), Dyal Singh College (97.5%), Indraprastha College For Women (97%) and Kirori Mal College (98.75%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/marginal-dip-in-du-3rd-cut-off-list/article37034314.ece
17 October 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality falls to ‘poor’ level in Delhi||The air quality of the city deteriorated to “poor” level on Saturday and is expected to remain the same on Sunday, according to authorities. In many parts of Delhi such as Anand Vihar, Bawana and Punjabi Bagh, the air quality dropped further to “very poor” category. Rise in stubble burning The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to the rising PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi increased to 14% on Saturday, according to government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). Also, the number of fire counts in the region jumped to 1,572 on Saturday from close to 500 on Friday, said SAFAR. This is more than the fire counts recorded in this period last year. The AQI of Delhi was 284 on Saturday, up from 198 on Friday, stated the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. By 7 p.m., the AQI further worsened to “very poor” category with a reading of 305, according to the real-time data of the CPCB. “Fire counts are gradually increasing and the wind direction is favourable, coming from the north-west direction. Under the influence of approaching western disturbance, wind reversal to easterly will happen by tomorrow (Sunday) and rainfall is likely. The AQI is forecasted to improve but will remain in poor (category) for tomorrow, but thereafter it is likely to be moderate for the next three days,” SAFAR said in a statement. Air pollution in Delhi rises during the winter chiefly due to a combined effect of stubble burning in neighbouring States and climatic conditions, which lower wind speed and trap pollutants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-falls-to-poor-level-in-delhi/article37034326.ece
17 October 2021||New Delhi,||SDMC launches smart parking app||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Thursday launched a mobile application — “MyParkings” — which aims to provide users details of vacant parking spaces within the corporation’s jurisdiction. It will also allow the users to book vacant spots through online payment methods. Currently, there are 145 surface-level parking sites, six multi-level and two automated parking sites operational within the four SDMC zones — Central, South, West and Najafgarh. Residents welcome move Local residents praised the SDMC’s parking initiative, with most citing past concerns of “lack of space” and “no vehicle safety”. “We were able to manage two-wheeler parking near our homes but my friends had to park their cars at unsupervised far-off corners due to lack of space. This had resulted in car parts, such as batteries, being stolen on multiple occasions. This initiative might help in terms of security and space,” said a resident of Johri Farm area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-launches-smart-parking-app/article37034315.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Six hurt in group clash||At least six persons were injured in a clash between members of two communities in Dwarka’s Dabri area on Friday night. Over 25 people were detained following the clashes, the police said. The scuffle started when a tempo driven by a member of a community hit a member of another community in Bindapur JJ Colony. The situation escalated to the point where both groups attacked each other with sticks and swords. “They injured each other with the intention of causing such bodily injuries which are sufficient to cause death,” said DCP (Dwarka) Shankar Chaudhary. A case under relevant sections of rioting and causing hurt has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/six-hurt-in-group-clash/article37034316.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Senior official from J&K robbed in south Delhi||A senior official of the Jammu and Kashmir administration was robbed allegedly by members of the ‘Thak-Thak’ gang in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Benita Mary Jaiker said the official comp-lained that the incident took place when she was travelling from Vasant Kunj to Faridabad. “When she reached the Khanpur T-point, two boys signalled her to stop saying fuel was dripping from her car. As soon as she stopped the vehicle to check, two persons riding a scooty snatched her sling bag and fled,” Ms. Jaiker said. The bag contained Rs. 2,000, her identity cards and an ATM card. “The official sustained injuries when she tried to grab her bag back from the accused,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/senior-official-from-jk-robbed-in-south-delhi/article37034317.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Minor raped, cousin held||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her cousin in south Delhi’s Kotla Mubarakpur area, the police said on Saturday, adding that the accused has been arrested. A senior police officer said the matter was reported on October 14. The victim’s mother said she was not at home when the incident happened. After she returned, the daughter told her that the cousin, a 22-year-old who lives in the neighbourhood, came to the house and raped her. “The accused had threatened the girl not to disclose the incident to anyone, the mother stated in her complaint,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/minor-raped-cousin-held/article37034324.ece
17 October 2021||New Delhi,||CM attends Ramlila in House||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday participated in the ‘Sampurn Ramlila’ celebrations at the Delhi Assembly, which he termed a “new tradition”. The Vidhan Sabha, Mr. Kejriwal said, was considered a very “boring and dull” place where various political debates took place, but Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel had “broken the mould by attempting to add a measure of love and peace” to its proceedings through the event. “This attempt to celebrate every festival had made the Assembly “harmonious, lively and beautiful,” Mr. Kejriwal said, terming it “remarkable”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-attends-ramlila-in-house/article37034328.ece
17 October 2021||Shahdol,||4 kill shopkeeper for asking them to pay for cigarettes||Four people allegedly beat a shopkeeper to death after they were asked to pay for the cigarettes they had taken, the police in Shahdol in Madhya Pradesh said on Saturday. The incident occurred in Deolond town on Friday night, an officer said. The accused had been identified as Monu Khan, Pankaj Singh, Virat Singh and Sandeep Singh. “The four went to Arun Soni’s shop at around 9 p.m. and asked for cigarettes. When Soni asked them to pay for the cigarettes, the four assaulted him as well as two of his sons who tried to rescue their father,” said Sub Divisional Officer of Police (SDOP) of Beohari, Bhavishya Bhaskar. “Soni died some time after being rushed to a hospital. Three of the four accused have been detained. Efforts are on to nab one of them who is on the run,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/4-kill-shopkeeper-for-asking-them-to-pay-for-cigarettes/article37034289.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Delicious from all angles!||A friend asked me some days ago if there was anything that I could eat day in and day out and not get bored of it. I gave it some thought and then said, ‘samosa’. I am inordinately fond of this dish, and there is a good reason why I never tire of it. For, within a triangular flour casing, there can be various kinds of fillings. Some of my favourite ones — from Kallan Sweets in the Jama Masjid area, for instance — are stuffed with minced meat. The Bengali singara may have cauliflower florets in it, or small pieces of potatoes with the skin, sautéed with peanuts. The small dry samosa, found in some parts of Delhi, is stuffed with peas. And I have also had kheerer singara, a Bengali khoya-stuffed samosa. That is why, as the city went into festive mode earlier this week, I went looking, on the Net, for some samosas to mark the occasion. I had earlier come across an eatery called Samose (https://samose.in; Address: Shop No. 5, Lotus Plaza, Vaibhav Khand, Indirapuram, Ghaziabad) and found its menu rather interesting. I went to the site and decided that we could do with a Jodhpuri samosa, a Bengali samosa (Rs. 20 for one), chicken masala samosa (Rs. 55), mini chicken masala samosa (Rs. 30) and aloo samosa ghugni chaat (Rs. 65). I ordered through a food aggregator app, timing it such that the samosas arrived at tea time. As I bit into the Jodhpuri samosa, I mulled over the fact that samosas have regional varieties from across the country. They are so intrinsically a part of our food culture that it is difficult to remember that they actually came in from West Asia (poetry from Iran of the 9th century mentions the sambusa). In India, food historian K.T. Achaya points out, Amir Khusro had described a samosa in 1300 as a dish prepared with meat, ghee and onions and eaten by aristocrats. In 1350 or so, Ibn Batuta referred to the samusak “as minced meat cooked with almond, walnut, pistachio, onions and spices, placed inside a thin envelope of wheat and deep fried in ghee”. Now, of course, it doesn’t have to be deep fried, it can be baked. The fillings vary, though potatoes are largely the preferred choice. The Jodhpuri samosa had a boiled potato filling — deliciously spicy and just mildly sweet. The Bengali samosa was tasty but I thought it could have done without the haldi the diced potatoes had been tempered with. I particularly liked the chicken masala samosa — small pieces of chicken that had been cooked with spices. The casing in all the samosas was wonderfully crisp. I love samosa chaats and have been fond of them ever since I had my first plate in Muzaffarnagar decades ago. I still salivate over the picture of the samosa being smashed in a dona, and then topped with curd, chutneys and spices. I had pictured the ghugni chaat somewhat differently though — I thought it would be more like the Bengali ghugni (matthra  with onions and what have you). This had some yellow peas but it was largely a chaat preparation with a samosa, curd and chutneys. It was delightful and I scooped out the last remaining bits of the chaat once I had tasted the rest. The samosas gave a festive touch to my tea that day. I used to enjoy visiting the food stalls at the Durga Puja pandals but this year the stalls had been disallowed, for obvious reasons. I couldn’t go for the festive food but the food came to me.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delicious-from-all-angles/article37034320.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Sir Syed unfailingly stood for all Indians’||A Raj loyalist or a social reformist, the conundrum has shrouded the legacy of Syed Ahmad Khan (1817-1898) for more than a century. In Sir Syed Ahmad Khan: Reason, Religion And Nation (Routledge India), Professor Shafey Kidwai has penned an objective analysis of the man who was undoubtedly more than the founder of the Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental College that grew into Aligarh Muslim University more than two decades after his death. With a foreword by Professor Irfan Habib, the book deals with Sir Syed’s attitude towards Congress leaders, his shifting concepts of watan (nation) and qaum (community)  and his views on girl education. A seasoned professor of journalism at AMU, Prof. Kidwai has written extensively on Sir Syed. In 2019, Sawaneh-e-Sir Syed: Ek Bazadeed , a biography of Sir Syed in Urdu, fetched him the prestigious Sahitya Akademi award. Ahead of Sir Syed’s birth anniversary this Sunday, Prof. Kidwai says despite his Anglophile streak, he refused to accept the prevalent culture of genuflecting. “His scientific outlook requires a thoughtful exploration that a simplistic, historiographical work could not produce.”  Edited excerpts:   Isn’t it difficult to write about a personality who espoused conflicting ideas and took a long time to evolve?  He was not a mere reconciler, and he made no effort to wrap the conflicting ideas into a single narrative. I have tried to put a premium on showcasing how he employed reason even in dealing with emotive issues related to faith and how rationalism never deserted him. On the thorny issue of blasphemy that frequently surfaced during Sir Syed’s time, he made it clear that the Koran does not prescribe corporal punishment for the offender. The deplorable act of desecration amounts to sedition and Muslim caliphs impose corporal punishment, but it cannot be implemented in a non-Islamic state. Sir Syed said that in India, the issue is to be settled according to the country’s laws. It requires to be opposed with a logical rebuttal, and noisy protest will serve no purpose.  How does the book add to the existing work on Sir Syed?   Not much has been written about how he strove for mitigating the sufferings of the beleaguered while being a member of several apex bodies under the British rule. Notwithstanding his occasional emotional outbursts bordering on communalism, he unfailingly stood for all Indians as he was the first citizen who demanded that the entry age of ICS aspirants be raised to 23 instead of 21 as Indians started education quite late. He also demanded that the coveted examination be held in India. Later, the Congress made these two demands its central plank. Similarly, he was the first Indian member who introduced the compulsory smallpox eradication vaccination Bill and vehemently supported Ilbert Bill that empowered Indian judges to hear the criminal cases filed against the British. Curiously, other Indian members sided with the Anglo-Indian community, which fiercely opposed the Bill.  Do you find a dichotomy in Sir Syed’s usage of qaum and watan, which, decades later, led a section of Pakistani thinkers to consider him the Father of the Nation?   Sir Syed attempted to locate the concept of nation in terms of faith, language and geographical framework simultaneously and separately at regular intervals. It is a topic that still provides ammunition to his admirers and opponents in almost equal terms. It is pertinent to point out that Sir Syed was not swayed by the pan Islamism propagated by Jamaluddin Afghani (1838-1897) and Sheikh Muhammad Abduh (1849-1905), and he vehemently opposed it by writing several editorials in his multilingual newspaper — Aligarh Institute Gazette . Significantly, he never used the term ummah (Muslims all over the world are one) in his writings. For him the concept of Khilafat had very little relevance in the Indian context hence sowing the seeds of separatism among Muslims cannot be attributed to him. Sir Syed asserted that all the religious communities living in India form one unified nation. He did make a difference between patriotism, nationalism and citizenship. He did repudiate the territorial or race-based concept of nationalism and candidly talked about a Muslim identity that is both Indian and Islamic.   How do you make sense of Sir Syed’s shifting views on girl education?   Sir Syed’s concept of girl education seemed skewed and unpalatable as he suggested tutor-based home education for girls. Taking a cue from Edward H. Clarke’s book, Sex In Education, or, A Fair Chance For Girls (1873) that favoured single (male) education, Sir Syed did plead for setting up government schools exclusively for boys and home-based tutor education for girls. He was not an opponent of women education, however, he tried to offer them a faulty model. Though later on he relented, his call for women’s education seems too irresolute and too late.   From the existing material, can we infer how would Sir Syed have negotiated a Hindutva-led India?   It is a tricky question to answer how Sir Syed would have responded to the tremendous emotive appeal of ethnicity or religion-based nationalism that get at us but a closer look into his writings prompts me to say that Sir Syed would have pushed for an alternative model of nationalism, resembling his indigenous model of modernism that he produced as an antidote to colonial modernism. He would have emphasised constitutional nationalism or in the terms of Hannah Arendt, “civic nationalism” that drew sustenance from tolerance, pluralism and respectfor diversity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sir-syed-unfailingly-stood-for-all-indians/article37034323.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The day after||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/the-day-after/article37034292.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Prosperity steps will be long term: Xi||China’s President Xi Jinping has warned that his government’s current push for “common prosperity”, which is likely to see a major overhaul of many sectors of the Chinese economy in coming months, will be “long term”. The “common prosperity” campaign came into prominence after it was highlighted by Mr. Xi at a meeting of the Central Finance and Economic Affairs Committee in August. It has been seen by observers as underlining many of the major recent regulatory moves announced by the Party leadership that have alarmed foreign investors and wiped off close to $1 trillion in market value of major Chinese private tech and education firms since February. These include anti-trust investigations of major private sector companies, such as Alibaba and Tencent, and overhauling the booming private education industry, which may be ordered to turn non-profit. The broad campaign has ranged from curbing the growing influence of fintech and e-commerce giants to cracking down on the gaming industry and even celebrities and fan culture in China. On Friday, the Party’s official journal, Qiushi or Seeking Truth , published for the first time Mr. Xi’s full speech at the August meet, which provides his most detailed comments yet on the “common prosperity” campaign. He said the campaign would be long-term and was here to stay, and would be “the focus point” to ensure both the well-being of people and the Party’s “long-term ruling foundation”. He flagged growing income inequality around the world as a serious threat that would lead to the collapse of the middle class as well as social and political polarisation, saying it offered “profound lessons” for China. The campaign, he said, would be based on several core principles, starting with encouraging innovation as a means to prosperity. This would require “more inclusive and equitable conditions for people to improve their education” in order to “prevent social stratification”. Disillusioned youth In July, the Party essentially banned the booming private education industry from raising funds and going public, leading to a crash in the share prices of major firms, and ordered the sector to go non-profit. These moves, Mr. Xi said, would be aimed at “avoiding ‘involution’ and ‘lying flat’”, referencing two current buzzwords among young Chinese pushing back against the education and jobs rat-race, and an all-consuming work culture known as “996” — 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., six days a week. “Involution” refers to a feeling of stagnation, while “lying flat” has been deemed by some to be the answer, by opting out of the race and doing the bare minimum to survive. The second principle was “adhering to the basic economic system” and “the public sector as the mainstay”. Regulators will “accelerate the reform of monopolistic industries” and “support the development of small and medium enterprises”, he said. The focus of these moves, Mr. Xi said, was on “expanding the size of the middle income group”. The authorities will more strictly regulate “high income” and “excessive income”, including by reforming the personal tax system. Ambit of the policy With fintech and e-commerce companies, including Alibaba, Tencent, and the ride-hailing app Didi Chuxing, among those currently in the sights of regulators for “monopolistic” practices, the “common prosperity” campaign is expected to be broadened in coming months to include the financial sector and the many highly leveraged real estate firms, who have been warned that they cannot expect state bailouts. Mr. Xi is “zeroing in on the ties that China’s state banks and other financial stalwarts have developed with big private-sector players,” the Wall Street Journal reported this week, with a “sweeping round of inspections” of financial institutions expected in coming weeks as part of a broader “push to curb capitalist forces in the economy”. The campaign is expected to continue in the months ahead and in the lead-up to next year’s 20th Party Congress, a once-in-five-year event expected to be held next autumn, which will see Mr. Xi, who abolished term limits, begin his third five-year-term in office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/prosperity-steps-will-be-long-term-xi/article37033996.ece
17 October 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka eyeing green agriculture||President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has appointed a task force on ‘green agriculture’, his office said on Saturday, while Sri Lanka’s farmers continue protesting his government’s abrupt ‘organic fertilizer only’ policy shift since May this year. The ‘Presidential Task Force’ will be responsible for looking into the requirement of fertilizers and improving the quality of organic fertilizer produced in the country, a statement from the Presidential Media Division said, listing the panel’s 14 members, a majority of whom are private sector representatives. No farmers’ organisation was part of it. The move comes about five months after the government banned all chemical fertilizers, shifting immediately to organic fertilizers. Agriculture experts have slammed the move as “ill-advised” and “unscientific”, while farmers anticipate that the drastic policy change could slash their yield. Paddy farmers anticipate a 25 % production slump, while growers of tea, which is a key foreign exchange earner for Sri Lanka, fear a likely 40 - 60 % fall in output. Import bill The ruling administration sought to justify the decision by citing President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s poll pledge in 2019, and an urgent need to bring down the country’s import bill as the economy reels under the impact of the pandemic. Until now, Sri Lanka spent an estimated $300-$400 million annually on fertilizer imports. If the government’s policy shift took the country by shock, the newly appointed panel has drawn attention for its composition. “It is striking that even now the task force has no scientists who study and research agriculture,” said Saman Dharmakeerthi, Professor of Soil Fertility and Nutrient Management at the Faculty of Agriculture, University of Peradeniya. The “danger” with the heavy private sector presence is that “they might promote anything they produce and insist that farmers use them,” he added. Describing the government’s fertilizer ban “a blunder” that threatens food production in the country, the soil scientist told The Hindu : “It is a contradiction because our import of organic fertilizer [ that continues] will still keep the import bill high, and if we don’t have enough produce, we would be forced to import more food items from other countries, which will also be expensive.” The government must instead go in for an integrated plant nutrient management scheme, combining chemical and organic fertilizers, in Prof. Dharmakeerthi’s view. Sri Lankan scientists are also concerned about the limited availability of organic sources in the country, he said. Organic fertlizers, whether produced locally or imported, are subject to quality checks by authorities. Last month, Sri Lanka halted a 96,000-tonne shipment of fertilizer from a Chinese company, citing poor quality. In a tweet on the development, the Chinese Embassy said the Sri Lankan authorities’ “hasty conclusion” lacked scientific basis and was “questionable”. Meanwhile, Sri Lanka is mulling importing liquid nitrogen from China and India, even as the country’s second major agricultural season, the ‘Maha season’ began on October 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-eyeing-green-agriculture/article37033997.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||China’s media hail Bhutan deal as ‘breakthrough’||Thursday’s agreement between China and Bhutan on a “three-step roadmap” to speed up border talks will “break the deadlock” in negotiations, reports in the Chinese media have said. Bhutan and China signed the agreement at a videoconference on Thursday. China’s Assistant Foreign Minister Wu Jianghao said the MoU “will make a meaningful contribution to speeding up the negotiation on demarcation and promoting the process of establishing diplomatic ties between the two countries”, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a statement. The statement also quoted Bhutan Foreign Minister as saying Bhutan “will work with China to implement the MoU, unswervingly push forward the negotiation on demarcation, and be committed to strengthening bilateral relations”. While Bhutan’s Foreign Ministry issued a brief press release on the agreement, neither side has released details on the roadmap. The Chinese state media did, however, hail the MoU as the first “breakthrough” in the border talks, which began in 1984, with 20 rounds held. Wang Shida, a South Asia scholar at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, a think-tank affiliated to the Ministry of State Security, told the Party-run Global Times the MoU “is a milestone and would help break the deadlock.” “The boundary issue between China and Bhutan is special because it not only relates to Bhutan but also has become a negative factor for China-India ties,” he said. “If China and Bhutan make progress in solving boundary disputes, India will have fewer chances and excuses to make troubles on border areas.” Doklam factor Wang Se, another expert at CICIR, expressed the commonly held view in Beijing that India’s concerns over the Doklam plateau, the site of the 2017 stand-off with China, was one reason for negotiations stalling in the past couple of years with New Delhi wary over a border deal that “would undermine its interests”. “After the Doklam standoff, China and Bhutan did not hold a meeting for border talks for a long time, which shows India was exerting great influence on Bhutan,” he said. As the talks go forward, it remains unclear to what extent China would be willing to make territorial concessions, which a settlement would require from both sides. Earlier negotiations had dealt with territories in Bhutan’s north and west, including Pasamlung and Jakarlung valleys in the north and Doklam to the west. China had, according to reports, previously offered a package solution that would see Beijing controlling Doklam and ceding the northern valleys. The inclusion of Sakteng into the dispute last year was seen by some observers as a negotiating tactic to bring Bhutan back to the table. Since the 2017 stand-off with India, Beijing has already strengthened its de facto control over much of the Doklam plateau, located strategically along the India-China-Bhutan trijunction. Barring the face-off site where India had objected to a road being built that would push the tri-junction point further south, China has deepened its presence elsewhere on much of the plateau and faced little opposition from Bhutan in doing so. Chinese media last year even showed images of a newly built village in Doklam, in territory disputed by Bhutan and China. While no details of the three-step roadmap have been revealed, Mr. Wang added that the roadmap might follow the three-step process of the India-China border talks. It remains to be seen, however, if the border negotiations with Bhutan would be as tortuous. Qian Feng of Tsinghua University told the South China Morning Post that the steps “might include setting up a framework first, confirming the specific disputes with an exchange of maps, and then a resolution stage.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-media-hail-bhutan-deal-as-breakthrough/article37033994.ece
17 October 2021||Islamabad,||ISI chief’s appointment in a week: Pak. Minister||Pakistan’s Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed has said the issue of appointment of the new chief of spy agency ISI would be resolved within a week, amid widespread speculation that Prime Minister Imran Khan and the powerful Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa were not on the same page over the key posting. The issue of appointment of Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) director general has been in the news since last week after delay in the issuance of appointment notification of Lt Gen Nadeem Ahmed Anjum. The Interior Minister, however, was reluctant to give reasons for the delay. The Army in a statement on October 6 announced Lt Gen Anjum replacing Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, but the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) withheld the official notification. After initial silence on the issue, the government this week said PM Khan was not properly consulted while making the key appointment. According to a report published in The Dawn newspaper on Friday, Sheikh Rashid told a private TV channel that the issue has been amicably settled between the civil and military leadership of the country and “now the appointment (of ISI chief) will take place before next Friday”. When asked about the reasons for the delay, the Interior Minister said though he knows the reasons, he cannot make them public as only Prime Minister Khan could apprise the people on the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/isi-chiefs-appointment-in-a-week-pak-minister/article37033998.ece
17 October 2021||Dhaka,||Two killed in religious unrest in Bangladesh||Two Hindu men have been killed in fresh religious violence in Bangladesh, police officials said on Saturday, taking the death toll to six from recent unrest in the Muslim-majority country. Protests began on Wednesday after footage emerged of a Koran being placed on the knee of a Hindu god during celebrations for the Hindu festival Durga Puja. The minority community make up about 10% of the population. Police said the latest violence occurred in the southern town of Begumganj when hundreds of Muslims formed a street procession after Friday prayers on the final day of Durga Puja. More than 200 protesters attacked a temple where members of the Hindu community were preparing to perform the last rites of the 10-day festival, local police station chief said. The attackers beat and stabbed to death an executive member of the temple committee. On Saturday morning, another Hindu man's body was found near a pond next to the temple, district police chief Shahidul Islam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/two-killed-in-religious-unrest-in-bangladesh/article37033991.ece
17 October 2021||Bandar Seri Begawan,||ASEAN shuns Myanmar junta chief||Myanmar’s junta chief will be excluded from an upcoming ASEAN summit, the group said on Saturday, a rare rebuke as concerns rise over the military government’s commitment to defusing a bloody crisis. Foreign ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations agreed at an emergency meeting on late Friday that a “non-political representative” for Myanmar would be invited to the October 26-28 summit, current ASEAN chair Brunei said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/asean-shuns-myanmar-junta-chief/article37033990.ece
17 October 2021||Kabul,||IS behind bombing of Shia mosque||The Islamic State group claimed responsibility for a deadly suicide bombing on a Shia mosque in Afghanistan that killed 47 people and wounded scores more. Relatives laid the bodies of the victims to rest on Saturday and called on the Taliban to protect them. IS said that two of the group’s members shot and killed security guards manning the entrance of the Fatimiya mosque in Kandahar province. One detonated his explosives at the entrance of the mosque and the other inside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/is-behind-bombing-of-shia-mosque/article37033992.ece
17 October 2021||Beijing,||Chinese astronauts arrive at space station for longest mission||Three astronauts successfully docked with China’s new space station on Saturday on what is set to be Beijing’s longest crewed mission to date and the latest landmark in its drive to become a major space power. The three blasted off shortly after midnight and are expected to spend six months at the Tiangong space station.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-astronauts-arrive-at-space-station-for-longest-mission/article37033989.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||HDFC Bank Q2 net profit increases 18%, provisions climb||HDFC Bank on Saturday reported an 18% increase in consolidated net profit at Rs. 9,096 crore for the second quarter ended September, even as there is a marginal increase in bad loans. Total consolidated income rose to Rs. 41,436.36 crore from Rs. 38,438.47 crore, HDFC Bank said in a statement. Consolidated advances grew 14.7% to Rs. 12,49,331 crore. Net interest income grew 12.1% to Rs. 17,684.4 crore. Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) rose to 1.35% of gross advances compared with 1.08% a year earlier. In absolute value, gross NPAs or bad loans increased to Rs. 16,346.07 crore from Rs. 11,304.60 crore at the end of the corresponding period of the last financial year due to the impact of the pandemic. Net NPAs rose to 0.4% (Rs. 4,755.09 crore) from 0.17% (Rs. 1,756.08 crore). Provisioning for bad loans and contingencies rose to Rs. 3,924.66 crore Rs. 3,703.50 crore). The fear of the pandemic as well as restrictions on business and individual activities had led to significant volatility in global and Indian financial markets and a significant decrease in global and local economic activities, the bank said in the statement. ‘Uncertainty continues’ Disruptions following the outbreak have impacted loan originations, the sale of third-party products, the use of credit and debit cards by customers and the efficiency in collection efforts, leading to an increase in customer defaults and consequent increase in provisions, it added. “The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to impact the bank’s results will depend on ongoing as well as future developments, which are uncertain,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-bank-q2-net-profit-increases-18-provisions-climb/article37033980.ece
17 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Small growers edging out big players, says Tea Association||Small tea growers are threatening to push estates in the organised sector out of the competition as they are not burdened with welfare responsibilities, the Tea Association of India (TAI) said. In its paper titled ‘Sustainability of tea industry in India,’ the TAI said small tea growers, or STGs, are no longer a minority as they produce more than 50% of India’s green-leaf output. An STG is a person who cultivates tea in an area up to 25 acres. There are more than two lakh STGs in Assam and West Bengal. STGs are not burdened by welfare activities that the organised estates provide to their labour force, the TAI said. “This creates a dichotomy in the tea industry, with the estates and the small growers having significantly different costs of production, with different welfare responsibilities; yet they compete with each other.” “The low-cost tea available from small growers undercuts the teas from the organised estates that have a much higher cost of production and more stringent regulations to follow. The organised sector cannot remain sustainable in such a scenario,” the TAI said. The paper said tea production in India increased from 945 million kg in 2005 to 1,255 million kg in 2020, a 33% rise in 15 years. The production outstripped consumption of tea, leading to stagnant selling prices for tea plantations, the TAI said. Labour costs, that account for 60% of the cost of production for the organised tea estates, has put the estates at a disadvantage, the TAI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/small-growers-edging-out-big-players-says-tea-association/article37033974.ece
17 October 2021||Washington DC,||Climate finance, tech transfer norms not defined: FM||Questions around how the $100 billion per year commitment towards climate finance will be measured, and related technology transfer accounted for, remain unanswered, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said at the conclusion of the Washington DC leg of her U.S. visit. The Minister — who is in the city for the World Bank and IMF Annual Meetings, bilateral dialogues with the U.S. and meetings with other countries, as well as the private sector — has repeatedly raised or discussed the issue of climate finance obligations in several meetings, as per statements and readouts. “We actually don't know if there were any measures given to measure if money spent on a particular project by somebody will be part of that $100 billion, or what,” she said in response to a question from The Hindu on climate finance during a press conference on Friday evening. “So what constitutes the $100 billion? How do we measure if actually $100 billion has been given or only some amount has been given?” she said. Developed countries have committed under the Paris Agreement to allocate $100 billion per year from 2020 onwards to facilitate emission cuts in poorer countries and also to effect technology transfer in this context. Ms. Sitharaman said a similar issue existed with technology — what constituted designated technology for these purposes and how the transfer is to measured. “So funding is continuing to be a question of worry for many countries, as much as even the transfer of technology,” she said. In the run up to the month-end U.N. Climate Change Conference (COP26) in Glasgow, India has come under pressure, especially from the U.S. and U.K, to announce more ambitious emission cuts, beyond what came out of its Paris commitments and to provide a deadline by which it will reach ‘Net Zero’’ emissions. India had said, in 2016, that by 2030 it would cut its emissions by a third relative to 2005 levels. In return, it has argued that developing countries needed space to grow and developed countries must move to a ‘Net Minus’ paradigm and meet climate finance obligations. Debt sustainability issue In response to a question on whether China was discussed in the context of debt sustainability and transparency, Ms. Sitharaman said the topic was discussed but stopped short of mentioning China by name. “I've definitely raised this issue of looking at sustainable debt funding and it has been in the minds of many countries. So discussions have happened,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/climate-finance-tech-transfer-norms-not-defined-fm/article37033976.ece
17 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Time taken for 5G will raise preparedness: Dell||India may be taking time to roll out 5G networks, but that would only enhance the country’s preparedness for the 5G play, said Saurabh Tewari, director and chief technology officer (telecom), Dell Technologies, India. “As 5G technology itself evolves very rapidly, this extra time will prepare telecom service providers, technology and equipment players in the country for the launch of mature technologies for a smoother transition, improved subscriber experience and an efficient network strategy and architecture,” Mr. Tewari told The Hindu . However, he added, India’s networks were well prepared for 5G roll-outs. “India’s telecom infrastructure has often been underestimated, the reality is that our networks are world class,” Mr. Tewari said. “The scale that we handle compares with countries such as China whose networks also cater to huge subscriber bases,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/time-taken-for-5g-will-raise-preparedness-dell/article37033972.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||D-Mart Q2 net surges twofold to Rs. 418 crore||Avenue Supermarts Ltd., which owns and operates the retail chain D-Mart, on Saturday reported a twofold increase in consolidated net profit to Rs. 417.76 crore for the second quarter ended September. The company had posted a net profit of Rs. 198.53 crore in the July-September quarter a year earlier, Avenue Supermarts said in a filing. Revenue from operations rose 46.8% to Rs. 7,788.94 crore during the quarter under review.  “Total revenue for H1FY22 stood at Rs. 12,972 crore, as compared with Rs. 9,189 crore in the same period last year,” it said.  As of September 30, D-Mart had 246 stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/d-mart-q2-net-surges-twofold-to-rs-418-crore/article37033978.ece
17 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Export of gems, jewellery rose 30% in Sept.||Gems and jewellery exports rose by 29.67% to Rs. 23,259.55 crore in September compared with Rs. 17,936.86 crore in the year-earlier month, according to the Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC). In September 2019, the shipments were worth Rs. 23,491.20 crore. For April-September, the shipments surged by 134.55% to Rs. 1,40,412.94 crore compared with the same period in 2020, GJEPC said. “With Rs. 140,412.94 crore ($18.98 billion) exports [in] April-September, the sector has... achieved nearly half (46%) of the $41.66 billion exports target set by the government for the sector” chairman Colin Shah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/export-of-gems-jewellery-rose-30-in-sept/article37033977.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fuel-efficient cars to gain traction: report||With fuel prices going up by 35% over the past 15 months thereby impacting overall vehicle running costs, cars that have higher fuel efficiency and lower maintenance costs are expected to gain higher traction among buyers in India, especially in the sub-Rs. 10 lakh category, according to a report. Considering the fact that 70% of the passenger-vehicle market in India is still accounted for by vehicles costing less than Rs. 10 lakh, the development augurs well for market leader Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL), said the report by HSBC Global Research. MSIL has about 65% market share in the less-than-Rs. 10 lakh price category, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fuel-efficient-cars-to-gain-traction-report/article37033981.ece
17 October 2021||Chennai,||Super Kings’ redemption and the new heroes||Great teams have a sense of occasion. Chennai Super Kings has that. The manner in which CSK effortlessly lifted its game in the IPL final against Kolkata Knight Riders underlined its killer instinct. These are glory days for CSK, with its talismanic skipper M.S. Dhoni orchestrating a remarkable recovery from last season’s debacle. Finger on the pulse Few cricketers understand the dynamics of T20 cricket like Dhoni does. He has his finger on the pulse of the game, comprehends the ebb and the flow, and gives cricketers the freedom to express themselves. ‘Captain Cool’ should be available for CSK for at least one more season. The BCCI is likely to allow two Indians and two foreigners or three Indians and an overseas player per franchise as its retention policy. With the mega auction consisting of two additional teams coming up in January, CSK will also rebuild for the future as Dhoni hinted. CSK was not short of champions in this edition. The ethereal Ruturaj Gaikwad, so light on his feet, tormented the bowlers at the top of the order with strokes of rare beauty, charm and timing to bag the Orange Cap with 635 runs. His opening partner du Plessis, ageless and versatile, disrupted the attack with bold strokeplay, to finish just two runs short of Ruturaj with 633. Solid platform Well begun is half done they say, and Ruturaj and du Plessis built a solid platform for CSK. A stage from which others could fire. Robin Uthappa’s blitzkriegs in Qualifier 1 and the final were game-changing efforts. Uthappa added muscle to the CSK line-up, batted with refreshing freedom, hit sixes at will. Same with the smooth-stroking Moeen Ali. The left-hander, such a sweet timer of the ball, hit long balls. The CSK bowling attack, boasting of the accuracy and movement of Josh Hazlewood, the wicket-taking ability of seamer Shardul Thakur, the swing and seam of Deepak Chahar and the beguiling variety of Dwayne Bravo, stung the opponents. Jadeja’s left-arm spin was always handy. Exciting prospect KKR has unearthed an exciting prospect in the nerveless Venkatesh Iyer. A brave youngster who cuts and pulls the pacemen, drives them through the gaps and demolishes the spinners, Venkatesh is not intimidated by big names. He is a handy seamer as well and his bowling will get better as the days progress. By leaving out the influential Andre Russell in the final, KKR blundered. IPL, though, is not always about the big names and RCB’s Harshal Patel, with exceptional pace variations, took home the Purple Cap with 32 scalps. Genuine talent Rajasthan Royals’ Kartik Tyagi, a genuine talent, denying Punjab Kings four runs in the dramatic last over was an unforgettable vignette. So was K.S. Bharat’s last-ball six that gave RCB a sensational win over the powerful Delhi Capitals. Breathtaking strokeplay K.L. Rahul was breathtaking with his strokeplay for Punjab Kings. He hit 30 sixes, but seldom slogged. The lively Avesh Khan bowled a heavy ball and the hard length for Capitals. And Sunrisers Hyderabad’s Umran Malik sent down some of the quickest deliveries of the IPL, one of them clocked as fast as 152.95 kmph. In the IPL, heroes emerge from nowhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-kings-redemption-and-the-new-heroes/article37034094.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kashish wins, joins Binny’s Brigade||Kashish Bhatia won the women’s event at the Talent day and will join Yuki Bhambri, Manish Sureshkumar and Peangtarn Plipuech in Delhi Binny’s Brigade for the third edition of the Tennis Premier League to be staged at the Celebration Club, Andheri, from Dec. 9 to 14. The runner-up of the event, Prerna Bhambri, will join Chennai Stallions which has Samantha Murray Sharan as the other woman player. Live TV coverage All the leading Indian men’s and women’s players will be part of the eight-team league which is scheduled to have live television coverage. More players will be added through the Talent Day competition to ensure five men’s and women’s players in each team. “We are excited to have international players this year. The intention is to make tennis win and we are extremely grateful to the AITA and the MSLTA for their unconditional support,” said the founder of the event, Kunal Thakkur, in a press conference here on Saturday. “We are thankful to all our owners and sponsors. We intend to make the league one of its kind in India. The live telecast of all matches will be something very exciting for Indian tennis players and fans, said Mrunal Jain, co-founder of the league. Yuki, Ankita Bhambri, Nandan Bal, Zeeshan Ali, Rohit Rajpal and Aditya Khanna were also present in the media interaction.  The teams: Mumbai Leon Army: Ramkumar Ramanathan, Niki Poonacha, Sofia Shapatava.   Delhi Binny’s Brigade: Yuki Bhambri, Manish Sureshkumar, Peangtarn Plipuech.   Chennai Stallions: Purav Raja, Sidharth Rawat, Samantha Murray Sharan.   Bengaluru Spartans: Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan, Sriram Balaji, Sabina Sharipova.   Hyderabad Strikers: Arjun Kadhe, Vishnu Vardhan, Ankita Raina.   Rajasthan Tigers: Prajnesh Gunneswaran, Aryan Goveas, Diana Marcinkevica.   Gujarat Panthers: Divij Sharan, Vijay Sundar Prashant, Valeriya Strakhova.   Pune Jaguars: Saketh Myneni, Ishaque Iqbal, Rutuja Bhosale .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kashish-wins-joins-binnys-brigade/article37034304.ece
17 October 2021||Male (Maldives),||India triumphs in style||India crushed Nepal 3-0 to win its eight SAFF Championship title after second-half goals from Sunil Chhetri, Suresh Singh and Sahal Abdul Samad in the final here on Saturday. Chhetri scored in the 49th minute of the match, which put him level with Lionel Messi on 80 international goals, while Suresh Singh doubled the lead in the 50th to pave the way for India’s title triumph. Sahal Abdul Samad made it 3-0 when he dribbled past a few defenders in the 90th minute. Relief for Stimac This is the Indian football team’s first title triumph under head coach Igor Stimac, who has faced criticism in recent times for his side’s inability to win enough games. However, when it mattered the most in this edition of the regional tournament, Stimac’s players delivered the results the team’s fans had been waiting for. Stimac also became the third foreign coach after Jiri Pesek (1993) and Stephen Constantine (2015) to clinch the title with the Indian team.   The result: Final: India 3 (Chhetri 49, Suresh Singh 50, Sahal Abdul Samad 90) bt Nepal 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-triumphs-in-style/article37033987.ece
17 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Sathish and Kanimozhi hog the limelight||M. Sathish Kumar of Genesis Sports Foundation, Coimbatore, and C. Kanimozhi (Southern Railway) created new meet records in the men’s 5000m and women’s 100m hurdles events respectively on the penultimate day of the Tamil Nadu State senior athletics meet held here on Saturday.  The results:   Men: 5000m: M. Sathish Kumar (Genesis SF) 14:45.30s (NMR) (OR: G. Lakshmanan, St. Joseph’s, 14:52.24, 2011), 2. K. Mari Sarath (Prime SA) 15:12.20, 3. C. Manikandan (TN Police) 15:12.50; triple jump: 1. V. Arul Raj 10.84m, 2. A. Tamilselvan 7.57; 110m hurdles: 1. G. Nishanth Raja (Olympic Gold Foundation) 14.46s, 2. Veeraraghavendran (S. Rly) 14.88, 3. R. Sanjay (Erode) 15.14.   Long jump: 1. Elakiadasan (S. Rly) 7.79m, 2. M. Vishnu (Prime SA) 7.59, 3. M. Sandeep Vinsto (Elshaddai Sports GA) 7.50; high jump: 1. D. Deva Karthick (Nellai) 2.13m, 2. S. Veeramani (TN Police) 2.10, 3. R. Manivannan (TN Police) 2.10.   Decathlon: 1. S. Krishnakumar 2936 points, 2. R. Theivendiran (TN Police) 2661, 3. R. Praveenkumar (S. Rly) 2403.   Women: 5000m: Ranjani (SDAT, Tiruchi) 19:17.70s, 2. Lavanya Rajendran 19:20.90, 3. C. Dhivya (Gobi Arts SA) 19:39.30; javelin throw: 1. Saraswathi (S. Rly) 43.64m, 2. N. Hemamalini (PR SF) 42.13, 3. Rosy Meena (Prime SA) 41.57m.   100m hurdles: 1. C. Kanimozhi (S. Rly) 13.74 (NMR) (OR: G. Gayathri, St. Joseph’s, 13.88, 2015), 2. Nandhini (Achievers AA, Cbe) 13.81, 3. Keerthana (S. Rly) 14.17.   Shot put: 1. V. Nandhini (Royal AC) 12.93m, 2. K. Rubasri 12.82, 3. Saraswathi (S. Rly) 12.39 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sathish-and-kanimozhi-hog-the-limelight/article37034188.ece
17 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Karan outguns Aman, takes title||Karan Singh established himself as the best junior in the country outgunning second seed Aman Dahiya 6-4, 6-2 in the boys’ final of the National junior tennis championship at the DLTA Complex on Saturday. Thunderbolts The last time he played a junior tournament, Karan was beaten in the ITF grade-4 final by Aman in Kathmandu, in February. Thereafter, Karan has been focusing on the men’s circuit, and stepped up his game to meet the demands. There is no doubt that Karan will soon trigger a debate about the fastest server in Indian tennis, as he served thunderbolts to exasperate Aman. His groundstrokes were razor sharp as he hit clean to race through the match. Very confident “I was very confident. I had lost to him last time by the same score in Kathmandu. “This title is very important for me and the National Tennis Centre. We have been working very hard,” said Karan, who trains under Zeeshan Ali in the Capital. “He played very good,” conceded 17-year-old Aman, who trains with Jignesh Rawal at the Altevol Academy in Ahmedabad. Even though he started the match with a double-fault and Aman in contrast, with an ace, there was no doubt that Karan was the better player this day. He gave glimpses of his tremendous potential with an all-court entertaining game. “Karan has a big game. He is playing the men’s level,” said coach Zeeshan Ali. In the girls’ final, Shruti Ahlawat rallied from a slow start to beat second seed Suhitha Maruri 4-6, 6-0, 6-4 in a long-drawn baseline battle of wits. Sound temperament The 15-year-old Shruti, the best-ranked Indian girl on the international circuit, stressed her sound temperament as much as a strong game. Coach Pundreek Chaturvedi is ready with plans to sharpen Shruti’s game for the tough grind ahead.  The results (finals):   Under-18 boys: Karan Singh bt Aman Dahiya 6-4, 6-2.   Under-18 girls: Shruti Ahlawat bt Suhitha Maruri 4-6, 6-0, 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karan-outguns-aman-takes-title/article37034302.ece
17 October 2021||Pune:,||Sultan Suleiman appeals most||The five-year-old gelding Sultan Suleiman, who is in good shape as evidenced by his track performances, should win the Delhi Race Club Trophy, the main event of opening day’s races here on Sunday (Oct. 17). Tomorrow’s races will be conducted without spectators and there will be no betting operations. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  GOODNESS GRACIOUS PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46 — 1.00 p.m.: 1. Merneith (7) Ayyar 59, 2. Blazing Bay (1) Bhawani 58, 3. Ame (5) Parmar 57, 4. Timeless Deeds (3) Dashrath 56, 5. Baku (10) Nadeem 55.5, 6. On Va Danser (2) Aniket 55.5, 7. Power Of Neath (2) Joseph 55.5, 8. Luminosity (11) Hanumant 54, 9. Shapath (8) T.S. Jodha 54, 10. Dilbar (9) Shubham 53, 11. Regal Prince (6) Peter 53 and 12. Scotland (4) Raghuveer 53.  1. ON VA DANSER,   2. BLAZING BAY, 3. TIMELESS DEEDS   ELOISE PLATE (1,200m) (Terms), 3-y-o only — 1.30: 1. Nothing To Worry (2) Akshay 57, 2. Red Merlot (5) Dashrath 57, 3. Commandment (7) T.S. Jodha 54, 4. Majorella Blue (3) Peter 54, 5. Fortune Cookie (6) Neeraj 52.5, 6. Hela (4) C.S. Jodha 52.5 and 7. Marvellous (1) P.S. Chouhan 52.5.  1. MARVELLOUS, 2. RED MERLOT, 3. COMMANDMENT   NAUVKHAL TROPHY (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30 — 2.00: 1. Northern Lights (8) Kirtish 62, 2. Sufiyah (5) Parmar 61, 3. La Peregrina (14) Aniket 58.5, 4. Kardashian (6) Rupesh 58, 5. Star Sincerity (9) Peter 58, 6. Dawnstar (7) Hanumant 57, 7. Fendi (13) Nazil 56, 8. Suited Aces (12) Shelar 56, 9. Saddled The Wind (1) Shubham 54.5, 10. Sandra’s Secret (2) Ayyar 54.5, 11. Sir Ramon (11) Zeeshan 54, 12. Arabian Muktar (3) T.S. Jodha 52, 13. Thea’s Pet (10) M.S. Deora 51.5 and 14. I Am The Way (4) Baria 49.5.  1. SUFIYAH,   2. SIR RAMON,   3. THEA’S PET   ALLEY CAT PLATE (1,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66 — 2.30: 1. Palomar (10) Parmar 59, 2. Aegon (9) T.S. Jodha 58, 3. Theodora (4) P.S. Chouhan 55.5, 4. Joaquin (1) Zervan 54.5, 5. Belenus (5) Sandesh 53, 6. Red Carnation (11) Aniket 53, 7. Endeavour (6) C.S. Jodha 50.5, 8. Enlightened (3) Dashrath 50, 9. Spring Grove (8) P. Dhebe 50, 10. Wild Fire (2) Peter 50 and 11. World Is One (7) M.S. Deora 49.  1. THEODORA,   2. AEGON,   3. ENDEAVOUR   STRATEGIC MOVE PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 3.00: 1. Tanhaiyaan (14) C.S. Jodha 61.5, 2. Minx (5) Kirtish 60, 3. Rubik Star (3) Bhawani 60, 4. Superleggera (9) Zeeshan 59.5, 5. Petronia (2) Zervan 58, 6. Chancellor (12) Yash Narredu 55, 7. Gusty Girl (10) Ayyar 55, 8. Bold Advance (13) J. Chinoy 54.5, 9. Brazos (7) Parmar 54.5, 10. Power Of Thor (6) Dashrath 54.5, 11. Moonshot (4) Sandesh 54, 12. Historic (8) Shelar 52.5, 13. Medora (1) P.S. Chouhan 52.5 and 14. Aira (11) T.S. Jodha 51.5.  1. MEDORA,   2. SUPERLEGGRA, 3. PETRONIA   DELHI RACE CLUB TROPHY (1,400m) Cl. I, rated 80 and upward — 3.30: 1. Grand Accord (5) Bhawani 59, 2. St. Andrews (7) P. Shinde 58.5, 3. Caprisca (1) Zervan 56, 4. Sultan Suleiman (3) Parmar 56, 5. Truly Epic (4) C.S. Jodha 53.5, 6. Mystic Bay (8) Yash Narredu 53, 7. Rambunctious (6) Neeraj 52.5 and 8. Excellent Gold (2) Nazil 49.  1. SULTAN SULEIMAN, 2. RAMBUNCTIOUS, 3. TRULY EPIC   CLASSIC TALK PLATE (1,400m) Maiden, 3-y-o only — 4.00: 1. Alastair (9) C. Umesh 56, 2. Alpha Gene (3) Shelar 56, 3. Flaming Fire (5) Yash Narredu 56, 4. Kokomo (1) Sandesh 56, 5. Multiencrypted (12) Parmar 56, 6. Rasputin (2) C.S. Jodha 56, 7. Redefined (7) Akshay 56, 8. Regal Command (8) Bhawani 56, 9. Zarak (6) Dashrath 56, 10. Cherished (14) P.S. Chouhan 54.5, 11. Leto (11) Zervan 54.5, 12. Love Warrior (13) T.S. Jodha 54.5, 13. Revolution (10) Mosin 54.5 and 14. Time (4) Neeraj 54.5.  1. KOKOMO, 2. FLAMING FIRE, 3. ALASTAIR   NAUVKHAL TROPHY (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30 — 4.30: 1. Brave Eagle (3) Kirtish 62, 2. Noble King (5) Peter 62, 3. Hilad (6) Shahrukh 61.5, 4. Special Situation (8) Shelar 61.5, 5. Windy City (13) Ayyar 60, 6. Grand Architect (1) P. Shinde 59.5, 7. Grand Sinatra (14) Nazil 59.5, 8. Little More (11) Aniket 59.5, 9. Peppoli (4) P. Dhebe 59, 10. Sussing (9) Hanumant 58.5, 11. Anoushka (2) C.S. Jodha 58, 12. Flower Power (7) J. Chinoy 58, 13. Lambretta (10) Bhawani 57 and 14. Smart Choice (12) Baria 53.5.  1. LITTLE MORE, 2. NOBLE KING, 3. LAMBRETTA   GOODNESS GRACIOUS PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46 — 5.00: 1. Cellini (9) T.S. Jodha 61, 2. Jetfire (1) P. Dhebe 61, 3. Tasman (8) Nazil 60, 4. Beemer (3) Yash Narredu 59, 5. Arc Shine (2) Peter 58.5, 6. Goshawk (12) Parmar 58.5, 7. Divine Glory (4) M.S. Deora 58, 8. Slam Dunk (7) Hanumant 58, 9. Turmeric Tower (5) Aniket 57, 10. Northern Singer (6) J. Chinoy 56.5, 11. Untitled (13) Shubham 56.5, 12. Lagertha (10) Nadeem 56 and 13. Mythical Power (11) Raghuveer 49.  1. CELLINI, 2. BEEMER, 3. NORTHERN SINGER  Day’s Best: SULTAN SULEIMAN||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sultan-suleiman-appeals-most/article37034601.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Our ultimate goal is to win the World Cup: Kohli||Ravi Shastri is moving on as the India head coach. Rahul Dravid could come in his place. And Virat Kohli has announced he will give up T20I captaincy at the end of the T20 World Cup. India couldn’t have asked for more transition from the Indian Premier League going into the prestigious global event. Ticking the empty box Feigning ignorance about the developments on the coaching staff front, captain Kohli minced no words about the desire to tick the empty box of an ICC Trophy that’s missing from his otherwise enviable combination with Shastri as the head coach. “Look, our ultimate goal is to win the World Cup. Honestly, I have no idea exactly what’s happening on that front yet. We haven’t had any detailed discussions with anyone yet. But winning the World Cup is definitely our goal is like any other team. But what we have been able to create in the last five-six years is beyond titles and tournaments, to be honest,” Kohli said on Saturday, a day before the T20 World Cup qualifiers begin in Muscat. “We’ve been able to create a culture which is going to be lasting a long time… And we’ve driven that culture with utmost passion and honesty, which we hope will continue to be the case in years to come. Winning an ICC tournament will definitely be a wonderful moment for all of us, for him as coach, for me as captain. It’ll be an amazing achievement and something that we’re obviously motivated for and we’ll give everything we have.” Stressing that India made it to the final and the semifinals in the last two T20 World Cup editions in 2014 and 2016, respectively, Kohli hoped India can go one step further next month. “We have beaten prominent teams in T20 series in the recent past in very close contests, so we are quite confident heading into the World Cup knowing that we have a strong side,” Kohli said. “Potentially we could go deep in the tournament and if we end up being in the knockout stage, maybe go one step further this time.” Kohli added M.S. Dhoni’s new role as mentor will be of a lot of help “especially for the younger guys”. Terming Dhoni as someone “who has always been a mentor for all of us”, Kohli hoped the younger generation can pick up cues from Dhoni’s wealth of experience. “Conversations with him around the game, such practical inputs, such intricate details of where the game’s going and how we can improve our game by that 1 or 2 per cent which always makes the difference when he is in the leadership role in any team,” Kohli said. Ashwin’s return The T20 World Cup will also mark R. Ashwin’s return to India’s limited-overs side after four years. “Ashwin has been rewarded for reviving his skills altogether. He was a regular for us back in the day, then he fell off a little bit because the wrist spinners were in demand mostly in that middle period,” Kohli said. “But now the finger spinners with accuracy have come back into the game, so we also have to evolve as a team with the evolving trend.”  We are quite confident heading into the World Cup knowing that we have a strong side||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/our-ultimate-goal-is-to-win-the-world-cup-kohli/article37034087.ece
17 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Dravid favourite to take over from Shastri as India head coach||Former India captain Rahul Dravid has emerged as frontrunner to replace Ravi Shastri as India men’s head coach after the latter’s tenure expires at the end of the T20 World Cup next month.  The Hindu understands that Dravid, who is at the helm of cricket activities at the National Cricket Academy in his hometown Bengaluru, has agreed to throw his hat in the ring once the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) initiates the process to appoint the head coach.  Various BCCI dispensations over the last six years have tried in vain to persuade Dravid into taking charge of the senior team. However, Dravid has preferred to concentrate on the developmental aspect, looking after the NCA, India-A and Under-19 boys. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah seem to have managed to make it happen this time around. It is understood that during the course of multiple discussions over the last week — telephonic, videoconferencing followed by a meeting in person in Dubai on Friday — the BCCI hierarchy managed to convince Dravid to take over as the head coach at least till the 2023 World Cup. While Dravid is understood to have ended the long meeting on Friday on an affirmative note, the BCCI hopes Dravid will eventually formally apply once it invites applications for the four coaching staff positions that will fall vacant next month. The BCCI bosses have hence heaved a sigh of relief after several top coaches — Indian and overseas — had turned down recent approaches. The BCCI is expected to initiate the process next week for appointing the head coach, batting coach, bowling coach and fielding coach. While the Cricket Advisory Committee, which also has a vacancy with Madan Lal having crossed the prescribed age-limit of 70 years, is supposed to appoint the head coach, the national selection committee has to finalise the support staff members. Should Dravid actually enter the fray, Paras Mhambrey — who has been his trusted ally with the Under-19 boys and India-A outfits over the last four years — will be the favourite to take over as bowling coach from B. Arun. The duo had accompanied India’s limited-overs squad on its tour of Sri Lanka in July. Vikram Rathour, who came in place of Sanjay Bangar in 2019 as batting coach, is likely to retain his position. Need for reboot Interestingly, Dravid and Mhambrey, after their recent reappointments at the NCA, were expected to groom the boys’ and girls’ squads for next year’s Under-19 World Cups. Should both of them be elevated to the senior men’s squad, the NCA coaching system will also need to be rebooted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dravid-favourite-to-take-over-from-shastri-as-india-head-coach/article37034089.ece
17 October 2021||Dubai,||We back Gayle to do well: Pollard||West Indies’ big-hitting skipper Kieron Pollard is looking forward to join forces with veteran swashbuckler Chris Gayle and lead the team to glory in the T20 World Cup. The tournament will be held in Oman and United Arab Emirates from Sunday and defending champion West Indies begin its campaign against England on October 23 at the Dubai International Stadium. Heading into the showpiece, Gayle is just 97 runs short of becoming the highest run-scorer in T20 World Cup, and Pollard said that there are no words to describe what the ‘Universe Boss’ has done for the country. Media session “Again, no words to describe what he has done for us in World Cups, in the T20 World Cups, and T20 cricket around the world as an individual,” Pollard said during a captains’ media session here on Saturday. “For him, 97 runs away, but I don’t think he will be looking at that. I think the main goal for us and him, is trying to win a World Cup and defend the title. He is looking forward to that. Hopefully, he can come and deliver for us. We back him to do well,” Pollard added.  The IPL was “a good experience” despite his franchise Mumbai Indians’ failure to make the playoffs, according to Pollard. “I am sure some interesting sort of stats, comparisons, different sort of trends might have come out of the recently-concluded IPL,” Pollard said during the interaction organised by the ICC. “For us, most of our guys got an opportunity to recently play in the IPL in the UAE and we are looking forward to hit the ground running and start on that sort of positive note and get that first two points and see what happens after that,” added Pollard. West Indies won the 2016 edition of the T20 World Cup after Carlos Braithwaite hammered four successive sixes off Ben Stokes at the iconic Eden Gardens. “We are excited and looking forward for another opportunity to try to defend this trophy,” the 34-year-old said, adding they have lots of powerful players in their line-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-back-gayle-to-do-well-pollard/article37034300.ece
17 October 2021||Watford,||Liverpool sizzles against a clueless Watford||Manchester United succumbed to a first away league defeat for 30 games by losing 4-2 at Leicester as Liverpool stormed to the top of the Premier League with a 5-0 demolition of Watford on Saturday. Manchester City moved into second with a 2-0 win over Burnley. But the focus will fall on United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer after his side failed to win for the third consecutive Premier League game. United led at the King Power thanks to Mason Greenwood’s spectacular strike, but was quickly pegged back by Youri Tielemans’ dinked finish beyond David de Gea. A flurry of four goals in the final 12 minutes then condemned Solskjaer’s men to a first defeat on the road since January 2020. Caglar Soyuncu put Leicester in front before Marcus Rashford equalised. Straight from kick-off, United’s leaky defence was breached once more as Jamie Vardy smashed home and Patson Daka’s first Leicester goal in stoppage time sealed a much-needed win for Brendan Rodgers’ men. Roberto Firmino scored his first hat-trick since 2018 as Liverpool ran riot at Vicarage Road in Claudio Ranieri’s first match as Watford boss. But it was Mohamed Salah, who again took most of the plaudits for another stunning solo goal to take his tally for the season to 10 in as many games. “In this moment it is clear that there is no one better than him,” said Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp of the Egyptian. Salah helped open the floodgates with a defence-splitting pass that teed up Sadio Mane to score his 100th Premier League goal. Firmino would have been unavailable due to a late return from international duty but for an injury that forced him to withdraw from the Brazil squad. He tapped home his first goal from James Milner’s cross before half-time and took advantage of another open goal after Ben Foster parried Craig Cathcart’s attempted clearance. Salah left four Manchester City defenders trailing to score in a thrilling 2-2 draw before the international break and pulled off a similar feat before curling into the far corner. Firmino then completed the rout in stoppage time. City did not need to hit top gear to see off Burnley at the Etihad and remains one point behind Liverpool at the top of the table. Bernardo Silva and Kevin De Bruyne were on target either side of half-time for Pep Guardiola’s men. Wolves produced a miraculous comeback from 2-0 down with 10 minutes remaining to win 3-2 at Aston Villa. Danny Ings and John McGinn had put the hosts in a commanding position at Villa Park. But Romain Saiss, Conor Coady and Ruben Neves handed Bruno Lage’s men a dramatic three points. Erling Haaland marked his return from injury with two goals on Saturday as Borussia Dortmund beat Mainz 3-1 to go top of the Bundesliga overnight. Norwegian prodigy Haaland missed Dortmund’s last four games in all competitions with a thigh complaint, but returned against Mainz to score his third brace in as many appearances and take his season tally to nine league goals. Victory sent Dortmund top of the table, leapfrogging Bayern Munich and Bayer Leverkusen, who meet on Sunday.  The results: Premier League: Watford 0 lost to Liverpool 5 (Mane 9, Firmino 37, 52, 90, Salah 54); Aston Villa 2 (Ings 48, McGinn 68) lost to Wolves 3 (Saiss 80, Coady 85, Neves 90+5); Leicester 4 (Tielemans 31, Soyuncu 78, Vardy 83, Daka 90) bt Manchester United 2 (Greenwood 19, Rashford 82); Manchester City 2 (Silva 12, De Bruyne 70) bt Burnley 0; Norwich 0 drew with Brighton 0; Southampton 1 (Broja 53) bt Leeds 0.   Serie A: Spezia 2 (Strelec 51, Kovalenko 76) bt Salernitana 1 (Simy 39).   Bundesliga: Borussia Dortmund 3 (Reus 3, Haaland 54-pen, 90+4) bt Mainz 1 (Burkardt 87); Eintracht Frankfurt 1 (Paciencia 78-pen) lost to Hertha Berlin 2 (Richter 7, Ekkelenkamp 63) ; Union Berlin 2 (Awoniyi 49, Becker 83) bt Wolfsburg 0; Freiburg 1 (Jeong 64) drew with RB Leipzig 1 (Forsberg 32); Greuther Fuerth 0 lost to Bochum 1 (Losilla 80).   On Friday: Bundesliga: Hoffenheim 5 (Bebou 31, 49, Baumgartner 51, Geiger 74, Posch 87) bt Cologne 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-sizzles-against-a-clueless-watford/article37033985.ece
17 October 2021||Chennai,||Former TN cricketer Vasanth passes away||Former Tamil Nadu top-order batsman R.C. Vasanth Kumar passed away at 4 a.m. on Saturday following a heart attack. He was 45. Vasanth, a dashing batsman in his playing days, had watched the IPL final on Friday night without any discomfort. But his father R. Chandrasekharan, an accomplished off-spinner in his time, found he had breathed his last in the early hours of Saturday. Vasanth made 1,097 runs in 22 First Class games at 32.26. He notched up three hundreds and an equal number of 50s, with a highest of 151.  Vasanth, also the hon. secretary of Magnet Cricket Club, was active in cricketing circles. The Tamil Nadu Cricket Association expressed its condolences at Vasanth’s unexpected demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-tn-cricketer-vasanth-passes-away/article37034190.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||CSK members to land in Chennai on Monday||The victorious Chennai Super Kings team is scheduled to arrive in the city in the early hours of Monday. However, unlike the last time the team won the title in 2018, when it received a rousing welcome in the city, this time most players, including skipper M.S. Dhoni, won’t be here in the city. The international players will stay back in the UAE for the ICC World T20, including the captain, the mentor for the Indian team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-members-to-land-in-chennai-on-monday/article37034501.ece
17 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Saranjeet Singh passes away||Former hockey international Saranjeet Singh passed away here on Thursday. He was 59 and is survived by wife, daughter and a son. He had been unwell for the past three months. The former State Bank of India hockey player who played for Coronation Club in local league, represented Hyderabad juniors and seniors in the late 70s and 80s and also played for the Indian team that toured Germany in 1983. Olympians Alloysius Edwards, N. Mukesh Kumar, former India junior coach Narinderpal Singh, and others expressed their condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saranjeet-singh-passes-away/article37034131.ece
17 October 2021||Chennai,||Nazir Hoosein Memorial drive launched||Team Firefox on Saturday officially launched the Nazir Hoosein Memorial Drive (NHMD), a non-competitive event that will track the original route of the Himalayan Rally (1981 edition) from November 8. The drive is organised in memory of Nazir Hoosein, founder of the Indian Automotive Racing Club (IARC) and former president of the Federation of MotorSport Clubs of India (FMSCI) (1984-85). Pioneering work While his pioneering administrative work paved the way for many motorsport enthusiasts in the country, Hoosein is perhaps most fondly remembered for founding the Himalayan Rally. NHMD will follow the original route from the 1981 edition, with a 100-car field kicking off from Greater Noida on November 8. The first stop will be Lansdowne (8th), followed by Mussoorie (9th) and Kufri (10th). On the 11th, drivers will tackle the iconic route of the original rally — the Jalori Pass before halting in Manali. The final day will see participants cross over the Rohtang pass before concluding the drive in Manali. “Once we saw things slowly opening up, some of us involved with the motorsport community decided that we should do a drive, something to hark back the good times,” said former secretary-general of FMSCI Rajan Syal. “That idea snowballed into doing something to commemorate Nazir Hoosein,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nazir-hoosein-memorial-drive-launched/article37034133.ece
17 October 2021||Hyderabad:,||Xfinity should score in feature event||Trainer Anant Vatsalya’s Xfinity should score over his rivals in the S. Malakonda Reddy Memorial Cup, the feature event of Sunday’s (Oct. 17) races.  GOODWOOD PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II) — 12.45 p.m.: 1. Arrowtown (1) Md. Ismail 56, 2. Grand Duke (4) C.P. Bopanna 56, 3. Magic Mark (2) B. Nikhil 56, 4. Sye Ra (9) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 5. Amalfitana (8) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 6. Archangels (7) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 7. Golden Amaris (10) Kuldeep 54.5, 8. Goldrun (6) Aneel 54.5, 9. N R I Sugar (11) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 10. Racing Rani (3) Afroz Khan 54.5 and 11. Siri (5) B.R. Kumar 54.5.  1. N R I SUGAR, 2. ARCHANGELS, 3. AMALFITANA   INDIAN NAVY ROLLING CHALLENGE TROPHY (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 1.15: 1. Strategist (4) Nakhat Singh 60, 2. British Empress (11) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 3. Dandy Man (5) Ashad Asbar 57, 4. Full Volume (8) Ajit Singh 56.5, 5. N R I Elegance (3) Gaurav Singh 56, 6. Private Empire (2) Koushik 56, 7. Lockhart (9) Ajeeth Kumar 54, 8. City Of Wisdom (7) Mukesh Kumar 53, 9. The Special One (12) Abhay Singh 52.5, 10. Once More (1) B.R. Kumar 52, 11. Angel Tesoro (6) G. Naresh 51 and 12. Rapid Fire (10) Surya Prakash 51.  1. STRATEGIST, 2. BRITISH EMPRESS, 3. DANDY MAN   HALLMARK PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 1.45: 1. Due Diligence (4) Surya Prakash 60, 2. Good Connection (7) Gaurav Singh 60, 3. N R I Sport (5) Mukesh Kumar 58.5, 4. Flying Jet (8) Afroz Khan 57, 5. Moonlight Ruby (10) Kuldeep Singh 57, 6. Top Diamond (9) Akshay Kumar 56, 7. Top In Class (1) A.A. Vikrant 54, 8. N R I Blue (3) B. Nikhil 53, 9. Exponent (6) B.R. Kumar 51 and 10. Hurricane (2) Abhay Singh 51.  1. DUE DILIGENCE, 2. GOOD CONNECTION, 3. TOP DIAMOND   BLUE MAX PLATE (1,600m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 2.15: 1. Star Dancer (5) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. Grand Finale (9) Deepak Singh 57, 3. N R I Touch (7) Akshay Kumar 57, 4. Nightmare (2) Mukesh Kumar 57, 5. Ashwa Sultan (6) Ajit Singh 56.5, 6. Special Effort (1) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 7. Reining Queen (8) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 8. Paladino (4) N.B. Kuldeep 55.5 and 9. Starwalt (3) Khurshad Alam 54.5.  1. N R I TOUCH, 2. STAR DANCER, 3. SPECIAL EFFORT   FLORINA PLATE (1,600m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 2.45: 1. Star Racer (7) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. N R I Heights (4) Rohit Kumar 59, 3. Blickfang (5) Afroz Khan 57.5, 4. Miss Marvellous (9) Akshay Kumar 57.5, 5. Dunkirk (6) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 6. Sun Dancer (2) N.B. Kuldeep 56.5, 7. Call Of The Blue (3) Gaurav Singh 56, 8. Sheldon (8) G. Naresh 54 and 9. Story Teller (1) R.S. Jodha 53.5.  1. MISS MARVELLOUS, 2. SHELDON, 3. STAR RACER   S. MALAKONDA REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 3.15: 1. Sporting Smile (6) C.P. Bopanna 60, 2. Xfinity (9) Akshay Kumar 60, 3. Cosmic Run (5) Kiran Naidu 59, 4. Mystery (2) G. Naresh 58.5, 5. N R I Vision (10) Koushik 58, 6. City Of Bliss (3) Mukesh Kumar 57.5, 7. Kingston (7) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 8. Amyra (8) Ashad Asbar 56, 9. Shaquille (4) Gaurav Singh 56 and 10. Jean Laefette (1) R. Ajinkya 55.5.  1. XFINITY, 2. KINGSTON, 3. AMYRA   GOODWOOD PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II) — 3.45: 1. Cash Register (3) Ashad Asbar 56, 2. I Am Superman (1) Rafique Sk. 56, 3. Pacific Command (9) Akshay Kumar 56, 4. Tales Of A Legend (2) A.A. Vikrant 56, 6. Good Tidings (7) Md. Ismail 54.5, 7. Isra (6) Aneel 54.5, 8. Kimberley (10) S.S. Tanwar 54.5, 9. Ostentatious (8) Afroz Khan 54.5 and 10. Silk (5) Mukesh Kumar 54.5.  1. CASH REGISTER, 2. PACIFIC COMMAND, 3. KIMBERLEY  Day’s Best: MISS MARVELLOUS  Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Mini Jackpot: (i) 1, 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 4, 5, 6 & 7. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 5, 6 & 7. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/xfinity-should-score-in-feature-event/article37033983.ece
17 October 2021||Ahmedabad,||Saurashtra cricketer Barot passes away||Saurashtra batter Avi Barot, a former India Under-19 captain and a member of the Ranji Trophy winning team in the 2019-20 season, has died after suffering a cardiac arrest at the young age of 29. Barot, who also represented Haryana and Gujarat in his career, died on Friday while being taken to hospital after he felt unwell at his home in Ahmedabad. He is survived by his mother and wife, who is expecting their first child. Barot, a wicketkeeper-batsman, played 38 First Class matches (1,547 runs), 38 List-A matches (1,030) and 20 domestic T20 games (717).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saurashtra-cricketer-barot-passes-away/article37034092.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Venkatesh a big catalyst for our turnaround’||Kolkata Knight Riders head coach Brendon McCullum credited opening batter Venkatesh Iyer for being the catalyst for the side’s turnaround from a poor start to its IPL campaign. “Venkatesh is an intelligent man with an enormous future. He was a big catalyst for our turnaround this season,” McCullum stated in the post-match media conference. McCullum, speaking after KKR lost to Chennai Super Kings in the final, implored Venkatesh not to change his attacking style of batting. “It was a matter of bringing the Venkatesh Iyer game plan to the table — which is aggressive intent. He plays the game with a cavalier streak. It’s very important that he sticks to this method. He will be challenged to change, because he might not be the most consistent batter due to his flamboyance. But I hope he remains the Venkatesh Iyer we’ve seen so far,” McCullum said. On not picking West Indies all-rounder Andre Russell in the playing eleven, McCullum said, “Andre had a hamstring tear earlier in the competition. He worked unbelievably hard to try and get himself available. But there was still a risk there; a risk I felt we couldn’t afford to take in a final.” He sympathised with KKR skipper Eoin Morgan, who struggled for form with the bat. “It was a unique situation. Morgan captained KKR as well as any captain I’ve seen. We tried to slot him in a batting position where he has been so successful — in the last five overs of the innings. Unfortunately, the runs weren’t there for him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/venkatesh-a-big-catalyst-for-our-turnaround/article37034096.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||We were pretty much written off: Fleming||Chennai Super Kings coach Stephen Fleming said that the title win this year was special because the side was written off after a disappointing season in 2020. “It is very hard to rank them (the titles). I think, the win in 2018, coming back, was very emotional, but there is a lot of hard work in this one,” said Fleming. “I don’t think a lot of people had any hopes for us to be able to maintain our competitiveness during this cycle. We were pretty much written off. “So, there is a little bit of satisfaction around that and a lot of pride in what the players have been able to achieve and maintain the standards over a number of months and that was a challenge for an ageing side,” added the former New Zealand skipper. Commenting on the team’s philosophy, Fleming pointed out the importance of experience, in a format that is widely believed is for youth, as the key behind the team’s consistency. “We have things we believe in and we pick players who can fill roles. We have got some outstanding leaders and experienced players. People call them old, but I call them experienced and that helps create an environment that is very calm and understands what it is doing,” he said. When asked if it feels like the end of an era with a new auction set to take place with two new teams joining next year, Fleming said, “Well, look, maybe. We don’t know. There is emotion around it. Whenever you get to the end of a cycle you’re not going to get some players back.” Arriving on Monday The victorious CSK team is scheduled to arrive in the city in the early hours of Monday. However, unlike the last time the team won the title in 2018, when it received a rousing welcome in the city, this time most players, including skipper M.S. Dhoni, won’t be here in the city. The international players will stay back in the UAE for the ICC World T20, including the captain, the mentor for the Indian team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-were-pretty-much-written-off-fleming/article37034098.ece
17 October 2021||Geneva,||Nordic group opposes biennial WC plan||The six-nation Nordic group of European soccer federations has detailed its opposition to FIFA’s push to stage the World Cup every two years. Increasing the number of World Cups would “cannibalise” existing competitions, make European Championships “obsolete” and marginalise women’s tournaments, the federations wrote in a co-signed statement. “It (the FIFA proposal) can fundamentally make it impossible to continue with our current model of national tournaments and national team matches,” said the statement, which was released after a meeting in Copenhagen, Denmark. The Nordic opposition wasn’t unexpected with influential officials from the region working at European governing body UEFA, which has called for “proper consultation” before a decision is made. Karl-Erik Nilsson of Sweden is UEFA’s first vice-president and Danish soccer president Jesper Moller is a UEFA executive committee member. Outside Europe, the biennial plan has been publicly supported by soccer bodies most loyal to FIFA president Gianni Infantino.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nordic-group-opposes-biennial-wc-plan/article37034298.ece
17 October 2021||MUSCAT,||Double for Yashaswini||India won four of the five titles at stake in the girls’ section of the WTT Youth Contender Muscat here.  The results (finals):   Girls: u-19: Yashaswini Deepak Ghorpade bt Markhabo Magdieva (Uzb) 11-6, 11-8, 11-4.   U-17: Yashaswini Deepak Ghorpade bt Markhabo Magdieva (Uzb) 12-10, 11-3, 11-4.   U-15: Suhana Saini bt M.R. Hansini 11-6, 7-11, 11-6, 11-8; u-13: M. R. Hansini bt Setayesh Iloukhani (Iri) 11-4, 11-7, 7-11, 11-9 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-for-yashaswini/article37034138.ece
17 October 2021||New Delhi,||Keymer beats Mendonca||Leon Mendonca could not maintain his early lead over second-seeded German Vincent Keymer and eventually fell in the second blitz tie-break game of the quarterfinals of the online $40,000 Challengers Chess Tour Finals on Friday. Keymer, who lost the second game and won the third before the four rapid games ended 2-2, went on to carve out a 3.5-2.5 victory over the fighting Indian. In the semifinals, Keymer faces third seed R. Praggnanandhaa. The other semifinal will be an all-USA affair when Liang Awonder takes on Christopher Yoo.  Semifinal line-up: Vincent Keymer (Ger) vs R. Praggnanandhaa; Liang Awonder (USA) vs Christopher Yoo (USA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/keymer-beats-mendonca/article37033982.ece
17 October 2021||Al Amerat (Oman),||Bangladesh starts favourite||Bangladesh will start favourite as it opens its T20 World Cup campaign against Scotland here on Sunday. Bangladesh has been drawn alongside Scotland, Oman and Papua New Guinea in the first round, and going by recent form is expected to top Group B and qualify for the Super 12 stage. Bangladesh comes into the tournament on the back of nine T20I wins, only behind South Africa which has 12. Skipper Mahmudullah is a seasoned campaigner, while the likes of all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan, coming off some good performances for Kolkata Knight Riders in the IPL, Mushfiqur Rahim, Soumya Sarkar and pacer Mustafizur Rahman are the key players for Bangladesh. Mustafizur will lead the bowling attack that also has Shamim Hossain, Shoriful Islam and spinner Nasum Ahmed apart from Shakib.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-starts-favourite/article37034090.ece
17 October 2021||London,||England players not thinking about Stokes’ return: Wood||England pacer Mark Wood has asserted that Ben Stokes’ potential late inclusion into the Ashes squad, after the all-rounder returned to nets earlier this week, has “not once” crossed any player’s mind, saying that the main concern remains his recovery. The 30-year-old posted a video on his social media of his return to training earlier this week, giving rise to speculation that he could still feature in the five-Test series which is due to begin in Brisbane on December 8. “Not once among any of the players has Stokesy been mentioned,” Wood was quoted as saying by The Guardian . “The one thing at the forefront of everyone’s minds is they just want him to be all right. No one wants to even think past that. “We just want him to be himself and feel right and happy and stuff like that. So not once has it crossed anyone’s mind about the Ashes,” he added. “We’ve got a huge chance and we’ve got a great team. Everybody talks about a four-year cycle for the next (ODI) World Cup but I still feel like we’re in that (2019) cycle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-players-not-thinking-about-stokes-return-wood/article37034600.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Roots Football School triumphs||Roots Football School defeated Bangalore Youth Football League 5-1 in the final to emerge as the Bangalore Pro Football League champion here.  The result (final): Roots Football School 5 (Vishal 4, Yohan) bt Bangalore Youth Football League 1 (C. Abhishek) .      Aradhya Kshitij and Gurleen Kaur Khanuja emerged as the boys’ and girls’ champions in the FSA-AITA under-14 CS7 tennis tournament here.  The results (finals): Boys: Aradhya Kshitj bt Abhradeep Bhattacharya 6-2, 7-5. Doubles: Prakaash Saaran/Nithilan Poonkundran bt Raghu Vijay Sumukh/Likith Gowda 6-1, 6-4.   Girls: Gurleen Kaur Khanuja bt Dharani Dhanyata Sreenivasa 7-5, 2-6, 7-5. Doubles: Disha Kumar/Hemaja Reddy bt Jeevika Channabyregowda/Adya Chaurasia 6-4, 6-3 .    A total of 81 riders will compete in the Rally de Hampi, the first round of the MRF Mogrip FMSCI National Rally Championship 2W 2021, at Hampi on Sunday. The final event of the Utsav de Hampi 2021, organised by Bengaluru-based Motorsports Academy of Vijayanagar (MAV) and supported by Karnataka Tourism, will traverse through five Special Stages (SS) of 57.85km distance.   Karnataka paddler Yashaswini Ghorpade won the under-17 and under-19 girls’ singles titles in the WTT Youth Contender table tennis tournament at Muscat. In the U-17 final, Yashaswini defeated Uzbekistan’s Magdieva 12-10. 11-3, 11-4. In the U-19 final, Yashaswini defeated the same opponent 11-6, 11-8, 11-4.     Karnataka duo Rishi Reddy and Vanshita Pathania won the men’s and women’s titles in the Rs. 2 lakh prize money KSLTA-AITA Pro Circuit tennis tournament here.  The results (finals): Men: Rishi Reddy bt Ishaque Eqbal 6-0, 6-2. Women: Vanshita Pathania bt Avishka Gupta 6-0, 6-1 .    Likhit Bannur (5/16) helped Friends Union (1) defeat Herons CC in the super league stage of the KSCA Twenty20 tournament here.  The scores: Friends Union (1) 171/8 in 20 overs (G.S. Chiranjeevi 40, Prajwal Pavan 26, Vinay Sagar 33 n.o., K. Shashindra 27, Danishulla Shariff 4/23) bt Herons 92 in 15.1 overs (Likhit Bannur 5/16).   Vultures CC 105/8 in 16 overs (M.B. Darshan 32 n.o.) lost to Rajajinagar Cricketers 106/6 in 15.3 overs (S. Nithin 34, Nihal Ullal 47, Abhimanyu Mithun 4/7) (overs reduced due to rain).   The Bangalore Cricketers 84 in 16.4 overs (Prateek Jain 4/19) lost to Swastic Union CC (2) 87/4 in 11.2 overs (Mashooq Hussain 26, D. Bharath 3/27).   Mount Joy 88/5 in 8 overs (Dhuri 47 n.o.) lost to Social Cricketers 89/1 in 6.4 overs (Aadarsh Prajwal 33 n.o., Akshay Ballal 44) (overs reduced due to rain).   Swastic Union (1) 91/5 in 15 overs (Shishir Bhavane 38 n.o.) bt Jawahar SC (1) 23/5 in 5.2 overs (match interrupted due to rain; Swastic Union (1) won via better run rate).   Bangalore United (1) 154/2 in 20 overs (Tushar Singh 39, Abhinav Manohar 75 n.o.) bt Modern 121 in 19.3 overs (Nishith Raj 37, Pranav Bhatia 3/17).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/roots-football-school-triumphs/article37034129.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Care FA to meet Chennai for title||Care Football Academy (Nizmabad) scored a 5-3 win via tie-breaker against Hyderabad XI in the semifinal of Waheeb memorial all-India football championship on Saturday The teams were locked goalless at full-time. In the other semifinal, Chennai scored a 3-2 win over Kerala via tie-breaker after the teams were locked 1-1 at the end of regulation time.  The results (semifinals): Chennai bt Kerala 3-2 (via tie-breaker); Care FA, Nizamabad bt Hyderabad XI 5-3 (via tie-breaker) .    Indian Olympic Association (IOA) has recognised Telangana Olympic Association (TOA) as its affiliated unit, according to TOA general-secretary K. Jagdishwar Yadav. In a communication to TOA, the IOA secretary-general Randhir Singh said that they were granting affiliation after going through all the documents, including the report of the IOA observer.   Incredible Sports Association will organise Hyderabad Junior cricket league championship for the Dr. M.V. Sridhar Trophy from October 18 at English Willow grounds, near Shamirpet. Seven teams will take part in the first edition of the championship.     Gemini Friends scored a 32-run win over Central Excise thanks to a fine knock by Sai Pragnay Reddy (73) in the quarterfinal of the MAK Patuadi Tiger Cup T20 cricket championship, organised by Hyderabad Cricket Association, here. In another quarterfinal, Deccan Chronicle scored a four-wicket win over Jai Hanuman by the VJD Method in a rain-affected match.  The scores:   Jai Hanuman 124 in 19.3 overs (C.V. Milind 3/12) lost to Deccan Chronicle 110/6 in 17 overs (Yash Kapadia 36) (by VJD method).   Gemini Friends 149 in 19.4 overs (Sai Pragnay Reddy 73, T.P. Anirudh 4/26, B. Ranganath 3/31) bt Central Excise 117 in 20 overs (M. Pratyush 34, K. Sumanth 30, Kamal Sawariya 3/17).      Maharashtra defeated Hyderabad by 34 runs in the semifinal of the BCCI Vinoo Mankad Trophy (under-19) cricket championship semifinal played at Ahmedabad.  The scores (semifinal): Maharashtra 197/9 in 50 overs (R.S. Hangargekar 93 n.o., M. Shashank 4/9) bt Hyderabad 163 in 46.4 overs (Aman Rao 61, R.S. Hangargekar 3/35, N.N. Thakur 3/25) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/care-fa-to-meet-chennai-for-title/article37034415.ece
17 October 2021||MADURAI:,||Saravanan stars in Sparkcolts’ win||Saravanan (106) starred in Sparkcolts’ 70-run win over SBOA in the Madurai DCA first division league.  The scores:   I div.: Mustang 132 in 20 overs (Sivasakthi 57, Srihari 3/33) bt Majestic 130/9 in 20 overs (Ram 52, Ashok 31, K. Karthick 3/28).   Spark 129/9 in 20 overs (V. Karthick 37, C. Panneerselvam 27, Raja 3/36) lost to Crescent 135/3 in 17.3 overs (Murugan 67, Raja 33).   Sparkcolts 177/5 in 20 overs (Saravanan 106, Balakrishnan 35) bt SBOA 107 in 19 overs (Hakkim Bazith 44, Karthickumar 3/17).   Mystery 130/7 in 20 overs (Thirumanparthiban 33, Prabakarmani 26) bt Selvam 94/8 in 20 overs (Seetharaman 33, Maheshkumar 25).   II div.: Richards 120/9 in 20 overs (Daniel 28) lost to Fanatic 121/3 in 18.1 overs (Sethuraman 67 n.o., Thennarasan 37).   TVS Aparajitha 149/5 in 20 overs (Pandiarajan 39 n.o, Karthibalaji 33 n.o.) bt Ocean’s Eleven 87/6 in 20 overs (Kishore 27 n.o., K. Nagarajan 3/13).   Majestic Cubs 107/4 in 20 overs (B. Monaeshbabu 72 n.o., Santhosh 25) lost to Dhaya CA 108/3 in 16.1 overs (Thangapandian 34, Thandeeswaran 25).   Thirunagar Rainbow 103/6 in 20 overs (Sakthi 25, Manimaran 3/15) lost to MCHSS 104/4 in 12.1 overs (S. Viknesh 33).   TVS Srichakra 173/6 in 20 overs (Udhayan 46, Murugan 38) bt Richards 95/8 in 20 overs (Rajkumar 4/13).   Sun 111/4 in 20 overs (V.V. Prabhakaran 42 n.o.) bt Mercury Legends 69 in 17.4 overs (Hari Vignesh 25, Gnanadharsan 3/14).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saravanan-stars-in-sparkcolts-win/article37034255.ece
17 October 2021||Mysuru,||Five-wkt. win for Yuvarajas’ College||B.R. Srinidhi Urs (68) and Sri Karthik (50 n.o. and three for 36) helped Yuvarajas’ College defeat RBNCC-B by five wickets in the KSCA Mysore zone second division league here on Saturday.  The scores:   II div.: RBNCC-B 209 in 41.2 overs (Sampreeth R. Shetty 45, Hridhay Singhavi 39, Aryan 35, Sri Karthik 3/36, Sachin Pande 3/17) lost to Yuvarajas’ College 210/5 in 31.3 overs (B.R. Srinidhi Urs 68, Sri Karthik 50 n.o., Sachin Pande 29, H. Sinchan 29).   III div.: Friends 190/9 in 50 overs (Madhav Bharadwaj 45, Janeesh 40, Ramprasad 26 n.o., Manjesh Gowda 4/46) lost to Royal 194/2 in 36.1 overs (T.L. Venuprasad 77 n.o., Harshith 53 n.o., Vignesh Shastry 25).   Kollegal 143 in 25.4 overs (Siddiq Ahmed 28, H.C. Abhishek 3/44, Abdul Rehman Sherif 3/47) tied with City Cricketers 143 in 25.3 overs (Bharath Kumar 61, Abdul Khaleem Parveez 26, A.S. Nagarjun 4/14, Siddiq Ahmed 3/29).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/five-wkt-win-for-yuvarajas-college/article37034564.ece
17 October 2021||Doha,||Saketh loses in doubles semifinals||Saketh Myneni and Patrik Niklas-Salminen of Finland, the No. 1 seed, was beaten 6-3, 7-5 by Julian Cash and Christian Sigsgaard in the doubles semifinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here.  The results: $15,000 ITF men, Doha: Doubles (semifinals): Julian Cash (GBr) & Christian Sigsgaard (Den) bt Patrik Niklas-Salminen (Fin) & Saketh Myneni 6-3, 7-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saketh-loses-in-doubles-semifinals/article37034136.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 07:24 IST,||Sudoku — October 17, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-17-2021/article37034721.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Some pop and art||On Sunday, Rangasiri will stage Sevanti Prasanga , the play written by Jayanth Kaikini. It is an adaption of My Fair Lady based on the classic Pygmalion by George Bernard Shaw. Directed by Sandeep Pai, it will be staged at Ashwath Kalabhavana, Basavangudi. Call 9986556816 / 19739299743. But if you are in New Delhi, drop by TAKE pop-up (a vertical of Latitude 28’s art magazine). The first edition attempts to blur the lines of fashion, home and lifestyle — with names like Akaaro, Shades of India, and Studio Six. At 1AQ.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/some-pop-and-art/article37034281.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Strays and friends||Residents of New Beach Road in Thiruvanmiyur have illustrated the effectiveness of a decentralised approach to caring for community dogs and maintaining their population. Last year, in the midst of the pandemic, some dog lovers of New Beach Road formed a WhatsApp group called ‘ABC dog group’. “We reached out to various apartment complexes in the area through the New Beach Road Association and some on adjacent streets joined us,” says Balaji Sundararajan, a member of the WhatsApp group and a dog feeder. The group initiated various discussions, including one about the approach currently followed by the Greater Chennai Corporation in administering ABC and how the mechanism can be improved. They sought the help of animal welfare organisations in guiding them through the process. By bringing new neighbours on board, the group was able to arrive at a clear count of the strays in the area and also got them to volunteer for various roles. Dogs needing vaccination were identified and people pooled in money for the ABC (Animal Birth Control) programme. “One challenge was getting resident-volunteers to take dogs to the veterinarian for the surgery. It called for a special knack with the dogs. It is about spending a few minutes with the animal on a regular basis and feeding it to get friendly,” says Balaji. Sterilisation of strays is just one of the roles. Adopting pups; alerting residents when they see a sick canine; and feeding strays are among the other continuing roles. Decentralised approach Raj Cherubal, a resident of New Beach Road and CEO of Chennai Smart City Limited, points out that the network that has been created makes it possible to nudge Greater Chennai Corporation to revamp its existing dog centres in Chennai. Equally important is the push for a decentralised approach to ABC, which can be achieved through mobile clinics and support from resident welfare associations. “A decentralised arrangement for vaccinating the strays with the help of the community will reduce the burden on GCC and help it achieve its objective of ensuring animal welfare in the city. This is important as a common complaint from dog lovers is that the GCC does not drop the dogs for sterilisation in the same area from where they had been picked up,” says Raj. Aishwarya Prem, an animal rescuer who has helped the residents in this exercise, says there is more strength when such animal welfare initiatives are driven by the community. Aishwarya, who runs Second Chance Animal Trust, points out that when someone is already friends with the dog, it is going to trust them. In contrast, having a dog catcher do the job will add to the dog’s stress level which does not do much for an animal going into surgery. Dwelling on the advantages of having a decentralised approach, she says it works cheaper out. “When there are multiple centres in a city, it can avoid spread of diseases and ensures better health of the existing dogs,” says Aishwarya. She says there are communities in Besant Nagar, RA Puram and a few other areas that have been promoting various dog-friendly programmes. People need to understand that there are various benefits of supporting such initiatives. “There are lesser dog fights in an area and the population is under control,” she says. With the city expanding, it is not viable for GCC to solely depend on its dog centres and so, the civic body must start establishing clinics in places where they know there are rescuer communities, says Aishwarya. She adds that such a model has been working well in Jaipur and Chennai probably can pick some lessons from the Pink City.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/strays-and-friends/article37033776.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Citizen volunteers behind GCC’s vaccination portal||In May, when vaccination was made available for the 18-45 age group, lengthy queues became the order of the day. Booking a slot in Cowin was proving a handful. Having experienced these problems first-hand, two Chennai techies — Shyam Sundar Nagarajan and Vikram Ravi Ramanathan — jumped at an invitation by Greater Chennai Corporation to create a vaccination portal. Launched in July, GCC’s vaccination booking portalhttps://gccvaccine.in/is the work of these two citizen volunteers who leveraged the low-code technology offered by Zoho Creator to launch it. As per data from the Corporation, the portal receives 80,000 visitors every day and has helped lakhs of residents get the jab. Shyam and Vikram say the brief given to them was straightforward. GCC was on a massive drive to get people vaccinated and did not want crowding at centres. It was also particular that the portal remove the barriers that people who did not know English faced. “Responding to an early feedback we received, we tried to figure out how to make the process of booking easy even for someone not quite conversant with technology,” says Vikram, founding team, Unmetrics. Simple and nimble “Most booking platforms are not particular that people register and we skipped that stage,” says Shyam, founder and CEO of GoFloaters. The app is equipped with a single-step login that redirects the user to zone selection and the available slots, thus shortening the booking process. The duo agree that many such features like a notification alert about vaccine availability and access through WhatsApp were made possible through Zoho Creator. Another major addition in the platform, Vikram says, was changing the dashboard so that it gives information zone by zone. “When we first launched it, we only had an overall Chennai dashboard, but based on our feedback we made it easy for health professionals and zonal officers to find out how many people in a region were vaccinated,” he says. Zone-specific information, locations of camps, bookings and validation were added. “I do not know how to write code and the best part of using the software is that even after you go live you can still make changes rapidly,” says Vikram. As the two had their day job, new developments pertaining to vaccines that required changes in the portal made the exercise more challenging. Sputnik-V vaccines were launched in the Chennai market, new locations were being added on a regular basis and Corporation even opened vaccination 24x7. “For a couple of months, every day there was something that had to be updated,” says Vikram. The two recall a development that gave them a steep asking rate. GCC planned a big launch of the portal inviting top officials and the team coordinating with them gave them 5000 vaccine doses as target as against the three-digit figure they were first given. Shyam acknowledges the help they got from Zoho’s team of architects. “They were with us online offering us support and that boosted our confidence,” says Shyam. How did the two bag this assignment from GCC? At the height of the second wave, a bunch of volunteers including Vikram and Shyam were involved in designing a hospital management help desk, which enabled people to find out about the availability of hospital beds and other information. “We started as a WhatsApp group of entrepreneurs and quickly scaled up. GCC had seen the impact it created, and when the invitation came we jumped at it,” says Shyam. Trusting us to solve something for the city was heart-warming, they add.  Based on our feedback we made it easy for health professionals and zonal officers to find out how many people in a region were vaccinated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/citizen-volunteers-behind-gccs-vaccination-portal/article37033784.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Reports of distressed pittas fly in thick and fast||It can sometimes be hard to tell what killed an exhausted migratory bird — the exhaustion of long-distance flying or the kindness of its benefactors. The Indian pitta is susceptible to both. Animal rights activist and rescuer Shravan Krishnan is once again doing what he has done over the years, around this time — educating Chennai residents on the do’s and dont’s of pitta rescue and care. One can sense the message coming with a gust of urgency. Through the first half of this week, Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary at Theosophical Society, found residents from different addresses — one from KK Nagar, two from Thiruvanmiyur and another from Adyar — entering the portals of the facility carrying injured and dehydrated pittas they had found in their stomping grounds. The pitta brought in from KK Nagar has a broken wing. Setting out from regions as far as the Himalayan foothills, Pittas are known for bumpy landings in their wintering grounds, being disoriented, dehydrated and sometimes hugely injured. In well-meaning but uninformed hands that have rescued these birds, they may be in for a greater ordeal. Sharvan particularly points out one assumption that significantly adds to the bird’s distress. “It is a small, colourful-looking bird, and people may get confused and take it for a baby bird.” One can visualise the “care” that does the bird more harm than good. “They are small birds and so, highly prone to stress. Too much of handling and too many people around them would definitely stress them out,” observes Shravan. The animal rescuer runs through a few points that ought to be ticked while nursing a pitta back to its wings. “Firstly, do not pick them up immediately and drop them at a rescue centre unless their condition warrants it. You keep them in a cardboard box in a dark, quiet, cool room. If you can afford to keep it in air-conditioning, nothing like it. Or, just any cool room — may be, the bathroom — will do.” The pitta grows only to be adorably tiny, and its stubby tail helps it retain a picture of “babyishness” through its lifetime. Look what happens when people do not know the pitta, let alone this facet about it. “Many people kind of give them milk and other things. They are mostly insectivorous. Do not feed them anything: Just keep a bowl of water with ORS,” says Shravan. That advice applies to any bird — migratory or otherwise — found dehydrated or disoriented. And, a distressed pitta is not a photo op. “Do not handle the bird too much, taking photographs and selfies.” Circle back to the point about what can happen to pittas that face “too much handling”. “After a day or two, it the bird is fine, release it at the same spot where you picked it up,” says Shravan. “If it is completely down, has a broken leg, a broken wing, then bring it to the rescue centre. Out of a hundred cases, only a few would be like that.” Any migratory bird can suffer similarly from the effects of long-distance flying, and Shravan draws attention to how the orange-headed thrush has been brought into the dispensary many a time. However, the pittas are unfortunately light-years ahead in the matter, proving to be delicate darlings among long-distance migratory birds. Pittas are affected in this manner in their other wintering grounds as well. “With Bengaluru in its migration path, such cases are reported from the city. An organisation called Avian Reptile Rehabilitation Centre (ARRC) in Bengaluru addresses this issue among others. We interact with ARRC regularly around issues of this nature that pertain to migratory birds, and also about the issue of birds being put in danger on account of kite-flying with the manja thread. This is rampant in Bengaluru. In Chennai, the situation is better because of the ban, but it still happens.” Shravan points out that most facets of caring for pittas the right way apply to other migratory birds that have a rough landing after a long journey. “Most of the migratory birds are susceptible to dehydration, but Pitta is huge in this respect; I would get 30 to 40 calls, and many people would not know what it is, with some mistaking it for a kingfisher.” To find help for a pitta in distress or any other bird, migratory or resident, call 9445070909.  They are small birds and so, highly prone to stress. Too much of handling and too many people around them would definitely stress them out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/reports-of-distressed-pittas-fly-in-thick-and-fast/article37033791.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Thiruvanmiyur RWA drives restoration of balwadi||An initiative by Dr Radhakrishnan Nagar, Marundeeswarar Nagar, Sivakamipuram, Malaviya Avenue (RMSM) People’s Security and Welfare Association receiving just the fillip it needed, a balwadi in Thiruvanmiyur has moved from dull to vibrant. Seeing the state of the preschool on Sivakamipuram Second Street in Marundeeswarar Nagar, the RWA brought it up before the Integrated Child Development Services. Residents sought permission to paint the building’s exterior walls. When the request did not elicit any response, they took it up with the Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation. “We were asked to interact with Deenadayalan, Assistant Engineer, Ward 181 and together we met the teachers at the school and told them about the proposed beautification work and sought their suggestions,” says Geetha R Padmanabhan, general secretary, RMSM People’s Security and Welfare Association. Based on the feedback, repairs were done prior to the painting. “The walls had cracked, floor tiles were protruding and the staff at the school had spread mats to cover the uneven areas,” says Geetha. Members of RMSM Trust signed a contractor on for the restoration, which was funded by a former vice-president of Infosys Limited. Later, members of Karam Korpom Foundation painted the walls and helped the children paint images. A new nameboard was also fitted on top of the building. S Maheshwari, a resident of Rukmani Street, Kasturba Nagar, whose son started going to the day care after it was opened recently, seems to speak for the parents and the children: The place looks inviting, especially the play area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thiruvanmiyur-rwa-drives-restoration-of-balwadi/article37033780.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Two roads in CLRI Nagar await construction of SWDs||Residents of CLRI Nagar in Neelankarai seek a permanent solution for the water stagnation issue plauging them. Every rainy season, Second Main Road and Third Main Road at CLRI Nagar come under water. And it takes days for water to recede. Last north-east monsoon, Plot Owners Welfare Association of CLRI Nagar spent around Rs. 45,000 for pumping out water. From 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., water would be pumped out. But the next morning, the roads would again get inundated. This is because this area is an aquifer and also has clayey soi. So water comes oozing out. Hence, we realised there is no use in pumping out the water. During the first week of October, the roads were inundated. In spite of repeated complaints to the Greater Chennai Corporation water was not pumped out. Therefore, we took up the issue with the Sholinganallur MLA, Aravind Ramesh, and with his intervention, water was pumped out a few days ago. However, the roads will get inundated when it rains the next time. Due to water stagnation, there have been instances of snakes entering houses. We have been enduring this ordeal for the many years now. Construction of stormwater drains on these two roads would make a lasting solution. Next, the roads should be relaid with a proper slope. At present, the roads do not have a slope. We request the Greater Chennai Corporation and the elected representatives to do the needful. Sri Devi Ramakrishnan is the secretary of Plot Owners Welfare Association of CLRI Nagar in Neelankarai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-roads-in-clri-nagar-await-construction-of-swds/article37033786.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Kalki Nagar RWA seeks widening of SWD’||Ever rainy season, Kalki Nagar (Ward 178 in Zone 13 Adyar) in Velachery comes under sheets of water. The stormwater drains on both sides of Kalki Nagar Main Road are the two main routes to discharge water into the Veerangal Canal. However, of the two drains, the one made of bricks is old and broken and therefore ineffective. Water from the surrounding areas such as Brindavan Nagar, Andal Nagar, Bhuvaneswari Nagar, has to pass through the SWDs in Kalki Nagar; after which it has to pass through another narrow drain before getting flowing into the Veerangal Canal. Hence, it takes a lot of time for the water to enter Veerangal Canal. Therefore, this narrow drain needs to be widened. Bharath parthasarathy is the secretary of Kalki Nagar Residents Welfare Association in Velachery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kalki-nagar-rwa-seeks-widening-of-swd/article37033788.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Tanishq opens outlet on OMR||Jewellery store Tanishq has opened an outlet on Old Mahabalipuram Road. According to a press release, as part of the festive season customers can avail up to 20 % discount on making charges in gold and diamond jewellery. Further, Tanishq has come up with a festive collection called “Utsaah – Tshe Festival of Life.” It is an aesthetic representation of gold jewellery with a seamless blend of ethnicity and modernity, adds the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tanishq-opens-outlet-on-omr/article37033774.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Camp to test bone health||In commemoration of World Osteoporosis Day, Dr. Kamakshi Memorial Group of Hospitals is conducting an ortho camp from October 20 to 24. It will be held at the hospital’s four centres — Pallikaranai, Adyar, Pallavaram and Medavakkam. According to a press release, the camp will be conducted for free. Test to evaluate bone mineral density will be conducted. For details, call 89399 00500 / 044 - 6630 0300||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/camp-to-test-bone-health/article37033775.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A strategy that clicked||On October 1, a COVID-19 vaccination camp was held at Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School in Besant Nagar. This camp is meant for administering the second dose of Covishield. Around 70 people from Olcott Ururkuppam took the jab. Five families residing at The Summit, a 30-unit apartment in First Avenue in Shastri Nagar organised this camp in coordination with the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). Since July, these families are driving an awareness campaign on the importance of vaccination and are also conducting vaccination camps with the support of GCC in areas where the underprivileged live. They call themselves “Covid Busters.” “It was during the devastating second wave of COVID 19 that we started this campaign. We wanted to do our bit in the world’s battle against the pandemic. First we started creating awareness among the domestic help, drivers, sweepers, watchmen, and gardeners working in our apartment. Because, we realised they were hesitant to take the jab. After a lot of persuasion, we succeed in convincing them and also conducted a camp for them, the venue being Olcott school. They took the first dose on July 2. We wanted other people residing at Olcott Ururkuppam to also benefit from the camp, even though it was meant for the domestic workers of our apartment. Towards this end, we conducted an awareness campaign a day before the camp. We rewarded those who took the jab with bag of groceries, each worth Rs. 500,” says Sunitha Chakravarthi. In August and September, camps were held in Pattinapakkam Kuppam. Another camp was conducted at a construction site in Chenglepet where 100 migrant labourers were vaccinated. “The funds are raised through crowdfunding. So far, a sum of Rs. .3,47,025 has been mobilised to buy groceries,” says Sunitha. The families, mainly the mothers and the children, are driving this campaign. “Around nine children, from eight to seven years of age are part of this campaign. They make posters and have compiled a song called “ Oosi Podu ” meaning “take the vaccine” for which we tweaked a Tamil movie song. We did it after obtaining the necessary permission from a film celebrity who holds the rights for the movie. Their mothers also played a role. While one of them helped in the compilation of the song, the other taught the dance steps for the song, another helped phrase slogans on the importance of vaccination, and yet another mother played host as the children gather at her house. And my part is to coordinate with the GCC officials,” says Sunitha.  Another camp was conducted at a construction site in Chenglepet where 100 migrant labourers were vaccinated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-strategy-that-clicked/article37033772.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||That chill pill on a Sunday||A few things have stayed a constant for regulars at Anna Nagar Humour Club: A meet-up every second Sunday at a fixed time and venue. Shri Krishnaswami Matriculation Higher Secondary School at Anna Nagar has been the favourite hangout for a small group of humorists for more than 10 years till the pandemic brought a halt to the practice. Now, for the last one-and-a-half years members park themselves online on Zoom; however the time and day remains the same. “Physical meetings were not allowed since the pandemic began last year and as a majority of our members are senior citizens we did not dare to host physical meetings even after various restrictions were relaxed, but we wanted to continue with the practice of meeting at the fixed time and venue,” says V Rajappan, chairman of Anna Nagar Humour Club. Hosting the virtual meetings is an achievement by itself. “Without a break, we have continued to hold meetings since April last year,” says Kamala Easwaran, secretary and a member for the last 20 years. She says sometimes the attendance is very thin when there is an IPL match or a muhuratam but the core team members have not missed a meet on the appointed day and time. Initially, switching to a virtual platform was a culture shock for the participants. “I am 85 and I got the hang of participating in online meetings only in the last one and a half years. Similarly, most of the members learnt by trial and error,” says Rajappan. The pandemic, however, has come as a silver lining for the Club that was dominated by participants from Anna Nagar and Mogappair. Humour club members from other chapters, non-members from other cities have been part of the free meetings, increasing the attendance to 50-60 during some months. Does the Club have plans to move to its old venue? Rajappan is pessimistic. “All of us are vaccinated but considering our age I do not think we should be taking a chance and burden others,” he says. The school has been offering the space to the Club at no cost all these years. “Now, with more caution everywhere I am not sure if the school management will be ready to offer us their space,” says Rajappan. The format in the online mode has not seen any change and members are waiting to experience the session in-person. Kamala feels there is nothing like sharing jokes in person. Pre-COVID, they would give away gifts like pens and books for the best joke of the day. “It is difficult to assess the takeaways from online meet-ups as sometimes people turn off their cameras or leave mid-way,” says Kamala. Dr Anantharamakrishnan, who manages the technical side, says in the physical format they had magic shows and mono-acting. “These are more effective when you watch them in-person,” says Anantharamakrishnan, a heart specialist. He says the Club is 24 years old and started by hosting meetings at the Tower Park. “Once the pandemic is over, we will be thinking about starting physical meeting or in a hybrid form,” says Anantharamakrishnan, president of the Club.  It is difficult to assess the takeaways from online meet-ups as sometimes people turn off their cameras or leave mid-way||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/that-chill-pill-on-a-sunday/article37033816.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Citizen volunteers behind GCC’s vaccination portal||In May, when vaccination was made available for the 18-45 age group, lengthy queues became the order of the day. Booking a slot in Cowin was proving a handful. Having experienced these problems first-hand, two Chennai techies — Shyam Sundar Nagarajan and Vikram Ravi Ramanathan — jumped at an invitation by Greater Chennai Corporation to create a vaccination portal. Launched in July, GCC’s vaccination booking portalhttps://gccvaccine.in/is the work of these two citizen volunteers who leveraged the low-code technology offered by Zoho Creator to launch it. As per data from the Corporation, the portal receives 80,000 visitors every day and has helped lakhs of residents get the jab. Shyam and Vikram say the brief given to them was straightforward. GCC was on a massive drive to get people vaccinated and did not want crowding at centres. It was also particular that the portal remove the barriers that people who did not know English faced. “Responding to an early feedback we received, we tried to figure out how to make the process of booking easy even for someone not quite conversant with technology,” says Vikram, founding team, Unmetrics. Simple and nimble “Most booking platforms are not particular that people register and we skipped that stage,” says Shyam, founder and CEO of GoFloaters. The app is equipped with a single-step login that redirects the user to zone selection and the available slots, thus shortening the booking process. The duo agree that many such features like a notification alert about vaccine availability and access through WhatsApp were made possible through Zoho Creator. Another major addition in the platform, Vikram says, was changing the dashboard so that it gives information zone by zone. “When we first launched it, we only had an overall Chennai dashboard, but based on our feedback we made it easy for health professionals and zonal officers to find out how many people in a region were vaccinated,” he says. Zone-specific information, locations of camps, bookings and validation were added. “I do not know how to write code and the best part of using the software is that even after you go live you can still make changes rapidly,” says Vikram. As the two had their day job, new developments pertaining to vaccines that required changes in the portal made the exercise more challenging. Sputnik-V vaccines were launched in the Chennai market, new locations were being added on a regular basis and Corporation even opened vaccination 24x7. “For a couple of months, every day there was something that had to be updated,” says Vikram. The two recall a development that gave them a steep asking rate. GCC planned a big launch of the portal inviting top officials and the team coordinating with them gave them 5000 vaccine doses as target as against the three-digit figure they were first given. Shyam acknowledges the help they got from Zoho’s team of architects. “They were with us online offering us support and that boosted our confidence,” says Shyam. How did the two bag this assignment from GCC? At the height of the second wave, a bunch of volunteers including Vikram and Shyam were involved in designing a hospital management help desk, which enabled people to find out about the availability of hospital beds and other information. “We started as a WhatsApp group of entrepreneurs and quickly scaled up. GCC had seen the impact it created, and when the invitation came we jumped at it,” says Shyam. Trusting us to solve something for the city was heart-warming, they add.  Based on our feedback we made it easy for health professionals and zonal officers to find out how many people in a region were vaccinated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/citizen-volunteers-behind-gccs-vaccination-portal/article37033830.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||IPL galleries come up in Chennai||When Kolkata Knight Riders’ innings had entered the death overs in the IPL 2021 finals, to further belabour an already much-battered cliche, everything was over bar the shouting. And the shouting was deafening as it was not restricted to a swanky sporting acreage in Dubai, with its limited crop of Chennai Super Kings fans. It was blasting out of pockets of Chennai, where some gated communities had rustled up galleries in front of giant screens. Appaswamy Orchards in Vadapalani has a history of big-screen screening of big-ticket cricket matches involving India and Chennai Super Kings. The community was not going to sit cooped up at individual homes and let the moment pass with weak and scattered roars of delight. “We have screened the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup; and crucial CSK matches from the past editions of IPL,” says Manikandan Venkataraman, secretary of the residents association at Appaswamy Orchards. As the viewing area is always al fresco , near the car park and the club house, and the community has diligently pursued vaccination, they could wade into the decision to screen the finals, with a degree of self-assurance. “We are happy to inform you all that IPL 2021 - Final Match will be screened in the ‘BIG SCREEN’ near the club house open area from 7 p.m. to match closing on Friday 15th October 2021. All are welcome to enjoy the match, but strictly with Covid protocols,” read the chirpy and cautious note from the secretary. “This was the first event we are conducting after the Second Wave and the restrictions were relaxed,” notes Manikandan. “We had arranged for a food outlet to bring in their burgers and pizzas by a mobile shop that would be parked at the community during the match.” Before the match began, allrounder Aditya Giridhar, a name recognised from Tamil Nadu Premier League, having played for Ruby Trichy Warriors, and more recently, Tiruppur Tamizhans, revealed the plans he had pencilled in for the evening. A resident of Orchards for the last eight years, Aditya expected to catch the second half of the CSK-KKR match around the giant screen. He confided his fears though: CSK has lost the two finals he had watched on the big screen at the community, and that memory was weighing on his mind. Rani Meyyammai Towers (RMT) in RA Puram is another of those sports-friendly communities that were not going to deny its residents, particularly children, the joy of a shared celebration of what could possibly turn out to be CSK’s day. “During IPL 2021, the children at the apartment have been getting together in smaller groups and taking turns to watch at each home cheering for CSK. They really wanted to watch the finals together, and so we arranged for a projector and had the match screened for them,” says Jayashree Sundaresan, a member of the sports committee at RMT. As it turned out, it was CSK’s day. And from a video, a gaggle of excited RMT youngsters threatened to lift the roof with a sonic blast, when the match was speeding towards a CSK victory. When the penultimate over bowled by Shardul Thakur was delaying the inevitable with its wides and no-ball, the “pavilion” at RMT erupted in disappointment, palatable and made enjoyable by the assurance of a CSK win. “We were hoping he would get the last two wickets and were screaming at the top of our lungs when he kept stretching it,” recalls Jayashree. “Every ball we shouted “wicket wicket” — all of us have lost our voices now, but are super excited and thrilled,” she reported in a running commentary on the reactions to the ongoing match. Notably, both the communities were keen on seizing the Olympic spirit and organise their own versions of mini Olympics that the pandemic and the size of their communities would allow. “We have an annual sports event, and this being a Olympic year, we were planning something called Orchards Olympics. We usually have table tennis, badminton, chess and all the other indoor games, and this year we wanted to take it outdoors in a big way and have a six-a-side cricket tournament and also a Orchards Mini Marathon that would require participants to do five rounds of a course marked around the community. An Orchards torch and relay were also on the drawing board. We have not given up on the plan and hope we could have it in December,” discloses Manikandan, and touches upon how sports-centric the community is. “We have opened up the play areas, and in the evening, if one comes downstairs to the open areas, they could see a hundred people, mostly children, playing a variety of sports.”  We have screened the 2011 ICC World Cup; and crucial CSK matches from the past editions of IPL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ipl-galleries-come-up-in-chennai/article37033809.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Three bow-wows to a two-year-old initiative in a neighbourhood||The descriptor “resident-volunteers” rarely goes with animal rescues. Loosely-formed animal welfare groups usually operate without a fixed pincode through members scattered across geographies. In that sense, Happy Paws Mogappair attempted something that seemed both endearingly and dauntingly left-field. It sought to make animal welfare the workaday concern of a neighbourhood and its residents, and it seems to have succeeded in this objective to a good extent. The group employs “neighbourhood animal welfare” as an umbrella term denoting a “compassionate community” whose heart skips a beat when an animal in distress hobbles into sight — four-legged or feathered or with any other qualifiers. However, in practical everyday terms, it is usually about watching out for neighbourhood dogs the way one would for one’s human dependants. Drilling down to the bedrock of details, it is about resident-volunteers sedulously caring for diseased and injured dogs by ensuring their treatment, and attending to the sterilisation and vaccination of dogs found in their streets. “In Mogappair, if someone sees an animal in distress, they should know that if they inform Happy Paws Mogappair, it will be taken care of. We want the model to be followed in other neighbourhoods,” says Bharath Surya, a management professional employed with a start-up, and a resident-volunteer with Happy Paws Mogappair outside of 9to5. The tone may come across as a tad self-congratulatory, but on closer scrutiny, does sound justified. On October 10, when it felicitated its volunteers on its second anniversary and ran through the milestones, the growth was strikingly evident — “from three to four volunteers at the start line to a 167-volunteer force now”, with many of the members on first-name familiarity with each other. “There are many volunteer groups, a majority of which depend on group calls for rescues across Chennai and they would be busy. We thought we would cover this area entirely. All the volunteers are from Mogappair and surrounding areas. We have helped around 900 animals in the last two years. That so many animals have been affected in this area was an eye-opener for us. That is one thing we have cracked. If not for this group, 70 p.c. of the cases would have gone unheard,” shares Bharath, adding that he cannot emphasise the effectiveness of neighbourhood-centric dog care group. One advantage group is that diseases in dogs are caught early before they ballon into unmanageable proportions. “A maggot wound can cause the dog to be infested with 300 to 400 worms, which slowly eat into the flesh and the dog would die. Since we have so many resident-volunteers around in the neighbourhood who have been educated about maggot wounds, they notice it when it is just the size of a small nick and with doctor’s guidance, they do the minor treatment required. We either do a spray or ointment on the ground, thereby preventing major issues from happening. That is one impact we have created.” Last Sunday, when the volunteers met for a quiet second-anniversary fete, each of them was provided with a first-aid kit, one consisting of tic powder and ointment and spray meant for treating open wounds in community dogs. Another impact is how resident-volunteers have achieved sterilisation and anti-rabies vaccination of community dogs. “We have sterilisations done privately with the help of a few vet clinics that offer us discounts. Residents of each street have the dogs in their neck of the woods sterilised privately — either they can afford it, or manage to find a sponsor locally. These are dogs on the street that they feed and which are in turn friendly with them. Our volunteers help these residents by catching and transporting the dogs to the clinic. There are two to three clinics in Anna Nagar that help us with discounts,” says Bharath. “We can do the dog-catching because some of the volunteers have been trained and are adept at it. If it is a very difficult case, we enlist the service of a dog catcher. We regularly conduct training programmes on how to muzzle a friendly dog and take it to the clinic for any treatment it may require.” While volunteering may be the strong backbone of initiatives of this kind, they would still need to be fleshed out with resources. “The volunteers in the group contribute every month whatever is within their ability to offer — Rs. 100, Rs. 200, Rs. 500 and so on. Even school children make a contribution — an eighth standard student contributes Rs. 200 every month, collecting the amount. There is one person who gives Rs. 5,000 a month, sending it on the first day. We pay off the veterinary doctors for treating the dogs, but usually with some pending amount. The vets on board are understanding of the delays, particularly Dr. Suresh of Pet Plaza in Koyambedu, who is extremely supportive of what we do. They offer discounts to ease the process for us. For sterilisation and treatment of the community dogs that require them to be transported, we use our cars and bikes. However, if we have a difficult case on our hands and the dog is ferocious, we turn to ‘auto annas’ in the neighbourhood who have been helping us. Where they charge Rs. 400, they would charge us just Rs. 300,” says Bharath. Sponsors often spring up on a case-by-case basis. “Last week, we rescued a dog with a huge lump on its back that had to be removed — you cannot imagine how big it was. The treatment bill came to Rs. 4,400 and a volunteer shared the details in a WhatsApp group, following which their friend living abroad met the expense. Whenever we see people on the road feeding a dog, we go and talk to them, and that is how we have expanded as a volunteer group. The new entrants will bring others into the fold. All these people are dog lovers who were struggling individually, often unable to find help for any injured or diseased dog. Seeing what a united force of resident-volunteers can achieve, they are only too glad to support the group.” With the core team of volunteers consisting largely of young millennials — a generation uniquely gifted to think visually — Happy Paws Mogappair puts out picture stories and videos of rescues and treatments of dogs, on its social media pages, which include Facebook and Instagram. “Every month, we make a video that details what was achieved as it ran its course. So, we ask people to share it with friends and family.” These videos sometimes serve as an inspiration for them to throw their weight behind the initiative. “Documentation is among our key strengths. Accounts are maintained, rescue and treatment records are diligently kept. Where the dog was found, who informed us, the treatment that was given to it, whether it survived or died; and if it survived, its current status are all documented . This way, we are able to measure the impact,” remarks Bharath. Among the striking features of this volunteering group is how they try to carve an identity for themselves, which include getting themselves a rescuer uniform. Bharath believes Happy Paws Mogappair could be a template for animal-loving residents of other neighbourhoods appreciate the reach that can be achieved by having a volunteering group in place. “We have started talking to dog-loving people in Ambattur and trying to bring them together as one unit. An ABC programme for dogs driven by resident-volunteers is the best bet in covering an area in its entirety. However, on the downside, there are vet and dog-catcher fees to be paid. The Corporation has the resources and its sterilisations are done free,” observes Bharath, suggesting that a synergy between the civic body and residents can maximise the positives. Over the two years, Happy Paws Mogappair has faced the challenge of educating many residents — who are not particularly dog-friendly — about the role a healthy, vaccinated, sterilised community dog can play in the neighbourhood.  There are many volunteer groups, a majority of which depend on group calls for rescues across Chennai and they would be busy. We thought we would cover this area entirely||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/three-bow-wows-to-a-two-year-old-initiative-in-a-neighbourhood/article37033822.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Reports of distressed pittas fly in thick and fast||It can sometimes be hard to tell what killed an exhausted migratory bird — the exhaustion of long-distance flying or the kindness of its benefactors. The Indian pitta is susceptible to both. Animal rights activist and rescuer Shravan Krishnan is once again doing what he has done over the years, around this time — educating Chennai residents on the do’s and dont’s of pitta rescue and care. One can sense the message coming with a gust of urgency. Through the first half of this week, Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary at Theosophical Society, found residents from different addresses — one from KK Nagar, two from Thiruvanmiyur and another from Adyar — entering the portals of the facility carrying injured and dehydrated pittas they had found in their stomping grounds. The pitta brought in from KK Nagar has a broken wing. Setting out from regions as far as the Himalayan foothills, Pittas are known for bumpy landings in their wintering grounds, being disoriented, dehydrated and sometimes hugely injured. In well-meaning but uninformed hands that have rescued these birds, they may be in for a greater ordeal. Sharvan particularly points out one assumption that significantly adds to the bird’s distress. “It is a small, colourful-looking bird, and people may get confused and take it for a baby bird.” One can visualise the “care” that does the bird more harm than good. “They are small birds and so, highly prone to stress. Too much of handling and too many people around them would definitely stress them out,” observes Shravan. The animal rescuer runs through a few points that ought to be ticked while nursing a pitta back to its wings. “Firstly, do not pick them up immediately and drop them at a rescue centre unless their condition warrants it. You keep them in a cardboard box in a dark, quiet, cool room. If you can afford to keep it in air-conditioning, nothing like it. Or, just any cool room — may be, the bathroom — will do.” The pitta grows only to be adorably tiny, and its stubby tail helps it retain a picture of “babyishness” through its lifetime. Look what happens when people do not know the pitta, let alone this facet about it. “Many people kind of give them milk and other things. They are mostly insectivorous. Do not feed them anything: Just keep a bowl of water with ORS,” says Shravan. That advice applies to any bird — migratory or otherwise — found dehydrated or disoriented. And, a distressed pitta is not a photo op. “Do not handle the bird too much, taking photographs and selfies.” Circle back to the point about what can happen to pittas that face “too much handling”. “After a day or two, it the bird is fine, release it at the same spot where you picked it up,” says Shravan. “If it is completely down, has a broken leg, a broken wing, then bring it to the rescue centre. Out of a hundred cases, only a few would be like that.” Any migratory bird can suffer similarly from the effects of long-distance flying, and Shravan draws attention to how the orange-headed thrush has been brought into the dispensary many a time. However, the pittas are unfortunately light-years ahead in the matter, proving to be delicate darlings among long-distance migratory birds. Pittas are affected in this manner in their other wintering grounds as well. “With Bengaluru in its migration path, such cases are reported from the city. An organisation called Avian Reptile Rehabilitation Centre (ARRC) in Bengaluru addresses this issue among others. We interact with ARRC regularly around issues of this nature that pertain to migratory birds, and also about the issue of birds being put in danger on account of kite-flying with the manja thread. This is rampant in Bengaluru. In Chennai, the situation is better because of the ban, but it still happens.” Shravan points out that most facets of caring for pittas the right way apply to other migratory birds that have a rough landing after a long journey. “Most of the migratory birds are susceptible to dehydration, but Pitta is huge in this respect; I would get 30 to 40 calls, and many people would not know what it is, with some mistaking it for a kingfisher.” To find help for a pitta in distress or any other bird, migratory or resident, call 9445070909.  They are small birds and so, highly prone to stress. Too much of handling and too many people around them would definitely stress them out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/reports-of-distressed-pittas-fly-in-thick-and-fast/article37033835.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Strays and friends||Residents of New Beach Road in Thiruvanmiyur have illustrated the effectiveness of a decentralised approach to caring for community dogs and maintaining their population. Last year, in the midst of the pandemic, some dog lovers of New Beach Road formed a WhatsApp group called ‘ABC dog group’. “We reached out to various apartment complexes in the area through the New Beach Road Association and some on adjacent streets joined us,” says Balaji Sundararajan, a member of the group and a dog feeder. The group initiated various discussions, including one about the approach currently followed by the Greater Chennai Corporation in administering ABC and how the mechanism can be improved. They sought the help of animal welfare organisations in guiding them through the process. By bringing new neighbours on board, the group was able to arrive at a clear count of the strays in the area and also got them to volunteer for various roles. Dogs needing vaccination were identified and people pooled in money for the ABC (Animal Birth Control) programme. “One challenge was getting resident-volunteers to take dogs to the veterinarian for the surgery. It called for a special knack with the dogs. It is about spending a few minutes with the animal on a regular basis and feeding it to get friendly,” says Balaji. Sterilisation of strays is just one of the roles. Adopting pups; alerting residents when they see a sick canine; and feeding strays are among the other continuing roles. Decentralised approach Raj Cherubal, a resident of New Beach Road and CEO of Chennai Smart City Limited, points out that the network that has been created makes it possible to nudge Greater Chennai Corporation to revamp its existing dog centres in Chennai. Equally important is the push for a decentralised approach to ABC, which can be achieved through mobile clinics and support from resident welfare associations. “A decentralised arrangement for vaccinating the strays with the help of the community will reduce the burden on GCC and help it achieve its objective of ensuring animal welfare in the city. This is important as a common complaint from dog lovers is that the GCC does not drop the dogs after sterilisation in the same area from where they had been picked up,” says Raj. Aishwarya Prem, an animal rescuer who has helped the residents in this exercise, says there is more strength when such animal welfare initiatives are driven by the community. Aishwarya, who runs Second Chance Animal Trust, points out that when someone is already friends with the dog, it is going to trust them. In contrast, having a dog catcher do the job will add to the dog’s stress level which does not do much for an animal going into surgery. Dwelling on the advantages of having a decentralised approach, she says it works cheaper out. “When there are multiple centres in a city, it can avoid spread of diseases and ensures better health of the existing dogs,” says Aishwarya. She says there are communities in Besant Nagar, RA Puram and a few other areas that have been promoting various dog-friendly programmes. People need to understand that there are various benefits of supporting such initiatives. “There are lesser dog fights in an area and the population is under control,” she says. With the city expanding, it is not viable for GCC to solely depend on its dog centres and so, the civic body must start establishing clinics in places where they know there are rescuer communities, says Aishwarya. She adds that such a model has been working well in Jaipur and Chennai probably can pick some lessons from the PinkCity.  With the city expanding, it is not viable for GCC to solely depend on its dog centres and so, the civic body must start establishing clinics in places where they know there are rescuer communities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/strays-and-friends/article37033824.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Green Navarathri||Seth P.D. Hinduja Sindhi Model Senior Secondary School at Kellys initiated a ‘Go Green’ campaign during the Navarathri celebration by distributing 500 saplings to the KG students. Like the various festivals it celebrates on campus, Navaratri was also organised with gusto but by following COVID guidelines, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/green-navarathri/article37033794.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A strategy that clicked||On October 1, a COVID-19 vaccination camp was held at Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School in Besant Nagar. This camp is meant for administering the second dose of Covishield. Around 70 people from Olcott Ururkuppam took the jab. Five families residing at The Summit, a 30-unit apartment in First Avenue in Shastri Nagar organised this camp in coordination with the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). Since July, these families are driving an awareness campaign on the importance of vaccination and are also conducting vaccination camps with the support of GCC in areas where the underprivileged live. They call themselves “Covid Busters.” “It was during the devastating second wave of COVID 19 that we started this campaign. We wanted to do our bit in the world’s battle against the pandemic. First we started creating awareness among the domestic help, drivers, sweepers, watchmen, and gardeners working in our apartment. Because, we realised they were hesitant to take the jab. After a lot of persuasion, we succeed in convincing them and also conducted a camp for them, the venue being Olcott school. They took the first dose on July 2. We wanted other people residing at Olcott Ururkuppam to also benefit from the camp, even though it was meant for the domestic workers of our apartment. Towards this end, we conducted an awareness campaign a day before the camp. We rewarded those who took the jab with bag of groceries, each worth Rs. 500,” says Sunitha Chakravarthi. In August and September, camps were held in Pattinapakkam Kuppam. Another camp was conducted at a construction site in Chenglepet where 100 migrant labourers were vaccinated. “The funds are raised through crowdfunding. So far, a sum of Rs. .3,47,025 has been mobilised to buy groceries,” says Sunitha. The families, mainly the mothers and the children, are driving this campaign. “Around nine children, from eight to seven years of age are part of this campaign. They make posters and have compiled a song called “ Oosi Podu ” meaning “take the vaccine” for which we tweaked a Tamil movie song. We did it after obtaining the necessary permission from a film celebrity who holds the rights for the movie. Their mothers also played a role. While one of them helped in the compilation of the song, the other taught the dance steps for the song, another helped phrase slogans on the importance of vaccination, and yet another mother played host as the children gather at her house. And my part is to coordinate with the GCC officials,” says Sunitha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-strategy-that-clicked/article37033829.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Poor conservancy operations plague Secretariat Colony’||Streets of Secretariat Colony are found wanting in hygiene and safety. Garbage clearance is erratic, and waste pile-ups can be seen across the locality. Each time, residents have to call and inform the Zonal officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation about uncleared garbage. The streets go from bad to worse when it rains and the passersby have to endure the stink. The stormwater drains get clogged with this litter and thereby water remains stagnant and provides a fertile ground for mosquito breeding. Cattle and stray dogs frequent the streets to feed on this garbage. Further, streets lights are not in working order for the past the few months. The overarching branches of trees are not trimmed. Therefore, the streets are plunged in darkness. In this regard, Triveni Apartments Owners Association has made many representations to the officials of Greater Chennai Corporation, but of no avail. In fact, we even sent a complaint to the Chief Minister’s Cell. A copy of the petition was also sent to the Zonal Officer of Zone 6. John Bennett Victor is the president of Triveni Apartments Owners Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/poor-conservancy-operations-plague-secretariat-colony/article37033804.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Drain in Korattur awaits desilting’||The rainy season is round the corner, but the stormwater drain at North Avenue in Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) colony in Korattur has not been desilited. The drain is meant to carrying surplus water from the Korattur lake, but is filled with plastic trash and wet waste dumped by nearby eateries and shops, due to which water remains stagnant and provides a conducive environment for mosquito breeding. After repeated complaints, solid waste was removed. Further, sewage is let into the drain by illegal means. During the last north-east monsoon, sewage mixed with water entered the houses on the ground floor at the TNHB colony. If there is going to be heavy rains, residents of North Avenue can expect the same ordeal this time also. S Sekharan is the secretary of Korattur Aeri Padukappu Makkal Iyakkam, a forum that seeks to conserve and protect Korattur lake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/drain-in-korattur-awaits-desilting/article37033807.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Dogs have gone back to old territories; ABC programme has resumed’||Wind back to the pre-pandemic days. The IT corridor hardly bedded down. Food joints operated close to midnight, with the odd coffee joint staying open into the witching hour for IT employees on the graveyard shift. Strays would besiege every eatery with an air of expectancy. With lockdowns and the resultant remote work turning the IT corridor into a ghost town, a knock-on effect on the canine population was inevitable. With slim pickings, strays migrated to places where they could expect food. This situation resulted in two contrasting pictures: One raising the question of where the dogs had gone; and the other of whether the canine population was being managed properly. Don Williams, general manager — rescues at Blue Cross of India says that though the ABC programme had been put on hold during intense lockdowns and severe restrictions, “the increase in dog population in some areas were the result of movement (in search of food), and not reproduction,” Though it stood out in bold relief on IT Corridor that is lined with food joints, canine movement of this kind was witnessed in all parts of Chennai in varying degrees depending on the availability of food. “ABC programmes had come to a standstill during the intense lockdowns. We cannot deny that. We were doing rescues and treatments. At that time, even Greater Chennai Corporation had to put its ABC programme on hold due to the focus on the pandemic. These dogs migrated to places where they found more food. The population of dogs in certain areas dwindled and in certain others, swelled. During the period, Blue Cross was feeding 2000 dogs a day. On the IT Corridor, dogs would usually be found around the eateries. Where eateries have opened for business as a result of the relaxations, the dogs have now returned to their old territories. With the easing of relaxations, the ABC programme resumed,” says Williams. Counting the dogs with a notch on the right ear that suggest sterilisation, one gets the impression that the ABC programmes happen in patches, leaving uncovered areas. Williams points out that this situation results from random catching of dogs here and there, and not marking an area and focussing entirely on it and completing the exercise at one go. “When a corporate, a college or an apartment association engages us to catch the dogs on their premises and have them sterilised and vaccinated, we catch all the dogs. If there are 50 dogs we catch all of them the same day. We do not catch five dogs and go back the next day to catch the others. When you start doing things that way, you educate the animal to become smarter. When the rest of the dogs see you, they flee. When we go out, we catch all the animals, whether they are male or female, sterilise and vaccinate them and put them back in the same place. Carrying out an ABC programme in this manner will ensure there are no uncovered patches in the areas brought under under focus.”  When a corporate, a college or an apartment association engages us to catch the dogs on their premises and have them sterilised and vaccinated, we catch all the dogs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/dogs-have-gone-back-to-old-territories-abc-programme-has-resumed/article37033825.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Look for telltale signs in dogs and inform GCC’||Greater Chennai Corporation will soon be upgrading its three Animal Birth Control (ABC) centres at Lloyds Road, Kannammapet and Basin Bridge Road. Stray dogs are brought to these centres for sterilisation and also immunisation against rabies. Post the surgery, these dogs must be released in their respective areas where they are caught as per ABC Rules. “GCC has also identified another place at Tondiarpet where an ABC centre would start functioning,” says Dr J Kamal Hussain, veterinary officer, GCC. Last year, he says, 11,000 stray dogs were sterilised GCC’s three centres and also at the centres of its NGO partners Blue Cross of India and SPCA. “Besides, from August 2019 to January 2020, 68,000 dogs were administered anti-rabies vaccine street-wise,” he says. He says both ABC and taking a count of stray dog population in the city are ongoing initiatives. The dog census is initiated once in four years. “In 2018, the count of stray dog population was 57,000 dogs. The count has certainly gone up and would have touched 80,000,” says Dr Hussain. He says the public must help GCC by identifying areas where stray dog population has been increasing and where the dogs are not vaccinated. It is easy to identify if a dog is vaccinated or not. In dogs, ear-notching is the common way of identifying if it has been vaccinated and surgically sterilised, says Dr Hussain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/look-for-telltale-signs-in-dogs-and-inform-gcc/article37033826.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘It is time to widen Varadharajapuram ROB’||The rail overbridge near Ambattur Head Post Office in Varadharajapuram on CTH Road need to be widened. It was constructed around 30 years ago. But now the vehicular traffic has increased maifold on this bridge. During the rush hour, the bridge is congested and traffic moves at a snail’s pace. Next, a speed-breaker should be laid near the post-office. Because, motorists coming from the bridge drive at a reckless speed. T Gunaseelan is a resident of Ambattur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/it-is-time-to-widen-varadharajapuram-rob/article37033802.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Creating awareness on mental health||UdavumKarangal’s Psychiatric Rehabilitation Centre located at Maduravoyal, where over 90 destitute mentally ill women reside, organised an event to mark World Mental Health Day. Caretakers and social workers organised a number of activities to make stakeholders understand their responsibilities and rights while treating the mentally ill. Dr. Sathyabhama was the chief guest for the function. Vidyaakar, founder of Udavum Karangal, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creating-awareness-on-mental-health/article37033792.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Yoga classes for women at Mogappair||Mogappair Panneer Nagar Manavalakalai Trust is conducting yoga foundation course for women till October 23, 10.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. Venue: Seethakathi Salai 4th cross St, Behind Velammal Mat.School, Mogappair. For details, call 9444418241 / 9840861519||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/yoga-classes-for-women-at-mogappair/article37033798.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Camp to test bone health||In commemoration of World Osteoporosis Day, Dr. Kamakshi Memorial Group of Hospitals is conducting an ortho camp from October 20 to 24. It will be held at the hospital’s four centres — Pallikaranai, Adyar, Pallavaram and Medavakkam. According to a press release, the camp will be conducted for free. Test to evaluate bone mineral density will be conducted. For details, call 89399 00500 / 044 - 6630 0300||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/camp-to-test-bone-health/article37033799.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Conservancy operations should improve in Avadi’||It is two years since Avadi became a Corporation, but little has changed on the ground. Conservancy operations leave a lot to be desired as garbage is not being cleared every day. There is no sign that work on underground sewage drains and stormwater drains will commence. Further, we are unable to pay property tax online. We have to go to the Corporation office, wait in a long queue and pay the property tax. The number of officials in various departments including engineering and health is inadequate. Hope the Avadi Corporation does the needful. J Jayakumar is an office-bearer of Bharatiyar Nagar Residents Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/conservancy-operations-should-improve-in-avadi/article37033801.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer- writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtown feedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article37033810.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Going abroad?||Ashwins Center for Learning and Overseas Education (P) Limited offers guidance for those planning to go abroad. Samuel S. Sekhar, CEO, said the centre organises online classes for TOEFL, IELTS, GRE and GMAT. It also enables medical education aspirants get into reputed universities. The consultancy also guides aspirants in seeking admissions to courses in engineering, forensic science, aerospace engineering, medicine and management studies.  The centre is at G Block 1 st Street, 10 th Main Road, Anna Nagar. For details, call 99401 72255, 97890 53653 and 4232 8777.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/going-abroad/article37033817.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Cancer-screening for women||Kilpauk Government Hospital is conducting breast cancer screening and detection for women from 8 a.m to 6 p.m till October 31. It is free for those covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. For others, a fee of Rs. 1,000 is charged. For details, call 73058 77472.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cancer-screening-for-women/article37033795.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Three bow-wows to a two-year old initiative||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/three-bow-wows-to-a-two-year-old-initiative/article37033812.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Citizen volunteers behind GCC’s vaccination portal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/citizen-volunteers-behind-gccs-vaccination-portal/article37033813.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||all in a day’s work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/all-in-a-days-work/article37033797.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||How far can a kid’s cycle go?||Your child may not take to your profession, but the odds are higher that they will adopt your hobby if you just get them mildly inquisitive about it. They may match strides with you sooner than expected — when their shoe is hardly half the size of yours. Retired naval officer Gauri Mishra will concur with that postulate, recasting it only superficially by replacing shoe with pedal. “His two pedals equal to one pedal of my cycle,” Gauri gives an inkling of the dimensions of her son Rian Kumar’s world, whose Doppler-shift denotes it is not far removed from the world of doggedly goal-focussed grownups. His seventh birthday still separated by a month, Rian is the possessor of a cycling record: The youngest to have clocked 109 km non-stop, a feat monitored and recorded by the World Book of Records, London this July. Gauri is a randonneur with Madras Randonneurs, having completed a 200 km brevet. Her enthusiasm for cycling has rubbed off on Rian, just as her mother’s had on her. “My mother Prabha Mishra was a national-level cyclist,” declares Gauri. She underscores the speciality of Rian’s achievement: It arrived on the back of a rather rudimentary cycle. Rian has so far sat astride a regular 16-inch kid’s cycle, gearless and seems to have not been enhanced in any manner for record-making long-distance rides. “First of all, I have not been able to find a suitable road bike for his size,” says Gauri. “The disadvantage of having a regular, gearless bike is that he would receive little assistance from it when he is climbing a flyover.” So, Gauri put Rian through the paces on various inclines across Chennai, and the exercise has made him flyover-hardened. “In the port area where we live, there is a small flyover, where we trained him, and followed it up with the flyover near Savera hotel, and then the Gemini flyover. He did not get bored with these flyover-climbing practice sessions,” says Gauri. The family lives at the staff quarters on Flagstaff Road in Island Grounds. With its quiet, the geography suits leisure cycling, but cannot support the intensity of the mother-son duo’s engagement with cycling, which requires an expansive terrain. “On October 10, Rian and I attempted a 150 km Chennai to Puducherry ride down East Coast Road, but turned back at Kalpakkam as the road from then on is treacherous for any cyclist, more so for a six-year-old. However, by riding back to our home in Flagstaff Road, turning around at Kalpakkam, he did do a 150 km,” Gauri illustrates, adding that Rian’s rides are recorded on a GPS-driven cycling app, with which he has been registered as “Rian the Lion”, and this ride was no exception. “Cycling happens three days in a week — two days during the work week and one during the weekend. We would start around 3 a.m. and be back around 8.30 a.m. before the traffic builds up. Sustaining a six-year-old’s interest for five and a half hours is not easy, but that has never been a challenge with Rian.” Gauri has long-distance cycling ambitions of her own, but has put them in suspension to be an enabler to Rian. “At present, I ride a hybrid cycle, but will switch to a road bike only when Rian is ready for one. I have to ride alongside Rian’s kid’s cycle now and having a fast road bike does not help matters.” That is the least of the sacrifices. Her retirement after 16 years of naval service was partly shaped by her desire to be able to pay closer attention to the details of Rian’s growing-up years. “For around a couple of years, our family of three was living in three cities — my husband was posted at Mumbai, I was posted at Chennai; and Rian was with my sister in Delhi. In January 2021, the three of us reunited when my husband was posted at Chennai,” Gauri shares. “When I would go visiting Rian in Delhi, I would help him on short cycling tours, running alongside as he cycled. There is a big lawn near this house in Delhi, and I would place toys suitably to create a zigzag cycling course for him. In January, when I took him on my cycling trips in Chennai, I noticed that he enjoyed it.” What followed is out there for everyone to see.  Sustaining a six-year-old’s interest for five and a half hours is not easy, but that has never been a challenge with Rian.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-far-can-a-kids-cycle-go/article37033847.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||IPL galleries come up in Chennai||When Kolkata Knight Riders’ innings had entered the death overs in the IPL 2021 finals, to further belabour an already much-battered cliche, everything was over bar the shouting. And the shouting was deafening as it was not restricted to a swanky sporting acreage in Dubai, with its limited crop of Chennai Super Kings fans. It was blasting out of pockets of Chennai, where some gated communities had rustled up galleries in front of giant screens. Appaswamy Orchards in Vadapalani has a history of big-screen screening of big-ticket cricket matches involving India and Chennai Super Kings. The community was not going to sit cooped up at individual homes and let the moment pass with weak and scattered roars of delight. “We have screened the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup; and crucial CSK matches from the past editions of IPL,” says Manikandan Venkataraman, secretary of the residents association at Appaswamy Orchards. As the viewing area is always al fresco , near the car park and the club house, and the community has diligently pursued vaccination, they could wade into the decision to screen the finals, with a degree of self-assurance. “We are happy to inform you all that IPL 2021 - Final Match will be screened in the ‘BIG SCREEN’ near the club house open area from 7 p.m. to match closing on Friday 15th October 2021. All are welcome to enjoy the match, but strictly with Covid protocols,” read the chirpy and cautious note from the secretary. “This was the first event we are conducting after the Second Wave and the restrictions were relaxed,” notes Manikandan. “We had arranged for a food outlet to bring in their burgers and pizzas by a mobile shop that would be parked at the community during the match.” Before the match began, allrounder Aditya Giridhar, a name recognised from Tamil Nadu Premier League, having played for Ruby Trichy Warriors, and more recently, Tiruppur Tamizhans, revealed the plans he had pencilled in for the evening. A resident of Orchards for the last eight years, Aditya expected to catch the second half of the CSK-KKR match around the giant screen. He confided his fears though: CSK has lost the two finals he had watched on the big screen at the community, and that memory was weighing on his mind. Rani Meyyammai Towers (RMT) in RA Puram is another of those sports-friendly communities that were not going to deny its residents, particularly children, the joy of a shared celebration of what could possibly turn out to be CSK’s day. “During IPL 2021, the children at the apartment have been getting together in smaller groups and taking turns to watch at each home cheering for CSK. They really wanted to watch the finals together, and so we arranged for a projector and had the match screened for them,” says Jayashree Sundaresan, a member of the sports committee at RMT. As it turned out, it was CSK’s day. And from a video, a gaggle of excited RMT youngsters threatened to lift the roof with a sonic blast, when the match was speeding towards a CSK victory. When the penultimate over bowled by Shardul Thakur was delaying the inevitable with its wides and no-ball, the “pavilion” at RMT erupted in disappointment, palatable and made enjoyable by the assurance of a CSK win. “We were hoping he would get the last two wickets and were screaming at the top of our lungs when he kept stretching it,” recalls Jayashree. “Every ball we shouted “wicket wicket” — all of us have lost our voices now, but are super excited and thrilled,” she reported in a running commentary on the reactions to the ongoing match. Notably, both the communities were keen on seizing the Olympic spirit and organise their own versions of mini Olympics that the pandemic and the size of their communities would allow. “We have an annual sports event, and this being a Olympic year, we were planning something called Orchards Olympics. We usually have table tennis, badminton, chess and all the other indoor games, and this year we wanted to take it outdoors in a big way and have a six-a-side cricket tournament and also a Orchards Mini Marathon that would require participants to do five rounds of a course marked around the community. An Orchards torch and relay were also on the drawing board. We have not given up on the plan and hope we could have it in December,” discloses Manikandan, and touches upon how sports-centric the community is. “We have opened up the play areas, and in the evening, if one comes downstairs to the open areas, they could see a hundred people, mostly children, playing a variety of sports.” RMT has also had to put on hold its “Olympic dreams” fuelled by the expansive turf they got installed last year. “At this point, we are thinking of December as that would be the holiday season, provided the Covid situation takes a favourable turn,” says Jayashree. “We are planning on having both track and field and team events. We wanted to do cricket, football, throwball, badminton and relay races. We have the turf, where we can organise running events, cricket, throwball and football. By installing the basketball hoops in the turf area, we can have that sport as well.”  We have screened the 2011 ICC World Cup; and crucial CSK matches from the past editions of IPL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ipl-galleries-come-up-in-chennai/article37033852.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Three bow-wows to a two-year-old initiative in a neighbourhood||The descriptor “resident-volunteers” rarely goes with animal rescues. Loosely-formed animal welfare groups usually operate without a fixed pincode through members scattered across geographies. In that sense, Happy Paws Mogappair attempted something that seemed both endearingly and dauntingly left-field. It sought to make animal welfare the workaday concern of a neighbourhood and its residents, and it seems to have succeeded in this objective to a good extent. The group employs “neighbourhood animal welfare” as an umbrella term denoting a “compassionate community” whose heart skips a beat when an animal in distress hobbles into sight — four-legged or feathered or with any other qualifiers. However, in practical everyday terms, it is usually about watching out for neighbourhood dogs the way one would for one’s human dependants. Drilling down to the bedrock of details, it is about resident-volunteers sedulously caring for diseased and injured dogs by ensuring their treatment, and attending to the sterilisation and vaccination of dogs found in their streets. “In Mogappair, if someone sees an animal in distress, they should know that if they inform Happy Paws Mogappair, it will be taken care of. We want the model to be followed in other neighbourhoods,” says Bharath Surya, a management professional employed with a start-up, and a resident-volunteer with Happy Paws Mogappair outside of 9to5. The tone may come across as a tad self-congratulatory, but on closer scrutiny, does sound justified. On October 10, when it felicitated its volunteers on its second anniversary and ran through the milestones, the growth was strikingly evident — “from three to four volunteers at the start line to a 167-volunteer force now”, with many of the members on first-name familiarity with each other. “There are many volunteer groups, a majority of which depend on group calls for rescues across Chennai and they would be busy. We thought we would cover this area entirely. All the volunteers are from Mogappair and surrounding areas. We have helped around 900 animals in the last two years. That so many animals have been affected in this area was an eye-opener for us. That is one thing we have cracked. If not for this group, 70 p.c. of the cases would have gone unheard,” shares Bharath, adding that he cannot emphasise the effectiveness of neighbourhood-centric dog care group. One advantage group is that diseases in dogs are caught early before they ballon into unmanageable proportions. “A maggot wound can cause the dog to be infested with 300 to 400 worms, which slowly eat into the flesh and the dog would die. Since we have so many resident-volunteers around in the neighbourhood who have been educated about maggot wounds, they notice it when it is just the size of a small nick and with doctor’s guidance, they do the minor treatment required. We either do a spray or ointment on the ground, thereby preventing major issues from happening. That is one impact we have created.” Last Sunday, when the volunteers met for a quiet second-anniversary fete, each of them was provided with a first-aid kit, one consisting of tic powder and ointment and spray meant for treating open wounds in community dogs. Another impact is how resident-volunteers have achieved sterilisation and anti-rabies vaccination of community dogs. “We have sterilisations done privately with the help of a few vet clinics that offer us discounts. Residents of each street have the dogs in their neck of the woods sterilised privately — either they can afford it, or manage to find a sponsor locally. These are dogs on the street that they feed and which are in turn friendly with them. Our volunteers help these residents by catching and transporting the dogs to the clinic. There are two to three clinics in Anna Nagar that help us with discounts,” says Bharath. “We can do the dog-catching because some of the volunteers have been trained and are adept at it. If it is a very difficult case, we enlist the service of a dog catcher. We regularly conduct training programmes on how to muzzle a friendly dog and take it to the clinic for any treatment it may require.” While volunteering may be the strong backbone of initiatives of this kind, they would still need to be fleshed out with resources. “The volunteers in the group contribute every month whatever is within their ability to offer — Rs. 100, Rs. 200, Rs. 500 and so on. Even school children make a contribution — an eighth standard student contributes Rs. 200 every month, collecting the amount. There is one person who gives Rs. 5,000 a month, sending it on the first day. We pay off the veterinary doctors for treating the dogs, but usually with some pending amount. The vets on board are understanding of the delays, particularly Dr. Suresh of Pet Plaza in Koyambedu, who is extremely supportive of what we do. They offer discounts to ease the process for us. For sterilisation and treatment of the community dogs that require them to be transported, we use our cars and bikes. However, if we have a difficult case on our hands and the dog is ferocious, we turn to ‘auto annas’ in the neighbourhood who have been helping us. Where they charge Rs. 400, they would charge us just Rs. 300,” says Bharath. Sponsors often spring up on a case-by-case basis. “Last week, we rescued a dog with a huge lump on its back that had to be removed — you cannot imagine how big it was. The treatment bill came to Rs. 4,400 and a volunteer shared the details in a WhatsApp group, following which their friend living abroad met the expense. Whenever we see people on the road feeding a dog, we go and talk to them, and that is how we have expanded as a volunteer group. The new entrants will bring others into the fold. All these people are dog lovers who were struggling individually, often unable to find help for any injured or diseased dog. Seeing what a united force of resident-volunteers can achieve, they are only too glad to support the group.” With the core team of volunteers consisting largely of young millennials — a generation uniquely gifted to think visually — Happy Paws Mogappair puts out picture stories and videos of rescues and treatments of dogs, on its social media pages, which include Facebook and Instagram. “Every month, we make a video that details what was achieved as it ran its course. So, we ask people to share it with friends and family.” These videos sometimes serve as an inspiration for them to throw their weight behind the initiative. “Documentation is among our key strengths. Accounts are maintained, rescue and treatment records are diligently kept. Where the dog was found, who informed us, the treatment that was given to it, whether it survived or died; and if it survived, its current status are all documented . This way, we are able to measure the impact,” remarks Bharath. Among the striking features of this volunteering group is how they try to carve an identity for themselves, which include getting themselves a rescuer uniform. Bharath believes Happy Paws Mogappair could be a template for animal-loving residents of other neighbourhoods appreciate the reach that can be achieved by having a volunteering group in place. “We have started talking to dog-loving people in Ambattur and trying to bring them together as one unit. An ABC programme for dogs driven by resident-volunteers is the best bet in covering an area in its entirety. However, on the downside, there are vet and dog-catcher fees to be paid. The Corporation has the resources and its sterilisations are done free,” observes Bharath, suggesting that a synergy between the civic body and residents can maximise the positives. Over the two years, Happy Paws Mogappair has faced the challenge of educating many residents — who are not particularly dog-friendly — about the role a healthy, vaccinated, sterilised community dog can play in the neighbourhood.  There are many volunteer groups, a majority of which depend on group calls for rescues across Chennai and they would be busy. We thought we would cover this area entirely||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/three-bow-wows-to-a-two-year-old-initiative-in-a-neighbourhood/article37033857.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Citizen volunteers behind GCC’s vaccination portal||In May, when vaccination was made available for the 18-45 age group, lengthy queues became the order of the day. Booking a slot in Cowin was proving a handful. Having experienced these problems first-hand, two Chennai techies — Shyam Sundar Nagarajan and Vikram Ravi Ramanathan — jumped at an invitation by Greater Chennai Corporation to create a vaccination portal. Launched in July, GCC’s vaccination booking portalhttps://gccvaccine.in/is the work of these two citizen volunteers who leveraged the low-code technology offered by Zoho Creator to launch it. As per data from the Corporation, the portal receives 80,000 visitors every day and has helped lakhs of residents get the jab. Shyam and Vikram say the brief given to them was straightforward. GCC was on a massive drive to get people vaccinated and did not want crowding at centres. It was also particular that the portal remove the barriers that people who did not know English faced. “Responding to an early feedback we received, we tried to figure out how to make the process of booking easy even for someone not quite conversant with technology,” says Vikram, founding team, Unmetrics. Simple and nimble “Most booking platforms are not particular that people register and we skipped that stage,” says Shyam, founder and CEO of GoFloaters. The app is equipped with a single-step login that redirects the user to zone selection and the available slots, thus shortening the booking process. The duo agree that many such features like a notification alert about vaccine availability and access through WhatsApp were made possible through Zoho Creator. Another major addition in the platform, Vikram says, was changing the dashboard so that it gives information zone by zone. “When we first launched it, we only had an overall Chennai dashboard, but based on our feedback we made it easy for health professionals and zonal officers to find out how many people in a region were vaccinated,” he says. Zone-specific information, locations of camps, bookings and validation were added. “I do not know how to write code and the best part of using the software is that even after you go live you can still make changes rapidly,” says Vikram. As the two had their day job, new developments pertaining to vaccines that required changes in the portal made the exercise more challenging. Sputnik-V vaccines were launched in the Chennai market, new locations were being added on a regular basis and Corporation even opened vaccination 24x7. “For a couple of months, every day there was something that had to be updated,” says Vikram. The two recall a development that gave them a steep asking rate. GCC planned a big launch of the portal inviting top officials and the team coordinating with them gave them 5000 vaccine doses as target as against the three-digit figure they were first given. Shyam acknowledges the help they got from Zoho’s team of architects. “They were with us online offering us support and that boosted our confidence,” says Shyam. How did the two bag this assignment from GCC? At the height of the second wave, a bunch of volunteers including Vikram and Shyam were involved in designing a hospital management help desk, which enabled people to find out about the availability of hospital beds and other information. “We started as a WhatsApp group of entrepreneurs and quickly scaled up. GCC had seen the impact it created, and when the invitation came we jumped at it,” says Shyam. Trusting us to solve something for the city was heart-warming, they add.  Based on our feedback we made it easy for health professionals and zonal officers to find out how many people in a region were vaccinated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/citizen-volunteers-behind-gccs-vaccination-portal/article37033862.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Reports of distressed pittas fly in thick and fast||It can sometimes be hard to tell what killed an exhausted migratory bird — the exhaustion of long-distance flying or the kindness of its benefactors. The Indian pitta is susceptible to both. Animal rights activist and rescuer Shravan Krishnan is once again doing what he has done over the years, around this time — educating Chennai residents on the do’s and dont’s of pitta rescue and care. One can sense the message coming with a gust of urgency. Through the first half of this week, Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary at Theosophical Society, found residents from different addresses — one from KK Nagar, two from Thiruvanmiyur and another from Adyar — entering the portals of the facility carrying injured and dehydrated pittas they had found in their stomping grounds. The pitta brought in from KK Nagar has a broken wing. Setting out from regions as far as the Himalayan foothills, Pittas are known for bumpy landings in their wintering grounds, being disoriented, dehydrated and sometimes hugely injured. In well-meaning but uninformed hands that have rescued these birds, they may be in for a greater ordeal. Sharvan particularly points out one assumption that significantly adds to the bird’s distress. “It is a small, colourful-looking bird, and people may get confused and take it for a baby bird.” One can visualise the “care” that does the bird more harm than good. “They are small birds and so, highly prone to stress. Too much of handling and too many people around them would definitely stress them out,” observes Shravan. The animal rescuer runs through a few points that ought to be ticked while nursing a pitta back to its wings. “Firstly, do not pick them up immediately and drop them at a rescue centre unless their condition warrants it. You keep them in a cardboard box in a dark, quiet, cool room. If you can afford to keep it in air-conditioning, nothing like it. Or, just any cool room — may be, the bathroom — will do.” The pitta grows only to be adorably tiny, and its stubby tail helps it retain a picture of “babyishness” through its lifetime. Look what happens when people do not know the pitta, let alone this facet about it. “Many people kind of give them milk and other things. They are mostly insectivorous. Do not feed them anything: Just keep a bowl of water with ORS,” says Shravan. That advice applies to any bird — migratory or otherwise — found dehydrated or disoriented. And, a distressed pitta is not a photo op. “Do not handle the bird too much, taking photographs and selfies.” Circle back to the point about what can happen to pittas that face “too much handling”. “After a day or two, it the bird is fine, release it at the same spot where you picked it up,” says Shravan. “If it is completely down, has a broken leg, a broken wing, then bring it to the rescue centre. Out of a hundred cases, only a few would be like that.” Any migratory bird can suffer similarly from the effects of long-distance flying, and Shravan draws attention to how the orange-headed thrush has been brought into the dispensary many a time. However, the pittas are unfortunately light-years ahead in the matter, proving to be delicate darlings among long-distance migratory birds. Pittas are affected in this manner in their other wintering grounds as well. “With Bengaluru in its migration path, such cases are reported from the city. An organisation called Avian Reptile Rehabilitation Centre (ARRC) in Bengaluru addresses this issue among others. We interact with ARRC regularly around issues of this nature that pertain to migratory birds, and also about the issue of birds being put in danger on account of kite-flying with the manja thread. This is rampant in Bengaluru. In Chennai, the situation is better because of the ban, but it still happens.” Shravan points out that most facets of caring for pittas the right way apply to other migratory birds that have a rough landing after a long journey. “Most of the migratory birds are susceptible to dehydration, but Pitta is huge in this respect; I would get 30 to 40 calls, and many people would not know what it is, with some mistaking it for a kingfisher.” To find help for a pitta in distress or any other bird, migratory or resident, call 9445070909.  They are small birds and so, highly prone to stress. Too much of handling and too many people around them would definitely stress them out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/reports-of-distressed-pittas-fly-in-thick-and-fast/article37033863.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Strays and friends||Residents of New Beach Road in Thiruvanmiyur have illustrated the effectiveness of a decentralised approach to caring for community dogs and maintaining their population. Last year, in the midst of the pandemic, some dog lovers of New Beach Road formed a WhatsApp group called ‘ABC dog group’. “We reached out to various apartment complexes in the area through the New Beach Road Association and some on adjacent streets joined us,” says Balaji Sundararajan, a member of the group and a dog feeder. The group initiated various discussions, including one about the approach currently followed by the Greater Chennai Corporation in administering ABC and how the mechanism can be improved. They sought the help of animal welfare organisations in guiding them through the process. By bringing new neighbours on board, the group was able to arrive at a clear count of the strays in the area and also got them to volunteer for various roles. Dogs needing vaccination were identified and people pooled in money for the ABC (Animal Birth Control) programme. “One challenge was getting resident-volunteers to take dogs to the veterinarian for the surgery. It called for a special knack with the dogs. It is about spending a few minutes with the animal on a regular basis and feeding it to get friendly,” says Balaji. Sterilisation of strays is just one of the roles. Adopting pups; alerting residents when they see a sick canine; and feeding strays are among the other continuing roles. Decentralised approach Raj Cherubal, a resident of New Beach Road and CEO of Chennai Smart City Limited, points out that the network that has been created makes it possible to nudge Greater Chennai Corporation to revamp its existing dog centres in Chennai. Equally important is the push for a decentralised approach to ABC, which can be achieved through mobile clinics and support from resident welfare associations. “A decentralised arrangement for vaccinating the strays with the help of the community will reduce the burden on GCC and help it achieve its objective of ensuring animal welfare in the city. This is important as a common complaint from dog lovers is that the GCC does not drop the dogs after sterilisation in the same area from where they had been picked up,” says Raj. Aishwarya Prem, an animal rescuer who has helped the residents in this exercise, says there is more strength when such animal welfare initiatives are driven by the community. Aishwarya, who runs Second Chance Animal Trust, points out that when someone is already friends with the dog, it is going to trust them. In contrast, having a dog catcher do the job will add to the dog’s stress level which does not do much for an animal going into surgery. Dwelling on the advantages of having a decentralised approach, she says it works cheaper out. “When there are multiple centres in a city, it can avoid spread of diseases and ensures better health of the existing dogs,” says Aishwarya. She says there are communities in Besant Nagar, RA Puram and a few other areas that have been promoting various dog-friendly programmes. People need to understand that there are various benefits of supporting such initiatives. “There are lesser dog fights in an area and the population is under control,” she says. With the city expanding, it is not viable for GCC to solely depend on its dog centres and so, the civic body must start establishing clinics in places where they know there are rescuer communities, says Aishwarya. She adds that such a model has been working well in Jaipur and Chennai probably can pick some lessons from the PinkCity.  With the city expanding, it is not viable for GCC to solely depend on its dog centres and so, the civic body must start establishing clinics in places where they know there are rescuer communities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/strays-and-friends/article37033858.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Campaign by college to promote mental health||KCG College of Technology organised a mental wellness awareness campaign and cyclothon as a part of World Mental Health Day observed on October 10. Student counsellor Revathy Dhushyanthan, student members of Engineers without Borders chapter and the NSS unit of the college conducted the programme following the COVID protocols. The awareness campaign aimed to educate school children and police officials in the locality about mental health was launched by the principal P Deiva Sundari. The campaign will continue till October 31, says a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/campaign-by-college-to-promote-mental-health/article37033837.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Thiruvanmiyur RWA drives restoration of balwadi||An initiative by Dr Radhakrishnan Nagar, Marundeeswarar Nagar, Sivakamipuram, Malaviya Avenue (RMSM) People’s Security and Welfare Association receiving just the fillip it needed, a balwadi in Thiruvanmiyur has moved from dull to vibrant. Seeing the state of the preschool on Sivakamipuram Second Street in Marundeeswarar Nagar, the RWA brought it up before the Integrated Child Development Services. Residents sought permission to paint the building’s exterior walls. When the request did not elicit any response, they took it up with the Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation. “We were asked to interact with Deenadayalan, Assistant Engineer, Ward 181 and together we met the teachers at the school and told them about the proposed beautification work and sought their suggestions,” says Geetha R Padmanabhan, general secretary, RMSM People’s Security and Welfare Association. Based on the feedback, repairs were done prior to the painting. “The walls had cracked, floor tiles were protruding and the staff at the school had spread mats to cover the uneven areas,” says Geetha. Members of RMSM Trust signed a contractor on for the restoration, which was funded by a former vice-president of Infosys Limited. Later, members of Karam Korpom Foundation painted the walls and helped the children paint images. A new nameboard was also fitted on top of the building. S Maheshwari, a resident of Rukmani Street, Kasturba Nagar, whose son started going to the day care after it was opened recently, seems to speak for the parents and the children: The place looks inviting, especially the play area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thiruvanmiyur-rwa-drives-restoration-of-balwadi/article37033843.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Dogs have gone back to old territories; ABC programme has resumed’||Wind back to the pre-pandemic days. The IT corridor hardly bedded down. Food joints operated close to midnight, with the odd coffee joint staying open into the witching hour for IT employees on the graveyard shift. Strays would besiege every eatery with an air of expectancy. With lockdowns and the resultant remote work turning the IT corridor into a ghost town, a knock-on effect on the canine population was inevitable. With slim pickings, strays migrated to places where they could expect food. This situation resulted in two contrasting pictures: One raising the question of where the dogs had gone; and the other of whether the canine population was being managed properly. Don Williams, general manager — rescues at Blue Cross of India says that though the ABC programme had been put on hold during intense lockdowns and severe restrictions, “the increase in dog population in some areas were the result of movement (in search of food), and not reproduction,” Though it stood out in bold relief on IT Corridor that is lined with food joints, canine movement of this kind was witnessed in all parts of Chennai in varying degrees depending on the availability of food. “ABC programmes had come to a standstill during the intense lockdowns. We cannot deny that. We were doing rescues and treatments. At that time, even Greater Chennai Corporation had to put its ABC programme on hold due to the focus on the pandemic. These dogs migrated to places where they found more food. The population of dogs in certain areas dwindled and in certain others, swelled. During the period, Blue Cross was feeding 2000 dogs a day. On the IT Corridor, dogs would usually be found around the eateries. Where eateries have opened for business as a result of the relaxations, the dogs have now returned to their old territories. With the easing of relaxations, the ABC programme resumed,” says Williams. Counting the dogs with a notch on the right ear that suggest sterilisation, one gets the impression that the ABC programmes happen in patches, leaving uncovered areas. Williams points out that this situation results from random catching of dogs here and there, and not marking an area and focussing entirely on it and completing the exercise at one go. “When a corporate, a college or an apartment association engages us to catch the dogs on their premises and have them sterilised and vaccinated, we catch all the dogs. If there are 50 dogs we catch all of them the same day. We do not catch five dogs and go back the next day to catch the others. When you start doing things that way, you educate the animal to become smarter. When the rest of the dogs see you, they flee. When we go out, we catch all the animals, whether they are male or female, sterilise and vaccinate them and put them back in the same place. Carrying out an ABC programme in this manner will ensure there are no uncovered patches in the areas brought under under focus.”  When a corporate, a college or an apartment association engages us to catch the dogs on their premises and have them sterilised and vaccinated, we catch all the dogs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/dogs-have-gone-back-to-old-territories-abc-programme-has-resumed/article37033859.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A strategy that clicked||On October 1, a COVID-19 vaccination camp was held at Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School in Besant Nagar. This camp is meant for administering the second dose of Covishield. Around 70 people from Olcott Ururkuppam took the jab. Five families residing at The Summit, a 30-unit apartment in First Avenue in Shastri Nagar organised this camp in coordination with the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). Since July, these families are driving an awareness campaign on the importance of vaccination and are also conducting vaccination camps with the support of GCC in areas where the underprivileged live. They call themselves “Covid Busters.” “It was during the devastating second wave of COVID 19 that we started this campaign. We wanted to do our bit in the world’s battle against the pandemic. First we started creating awareness among the domestic help, drivers, sweepers, watchmen, and gardeners working in our apartment. Because, we realised they were hesitant to take the jab. After a lot of persuasion, we succeed in convincing them and also conducted a camp for them, the venue being Olcott school. They took the first dose on July 2. We wanted other people residing at Olcott Ururkuppam to also benefit from the camp, even though it was meant for the domestic workers of our apartment. Towards this end, we conducted an awareness campaign a day before the camp. We rewarded those who took the jab with bag of groceries, each worth Rs. 500,” says Sunitha Chakravarthi. In August and September, camps were held in Pattinapakkam Kuppam. Another camp was conducted at a construction site in Chenglepet where 100 migrant labourers were vaccinated. “The funds are raised through crowdfunding. So far, a sum of Rs. .3,47,025 has been mobilised to buy groceries,” says Sunitha. The families, mainly the mothers and the children, are driving this campaign. “Around nine children, from eight to seven years of age are part of this campaign. They make posters and have compiled a song called “ Oosi Podu ” meaning “take the vaccine” for which we tweaked a Tamil movie song. We did it after obtaining the necessary permission from a film celebrity who holds the rights for the movie. Their mothers also played a role. While one of them helped in the compilation of the song, the other taught the dance steps for the song, another helped phrase slogans on the importance of vaccination, and yet another mother played host as the children gather at her house. And my part is to coordinate with the GCC officials,” says Sunitha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-strategy-that-clicked/article37033861.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Look for telltale signs in dogs and inform GCC’||Greater Chennai Corporation will soon be upgrading its three Animal Birth Control (ABC) centres at Lloyds Road, Kannammapet and Basin Bridge Road. Stray dogs are brought to these centres for sterilisation and also immunisation against rabies. Post the surgery, these dogs must be released in their respective areas where they are caught as per ABC Rules. “GCC has also identified another place at Tondiarpet where an ABC centre would start functioning,” says Dr J Kamal Hussain, veterinary officer, GCC. Last year, he says, 11,000 stray dogs were sterilised GCC’s three centres and also at the centres of its NGO partners Blue Cross of India and SPCA. “Besides, from August 2019 to January 2020, 68,000 dogs were administered anti-rabies vaccine street-wise,” he says. He says both ABC and taking a count of stray dog population in the city are ongoing initiatives. The dog census is initiated once in four years. “In 2018, the count of stray dog population was 57,000 dogs. The count has certainly gone up and would have touched 80,000,” says Dr Hussain. He says the public must help GCC by identifying areas where stray dog population has been increasing and where the dogs are not vaccinated. It is easy to identify if a dog is vaccinated or not. In dogs, ear-notching is the common way of identifying if it has been vaccinated and surgically sterilised, says Dr Hussain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/look-for-telltale-signs-in-dogs-and-inform-gcc/article37033860.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Saplings planted at Santhome||Gowrin Charitable Trust at Mandaveli conducted its 10th tree plantation drive recently at CSI Deaf and Dumb School, Santhome. Fifty saplings of thekku , naval and nelli  were planted. Clament Jayanthi Rajan inaugurated the event. Siby, architect of the trust presented a poem on ‘Air’. Cecil, St Luke’s Church secretary, spoke on how to maintain trees. Those who are keen on participating in it may contact Siby at 98402 86875||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/saplings-planted-at-santhome/article37033842.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Crafts fair at Alwarpet||Handcrafted dolls, toys, textiles, brass and copper decoratives and jewellery are on display at the Navaratri crafts festival happening at Sankara Hall in Alwarpet. Apart from a range of kolu dolls, Etikopakkas toys, clay figures from West Bengal and Raja Rani figures from Tirupati are also on display. Besides, check out Tanjore and Odishas’s pattachitra art on wall hangings. Wooden furniture such as storage boxes are also available at the exhibition-cum-sale. Navaratri Crafts Festival is on at Sankara Hall, 267, TTK Road, Alwarpet. For details, call 9176460348||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/crafts-fair-at-alwarpet/article37033838.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Planning to go abroad?||Ashwins Center for Learning and Overseas Education (P) Limited offers guidance for those planning to go abroad. Samuel S. Sekhar, CEO, said the centre organises online classes for TOEFL, IELTS, GRE and GMAT. It also enables medical education aspirants get into reputed universities. The consultancy also guides aspirants in seeking admissions to courses in engineering, forensic science, aerospace engineering, medicine and management studies.  The centre is at G Block 1 st Street, 10 th Main Road, Anna Nagar. For details, call 99401 72255, 97890 53653 and 4232 8777.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/planning-to-go-abroad/article37033844.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer- writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtown feedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article37033854.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Reports of distressed pittas fly in thick and fast||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/reports-of-distressed-pittas-fly-in-thick-and-fast/article37033849.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Three bow-wows to a two-year old initiative||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/three-bow-wows-to-a-two-year-old-initiative/article37033853.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Citizen volunteers behind GCC’s vaccination portal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/citizen-volunteers-behind-gccs-vaccination-portal/article37033856.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||a new beginning||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-beginning/article37033840.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Three bow-wows to a two-year-old initiative in a neighbourhood||The descriptor “resident-volunteers” rarely goes with animal rescues. Loosely-formed animal welfare groups usually operate without a fixed pincode through members scattered across geographies. In that sense, Happy Paws Mogappair attempted something that seemed both endearingly and dauntingly left-field. It sought to make animal welfare the workaday concern of a neighbourhood and its residents, and it seems to have succeeded in this objective to a good extent. The group employs “neighbourhood animal welfare” as an umbrella term denoting a “compassionate community” whose heart skips a beat when an animal in distress hobbles into sight — four-legged or feathered or with any other qualifiers. However, in practical everyday terms, it is usually about watching out for neighbourhood dogs the way one would for one’s human dependants. Drilling down to the bedrock of details, it is about resident-volunteers sedulously caring for diseased and injured dogs by ensuring their treatment, and attending to the sterilisation and vaccination of dogs found in their streets. “In Mogappair, if someone sees an animal in distress, they should know that if they inform Happy Paws Mogappair, it will be taken care of. We want the model to be followed in other neighbourhoods,” says Bharath Surya, a management professional employed with a start-up, and a resident-volunteer with Happy Paws Mogappair outside of 9to5. The tone may come across as a tad self-congratulatory, but on closer scrutiny, does sound justified. On October 10, when it felicitated its volunteers on its second anniversary and ran through the milestones, the growth was strikingly evident — “from three to four volunteers at the start line to a 167-volunteer force now”, with many of the members on first-name familiarity with each other. “There are many volunteer groups, a majority of which depend on group calls for rescues across Chennai and they would be busy. We thought we would cover this area entirely. All the volunteers are from Mogappair and surrounding areas. We have helped around 900 animals in the last two years. That so many animals have been affected in this area was an eye-opener for us. That is one thing we have cracked. If not for this group, 70 p.c. of the cases would have gone unheard,” shares Bharath, adding that he cannot emphasise the effectiveness of neighbourhood-centric dog care group. One advantage group is that diseases in dogs are caught early before they ballon into unmanageable proportions. “A maggot wound can cause the dog to be infested with 300 to 400 worms, which slowly eat into the flesh and the dog would die. Since we have so many resident-volunteers around in the neighbourhood who have been educated about maggot wounds, they notice it when it is just the size of a small nick and with doctor’s guidance, they do the minor treatment required. We either do a spray or ointment on the ground, thereby preventing major issues from happening. That is one impact we have created.” Last Sunday, when the volunteers met for a quiet second-anniversary fete, each of them was provided with a first-aid kit, one consisting of tic powder and ointment and spray meant for treating open wounds in community dogs. Another impact is how resident-volunteers have achieved sterilisation and anti-rabies vaccination of community dogs. “We have sterilisations done privately with the help of a few vet clinics that offer us discounts. Residents of each street have the dogs in their neck of the woods sterilised privately — either they can afford it, or manage to find a sponsor locally. These are dogs on the street that they feed and which are in turn friendly with them. Our volunteers help these residents by catching and transporting the dogs to the clinic. There are two to three clinics in Anna Nagar that help us with discounts,” says Bharath. “We can do the dog-catching because some of the volunteers have been trained and are adept at it. If it is a very difficult case, we enlist the service of a dog catcher. We regularly conduct training programmes on how to muzzle a friendly dog and take it to the clinic for any treatment it may require.” While volunteering may be the strong backbone of initiatives of this kind, they would still need to be fleshed out with resources. “The volunteers in the group contribute every month whatever is within their ability to offer — Rs. 100, Rs. 200, Rs. 500 and so on. Even school children make a contribution — an eighth standard student contributes Rs. 200 every month, collecting the amount. There is one person who gives Rs. 5,000 a month, sending it on the first day. We pay off the veterinary doctors for treating the dogs, but usually with some pending amount. The vets on board are understanding of the delays, particularly Dr. Suresh of Pet Plaza in Koyambedu, who is extremely supportive of what we do. They offer discounts to ease the process for us. For sterilisation and treatment of the community dogs that require them to be transported, we use our cars and bikes. However, if we have a difficult case on our hands and the dog is ferocious, we turn to ‘auto annas’ in the neighbourhood who have been helping us. Where they charge Rs. 400, they would charge us just Rs. 300,” says Bharath. Sponsors often spring up on a case-by-case basis. “Last week, we rescued a dog with a huge lump on its back that had to be removed — you cannot imagine how big it was. The treatment bill came to Rs. 4,400 and a volunteer shared the details in a WhatsApp group, following which their friend living abroad met the expense. Whenever we see people on the road feeding a dog, we go and talk to them, and that is how we have expanded as a volunteer group. The new entrants will bring others into the fold. All these people are dog lovers who were struggling individually, often unable to find help for any injured or diseased dog. Seeing what a united force of resident-volunteers can achieve, they are only too glad to support the group.” With the core team of volunteers consisting largely of young millennials — a generation uniquely gifted to think visually — Happy Paws Mogappair puts out picture stories and videos of rescues and treatments of dogs, on its social media pages, which include Facebook and Instagram. “Every month, we make a video that details what was achieved as it ran its course. So, we ask people to share it with friends and family.” These videos sometimes serve as an inspiration for them to throw their weight behind the initiative. “Documentation is among our key strengths. Accounts are maintained, rescue and treatment records are diligently kept. Where the dog was found, who informed us, the treatment that was given to it, whether it survived or died; and if it survived, its current status are all documented . This way, we are able to measure the impact,” remarks Bharath. Among the striking features of this volunteering group is how they try to carve an identity for themselves, which include getting themselves a rescuer uniform. Bharath believes Happy Paws Mogappair could be a template for animal-loving residents of other neighbourhoods appreciate the reach that can be achieved by having a volunteering group in place. “We have started talking to dog-loving people in Ambattur and trying to bring them together as one unit. An ABC programme for dogs driven by resident-volunteers is the best bet in covering an area in its entirety. However, on the downside, there are vet and dog-catcher fees to be paid. The Corporation has the resources and its sterilisations are done free,” observes Bharath, suggesting that a synergy between the civic body and residents can maximise the positives. Over the two years, Happy Paws Mogappair has faced the challenge of educating many residents — who are not particularly dog-friendly — about the role a healthy, vaccinated, sterilised community dog can play in the neighbourhood.  There are many volunteer groups, a majority of which depend on group calls for rescues across Chennai and they would be busy. We thought we would cover this area entirely||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/three-bow-wows-to-a-two-year-old-initiative-in-a-neighbourhood/article37033897.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Citizen volunteers behind GCC’s vaccination portal||In May, when vaccination was made available for the 18-45 age group, lengthy queues became the order of the day. Booking a slot in Cowin was proving a handful. Having experienced these problems first-hand, two Chennai techies — Shyam Sundar Nagarajan and Vikram Ravi Ramanathan — jumped at an invitation by Greater Chennai Corporation to create a vaccination portal. Launched in July, GCC’s vaccination booking portalhttps://gccvaccine.in/is the work of these two citizen volunteers who leveraged the low-code technology offered by Zoho Creator to launch it. As per data from the Corporation, the portal receives 80,000 visitors every day and has helped lakhs of residents get the jab. Shyam and Vikram say the brief given to them was straightforward. GCC was on a massive drive to get people vaccinated and did not want crowding at centres. It was also particular that the portal remove the barriers that people who did not know English faced. “Responding to an early feedback we received, we tried to figure out how to make the process of booking easy even for someone not quite conversant with technology,” says Vikram, founding team, Unmetrics. Simple and nimble “Most booking platforms are not particular that people register and we skipped that stage,” says Shyam, founder and CEO of GoFloaters. The app is equipped with a single-step login that redirects the user to zone selection and the available slots, thus shortening the booking process. The duo agree that many such features like a notification alert about vaccine availability and access through WhatsApp were made possible through Zoho Creator. Another major addition in the platform, Vikram says, was changing the dashboard so that it gives information zone by zone. “When we first launched it, we only had an overall Chennai dashboard, but based on our feedback we made it easy for health professionals and zonal officers to find out how many people in a region were vaccinated,” he says. Zone-specific information, locations of camps, bookings and validation were added. “I do not know how to write code and the best part of using the software is that even after you go live you can still make changes rapidly,” says Vikram. As the two had their day job, new developments pertaining to vaccines that required changes in the portal made the exercise more challenging. Sputnik-V vaccines were launched in the Chennai market, new locations were being added on a regular basis and Corporation even opened vaccination 24x7. “For a couple of months, every day there was something that had to be updated,” says Vikram.  How did the two bag this assignment from GCC? At the height of the second wave, a bunch of volunteers including Vikram and Shyam were involved in designing a hospital management help desk, which enabled people to find out about the availability of hospital beds and other information. “We started as a WhatsApp group of entrepreneurs and quickly scaled up. GCC had seen the impact it created, and when the invitation came we jumped at it,” says Shyam. Trusting us to solve something for the city was heart-warming, they add.  Based on our feedback we made it easy for health professionals and zonal officers to find out how many people in a region were vaccinated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/citizen-volunteers-behind-gccs-vaccination-portal/article37033903.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Strays and friends||Residents of New Beach Road in Thiruvanmiyur have illustrated the effectiveness of a decentralised approach to caring for community dogs and maintaining their population. Last year, in the midst of the pandemic, some dog lovers of New Beach Road formed a WhatsApp group called ‘ABC dog group’. “We reached out to various apartment complexes in the area through the New Beach Road Association and some on adjacent streets joined us,” says Balaji Sundararajan, a member of the group and a dog feeder. The group initiated various discussions, including one about the approach currently followed by the Greater Chennai Corporation in administering ABC and how the mechanism can be improved. They sought the help of animal welfare organisations in guiding them through the process. By bringing new neighbours on board, the group was able to arrive at a clear count of the strays in the area and also got them to volunteer for various roles. Dogs needing vaccination were identified and people pooled in money for the ABC (Animal Birth Control) programme. “One challenge was getting resident-volunteers to take dogs to the veterinarian for the surgery. It called for a special knack with the dogs. It is about spending a few minutes with the animal on a regular basis and feeding it to get friendly,” says Balaji. Sterilisation of strays is just one of the roles. Adopting pups; alerting residents when they see a sick canine; and feeding strays are among the other continuing roles. Decentralised approach Raj Cherubal, a resident of New Beach Road and CEO of Chennai Smart City Limited, points out that the network that has been created makes it possible to nudge Greater Chennai Corporation to revamp its existing dog centres in Chennai. Equally important is the push for a decentralised approach to ABC, which can be achieved through mobile clinics and support from resident welfare associations. “A decentralised arrangement for vaccinating the strays with the help of the community will reduce the burden on GCC and help it achieve its objective of ensuring animal welfare in the city. This is important as a common complaint from dog lovers is that the GCC does not drop the dogs after sterilisation in the same area from where they had been picked up,” says Raj. Aishwarya Prem, an animal rescuer who has helped the residents in this exercise, says there is more strength when such animal welfare initiatives are driven by the community. Aishwarya, who runs Second Chance Animal Trust, points out that when someone is already friends with the dog, it is going to trust them. In contrast, having a dog catcher do the job will add to the dog’s stress level which does not do much for an animal going into surgery. Dwelling on the advantages of having a decentralised approach, she says it works cheaper out. “When there are multiple centres in a city, it can avoid spread of diseases and ensures better health of the existing dogs,” says Aishwarya. She says there are communities in Besant Nagar, RA Puram and a few other areas that have been promoting various dog-friendly programmes. People need to understand that there are various benefits of supporting such initiatives. “There are lesser dog fights in an area and the population is under control,” she says. With the city expanding, it is not viable for GCC to solely depend on its dog centres and so, the civic body must start establishing clinics in places where they know there are rescuer communities, says Aishwarya. She adds that such a model has been working well in Jaipur and Chennai probably can pick some lessons from the PinkCity.  With the city expanding, it is not viable for GCC to solely depend on its dog centres and so, the civic body must start establishing clinics in places where they know there are rescuer communities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/strays-and-friends/article37033898.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||How far can a kid’s cycle go?||Your child may not take to your profession, but the odds are higher that they will adopt your hobby if you just get them mildly inquisitive about it. They may match strides with you sooner than expected — when their shoe is hardly half the size of yours. Retired naval officer Gauri Mishra will concur with that postulate, recasting it only superficially by replacing shoe with pedal. “His two pedals equal to one pedal of my cycle,” Gauri gives an inkling of the dimensions of her son Rian Kumar’s world, whose Doppler-shift denotes it is not far removed from the world of doggedly goal-focussed grownups. His seventh birthday still separated by a month, Rian is the possessor of a cycling record: The youngest to have clocked 109 km non-stop, a feat monitored and recorded by the World Book of Records, London this July. Gauri is a randonneur with Madras Randonneurs, having completed a 200 km brevet. Her enthusiasm for cycling has rubbed off on Rian, just as her mother’s had on her. “My mother Prabha Mishra was a national-level cyclist,” declares Gauri. She underscores the speciality of Rian’s achievement: It arrived on the back of a rather rudimentary cycle. Rian has so far sat astride a regular 16-inch kid’s cycle, gearless and seems to have not been enhanced in any manner for record-making long-distance rides. “First of all, I have not been able to find a suitable road bike for his size,” says Gauri. “The disadvantage of having a regular, gearless bike is that he would receive little assistance from it when he is climbing a flyover.” So, Gauri put Rian through the paces on various inclines across Chennai, and the exercise has made him flyover-hardened. “In the port area where we live, there is a small flyover, where we trained him, and followed it up with the flyover near Savera hotel, and then the Gemini flyover. He did not get bored with these flyover-climbing practice sessions,” says Gauri. The family lives at the staff quarters on Flagstaff Road in Island Grounds. With its quiet, the geography suits leisure cycling, but cannot support the intensity of the mother-son duo’s engagement with cycling, which requires an expansive terrain. “On October 10, Rian and I attempted a 150 km Chennai to Puducherry ride down East Coast Road, but turned back at Kalpakkam as the road from then on is treacherous for any cyclist, more so for a six-year-old. However, by riding back to our home in Flagstaff Road, turning around at Kalpakkam, he did do a 150 km,” Gauri illustrates, adding that Rian’s rides are recorded on a GPS-driven cycling app, with which he has been registered as “Rian the Lion”, and this ride was no exception. “Cycling happens three days in a week — two days during the work week and one during the weekend. We would start around 3 a.m. and be back around 8.30 a.m. before the traffic builds up. Sustaining a six-year-old’s interest for five and a half hours is not easy, but that has never been a challenge with Rian.” Gauri has long-distance cycling ambitions of her own, but has put them in suspension to be an enabler to Rian. “At present, I ride a hybrid cycle, but will switch to a road bike only when Rian is ready for one. I have to ride alongside Rian’s kid’s cycle now and having a fast road bike does not help matters.” That is the least of the sacrifices. Her retirement after 16 years of naval service was partly shaped by her desire to be able to pay closer attention to the details of Rian’s growing-up years. “For around a couple of years, our family of three was living in three cities — my husband was posted at Mumbai, I was posted at Chennai; and Rian was with my sister in Delhi. In January 2021, the three of us reunited when my husband was posted at Chennai,” Gauri shares. “When I would go visiting Rian in Delhi, I would help him on short cycling tours, running alongside as he cycled. There is a big lawn near this house in Delhi, and I would place toys suitably to create a zigzag cycling course for him. In January, when I took him on my cycling trips in Chennai, I noticed that he enjoyed it.” What followed is out there for everyone to see.  Sustaining a six-year-old’s interest for five and a half hours is not easy, but that has never been a challenge with Rian.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-far-can-a-kids-cycle-go/article37033902.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A strategy that clicked||On October 1, a COVID-19 vaccination camp was held at Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School in Besant Nagar. This camp is meant for administering the second dose of Covishield. Around 70 people from Olcott Ururkuppam took the jab. Five families residing at The Summit, a 30-unit apartment in First Avenue in Shastri Nagar organised this camp in coordination with the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). Since July, these families are driving an awareness campaign on the importance of vaccination and are also conducting vaccination camps with the support of GCC in areas where the underprivileged live. They call themselves “Covid Busters.” “It was during the devastating second wave of COVID 19 that we started this campaign. We wanted to do our bit in the world’s battle against the pandemic. First we started creating awareness among the domestic help, drivers, sweepers, watchmen, and gardeners working in our apartment. Because, we realised they were hesitant to take the jab. After a lot of persuasion, we succeed in convincing them and also conducted a camp for them, the venue being Olcott school. They took the first dose on July 2. We wanted other people residing at Olcott Ururkuppam to also benefit from the camp, even though it was meant for the domestic workers of our apartment. Towards this end, we conducted an awareness campaign a day before the camp. We rewarded those who took the jab with bag of groceries, each worth Rs. 500,” says Sunitha Chakravarthi. In August and September, camps were held in Pattinapakkam Kuppam. Another camp was conducted at a construction site in Chenglepet where 100 migrant labourers were vaccinated. “The funds are raised through crowdfunding. So far, a sum of Rs. .3,47,025 has been mobilised to buy groceries,” says Sunitha. The families, mainly the mothers and the children, are driving this campaign. “Around nine children, from eight to seven years of age are part of this campaign. They make posters and have compiled a song called “ Oosi Podu ” meaning “take the vaccine” for which we tweaked a Tamil movie song. We did it after obtaining the necessary permission from a film celebrity who holds the rights for the movie. Their mothers also played a role. While one of them helped in the compilation of the song, the other taught the dance steps for the song, another helped phrase slogans on the importance of vaccination, and yet another mother played host as the children gather at her house. And my part is to coordinate with the GCC officials,” says Sunitha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-strategy-that-clicked/article37033901.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Reports of distressed pittas fly in thick and fast||It can sometimes be hard to tell what killed an exhausted migratory bird — the exhaustion of long-distance flying or the kindness of its benefactors. The Indian pitta is susceptible to both. Animal rights activist and rescuer Shravan Krishnan is once again doing what he has done over the years, around this time — educating Chennai residents on the do’s and dont’s of pitta rescue and care. One can sense the message coming with a gust of urgency. Through the first half of this week, Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary at Theosophical Society, found residents from different addresses — one from KK Nagar, two from Thiruvanmiyur and another from Adyar — entering the portals of the facility carrying injured and dehydrated pittas they had found in their stomping grounds. The pitta brought in from KK Nagar has a broken wing. Setting out from regions as far as the Himalayan foothills, Pittas are known for bumpy landings in their wintering grounds, being disoriented, dehydrated and sometimes hugely injured. In well-meaning but uninformed hands that have rescued these birds, they may be in for a greater ordeal. Sharvan particularly points out one assumption that significantly adds to the bird’s distress. “It is a small, colourful-looking bird, and people may get confused and take it for a baby bird.” One can visualise the “care” that does the bird more harm than good. “They are small birds and so, highly prone to stress. Too much of handling and too many people around them would definitely stress them out,” observes Shravan. The animal rescuer runs through a few points that ought to be ticked while nursing a pitta back to its wings. “Firstly, do not pick them up immediately and drop them at a rescue centre unless their condition warrants it. You keep them in a cardboard box in a dark, quiet, cool room. If you can afford to keep it in air-conditioning, nothing like it. Or, just any cool room — may be, the bathroom — will do.” The pitta grows only to be adorably tiny, and its stubby tail helps it retain a picture of “babyishness” through its lifetime. Look what happens when people do not know the pitta, let alone this facet about it. “Many people kind of give them milk and other things. They are mostly insectivorous. Do not feed them anything: Just keep a bowl of water with ORS,” says Shravan. That advice applies to any bird — migratory or otherwise — found dehydrated or disoriented. And, a distressed pitta is not a photo op. “Do not handle the bird too much, taking photographs and selfies.” Circle back to the point about what can happen to pittas that face “too much handling”. “After a day or two, it the bird is fine, release it at the same spot where you picked it up,” says Shravan. “If it is completely down, has a broken leg, a broken wing, then bring it to the rescue centre. Out of a hundred cases, only a few would be like that.” Any migratory bird can suffer similarly from the effects of long-distance flying, and Shravan draws attention to how the orange-headed thrush has been brought into the dispensary many a time. However, the pittas are unfortunately light-years ahead in the matter, proving to be delicate darlings among long-distance migratory birds. Pittas are affected in this manner in their other wintering grounds as well. “With Bengaluru in its migration path, such cases are reported from the city. An organisation called Avian Reptile Rehabilitation Centre (ARRC) in Bengaluru addresses this issue among others. We interact with ARRC regularly around issues of this nature that pertain to migratory birds, and also about the issue of birds being put in danger on account of kite-flying with the manja thread. This is rampant in Bengaluru. In Chennai, the situation is better because of the ban, but it still happens.” Shravan points out that most facets of caring for pittas the right way apply to other migratory birds that have a rough landing after a long journey. “Most of the migratory birds are susceptible to dehydration, but Pitta is huge in this respect; I would get 30 to 40 calls, and many people would not know what it is, with some mistaking it for a kingfisher.” To find help for a pitta in distress or any other bird, migratory or resident, call 9445070909.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/reports-of-distressed-pittas-fly-in-thick-and-fast/article37033908.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||IPL gallery comes up in Vadapalani||When Kolkata Knight Riders’ innings had entered the death overs in the IPL 2021 finals, to further belabour an already much-battered cliche, everything was over bar the shouting. And the shouting was deafening as it was not restricted to a swanky sporting acreage in Dubai, with its limited crop of Chennai Super Kings fans. It was blasting out of pockets of Chennai, where some gated communities had rustled up galleries in front of giant screens.Appaswamy Orchards in Vadapalani has a history of big-screen screening of big-ticket cricket matches involving India and Chennai Super Kings. The community was not going to sit cooped up at individual homes and let the moment pass with weak and scattered roars of delight. “We have screened the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup; and crucial CSK matches from the past editions of IPL,” says Manikandan Venkataraman, secretary of the residents association at Appaswamy Orchards. As the viewing area is always al fresco , near the car park and the club house, and the community has diligently pursued vaccination, they could wade into the decision to screen the finals, with a degree of self-assurance. “We are happy to inform you all that IPL 2021 - Final Match will be screened in the ‘BIG SCREEN’ near the club house open area from 7 p.m. to match closing on Friday 15th October 2021. All are welcome to enjoy the match, but strictly with Covid protocols,” read the chirpy and cautious note from the secretary. “This was the first event we are conducting after the Second Wave and the restrictions were relaxed,” notes Manikandan. “We had arranged for a food outlet to bring in their burgers and pizzas by a mobile shop that would be parked at the community during the match.” Before the match began, allrounder Aditya Giridhar, a name recognised from Tamil Nadu Premier League, having played for Ruby Trichy Warriors, and more recently, Tiruppur Tamizhans, revealed the plans he had pencilled in for the evening. A resident of Orchards for the last eight years, Aditya expected to catch the second half of the CSK-KKR match around the giant screen. He confided his fears though: CSK has lost the two finals he had watched on the big screen at the community, and that memory was weighing on his mind. Rani Meyyammai Towers (RMT) in RA Puram is another of those sports-friendly communities that were not going to deny its residents, particularly children, the joy of a shared celebration of what could possibly turn out to be CSK’s day. “During IPL 2021, the children at the apartment have been getting together in smaller groups and taking turns to watch at each home cheering for CSK. They really wanted to watch the finals together, and so we arranged for a projector and had the match screened for them,” says Jayashree Sundaresan, a member of the sports committee at RMT. As it turned out, it was CSK’s day. And from a video, a gaggle of excited RMT youngsters threatened to lift the roof with a sonic blast, when the match was speeding towards a CSK victory. When the penultimate over bowled by Shardul Thakur was delaying the inevitable with its wides and no-ball, the “pavilion” at RMT erupted in disappointment, palatable and made enjoyable by the assurance of a CSK win. “We were hoping he would get the last two wickets and were screaming at the top of our lungs when he kept stretching it,” recalls Jayashree. “Every ball we shouted “wicket wicket” — all of us have lost our voices now, but are super excited and thrilled,” she reported in a running commentary on the reactions to the ongoing match. Notably, both the communities were keen on seizing the Olympic spirit and organise their own versions of mini Olympics that the pandemic and the size of their communities would allow. “We have an annual sports event, and this being a Olympic year, we were planning something called Orchards Olympics. We usually have table tennis, badminton, chess and all the other indoor games, and this year we wanted to take it outdoors in a big way and have a six-a-side cricket tournament and also a Orchards Mini Marathon that would require participants to do five rounds of a course marked around the community. An Orchards torch and relay were also on the drawing board. We have not given up on the plan and hope we could have it in December,” discloses Manikandan, and touches upon how sports-centric the community is. “We have opened up the play areas, and in the evening, if one comes downstairs to the open areas, they could see a hundred people, mostly children, playing a variety of sports.” RMT has also had to put on hold its “Olympic dreams” fuelled by the expansive turf they got installed last year. “At this point, we are thinking of December as that would be the holiday season, provided the Covid situation takes a favourable turn,” says Jayashree. “We are planning on having both track and field and team events. We wanted to do cricket, football, throwball, badminton and relay races. We have the turf, where we can organise running events, cricket, throwball and football. By installing the basketball hoops in the turf area, we can have that sport as well.”  We have screened the 2011 ICC World Cup; and crucial CSK matches from the past editions of IPL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ipl-gallery-comes-up-in-vadapalani/article37033904.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Dogs have gone back to old territories; ABC programme has resumed’||Wind back to the pre-pandemic days. The IT corridor hardly bedded down. Food joints operated close to midnight, with the odd coffee joint staying open into the witching hour for IT employees on the graveyard shift. Strays would besiege every eatery with an air of expectancy. With lockdowns and the resultant remote work turning the IT corridor into a ghost town, a knock-on effect on the canine population was inevitable. With slim pickings, strays migrated to places where they could expect food. This situation resulted in two contrasting pictures: One raising the question of where the dogs had gone; and the other of whether the canine population was being managed properly. Don Williams, general manager — rescues at Blue Cross of India says that though the ABC programme had been put on hold during intense lockdowns and severe restrictions, “the increase in dog population in some areas were the result of movement (in search of food), and not reproduction,” Though it stood out in bold relief on IT Corridor that is lined with food joints, canine movement of this kind was witnessed in all parts of Chennai in varying degrees depending on the availability of food. “ABC programmes had come to a standstill during the intense lockdowns. We cannot deny that. We were doing rescues and treatments. At that time, even Greater Chennai Corporation had to put its ABC programme on hold due to the focus on the pandemic. These dogs migrated to places where they found more food. The population of dogs in certain areas dwindled and in certain others, swelled. During the period, Blue Cross was feeding 2000 dogs a day. On the IT Corridor, dogs would usually be found around the eateries. Where eateries have opened for business as a result of the relaxations, the dogs have now returned to their old territories. With the easing of relaxations, the ABC programme resumed,” says Williams. Counting the dogs with a notch on the right ear that suggest sterilisation, one gets the impression that the ABC programmes happen in patches, leaving uncovered areas. Williams points out that this situation results from random catching of dogs here and there, and not marking an area and focussing entirely on it and completing the exercise at one go. “When a corporate, a college or an apartment association engages us to catch the dogs on their premises and have them sterilised and vaccinated, we catch all the dogs. If there are 50 dogs we catch all of them the same day. We do not catch five dogs and go back the next day to catch the others. When you start doing things that way, you educate the animal to become smarter. When the rest of the dogs see you, they flee. When we go out, we catch all the animals, whether they are male or female, sterilise and vaccinate them and put them back in the same place. Carrying out an ABC programme in this manner will ensure there are no uncovered patches in the areas brought under under focus.”  When a corporate, a college or an apartment association engages us to catch the dogs on their premises and have them sterilised and vaccinated, we catch all the dogs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/dogs-have-gone-back-to-old-territories-abc-programme-has-resumed/article37033899.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Look for telltale signs in dogs and inform GCC’||Greater Chennai Corporation will soon be upgrading its three Animal Birth Control (ABC) centres at Lloyds Road, Kannammapet and Basin Bridge Road. Stray dogs are brought to these centres for sterilisation and also immunisation against rabies. Post the surgery, these dogs must be released in their respective areas where they are caught as per ABC Rules. “GCC has also identified another place at Tondiarpet where an ABC centre would start functioning,” says Dr J Kamal Hussain, veterinary officer, GCC. Last year, he says, 11,000 stray dogs were sterilised GCC’s three centres and also at the centres of its NGO partners Blue Cross of India and SPCA. “Besides, from August 2019 to January 2020, 68,000 dogs were administered anti-rabies vaccine street-wise,” he says. He says both ABC and taking a count of stray dog population in the city are ongoing initiatives. The dog census is initiated once in four years. “In 2018, the count of stray dog population was 57,000 dogs. The count has certainly gone up and would have touched 80,000,” says Dr Hussain. He says the public must help GCC by identifying areas where stray dog population has been increasing and where the dogs are not vaccinated. It is easy to identify if a dog is vaccinated or not. In dogs, ear-notching is the common way of identifying if it has been vaccinated and surgically sterilised, says Dr Hussain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/look-for-telltale-signs-in-dogs-and-inform-gcc/article37033900.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Tangedco work moves at a tardy pace in Saligramam’||The delay in completion of an electricity cable work has rendered Arunachalam Road and Navaneethammal Street unfit for use either by pedestrians or motorists. A 33 KV power cable is being laid from Vadapalani to the office of the Tangedco in Navaneethammal Street at Kaveri Rangan Nagar in Saligramam. The work is under way for more than nine months. In portions where the cable has been laid, the roads have not been relaid. In this regard, when we requested Greater Chennai Corporation to relay the roads, it expressed its inability because it has not received the completion certificate from Tangedco. These roads witness heavy traffic. But they are not in a good shape. To facilitate the cable work, the garbage bins have been pushed to the middle of the roads. Due to these reasons, minor accidents have occurred on these roads. The residents’ association of Kaveri Rangan Nagar, known as Kaveri Rangan Nagar Narpani Mandram, has taken up this issue with the Superintending Engineer of Tangedco office at KK Nagar but of no avail. Hence, we request the Tangedco chairman to do the needful at the earliest as the north-east monsoon is approaching. S. Sundaresan is the president of Kaveri Rangan Nagar Narpani Mandram in Saligramam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tangedco-work-moves-at-a-tardy-pace-in-saligramam/article37033890.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Speed breaker has markings, but this school zone is still unsafe ’||At last, it is a matter of big relief that the speed-breaker in front of Vidyodaya School on Thirumalai Road in T. Nagar has been marked with paint. A year ago, an elderly couple met with an accident at the very same spot. They were riding a motorcycle and hit the speed-breaker as it had no markings and therefore not clearly visible. However, my concern is that instead of painting with white, the speed-breaker should have been painted with yellow. Due to the white paint, motorists mistake the speed-breaker for a zebra-crossing. Even though reflectors have been installed, they do not serve their purpose. Further there is no signboard to caution motorists that there is a speed-breaker ahead. Even if there were one, most of the motorists tend to miss the caution board. Hence, reflectors should be set right or should be replaced with new ones. Above all, there are no streetlights near the speed-breaker. Hence I feel the spot in front of the school is not completely safe yet. N. Ravikkumaar is a resident of Nungambakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/speed-breaker-has-markings-but-this-school-zone-is-still-unsafe/article37033894.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Reports of distressed pittas come in||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/reports-of-distressed-pittas-come-in/article37033892.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Citizen volunteers behind GCC’s vaccination portal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/citizen-volunteers-behind-gccs-vaccination-portal/article37033896.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Three bow-wows to a two-year-old initiative in a neighbourhood||The descriptor “resident-volunteers” rarely goes with animal rescues. Loosely-formed animal welfare groups usually operate without a fixed pincode through members scattered across geographies. In that sense, Happy Paws Mogappair attempted something that seemed both endearingly and dauntingly left-field. It sought to make animal welfare the workaday concern of a neighbourhood and its residents, and it seems to have succeeded in this objective to a good extent. The group employs “neighbourhood animal welfare” as an umbrella term denoting a “compassionate community” whose heart skips a beat when an animal in distress hobbles into sight — four-legged or feathered or with any other qualifiers. However, in practical everyday terms, it is usually about watching out for neighbourhood dogs the way one would for one’s human dependants. Drilling down to the bedrock of details, it is about resident-volunteers sedulously caring for diseased and injured dogs by ensuring their treatment, and attending to the sterilisation and vaccination of dogs found in their streets. “In Mogappair, if someone sees an animal in distress, they should know that if they inform Happy Paws Mogappair, it will be taken care of. We want the model to be followed in other neighbourhoods,” says Bharath Surya, a management professional employed with a start-up, and a resident-volunteer with Happy Paws Mogappair outside of 9to5. The tone may come across as a tad self-congratulatory, but on closer scrutiny, does sound justified. On October 10, when it felicitated its volunteers on its second anniversary and ran through the milestones, the growth was strikingly evident — “from three to four volunteers at the start line to a 167-volunteer force now”, with many of the members on first-name familiarity with each other. “There are many volunteer groups, a majority of which depend on group calls for rescues across Chennai and they would be busy. We thought we would cover this area entirely. All the volunteers are from Mogappair and surrounding areas. We have helped around 900 animals in the last two years. That so many animals have been affected in this area was an eye-opener for us. That is one thing we have cracked. If not for this group, 70 p.c. of the cases would have gone unheard,” shares Bharath, adding that he cannot emphasise the effectiveness of neighbourhood-centric dog care group. One advantage group is that diseases in dogs are caught early before they ballon into unmanageable proportions. “A maggot wound can cause the dog to be infested with 300 to 400 worms, which slowly eat into the flesh and the dog would die. Since we have so many resident-volunteers around in the neighbourhood who have been educated about maggot wounds, they notice it when it is just the size of a small nick and with doctor’s guidance, they do the minor treatment required. We either do a spray or ointment on the ground, thereby preventing major issues from happening. That is one impact we have created.” Last Sunday, when the volunteers met for a quiet second-anniversary fete, each of them was provided with a first-aid kit, one consisting of tic powder and ointment and spray meant for treating open wounds in community dogs. Another impact is how resident-volunteers have achieved sterilisation and anti-rabies vaccination of community dogs. “We have sterilisations done privately with the help of a few vet clinics that offer us discounts. Residents of each street have the dogs in their neck of the woods sterilised privately — either they can afford it, or manage to find a sponsor locally. These are dogs on the street that they feed and which are in turn friendly with them. Our volunteers help these residents by catching and transporting the dogs to the clinic. There are two to three clinics in Anna Nagar that help us with discounts,” says Bharath. “We can do the dog-catching because some of the volunteers have been trained and are adept at it. If it is a very difficult case, we enlist the service of a dog catcher. We regularly conduct training programmes on how to muzzle a friendly dog and take it to the clinic for any treatment it may require.” While volunteering may be the strong backbone of initiatives of this kind, they would still need to be fleshed out with resources. “The volunteers in the group contribute every month whatever is within their ability to offer — Rs. 100, Rs. 200, Rs. 500 and so on. Even school children make a contribution — an eighth standard student contributes Rs. 200 every month, collecting the amount. There is one person who gives Rs. 5,000 a month, sending it on the first day. We pay off the veterinary doctors for treating the dogs, but usually with some pending amount. The vets on board are understanding of the delays, particularly Dr. Suresh of Pet Plaza in Koyambedu, who is extremely supportive of what we do. They offer discounts to ease the process for us. For sterilisation and treatment of the community dogs that require them to be transported, we use our cars and bikes. However, if we have a difficult case on our hands and the dog is ferocious, we turn to ‘auto annas’ in the neighbourhood who have been helping us. Where they charge Rs. 400, they would charge us just Rs. 300,” says Bharath. Sponsors often spring up on a case-by-case basis. “Last week, we rescued a dog with a huge lump on its back that had to be removed — you cannot imagine how big it was. The treatment bill came to Rs. 4,400 and a volunteer shared the details in a WhatsApp group, following which their friend living abroad met the expense. Whenever we see people on the road feeding a dog, we go and talk to them, and that is how we have expanded as a volunteer group. The new entrants will bring others into the fold. All these people are dog lovers who were struggling individually, often unable to find help for any injured or diseased dog. Seeing what a united force of resident-volunteers can achieve, they are only too glad to support the group.” With the core team of volunteers consisting largely of young millennials — a generation uniquely gifted to think visually — Happy Paws Mogappair puts out picture stories and videos of rescues and treatments of dogs, on its social media pages, which include Facebook and Instagram. “Every month, we make a video that details what was achieved as it ran its course. So, we ask people to share it with friends and family.” These videos sometimes serve as an inspiration for them to throw their weight behind the initiative. “Documentation is among our key strengths. Accounts are maintained, rescue and treatment records are diligently kept. Where the dog was found, who informed us, the treatment that was given to it, whether it survived or died; and if it survived, its current status are all documented . This way, we are able to measure the impact,” remarks Bharath. Among the striking features of this volunteering group is how they try to carve an identity for themselves, which include getting themselves a rescuer uniform. Bharath believes Happy Paws Mogappair could be a template for animal-loving residents of other neighbourhoods appreciate the reach that can be achieved by having a volunteering group in place. “We have started talking to dog-loving people in Ambattur and trying to bring them together as one unit. An ABC programme for dogs driven by resident-volunteers is the best bet in covering an area in its entirety. However, on the downside, there are vet and dog-catcher fees to be paid. The Corporation has the resources and its sterilisations are done free,” observes Bharath, suggesting that a synergy between the civic body and residents can maximise the positives. Over the two years, Happy Paws Mogappair has faced the challenge of educating many residents — who are not particularly dog-friendly — about the role a healthy, vaccinated, sterilised community dog can play in the neighbourhood.  There are many volunteer groups, a majority of which depend on group calls for rescues across Chennai and they would be busy. We thought we would cover this area entirely||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/three-bow-wows-to-a-two-year-old-initiative-in-a-neighbourhood/article37033875.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Citizen volunteers behind GCC’s vaccination portal||In May, when vaccination was made available for the 18-45 age group, lengthy queues became the order of the day. Booking a slot in Cowin was proving a handful. Having experienced these problems first-hand, two Chennai techies — Shyam Sundar Nagarajan and Vikram Ravi Ramanathan — jumped at an invitation by Greater Chennai Corporation to create a vaccination portal. Launched in July, GCC’s vaccination booking portalhttps://gccvaccine.in/is the work of these two citizen volunteers who leveraged the low-code technology offered by Zoho Creator to launch it. As per data from the Corporation, the portal receives 80,000 visitors every day and has helped lakhs of residents get the jab. Shyam and Vikram say the brief given to them was straightforward. GCC was on a massive drive to get people vaccinated and did not want crowding at centres. It was also particular that the portal remove the barriers that people who did not know English faced. “Responding to an early feedback we received, we tried to figure out how to make the process of booking easy even for someone not quite conversant with technology,” says Vikram, founding team, Unmetrics. Simple and nimble “Most booking platforms are not particular that people register and we skipped that stage,” says Shyam, founder and CEO of GoFloaters. The app is equipped with a single-step login that redirects the user to zone selection and the available slots, thus shortening the booking process. The duo agree that many such features like a notification alert about vaccine availability and access through WhatsApp were made possible through Zoho Creator. Another major addition in the platform, Vikram says, was changing the dashboard so that it gives information zone by zone. “When we first launched it, we only had an overall Chennai dashboard, but based on our feedback we made it easy for health professionals and zonal officers to find out how many people in a region were vaccinated,” he says. Zone-specific information, locations of camps, bookings and validation were added. “I do not know how to write code and the best part of using the software is that even after you go live you can still make changes rapidly,” says Vikram. As the two had their day job, new developments pertaining to vaccines that required changes in the portal made the exercise more challenging. Sputnik-V vaccines were launched in the Chennai market, new locations were being added on a regular basis and Corporation even opened vaccination 24x7. “For a couple of months, every day there was something that had to be updated,” says Vikram. The two recall a development that gave them a steep asking rate. GCC planned a big launch of the portal inviting top officials and the team coordinating with them gave them 5000 vaccine doses as target as against the three-digit figure they were first given. Shyam acknowledges the help they got from Zoho’s team of architects. “They were with us online offering us support and that boosted our confidence,” says Shyam. How did the two bag this assignment from GCC? At the height of the second wave, a bunch of volunteers including Vikram and Shyam were involved in designing a hospital management help desk, which enabled people to find out about the availability of hospital beds and other information. “We started as a WhatsApp group of entrepreneurs and quickly scaled up. GCC had seen the impact it created, and when the invitation came we jumped at it,” says Shyam. Trusting us to solve something for the city was heart-warming, they add.  Based on our feedback we made it easy for health professionals and zonal officers to find out how many people in a region were vaccinated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/citizen-volunteers-behind-gccs-vaccination-portal/article37033880.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Reports of distressed pittas fly in thick and fast||It can sometimes be hard to tell what killed an exhausted migratory bird — the exhaustion of long-distance flying or the kindness of its benefactors. The Indian pitta is susceptible to both. Animal rights activist and rescuer Shravan Krishnan is once again doing what he has done over the years, around this time — educating Chennai residents on the do’s and dont’s of pitta rescue and care. One can sense the message coming with a gust of urgency. Through the first half of this week, Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary at Theosophical Society, found residents from different addresses — one from KK Nagar, two from Thiruvanmiyur and another from Adyar — entering the portals of the facility carrying injured and dehydrated pittas they had found in their stomping grounds. The pitta brought in from KK Nagar has a broken wing. Setting out from regions as far as the Himalayan foothills, Pittas are known for bumpy landings in their wintering grounds, being disoriented, dehydrated and sometimes hugely injured. In well-meaning but uninformed hands that have rescued these birds, they may be in for a greater ordeal. Sharvan particularly points out one assumption that significantly adds to the bird’s distress. “It is a small, colourful-looking bird, and people may get confused and take it for a baby bird.” One can visualise the “care” that does the bird more harm than good. “They are small birds and so, highly prone to stress. Too much of handling and too many people around them would definitely stress them out,” observes Shravan. The animal rescuer runs through a few points that ought to be ticked while nursing a pitta back to its wings. “Firstly, do not pick them up immediately and drop them at a rescue centre unless their condition warrants it. You keep them in a cardboard box in a dark, quiet, cool room. If you can afford to keep it in air-conditioning, nothing like it. Or, just any cool room — may be, the bathroom — will do.” The pitta grows only to be adorably tiny, and its stubby tail helps it retain a picture of “babyishness” through its lifetime. Look what happens when people do not know the pitta, let alone this facet about it. “Many people kind of give them milk and other things. They are mostly insectivorous. Do not feed them anything: Just keep a bowl of water with ORS,” says Shravan. That advice applies to any bird — migratory or otherwise — found dehydrated or disoriented. And, a distressed pitta is not a photo op. “Do not handle the bird too much, taking photographs and selfies.” Circle back to the point about what can happen to pittas that face “too much handling”. “After a day or two, it the bird is fine, release it at the same spot where you picked it up,” says Shravan. “If it is completely down, has a broken leg, a broken wing, then bring it to the rescue centre. Out of a hundred cases, only a few would be like that.” Any migratory bird can suffer similarly from the effects of long-distance flying, and Shravan draws attention to how the orange-headed thrush has been brought into the dispensary many a time. However, the pittas are unfortunately light-years ahead in the matter, proving to be delicate darlings among long-distance migratory birds. Pittas are affected in this manner in their other wintering grounds as well. “With Bengaluru in its migration path, such cases are reported from the city. An organisation called Avian Reptile Rehabilitation Centre (ARRC) in Bengaluru addresses this issue among others. We interact with ARRC regularly around issues of this nature that pertain to migratory birds, and also about the issue of birds being put in danger on account of kite-flying with the manja thread. This is rampant in Bengaluru. In Chennai, the situation is better because of the ban, but it still happens.” Shravan points out that most facets of caring for pittas the right way apply to other migratory birds that have a rough landing after a long journey. “Most of the migratory birds are susceptible to dehydration, but Pitta is huge in this respect; I would get 30 to 40 calls, and many people would not know what it is, with some mistaking it for a kingfisher.” To find help for a pitta in distress or any other bird, migratory or resident, call 9445070909.  They are small birds and so, highly prone to stress. Too much of handling and too many people around them would definitely stress them out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/reports-of-distressed-pittas-fly-in-thick-and-fast/article37033887.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Strays and friends||Residents of New Beach Road in Thiruvanmiyur have illustrated the effectiveness of a decentralised approach to caring for community dogs and maintaining their population. Last year, in the midst of the pandemic, some dog lovers of New Beach Road formed a WhatsApp group called ‘ABC dog group’. “We reached out to various apartment complexes in the area through the New Beach Road Association and some on adjacent streets joined us,” says Balaji Sundararajan, a member of the group and a dog feeder. The group initiated various discussions, including one about the approach currently followed by the Greater Chennai Corporation in administering ABC and how the mechanism can be improved. They sought the help of animal welfare organisations in guiding them through the process. By bringing new neighbours on board, the group was able to arrive at a clear count of the strays in the area and also got them to volunteer for various roles. Dogs needing vaccination were identified and people pooled in money for the ABC (Animal Birth Control) programme. “One challenge was getting resident-volunteers to take dogs to the veterinarian for the surgery. It called for a special knack with the dogs. It is about spending a few minutes with the animal on a regular basis and feeding it to get friendly,” says Balaji. Sterilisation of strays is just one of the roles. Adopting pups; alerting residents when they see a sick canine; and feeding strays are among the other continuing roles. Decentralised approach Raj Cherubal, a resident of New Beach Road and CEO of Chennai Smart City Limited, points out that the network that has been created makes it possible to nudge Greater Chennai Corporation to revamp its existing dog centres in Chennai. Equally important is the push for a decentralised approach to ABC, which can be achieved through mobile clinics and support from resident welfare associations. “A decentralised arrangement for vaccinating the strays with the help of the community will reduce the burden on GCC and help it achieve its objective of ensuring animal welfare in the city. This is important as a common complaint from dog lovers is that the GCC does not drop the dogs after sterilisation in the same area from where they had been picked up,” says Raj. Aishwarya Prem, an animal rescuer who has helped the residents in this exercise, says there is more strength when such animal welfare initiatives are driven by the community. Aishwarya, who runs Second Chance Animal Trust, points out that when someone is already friends with the dog, it is going to trust them. In contrast, having a dog catcher do the job will add to the dog’s stress level which does not do much for an animal going into surgery. Dwelling on the advantages of having a decentralised approach, she says it works cheaper out. “When there are multiple centres in a city, it can avoid spread of diseases and ensures better health of the existing dogs,” says Aishwarya. She says there are communities in Besant Nagar, RA Puram and a few other areas that have been promoting various dog-friendly programmes. People need to understand that there are various benefits of supporting such initiatives. “There are lesser dog fights in an area and the population is under control,” she says. With the city expanding, it is not viable for GCC to solely depend on its dog centres and so, the civic body must start establishing clinics in places where they know there are rescuer communities, says Aishwarya. She adds that such a model has been working well in Jaipur and Chennai probably can pick some lessons from the PinkCity.  With the city expanding, it is not viable for GCC to solely depend on its dog centres and so, the civic body must start establishing clinics in places where they know there are rescuer communities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/strays-and-friends/article37033876.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Road work in Guduvancheri moves at a snail’s pace||The relaying of a portion of Railway Station Road and Lal Bahadur Sastri Street in Guduvancheri is moving at a tardy pace. Due to the work, the roads are uneven and ridden with potholes. Hence, motorists have to endure a backbreaking drive for motorcyclists. Further, this causes traffic congestion, especially during peak hours. In this regard, residents have requested the Nandhivaram Guduvancherry Town Panchayat to complete the work at the earliest. “To add to the woes, many violate the safety rules by driving on the wrong side of the road,” says B. Ganga, a resident of Nandhivaram. “The roads become worse, when it rains. I have been requesting the Town Panchayat for a year to complet the road work. But my efforts were futile,” says E. Shanmugam, a resident of Lal Bahadur Sastri Street. Parking of vehicles in no-parking zones and garbage dumping aggravate the problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/road-work-in-guduvancheri-moves-at-a-snails-pace/article37033867.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Chitlapakkam RWA writes to CM||Chitlapakkam Muthulakshmi Nagar Welfare Association has sent an online petition to the Chief Minister M. K. Stalin on September 22. This is with regard to the recently announced State Government scheme called Kalaignar Nagarpura Membattu Thittam which aims to address the infrastructure deficiencies in urban local bodies — Municipalities and Town Panchayats. The following are the requirements of the association: construction of underground sewage drains, covering stormwater drains, better conservancy operation, installation of LED lamps in streetlights, inclusion of Chitlapakkam in the Chembarambakkam drinking water scheme, and last mile connectivity through better public transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/chitlapakkam-rwa-writes-to-cm/article37033870.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A strategy that clicked||On October 1, a COVID-19 vaccination camp was held at Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School in Besant Nagar. This camp is meant for administering the second dose of Covishield. Around 70 people from Olcott Ururkuppam took the jab. Five families residing at The Summit, a 30-unit apartment in First Avenue in Shastri Nagar organised this camp in coordination with the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). Since July, these families are driving an awareness campaign on the importance of vaccination and are also conducting vaccination camps with the support of GCC in areas where the underprivileged live. They call themselves “Covid Busters.” “It was during the devastating second wave of COVID 19 that we started this campaign. We wanted to do our bit in the world’s battle against the pandemic. First we started creating awareness among the domestic help, drivers, sweepers, watchmen, and gardeners working in our apartment. Because, we realised they were hesitant to take the jab. After a lot of persuasion, we succeed in convincing them and also conducted a camp for them, the venue being Olcott school. They took the first dose on July 2. We wanted other people residing at Olcott Ururkuppam to also benefit from the camp, even though it was meant for the domestic workers of our apartment. Towards this end, we conducted an awareness campaign a day before the camp. We rewarded those who took the jab with bag of groceries, each worth Rs. 500,” says Sunitha Chakravarthi. In August and September, camps were held in Pattinapakkam Kuppam. Another camp was conducted at a construction site in Chenglepet where 100 migrant labourers were vaccinated. “The funds are raised through crowdfunding. So far, a sum of Rs. .3,47,025 has been mobilised to buy groceries,” says Sunitha. The families, mainly the mothers and the children, are driving this campaign. “Around nine children, from eight to seven years of age are part of this campaign. They make posters and have compiled a song called “ Oosi Podu ” meaning “take the vaccine” for which we tweaked a Tamil movie song. We did it after obtaining the necessary permission from a film celebrity who holds the rights for the movie. Their mothers also played a role. While one of them helped in the compilation of the song, the other taught the dance steps for the song, another helped phrase slogans on the importance of vaccination, and yet another mother played host as the children gather at her house. And my part is to coordinate with the GCC officials,” says Sunitha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-strategy-that-clicked/article37033879.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Monsoon-preparedness exercise in Mudichur and Varadharajapuram||The Lower Palar Basin Division of the Water Resources Department (WRD), a wing of the PublicWorks Departments has recently carried out a flood mitigation exercises in Mudichur and Varadharajapuram near Old Perungalathur. As part of the work, one of the inlet channels of Mudichur Periya lake along Vandalur- Wallajah Road in Mudichur was cleaned. This included removal of water hyacinths and all kinds of rash, say WRD officials. The inlet channel of Mudichur Periya lake receives surplus water from Mannivakkam Eri. Similar works were carried out on Adyar river in Varadharajapuram situated along the Outer Ring Road. The Adyar river at Varadharajapuram region receives surplus water from Vandalur Eri, Mannivakkam Eri, and Manimangalam Eri, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/monsoon-preparedness-exercise-in-mudichur-and-varadharajapuram/article37033869.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Dogs have gone back to old territories; ABC programme has resumed’||Wind back to the pre-pandemic days. The IT corridor hardly bedded down. Food joints operated close to midnight, with the odd coffee joint staying open into the witching hour for IT employees on the graveyard shift. Strays would besiege every eatery with an air of expectancy. With lockdowns and the resultant remote work turning the IT corridor into a ghost town, a knock-on effect on the canine population was inevitable. With slim pickings, strays migrated to places where they could expect food. This situation resulted in two contrasting pictures: One raising the question of where the dogs had gone; and the other of whether the canine population was being managed properly. Don Williams, general manager — rescues at Blue Cross of India says that though the ABC programme had been put on hold during intense lockdowns and severe restrictions, “the increase in dog population in some areas were the result of movement (in search of food), and not reproduction,” Though it stood out in bold relief on IT Corridor that is lined with food joints, canine movement of this kind was witnessed in all parts of Chennai in varying degrees depending on the availability of food. “ABC programmes had come to a standstill during the intense lockdowns. We cannot deny that. We were doing rescues and treatments. At that time, even Greater Chennai Corporation had to put its ABC programme on hold due to the focus on the pandemic. These dogs migrated to places where they found more food. The population of dogs in certain areas dwindled and in certain others, swelled. During the period, Blue Cross was feeding 2000 dogs a day. On the IT Corridor, dogs would usually be found around the eateries. Where eateries have opened for business as a result of the relaxations, the dogs have now returned to their old territories. With the easing of relaxations, the ABC programme resumed,” says Williams. Counting the dogs with a notch on the right ear that suggest sterilisation, one gets the impression that the ABC programmes happen in patches, leaving uncovered areas. Williams points out that this situation results from random catching of dogs here and there, and not marking an area and focussing entirely on it and completing the exercise at one go. “When a corporate, a college or an apartment association engages us to catch the dogs on their premises and have them sterilised and vaccinated, we catch all the dogs. If there are 50 dogs we catch all of them the same day. We do not catch five dogs and go back the next day to catch the others. When you start doing things that way, you educate the animal to become smarter. When the rest of the dogs see you, they flee. When we go out, we catch all the animals, whether they are male or female, sterilise and vaccinate them and put them back in the same place. Carrying out an ABC programme in this manner will ensure there are no uncovered patches in the areas brought under under focus.”  When a corporate, a college or an apartment association engages us to catch the dogs on their premises and have them sterilised and vaccinated, we catch all the dogs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/dogs-have-gone-back-to-old-territories-abc-programme-has-resumed/article37033877.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Look for telltale signs in dogs and inform GCC’||Greater Chennai Corporation will soon be upgrading its three Animal Birth Control (ABC) centres at Lloyds Road, Kannammapet and Basin Bridge Road. Stray dogs are brought to these centres for sterilisation and also immunisation against rabies. Post the surgery, these dogs must be released in their respective areas where they are caught as per ABC Rules. “GCC has also identified another place at Tondiarpet where an ABC centre would start functioning,” says Dr J Kamal Hussain, veterinary officer, GCC. Last year, he says, 11,000 stray dogs were sterilised GCC’s three centres and also at the centres of its NGO partners Blue Cross of India and SPCA. “Besides, from August 2019 to January 2020, 68,000 dogs were administered anti-rabies vaccine street-wise,” he says. He says both ABC and taking a count of stray dog population in the city are ongoing initiatives. The dog census is initiated once in four years. “In 2018, the count of stray dog population was 57,000 dogs. The count has certainly gone up and would have touched 80,000,” says Dr Hussain. He says the public must help GCC by identifying areas where stray dog population has been increasing and where the dogs are not vaccinated. It is easy to identify if a dog is vaccinated or not. In dogs, ear-notching is the common way of identifying if it has been vaccinated and surgically sterilised, says Dr Hussain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/look-for-telltale-signs-in-dogs-and-inform-gcc/article37033878.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Madipakkam RWA seeks temporary solutions to mitigate floods||To mitigate floods, Madipakkam North East Residents’ Welfare Association (MNERWA) in Madipakkam has requested the office of the Zone 14 Perungudi of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to have open temporary channels and motor pumps put in place. The association represents Ram Nagar - South, Rajaji Nagar, and Sadasiva in Madipakkam. This request comes in the wake of the inundation of the locality following the recent spells of rain. In these colonies, rainwater is supposed to drain into the Pallikaranai Marshland but it is not happening. The main cause is the absence of stormwater drains. However, the problem has been aggravated on account of bad roads. Roads are uneven because of potholes and they have been laid without proper milling. Therefore, the height of the roads has been increased. “At Sadasiva Nagar, the rainwater from Fourth Main Road should drain into Pallikaranai Marshland through Third Cross Street and Fifth Main Road. But, due to the je potholes on Third Cross Street, water is unable flow into the marshland,” says M. Anbalagan, president, MNERWA. In Ram Nagar, water from Madipakkam East and Madipakkam West flows through Ram Nagar. However, on September 26, after repeated representations to the Zone 14 officials, a portion of Third Street in Rajaji Nagar had to be cut to facilitate water flow into the marshland through Fourth Cross Street. Further, an unkempt plot on Fourth Main Road in Sadasiva Nagar adds to the flooding. A vacant land should help in reducing the water stagnation. Instead, this land contributes to the problem. It’s because, garbage is dumped on this plot, therefore water does not get absorbed and tends to stagnate Fourth Main Road and Third Cross Street in Sadasiva Nagar. “For years, we have been requesting the GCC to construct stormwater drains. But our efforts were of no avail,” says Anbalagan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/madipakkam-rwa-seeks-temporary-solutions-to-mitigate-floods/article37033872.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Guduvancherry lake in a state of neglect’||Guduvancherry lake is overrun with water hyacinth, which has the water-holding capacity. As the north-east monsoon is round the corner, steps should be taken at the earliest to weed out the vegetation. Further, steps should be taken to desilt and deepen the waterbody, and strengthen its bunds. S. Shyam is a resident of Guduvanchery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/guduvancherry-lake-in-a-state-of-neglect/article37033884.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Veeraraghavan lake set to get a new lease of life’||Residents of Thiruneermalai hope that Veeraraghavan lake in Thiruneermalai will get a new lease of life. Because, we are happy to notice that the orders from the Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu is acted upon. Following his order, Chengalpattu District Collector inspected the lake recently. The Collector instructed the revenue officials to take steps to evict the encroachers. Notices have been issued to the encroachers to vacate their houses constructed on the lake area. Besides, the Collectorate is taking steps to rehabilitate the encroachers by providing houses elsewhere. At this juncture, I request the Collector to take measures to arrest discharge of sewage from Chromepet, Thiruneermalai and Tambaram Sanatorium into the waterbody. A luxuriant growth of water hyacinth has reduced the oxygen levels in the lake and this has killed the fish. Every year, hyacinth growth affects the fish population. If steps are taken to weed out the hyacinths, the groundwater table will get recharged in Tambaram Sanatorium, Chromepet and Thiruneermalai. Also, steps must be taken to construct sluice gates on the waterway to control water levels and flow rates. R. Kannan is a resident of Thiruneermalai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/veeraraghavan-lake-set-to-get-a-new-lease-of-life/article37033882.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Arrest sewage discharge into Adambakkam lake’||Discharge of sewage and dumping of garbage in the Adambakkam lake is contaminates the groundwater in Nanganallur, Adambakkam, Thillai Ganga Nagar and Alandur. Therefore, residents are forced to buy water cans for cooking and drinking purposes. I request the Greater Chennai Corporation to take steps to prevent this and also to desilt and deepen the lake and protect it from encroachments. S. Balasubramanian is a resident of Nanganallur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/arrest-sewage-discharge-into-adambakkam-lake/article37033886.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Camp to test bone health||In commemoration of World Osteoporosis Day, Dr. Kamakshi Memorial Group of Hospitals is conducting an ortho camp from October 20 to 24. It will be held at the hospital’s four centres — Pallikaranai, Adyar, Pallavaram and Medavakkam. According to a press release, the camp will conducted for free. Test to evaluate bone mineral density will be conducted. For details, call 89399 00500 / 044 - 6630 0300||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/camp-to-test-bone-health/article37033888.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Citizen volunteers behind GCC’s vaccination portal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/citizen-volunteers-behind-gccs-vaccination-portal/article37033874.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Monster run||The English we speak is an Anglo-Saxon language, unlike the Latinate ones (French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese), which are also called Romance languages. English is closer to Germanic. The form we are familiar with is modern and descends from Old English. The most famous example of a work in this language is the epic poem Beowulf , which is likely to be 1,400 years old. I have the Penguin Black Classics edition, translated by Michael Alexander in 1973. Translated from what, one might ask — isn’t Old English similar to English? Only to linguists. To you and me, it will sound like a foreign tongue, if not outright gibberish. The modern version’s opening lines go:  Attend! We have heard of the thriving of the throne of Denmark,/ how the folk-kings flourished in former days,/ how the royal athelings earned that glory.  This is understandable ( atheling is an Anglo-Saxon prince). Now let’s have a look at the words in the original:  Hwæt! We Gardena in geardagum,/ þeodcyninga, þrym gefrunon,/ hu ða æþelingas ellen fremedon./ Oft Scyld Scefing sceaþena þreatum,/ monegum mægþum, meodosetla ofteah/ egsode eorlas.  It reads like something from The Lord of the Rings (indeed, Tolkien wrote an essay called ‘On translating Beowulf ’). Beowulf in the original survives in a single manuscript — a codex, made of animal skin or vellum. The story has two parts. The first part describes a drinking hall in Denmark, owned by King Hrothgar. The noisy revellers anger a monster named Grendel. He descends on them each night, makes off with some of them, and eats them (it is unclear why the others return to drink in the same place the following night). Victorious hero Grendel is slain by Beowulf, who is a visiting hero. Beowulf fights the monster without a weapon, but tears off his arm at the shoulder. Mortally wounded, Grendel runs off to his lair, where he dies. Beowulf displays the arm as a sign of victory. The following night, the men again gather for a feast in the hero’s honour. Into this gathering comes Grendel’s mother seeking revenge. She slays one of Hrothgar’s most loyal soldiers and leaves. Beowulf follows her to her lair in the lake. He kills her too and finds Grendel’s corpse, whose head he takes back with him. The Danes gather again for more drinking. Beowulf returns to his home and to his king, Hygelac. Anglo-Saxon pride In the second part of the book, Hygelac dies in war and is succeeded by Beowulf, who rules the state for half a century. The peace is ended when a man steals a golden cup from a dragon, who becomes enraged ( Lord of the Rings fans will note the similarity with the plot of The Hobbit ), emerges from its lair, and ravages the land. An old Beowulf fights it, this time with more difficulty than he had while battling the monsters in his youth. Nonetheless, he is able to overcome it, though not before it bites him fatally. Beowulf is cremated. As the subjects mourn his passing, they also fear that without the great hero, their land will be vulnerable to invaders. This is how it ends. It is a simple tale but its antiquity and language have fascinated scholars down the decades. The English people take great pride in the origins of their language and its avoidance of Latinate words. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson points out that in the conclusion of Churchill’s famous speech from June 1940 — “We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets... we shall never surrender” — there is only one Latinate word (surrender). All the rest is Anglo-Saxon.  Beowulfin the original survives in a single manuscript — a codex, made of animal skin||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/monster-run/article37033933.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Losing face around the world||Facebook as a woe is an unending story. We saw that recently. On October 4, a blip in network maintenance pulled down the platform’s many services, triggering a global outage, and outrage, expectedly, given the reach and power of the Mark Zuckerberg creation. Interestingly for students of the history of technology, the most insightful comment on the recent random shutdown came from Santosh Janardhan, Facebook’s vice-president of engineering. “Every failure like this is an opportunity...” wrote Janardhan, “...to learn and get better.” Cashing in To be frank, this is the ugly truth about Facebook. It’s designed to find opportunity in calamity. For its makers, including Zuckerberg, it doesn’t fail for bad; it only fails for good. But what happens to the victims of these mishaps? Who will compensate for the losses incurred during the recent outage? Is there a system in place for that? Is Facebook worried about it? Why is it paying no heed to public demand for creative and purposeful auditing and sulk when asked to reveal its methods? Has it become ‘too big to fail’? Some of the answers are in An Ugly Truth: Inside Facebook’s Battle for Domination , written by journalists Sheera Frenkel and Cecilia Kang. The book forms the foundation for the upcoming television drama series, Doomsday Machine. It springs no surprise today when one terms Facebook a doomsday machine. Post Cambridge Analytica and the many more data and privacy scandals that followed, there is a general consensus on the potential (and apparent) dangers a mammoth, overarching digital ecosystem such as that of Facebook can have. Several studies and even books have come out detailing how Facebook has been influencing, mostly wrongly, the way we work, debate, love and communicate. But nothing much has been done to check the impending digital apocalypse. Granted, there are pieces of legislation emerging in some corners, namely the data privacy regulations in Europe and the content-sharing rules in Australia and elsewhere, but the fact remains that Facebook continues to wield immense clout on almost every walk of life, dodging policy scrutiny and public audit. The devil in the DNA For many, Facebook is the classic Frankenstein. But Frenkel and Kang believe that’s not the case. They find that the madness in Facebook has a meticulous method. They say both Zuckerberg and his COO Sheryl Sandberg knew all along what the Facebook business model was capable of and they relentlessly pursued the mission, by hook or by crook. And forming the backbone of the whole thing was ‘advertisement’. Long-time associates of Facebook and analysts who’ve been tracking the platform since its inception have warned many a time that the social media behemoth is nothing more than an ad-seller with a difference. For FB, communication is a commodity and attention is the reward for consumers. The rest of the rhetoric on connecting the world is pure gobbledygook.  An Ugly Truth will help you (re)confirm all these concerns. In a way, the book is just stating the obvious about Facebook, but this is a more vocal confirmation than the earlier tomes, thanks to the scores of interviews Frenkel and Kang did with the kith and kin of the platform giant. But if you’re looking for ‘opinion’, Frenkel and Kang may disappoint you a bit; in their quest to present the stories in style, the authors have focused more on the events than on the essence of the events. Frenkel and Kang’s prose is neat and to-the-point. The chapters are well-structured and well-edited. The book is full of anecdotes, colourful, dramatic scenes, and sequences that reveal what’s wrong with FB and its clan. You may call it the Netflix effect on non-fiction. These days most such works are infested with such ‘visual fetishness’ that they stop short of being incisive while being interesting reads. That said, this is clearly an insightful addition to the litany of works on what’s wrong with Facebook and why it matters and is highly recommended for policymakers as well as students of social media and technology across the globe. The way ahead To conclude, what’s the way ahead for FB? Or, more importantly, what’s the way ahead for the billions of people who are hooked to Facebook and its subsidiary products such as WhatsApp and Instagram? Should they let the algorithms manipulate their personal data and mint money out of it? If at all they want to raise an objection, is the policy equipped to back them? Is Facebook introducing checks and balances to its processes so that its services cause no damage to the common good?  An Ugly Truth concludes with a strong dose of realism. “One thing is certain...” write the authors. “Even if the company undergoes a radical transformation in the coming years, that change is unlikely to come from within.” Looks like policymakers across the globe have their task cut and dried. This also means that the calls for breaking Big Tech must get louder. Else, the next Lehman moment will come from Menlo Park and if the October outage is any indication, we won’t be able to bale ourselves out of the doom that’s coming our way, sponsored by Zuckerberg and Co.  The reviewer is Founder & Editor of India Art Review.  The Ugly Truth: Inside Facebook’s Battle for Dominion Sheera Frenkel, Cecilia Kang Little Brown/Hachette  Rs. 799||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/losing-face-around-the-world/article37033951.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On October 17, 1979, this person was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize “for work undertaken in the struggle to overcome poverty and distress, which also constitutes a threat to peace.” When asked what people can do to promote world peace, the response was “Go home and love your family.” Who was this person who was born a subject of the Ottoman Empire, then became in order — Serbian, Bulgarian, Yugoslavian, Indian, Albanian and then finally was given honorary American citizenship? 2 The Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded to 137 laureates, of which 109 are individuals and 28 are organisations. The very first recipient of the prize was the founder of the organisation, which has won the prize three times. Which organisation was this that first won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1917, then in 1944 and the third time in 1963? 3 The oldest Nobel Peace Prize laureate to date is Polish physicist Joseph Rotblat, who was 87 when he was awarded the prize in 1995. In 1942, he was invited to be one of the founding members of a historic project in the U.S. Discovering the true intentions of that project, he withdrew in 1943 and proceeded to actively work against its aims, for which he was awarded the Nobel. What project did he leave that was named after a district in New York, and what was it building? 4 The first time a Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to a woman was in 1905, to Bertha von Suttner. She was also the second ever woman Nobel Laureate after Marie Curie in 1903. Suttner became a leading figure in the peace movement in her native country after the publication of her pacifist novel, Die Waffen nieder! (Lay Down Your Arms!). Suttner was the very first Nobel Laureate from which country that has played a vital part in many wars since? 5 Alva Myrdal was a Swedish politician who was a leader of the disarmament movement for which she was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1982 along with Alfonso García Robles. Her husband Gunnar Myrdal, an economist, had been awarded a Nobel Prize in 1974 for his work in theory of money and economic fluctuations. Although they are only the fourth ever married couple to have won two Nobel Prizes, what is unique about this couple? 6 The following people were all awarded the Nobel Peace Prize: German pacifist and journalist Carl von Ossietzky in 1935, Burmese politician Aung San Suu Kyi in 1991 and Chinese human rights activist Liu Xiaobo in 2010. In all three cases the laureate was not present to receive the award during the prestigious ceremony. What is the reason they did not receive the prize in person? 7 Jody Williams established the Nobel Women’s Initiative in January 2006, which brought together six female Peace laureates to use their influence to promote the work of women striving for peace with justice and equality. Williams had been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1997 for her work in banning a certain armament, which was causing thousands of deaths during non-war times. What dangerous device was she responsible for getting banned that famously had the support of Princess Diana? 8 From 1974, the Statutes of the Nobel Foundation have stipulated that a prize cannot be awarded posthumously, unless death has occurred after the announcement of the Nobel Prize. Only one Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded posthumously, to Dag Hammarskjöld in 1961. Till date, Hammarskjöld remains the youngest person to have held a particular post. What post did he hold when he was killed in an air crash as he was on the way to resolve a conflict in Congo? 9 The omission of Mahatma Gandhi for the Peace Prize by the Nobel Committee has been one of the biggest questions in Nobel history. Gandhi had been nominated in 1937, 1938, 1939, 1947, and, finally, a few days before his assassination in January 1948. In 1989, during the awarding for that year, the chairman of the committee said that the award was “in part a tribute to the memory of Mahatma Gandhi.” Who was the recipient who was awarded for his peaceful solutions based upon tolerance and mutual respect in order to preserve the historical and cultural heritage of his people? 10 Maria Ressa is a journalist who has been awarded the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize jointly with Dmitry Muratov for “their efforts to safeguard freedom of expression, which is a precondition for democracy and lasting peace.” She is also part of Reporters Without Borders. She is an outspoken critic of the President of her country for his attacks on freedom of the press and his controversial death squads that kill criminal suspects. She is the very first Nobel Laureate from which country? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article37033964.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Deluge in the hills||When I heard the deafening roar of the seasonal rivulet Manjhi, I was mesmerised by the unbridled fury of water. It had been pouring for two hours, not unusual for Dharamshala and adjoining areas. While driving alongside the Manjhi, the roar seemed to be a warning of enraged nature. Those living in the nearby hamlets were all out on the banks. As I approached a part of the road washed away, a man gesticulated to take a turn. So I took another route to my clinic. While there, I received a call from my brother enquiring about my well-being. A co-worker updated me about some viral videos. I took the information philosophising that nature has its own designs. But that was only till disturbing footage started inundating my personal information space. The gravity of the situation sank in when otherwise busy friends started calling. At Bhagsunaag, a hill town near the Dalai Lama’s abode of McLeod Ganj, cars were forced down by the gushing waters. The rivulet decided to flow through the bazaar. The constructions had taken a toll. It is important to ask the why of it. It is easy to sermonise and talk prudence with hindsight, but when some wrong is done on nature, we simply turn our back on it rationalising to ourselves that it does not concern us. The fact remains that everthing good and bad concerns us all. The earlier we realise it, better it will be for us and posterity. The inundating waters of the Manjhi were a testimony to our greed tempting us to encroach on the beds of brooks and rivulets. The sliding slurry of earth loosened by rain at the Boh valley near Dharamshala was a deluge let upon unsuspecting villagers. There was no greed here but pure misfortune that reminds one of the ephemeral nature of life. Our faculty to forget is a blessing to live through our misfortunes but it also makes us turn a blind eye to the repercussions of our acts of greed. Whatever our schemes be, let’s not forget what Lord Tennyson wrote: “For men may come and men may go, But I go on for ever”. That’s about The Brook , its waters and nature, and it will profit us to remember that! kumarr5803@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/deluge-in-the-hills/article37033922.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Behind the bling of talk shows||In 1998, my assignment with a U.S. company required a two-week stint in Chicago. As part of its employee welfare programme, the company was duty-bound to facilitate one happening event in the city for me to attend. Several colleagues wanted me to attend a basketball match, their favourite sport, similar to our IPL, and to cheer for Chicago Bulls, the popular local team, and their star player, Michael Jordan, who was propelling the team that year to the top of the championship, personally winning several most valuable player awards. That he was retiring that year made watching a basketball match a poignant and must-see event. As talk shows were making their appearance on Indian television about that time, I opted instead to see the Oprah Winfrey Show, a highly rated daytime talk show featuring book clubs, interviews and self-improvement segments, produced and hosted by its namesake, Oprah, in her Harpo (her name spelt backwards) studio in Chicago. On the selected day, I set off to the west side neighbourhood of Chicago, where the Harpo studio was located. It did not seem like the nicest part of the town and the dismal and melancholy surroundings seemed so unlike the America I had imagined the country would be. I began to wonder whether I had missed my way, before I suddenly spotted the studio in the distance, teeming with her fan club consisting predominantly of middle-aged men and women. We were shortly herded into an auditorium and were constantly reminded that we would be appearing on TV and to make efforts to look and be at our best. We were repeatedly made to clap rhythmically and to cheer loudly and given strict instructions to show our enthusiasm whenever Oprah looked in our direction. Finally Oprah arrived, gave some instructions, spoke to her guest of the day and disappeared into her chamber, staying precisely for five minutes. There was no chance of observing Oprah’s legendary journalistic toughness, her robust humour and empathy which made guests voluntarily reveal their stories to an international TV audience. Was coming here really worth the trouble? Wouldn’t watching an energetic game of basketball with Michael Jordan bouncing, dribbling the ball and scoring goals have been a much better choice? Today, talk shows on Indian TV are full of human interest stories, comedy, celebrity interviews with massive gatherings and larger-than-life hosts. The cheering crowds, smiling audiences, radiant hosts are all part of viewer-friendly programmes packaged in slick capsules. While we enjoy the shows, do we know what goes on behind the glamour curtain? Shouldn’t we spare a thought for talk show audiences, who go without breaks, sometimes without food or water, cramped into auditoriums for hours on end, forced to appear cheerful and joyous despite the hard work and toil? Two decades later, I am glad I chose the Oprah option because it allows me to appreciate the reality behind talk shows and to empathise with the anonymous audience. priyannaik211@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/behind-the-bling-of-talk-shows/article37033926.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A long walk to experience freedom through personal autonomy||Freedom is mankind’s most cherished dream, but remains hard to achieve as society has outsourced virtually all the tasks needed for survival. With interdependence being the leitmotif of human existence, both good and bad people could maintain their freedom by simply staying out of reach of those who deprived them of it. Not content with this simplistic linearity, Sebastian Junger undertook a long walk with three friends along the rail lines in south-central Pennsylvania to have a firsthand experience with freedom. “We were the only people in the world who knew where we were,” which helped them experience personal autonomy and mutual interdependence to ponder a very big idea called freedom .     A detour to history Known for the bestseller The Perfect Storm , which was turned into a blockbuster movie, Junger weaves the magic of literary prose that holds explosive calm as he unravels multiple perspectives on the primary human desire that defines us. Taking readers through long detours in history and anthropology, the author questions why those who protect themselves against others are the ones who are organised enough to oppress their own people. Why is it that democracy, designed to strike a balance, is unable to uphold and guarantee freedom? As democracies are under growing threat, one wonders if history is seeking sacrifices from those who value it to something almost sacred. Loaded with musings on freedom, the book is a short narrative with much to be read between the lines and with clear reflections on the disreputable political environment we are part of. Although the storyline is somewhat incoherent, it has pellets of enduring truth which are thoughtful and engaging. Junger considers the lessons of the Spanish War, which his father fled from, akin for our own time with lies out to destroy democracies — the custodian of freedom. As was in Spain, once lies get accepted as truth, everything including life, death, and reality are up for grabs. The takeover of democracies seems to be a work in progress ever since. Post-truth issues Its contemporary relevance draws attention to the need for preserving freedom by protecting democracy from a fascist takeover. Junger’s concerns on upholding the right to freedom are indeed real as fascist forces are gunning for power in the guise of being democratic in intent, but not on purpose. In the post-truth era, knowledge is being compromised for faith, loyalty for obedience, and power for freedom. Unknowingly, people have bargained their freedom for illusive safety and security. “Freedom and safety seemed to exist on a continuum where the more you had of one, the less you had of the other.” It is indeed fascinating how a long walk along the rail lines, the veritable no man’s land between civilisation and nature, could propel ideas on freedom in the wilderness of forced isolation. Sleeping under bridges, in abandoned buildings and in the woods and on golf courses, the author found that “there are many definitions of freedom but surely that is one of them.” Securing temporary freedom to wrestle with oneself is close to Ernest Hemingway’s ideas. It is a style of writing that guides one to understand human fight against fellow humans for freedom and survival; be it between the natives and the usurpers, the Irish against the British, or the Taliban against the U.S. It is the quest for freedom that is at the core of human existence.  Freedom ought not to be read with any preconceptions as the author himself admits that the trip was an escape from lived reality, a temporary injunction against whatever was coming. Back home after four hundred miles of walking, it was time for him to face life again. Perhaps, it is the acceptance of the random nature of our existence that truly sets us free.  The reviewer is an independent writer, researcher and academic.     Freedom Sebastian Junger Fourth Estate  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-long-walk-to-experience-freedom-through-personal-autonomy/article37033948.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Thorns and thistles||A mystified Brawin Kumar turned the three-centimetre-long thorn over. It didn’t come from a plant. According to the villager’s description, it belonged to a small rodent-like prickly creature covered with thorny spikes like the one he held. Nothing about the animal was familiar. Kumar had come to this village near Tirunelveli, Tamil Nadu, to conduct a wildlife awareness programme. Residents regaled him with descriptions of various animals and birds they saw in their environs. But none had stumped him like this mysterious creature. Later, experts at the Zoo Outreach Organization, Coimbatore, determined the spines he had collected belonged to a South Indian hedgehog, also known as Madras, or bare-bellied, hedgehog. An intrigued Kumar dug through biological literature but found little. The nocturnal species inhabits grasslands, pasture lands, and open scrub of all five South Indian states, but except for a few old records, it hasn’t been seen outside Tamil Nadu in recent years. Naturalists and researchers overlooked the South Indian hedgehog, while residents, by calling it mulleli [thorny rat] in Tamil, confused the insectivore with rodents. Dried skins If Kumar wanted to learn more about the creature, he’d have to study it himself. He conducted a questionnaire survey throughout its range. Some respondents not only knew about it but brought out dried skins they used as a cure for a range of medical complaints. Kumar encountered his first live hedgehog scuttling along under a hedge. At his touch, it instantly curled up, tucking its head into its belly, resembling a sea urchin. He sat still in the magical glow of the setting sun.   Like a shrew “For seven or eight minutes, I watched its spines rise and fall with its breathing,” he recalls. “A pair of legs emerged and then the other pair. Then its nose appeared, quivering like a shrew’s. That individual changed my life.” A few residents even reared the animals at home, no doubt charmed by their ability to roll up into a prickly ball. One left his pet locked in his house by mistake when he undertook a 35-day pilgrimage. On his return, the animal seemed none the worse for wear, since in the arid heat of summers, the species goes dormant, neither eating nor drinking for weeks. With the help of respondents, Kumar slowly gathered more information. Three kinds of burrows form the hedgehogs’ daytime refuge, summer retreat, and nursery to rear young. The animals exploited streets, hanging out under lampposts and hogging the bugs drawn to the lights. The asphalt surface warmed their bellies on cool nights. Wind power companies created a dense network of pathways across the countryside, not to conjure a hedgehog paradise but for their vehicles to access their infrastructure. The creatures’ tummy-warming habit turned these roads into locations of carnage. Unlike rats, insectivores can’t scurry fast enough to outrun automobiles and motorbikes. The researcher estimated over 1,000 hedgehogs were killed every monsoon. Only 16 By interviewing residents, conducting fieldwork, and scouring media reports, Kumar discovered the species in several previously unrecorded areas. From 12 known locations, he reported its presence in 156 places in 19 districts of Tamil Nadu, although he encountered only 16 wild hedgehogs in real life. One was a mother with two newborn hoglets that had yet to grow their thorny defence. “The spines grow only after a week,” he says. “And they aren’t sharp.” His surveys showed these shy, solitary animals were not having an easy time. In hamlet after hamlet, he met elderly people who remembered seeing them decades ago, eating peanuts and millets in fields, but not anymore. The hedgehogs had become locally extinct in many places, he feared. Their preferred terrain of soft soil was fast becoming cotton fields and mango groves. The hedgehog strategy of pretending to be land urchins in the face of danger is hopelessly futile against today’s threats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/thorns-and-thistles/article37033962.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A little short on magic||Arunava Sinha’s 64th published translation, Khwabnama ( Book of Dreams ), has much less to do with dreams than with the cold, hard truths of life. The original Bengali novel of the same name is considered to be the magnum opus of the famous Bangladeshi author, Akhtaruzzaman Elias (1943-1997).  Khwabnama is a deeply political novel, presenting a series of vignettes from undivided Bengal/ India of the 1940s to Partition, Independence and after. The plot is woven around the Tebhaga peasant rebellion, in which sharecroppers demanded a larger share of the farm produce. Against  this background, Elias unfolds the story of the fisherman-farmer Tamiz, whose life is one of crushing poverty, hunger and injustice. He embodies all that is painfully real among the underprivileged. Unlike those who seek to understand their fates through dreams, his way to know his fortune and change it is through labour, ambition, rebellion. Through Tamiz, the reader gets a taste of the various struggles of rural Bengal in the 40s — between landowners and jotedaars , jotedaars and sharecroppers, peasants and fishermen, Hindus and Muslims, communists and socialists, the religious and rationalists. Running through this grimness is a thin thread of the magical. The ghosts of a long-dead sepoy called Munshi and a wandering fakir called Cherag Ali flit in and out of the plot, pulling readers into mystical spaces where fish turn to sheep, waterbodies form and unform whimsically, and music takes unlikely shapes. Tamiz’s father is a medium between the dead and the living, and Kulsum, his wife, has an uncanny ability to sniff out the deepest secrets. They lead us to Cherag Ali and his mysterious book of dream interpretation, the Khwabnama.  Between the real and the imagined, the living and the dead, the scope of the book is vast. However, it picks up pace only midway and the writing can seem tiresome at places, especially to non-Bangladeshi readers, who do not share an emotional connect with the country. Also, it never quite delivers on the magic realism front. Sinha’s translation, however, is a redeemer. For expat Bengalis distanced from their linguistic heritage, it offers an authentic reading experience, seamlessly incorporating not just the words but also the nuances of Bengali. The reviewer is a culture writer and an Interfaith Studies scholar.  Khwabnama Akhtaruzzaman Elias, trs Arunava Sinha Penguin Hamish Hamilton  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-little-short-on-magic/article37033930.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Among today’s finest novelists||In 2000, the beginning of a new century, I arrived at Bloomsbury Publishing as editor-in-chief. The first thing I did was hire an assistant, a young woman called Chiki Sarkar, and with her help began the enterprise of building a list. My ambition was to find stories from all corners of the world that convey the complexity of history and human experience using the richness of the English language, a language that has been made and remade over centuries in different countries by different cultures. One of the first manuscripts I received came to me from the great literary agent, Deborah Rogers. It was a novel called By the Sea . The author was the Zanzibar-born Abdulrazak Gurnah. It was a haunting story of colonialism and its aftermath, of asylum, friendship and betrayal. In 1967, the teenage Gurnah had fled Zanzibar, escaping the barbarities of the state, an experience which informed his writing life. By the Sea was his sixth novel; his fourth, Paradise , had been shortlisted for the Booker Prize. I was delighted to get the chance to become Gurnah’s publisher; I had long admired his writing and this beautiful new novel was exactly what I wanted for my list. We published By the Sea the following year. It received great critical acclaim, and together with another novel I published, The Death of Vishnu by Manil Suri, was longlisted for the Booker Prize. Neither made it to the shortlist, but that is the way of publishing — heartbreaks are part of a publisher’s daily life. The wait Gurnah takes his time to write each of his books. He was for many years professor of English and postcolonial literature at Kent University and had to fit writing around his professional duties. The five novels I’ve published came in five-year gaps: Desertion , The Last Gift , Gravel Heart and, last year, Afterlives . Publishing what we call ‘literary fiction’ is not easy, and the subtler and more nuanced the work, the harder it is. Editors have to be able to live with disappointment and at the same time be the most optimistic people alive. I found it increasingly difficult to produce the sales I believed Gurnah should have. However, I believed that important literature such as Gurnah’s — stories about seismic political, economic, romantic events that uproot people and send them across oceans — will eventually find their way. Gurnah had strong support from other writers, including Bloomsbury’s Aminatta Forna and Kamila Shamsie. I treasured that support, but could not understand why he wasn’t acclaimed as one of today’s finest novelists and a great African writer. When I took on By the Sea , I was not to know that the concerns of that novel, the plight of refugees, would not recede, but grow and grow with a series of humanitarian crises worldwide, forcing people to risk everything in search of new lives. The power of fiction Fiction is one of the most powerful ways to absorb and understand world events, and Gurnah has for decades been writing such stories. Twenty years after publishing By the Sea , a new manuscript arrived, of Gurnah’s latest, Afterlives . In May last year, just months before its publication, the Black Lives Matter protests happened. I thought this is it, his moment has come. I was sure Gurnah would be included in the Booker list — this was an important and timely new novel from one of Africa’s greatest living writers, at this moment in history. Surely it would be included? But it wasn’t. Neither did it make the Costa Prize list. It was longlisted for the Walter Scott Prize for historical fiction and shortlisted for the Orwell Prize for political fiction. And that was it. I had to face the fact that this writer I honoured and treasured, valued as highly as such other of my writers as Khaled Hosseini, George Saunders and Richard Ford, would perhaps never achieve the major acclaim he deserved. As the year drew to its end, I felt sad and defeated. And then on the morning of October 7, my phone and email erupted. The news had broken that Abdulrazak Gurnah had won the Nobel Prize in Literature — the prize of prizes. This was the one I hadn’t dreamt of. It didn’t occur to me that the Nobel would look in his direction. But they did. Unknown to me, the Nobel committee had been tracking him for years. I was not, after all, alone in the wilderness. Abdulrazak Gurnah pursues his creative path with courage and enormous talent and is now at last an internationally acclaimed author, something I’ve always wanted for him. The writer was editor-in-chief of Bloomsbury Publishing for 20 years. She is now Executive Publisher.  It didn’t occur to me that the Nobel would look in his direction. But they did. Unknown to me, the Nobel committee had been tracking him for years. I was not, after all, alone in the wilderness||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/among-todays-finest-novelists/article37033934.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Star signs, son shines||Dear Agony Akka,  We are the parents of two kids aged 13 and 11, son and daughter. We have so far had a joyous relationship with our offspring. We go for family outings, father takes them for sports practice, mother takes them for weekend ballet classes, they go alone for tuition. We cook their favourite meals and order pizza-burger now and then. On birthdays we buy new clothes, cake and gifts. But now suddenly our kids are turning against us and making face all the time. They claim we are bad parents. It seems their classmates have parents who praise them on Facebook and worship them on Insta. But we do nothing. Especially on 13th birthday it seems my son was humiliated because he had no ‘welcome-to-teenage’ posts. We don’t know what all this means. Are we losing our parenting edge? Please help. — Being a Parent Sucks  Dear BAPS, Yes, your parenting sucks. Thank your nakshatra you don’t live in USA, because surely by now your children would have reported you to child services who would have taken them away and given them to foster families who understand the importance of social media. Turning 13 is a big event. You really think cake is enough? First thing take bath in the morning and open Facebook, Insta, Snapchat, etc. Place one photo of said offspring, add flowers/ birds/ kittens in the border. Start writing. Call him your cherub, brightest star in yonder firmament, beautiful tadpole in wee garden, etc. Liberally sprinkle words like ‘joie’, ‘energy’, ‘wings’, ‘pride’, ‘comfort’ etc. If you are not fluent means take tips from greeting cards. Next, talk about The Importance of Turning 13. Here is sample line: “Dearest angel, as you take a tiny step into the blip world of teenage blop, it is a giant leap for mankind and a mighty vault for your adoring parents. As we watch with our very own misty eyes, you leave our loving arms and tread the tender path of blah. We quiver with pride and blih as we see you bloh into the sunset with a bleh.” You have to go on in this blood-curdling vein for a good 2-3 paras. You will get 800 Likes and Heart Emojis for this post and everyone will swoon because turning 13 is a rare thing for the human species. Make a copy of text and save. Repeat and use for second child’s 13th, first child’s 18th, second child’s graduation etc, etc, ad nauseous. You can update photo and change border design as per occasion. At intervals, you can also upload entire childhood album and title it ‘My Amazing Progeny’s Journey Archived For Posterity’. Any self-respecting parent knows that this process starts from infancy. As soon as your child burped the first time, you should have started broadcasting and never stopped. Every line it draws is high art, every piece of drivel it spouts is high prose, every drop of snot it emits is a tear from an archangel passing overhead. It is future artist/ novelist/ singer /gardener/ chef rolled in one, in short, Kamal in Dasavathaaram.  And the fact that you are not acknowledging this in public can cause lasting damage to your two children. They might even grow into adulthood without the world having ever seen them eat muesli. That would be a great loss. But it’s never too late. Diwali is coming. Post one family photo and type, ‘Enjoying auspicious day with the two shimmering lights of our lives. Laddoos were made by blessed baby Blumenthal and alpana by cherished child Chagall.’ You can thank me later. — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/star-signs-son-shines/article37033959.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The godmother of Yorkshire||The streets of Yorkshire are on the brink of a bloodbath. There is the Jirga, the crime syndicate led by Akbar Khan, the leader of the Pukhtun community. Then there is the new entrant, the Brotherhood — an East European mafia gearing up for a turf war. We are told that the two groups are fundamentally different. One of the characters says, “Whatever the Jirga did, we knew our children were safe. But these new guys, they have no code, no honour.” The Jirga’s code includes not harming children and respecting the elderly. If they weren’t gunning down men, you would have even considered them righteous. Soon, Akbar Khan is murdered and his estranged daughter, Jia Khan, the heroine of the story, has to step in. In all this, the distinct flavour of Godfather is hard to miss, but Saima Mir infuses the genre’s trappings with gender and race. Through Jia she shows us what it means to be not just a woman but a Pukhtun woman running a syndicate of sexist males in a city rife with racism. Mir has such a compelling world at her service that the book’s failure to be either moving or engaging is that much more pronounced. The central fatigue is the narrative voice — a distant, omniscient third person who languidly summarises characters and pivotal happenings, stressing more on implications than on events themselves. The problem with this casual treatment is that nothing feels at stake, and success feels perfunctory, even easy. When there is no narrative tension, the characters sway around in ether, eliciting neither concern nor support. With Mir wanting us to be squarely on the side of the Jirga, this isn’t a nuanced portrait of crime life. The enemies are the East Europeans, and sometimes the state. This righteousness could have been good for a kind of compelling, quick-paced storytelling that jetpacks through plot points. Mir’s writing sparkles in the cracks when she submits to the pulpy quality of the story — for instance, when she notices how men don’t shower for sex-workers, or how “the application of lipstick gave a woman the space to gather her thoughts.” But this is rarely employed. What we get instead is a stillness parading as character portraits woven around archaic, romanticised notions of honour and justice. The writer is a critic, with a weekly newsletterprathyush.substack.com  The Khan: I Am Justice Saima Mir Westland  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-godmother-of-yorkshire/article37033936.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Shaping Kerala’s architecture||Among architects of Kerala, N. Mahesh is a well-known name, having shaped the design landscape of the State and paving the way for the next generation of practitioners to be valued as important professionals. The volume, Mahesh Architecture , takes readers through the evolution of Mahesh’s journey over the last 40 years. He built big institutions, high-end resorts, malls, offices, small houses and spaces. Over time, some traits of his design have been a consistent part of that story, but there have been steady changes as well. It is easy to see how each project has evolved out of critical contextual responses, while celebrating core themes, like a modernist sense of design, an eye for grand and opulent spaces flooded with natural light, and a keen intent to carry out interesting detailing which elevate each project to a level of high architecture. Starting from his railway station projects in the late 1970s, corporate projects in the ’80s, exotic resorts and commercial offices and retail units which are the hallmark of his practice, the book tries to bring out the diversity of his work. Interspersing these varied typologies are small projects like the Bell Museum built for his wife Lekha Mahesh, which explore his ability to traverse from the grand to the minute with equal ease. The book highlights his sensibilities of approach to design which evolved in relation to the changing times. His ongoing projects address stronger concepts of sustainability and respect for existing landforms with the creativity of a master architect, like in the resort designed for the Kansa Hotels in Udaipur — perched on a hill top with the building wrapped around the slopes, or the Sree Arpana Residential Township, in Salem, Tamil Nadu, which emulates the colourful and vibrant spaces of Tamil villages and small towns. The book is interestingly laid out with graphically attractive plans of the designed spaces, set alongside large and colourful photographs, making it a pleasing and readable visual journey for the architect and non-architect alike. Rich legacy A great insight is provided right at the beginning of the book with an in-depth interview of the architect, exploring his inheritance and his views towards the future of the profession. The interview digs into the academic and research work publications which are fallouts of this very diverse and intense architectural career, moving from the aesthetics of soft architecture through timber in the modern context to the cataloguing and documenting of traditional Kerala temples. We delve further into the personal life of the architect, through an intimate portrayal of him by his younger brother, N. Srinath. What is lacking, however, is a critical analysis of his works, which would have taken the book to another level, holding its own place in architectural critical thinking in the best libraries of the world. Despite that small miss, the publication accomplishes a deep insight into one of the great design and professional minds of our times, a lesson for all students and practitioners of architecture, and an illuminating read for the non-architect.  The reviewer is an architect and teaches at an architecture college.  Mahesh Architecture Compiled by N.P. Thirukode College of Architecture Trivandrum  Rs. 3,900||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/shaping-keralas-architecture/article37033946.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Ruffing a winner||This was a tooth-and-nail battle for the part-score, as is typical in today’s tournament world. It ended with West converting East’s take-out double into a penalty double. The king of spades lead held the first trick, and South ruffed the spade continuation. A diamond to dummy’s 10 lost to the ace and East shifted to the 10 of hearts. South was worried that West might have all five missing trumps, so he was happy to see East with a trump. South won with his ace and cashed two high diamonds, discarding a club from dummy. What next? South led his last diamond and had to decide what to play from dummy when West followed suit. It was tempting to discard another club, but South saw the trap. Should he continue with the ace of clubs and a club ruff, he would not be able to get off dummy. He would be left with a club loser to go with three trump losers plus one loser in each of the other side suits. Instead, South ruffed his high diamond in dummy! Now a club to the queen, the ace of clubs, and a club ruff got his total up to eight. Nicely played! Ruffing a winner in dummy is not the first thing you think of, but it neatly solved declarer’s problem on this deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ruffing-a-winner/article37033967.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Child’s play||Danish toymaking giant Lego has announced that it will make its toys gender-neutral. It’s not clear what specific steps it will take, but it might begin by marking toys according to “passions and interests” rather than gender groups. Activists have also pointed out that Lego brands its sets purple or blue based on if it’s meant for boys or girls. Worldwide, the toy market has long been under pressure to remove gender stereotypes since toys are arguably the first objects through which the indoctrination of children begins. Girls are encouraged to play with dolls while boys stomp around with guns. If toyshop aisles are no longer labelled ‘For boys’ and ‘For girls’, will that change the way gender is perceived and imposed on children? A more thorough overhaul might be needed — for example, how about nurse figures as men and engine driver figures as women?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/childs-play/article37033910.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Homecoming||Salvador Dali once designed porcelain ashtrays for Air India, and the airline owned a vast collection of rare art, from Husain to Gaitonde. The national carrier’s glory days may be long gone, but a return to quality customer service may yet be in the offing. Last week, the loss-making airline was sold to the Tata Group, its original parent company, in a $2.4 billion deal that included Air India Express, which flies to 13 foreign destinations. Founded in 1932 by J.R.D. Tata, the airline carried 155 passengers and 9.72 tonnes of mail in its first year, flying between Karachi and Madras. Its first international flight, to London, was in 1948. After the government acquired a majority stake in 1953, the airline became a symbol of the newly independent nation’s growing aspirations. For years, it was the mark of luxury for the moneyed classes, until private entities took to the skies post-liberalisation. Air India suffered crippling losses and several attempts were made to offload the behemoth. For the Tata Group, the homecoming won’t be all joy, as it brings debt running into billions and major workforce issues, but it’s nevertheless a coveted feather in its wings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/homecoming/article37033912.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Uncommon couple||Imperial nuptials are in the offing, but don’t expect any pomp, much less circumstance. Princess Mako of Japan, whose father is the reigning emperor’s younger brother and heir, is to wed her fiancé, Kei Komuro, in a nondescript ceremony later this month. Komuro, who was Mako’s university classmate, has been in the eye of a media storm since their engagement was announced in 2017. His mother’s involvement in a financial dispute caused the wedding to be postponed by three years. When he returned to Japan recently after completing a law degree in the U.S., he was greeted by more than 150 reporters; the press and public have been busy tut-tutting over his oh-so-scandalous ponytail. Not quite Fleet Street, but getting there. As for Mako, 29, she will legally lose her royal status when she marries a commoner. Due to European-inspired 19th-century rules, she was never in the male-only line of succession to the Chrysanthemum Throne, although the world’s longest-ruling dynasty has historically had eight reigning empresses, from the sixth century to the 18th.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/uncommon-couple/article37033916.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Game of debts||Memes, real-life imitations, a spike of interest in learning Korean — Netflix’sSquid Game(Ojing-eo Geim) has been all over the Internet lately. The South Korean drama series, released worldwide last month, throws a group of deeply indebted individuals into a series of children’s games, with a big cash prize on offer. The catch? If you lose, you’re dead. It sounds a bit likeThe Hunger Games, but it’s more reality than fantasy, set in contemporary Korea and inspired by creator Hwang Dong-hyuk’s own experiences of financial problems and class divisions. The series quickly achieved both critical acclaim and mass popularity, skyrocketing to become the most watched Netflix series in 90 countries, including India. It does have an Indian connection in the form of Delhi-born actor Anupam Tripathi, who plays a cash-strapped Pakistani immigrant who enters the game to support his family. To tap into the trend, the Korean Cultural Centre in Abu Dhabi is reportedly organising a real-life ‘squid game’ with people invited to play games from the series — of a non-lethal variety, thankfully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/game-of-debts/article37033918.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Fallen peak||Actor Manju Warrier, in a tribute to Nedumudi Venu, mentioned that she used to jokingly call himkodumudi(‘peak’ in Malayalam) Venu. That might be an apt description of the 73-year-old legendary thespian, who passed away last week at a hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. The numbers speak for themselves: more than 500 Malayalam and Tamil movies in a career spanning nearly five decades, three National Film Awards, and six Kerala State Film Awards. His roles never lacked for variety; if you’re used to thinking of him as the patriarch, recall the eponymous thief in Padmarajan’sKallan Pavithran, or the flirtatious Balagopalan of K.G. George’sYavanika. The disgraced Carnatic vocalist ofBharatham, struggling with alcoholism as his younger brother threatens to overshadow him, and the stately lord ofHis Highness Abdullah, were among his most iconic roles, along with performances inAravam,Vidaparayum MunpeandChamaram. Also a mridangist and singer — he famously rendered ‘Aalaayaal Thara Venam’ — his love of music was evident in real as well as reel life||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fallen-peak/article37033920.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The Wish||Nicholas Sparks  Sphere Rs. 399 Maggie remembers the time when she was 16 and far from home, waiting to give up her baby for adoption. Then she met Bryce, who showed her how to take photographs and didn’t judge her. Two decades later, she is a famous photographer. She wants to reach out to Bryce and find her baby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-wish/article37033928.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The Other Man||Farhad J. Dadyburjor  Lake Union (APUB) Rs. 499 Heir to his father’s Mumbai business empire, Ved Mehra has money, looks and status. A closeted gay man, he agrees to an arranged marriage under pressure. Just before his engagement party he meets Carlos Silva and falls in love. Can he declare his true feelings regardless of family expectations?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-other-man/article37033938.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The Perfect Outside||Rohit Trilokekar  1889 Books Rs. 499 Polly, a cocky green parrot in a cage, believes that happiness is found only in the world outside. So she goes on a quest to find freedom in the outdoors with her Persian cat friend and travel buddy, Fluffy. Will Polly find what she is looking for? Does she even know what she is looking for?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-perfect-outside/article37033940.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Five Novellas about Women||Indira Goswami, trs Dibyajyoti Sarma  Niyogi Books Rs. 495 The five novellas here represent a cross-section of Indira Goswami’s writing, with its focus on women. The lives of the rural poor, widows and the urban underclass are depicted through striking imagery and strong characters, which are the hallmarks of Goswami’s writing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/five-novellas-about-women/article37033942.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||India — A Federal Union of States: Faultlines, Challenges and Opportunities||Madhav Godbole  Konark Publishers Rs. 800 Born during Partition, the emphasis in the Constitution on a strong Centre was understandable. But some fault lines have emerged, argues Godbole, like non-separation of religion from politics, and irritants in Centre-State ties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/india-a-federal-union-of-states-faultlines-challenges-and-opportunities/article37033944.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The Cinema of Satyajit Ray||Bhaskar Chattopadhyay  HarperCollins Rs. 499 A screenwriter and translator revisits each of Satyajit Ray’s feature films, shorts and documentaries to probe their cinematic and social context. He also speaks to a number of the master’s collaborators as well as other directors and critics to understand Ray and his work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-cinema-of-satyajit-ray/article37033953.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunrise over Ayodhya: Nationhood in our Times||Salman Khurshid  Penguin Random House India Rs. 699 In November 2019, the Supreme Court, in a unanimous verdict, cleared the way for the construction of a Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya. Khurshid explores the impact of the verdict, and the opportunity it offers towards resolving a conflict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunrise-over-ayodhya-nationhood-in-our-times/article37033955.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Ancient India: Culture of Contradictions||Upinder Singh  Aleph Rs. 799 A historian urges readers to think of ancient India in terms of five powerful contradictions — social inequality and universal salvation, desire and detachment, goddess worship and misogyny, violence and non-violence, and religious debate and conflict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ancient-india-culture-of-contradictions/article37033957.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3172||Across  1 Lift pig and howl playfully in mock combat (6,5) 9 Fruit loop runs, dividing with America First (7) 10 Real’s once; now a Liga division owner, primarily? (7) 11 Non-native regularly seen in Dáil Éireann (5) 12 One sheep is eaten by you, French dish that’s spongy (8) 14 A little malingerer, Everyman will watch online channel (10) 15 Remove ties from hunting hound repeatedly, not good (4) 17 Matter concealed by magistrate (4) 19 A vile beach resort within reach (10) 21 Economy supply, 50 florins (2-6) 23 Big city German’s agreeable expression offering wine (5) 25 Recalled a small gentleman with a hot spicy paste (7) 26 What dentist will have done — trained? (7) 27 Moderate rage first — get it? (3,3,5)  Down  1 Some clip-art I allow not all (7) 2 Drifting, leaderless, anchorless right away in lake (4,4) 3 Seeds explorer’s broadcast (4) 4 Corrosive liquid police found on kitchen surface (6,4) 5 Home of St Catherine, they say: d’you know her? (5) 6 Did he make up Tolman, Kíli and Ents? Not half! (7) 7 Mama had a thing about spiritual adviser (7,6) 8 Crushed, and imposed our way of working (5,8) 13 Bad-tempered hives beekeeper finally leaves in tree (7,3) 16 Preventing giving tip-off, victory for Luxembourg (8) 18 Loud Australian wearing dresses for expeditions (7) 20 Reserve Grant a little reading (7) 22 Children, go out (5) 24 Perhaps pop star Dido cold at heart (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3172/article37033970.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Virus less likely to develop resistance to molnupiravir’||On October 11, just 10 days after Merck announced via a press release the highly encouraging news of an interim analysis of a phase-3 trial using the antiviral drug molnupiravir, the company has submitted an emergency use authorisation application to the FDA. Preliminary data, which is yet to be peer-reviewed, shows molnupiravir can reduce risk of hospitalisation or death by 50% in non-hospitalised adult patients with mild-to-moderate COVID-19 disease. That molnupiravir is an oral drug is a major advantage in treating patients as it would not require hospitalisation. In an email, Dr. Gagandeep Kang , Professor of Microbiology at CMC, Vellore, explains the other advantages that the drug will have, if granted an EUA.   Since it is an oral drug unlike Remdesivir, can molnupiravir (if given an EUA) substantially change the way COVID-19 disease is managed? Yes, molnupiravir has significant promise. But there are some concerns about how early and how mild the disease has to be for molnupiravir to work. It seems important to treat within the first few days of diagnosis or symptoms and the drug does not work towards the more severe end of the spectrum, including what is considered moderate disease. Why was the drug tested only in people older than 60 years and those with at least one risk factor associated with poor outcomes? The study was designed to include people with at least one risk factor for severe disease, because the goal was to study progression to severe disease. Had completely healthy people been included the study size would have needed to be much larger to get clear outcomes. Merck’s selection strategy of people at risk of severe disease led to a clear answer on efficacy in mild disease, such that the study was stopped for efficacy with data on 775 people. What is the precise mechanism by which the drug prevents the SARS-CoV-2 virus RNA replication process through “error catastrophe”? Besides blocking replication, can the drug also reduce the viral load in humans? Like in ferrets, can the drug also block virus transmission in humans? Molnupiravir is a pro-drug, which means that it needs to undergo processing in the body to become active. It is metabolised to a ribonucleoside analog, which is essentially a sugar molecule linked to a molecule that resembles a nucleic acid. Nucleic acids are needed to make RNA, and if molnupiravir is used, the viral enzyme instead of using real cytidine or uridine uses a molecule that is generated by metabolism of molnupiravir called NHC-TP. The virus has a proof-reading mechanism but the viral exnuclease which is responsible for removing mistakes does not recognize NHC-TP as an error, so that when the viral RNA polymerase is making copies of RNA that contains molnupiravir, then it randomly replaces cytidine or uridine. This causes more mutations that can be survived by the virus or it becomes unable to replicate — this is called lethal mutagenesis or error catastrophe. A Phase IIa study conducted earlier this year showed a reduction in viral load in the upper respiratory tract, which will indirectly reduce transmission. How has the drug performed against other viruses, including influenza, tested in the past? The drug has performed well against influenza in animal studies and was set to go into phase-1 trials in 2020. It has also worked well against Ebola and Chikungunya. Can the virus develop resistance to molnupiravir considering that the drug can induce several point mutations in the virus at random locations? It is always possible for a virus to develop mutations that will render an antiviral ineffective, but molnupiravir’s mode of action makes it a little less likely than for many other antivirals. If multiple antivirals are available then using a combination that targets different steps in the replication of the virus is the best way to delay the development of resistance. Both remdesivir and molnupiravir target the same enzyme but in different ways, so while ideal to have the same target, it may be worthwhile to test a combination therapy, with the caveat that giving IV infusions as required for remdesivir negates the ease and reach of an oral drug such as molnupiravir. Is there a possibility that the nucleoside analog can turn out to be mutagenic? Though none were seen in the trial, what are the chances that the drug might cause serious adverse events? There are opinions that molnupiravir may potentially drive mutagenesis in viral RNA and mammalian DNA. Scientists from Emory who developed the drug say they have not seen any evidence of mutagenicity. In April 2021, Merck reported results of preclinical research using assays that should identify the ability of drugs to induce mutations — animals were given molnupiravir at high doses and for longer times than in human clinical trials, and no evidence of mutagenicity or genotoxicity was found. But the clinical trials excluded pregnant and breastfeeding women and required men to not donate sperm and required either abstinence or contraception for all genders. Since Merck has signed non-exclusive agreements with generic manufacturers in India to produce the drug for low- and middle-income countries, will we see the drug becoming accessible to people in these countries unlike the vaccines? With eight Indian companies manufacturing the drug, I assume it will become accessible, but indiscriminate use should be prevented. The last thing we want is for a promising drug to become useless if it is inappropriately used, as happens all too often with antibiotics in India. Since the virus replication blocking mechanism may not be affected by variants that might emerge in future, can the drug be seen as a substitute for vaccines especially in countries deprived of vaccines? The drug is not yet in the market and vaccine supply is increasing so this is not an either/or situation. An antiviral to be used in early treatment of an infected person with 50% efficacy in those with conditions predisposing to severity has a role that is very different from vaccines that are intended to protect prior to exposure. As in the trial, will the drug be restricted for use only in unvaccinated people belonging to the approved categories? Restricting the drug to unvaccinated individuals makes no sense whatsoever, but using it for people at risk does. The reason for not giving it to vaccinated individuals in the trial was because vaccination reduces the risk of progression to severe disease, which is what the trial wanted to measure. But once the trial is done, we want to prevent progression to severe disease in all infected individuals, vaccinated or unvaccinated. Vaccinated individuals who are older and have co-morbidities continue to have a higher risk of severe disease and certainly should be given the drug if they develop symptoms, A Merck spokesperson has said what is regarded as a “moderate” case in India is considered severe in the U.S. How does one define “moderate” disease? The Indian definition was 90-93% oxygen saturation for moderate disease, while anything lower than 93% would be considered severe in the US. The important thing about definitions in trials is that they should be the same measured using the same protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/virus-less-likely-to-develop-resistance-to-molnupiravir/article37034048.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||IIT Kanpur team identifies a novel target to treat prostate cancer||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, have discovered that a particular gene (DLX1) which plays an important role in the development of jaws, skeleton, and interneurons in the brain has an important role to play in the growth and development of prostate cancer. The DLX1 protein is found at elevated levels in prostate cancer patients, the reason why the DLX1 protein has been used as a urine-based biomarker. Now the team of researchers led by Dr. Bushra Ateeq, Professor at the Department of Biological Sciences and Bioengineering, IIT Kanpur has found that the DLX1 protein, which is expressed at higher levels in the prostate cancer cells, has a huge role in the growth and development of the tumour and the spread of the cancer to other organs in the body (metastasis). Using small molecules as inhibitors, the researchers have shown in mice a new therapeutic strategy to treat people with DLX1-positive prostate cancer. First, the researchers found around 60% of the prostate cancer tissues have higher levels of DLX1 protein. And when the team genetically ablated the DLX1 gene that produces the protein, the ability of cancer cells to grow, develop and spread to other parts of the body was compromised. “We used mice models to further ascertain the role of DLX1 protein in prostate cancer growth and metastasis,” says Sakshi Goel from IIT Kanpur and first author of a paper published in Nature Communications . To carry out the experiments in mice, the researchers first genetically engineered prostate cancer cells that expressed higher levels of DLX1 protein to generate the cells which cannot produce the DLX1 protein. Both types of cancer cells were then implanted in two groups of mice. While mice that had received cancer cell implants expressing higher levels of the protein developed huge tumour, the mice that were implanted with DLX1-ablated cancer cells developed only small tumours, and had fewer cancer cells migrating to other organs. The second experiment on mice was to examine the ability of cancer cells to metastasis and grow in bones. “Prostate cancer cells have a tendency to metastasize in bones. So, we checked the role of DLX1 protein in cancer metastasis,” says Goel. For this, they used cancer cells that were either DLX1-ablated or those expressing higher levels of the protein, and implanted the cancer cells into the tibia (bone) of the mice. A month after implant, the tumour growing in the tibia was monitored using CT scan. Mice implanted with cancer cells with elevated levels of DLX1 exhibited more bone damage than the cells that were DLX1-ablated. “These findings proved the role of DLX1 in prostate tumour growth and bone metastases,” Goel says. Androgen receptor is responsible for promoting the development of prostate cancer. Also, about 50% of prostate cancer harbour an aberrant gene which is a product of two genes (TMPRSS2 and ERG) being fused together and results in production of higher levels of ERG protein. “Interestingly, exploring the association between these important factors revealed that about 96% of TMPRSS2-ERG fusion-positive prostate cancer patients show high levels of DLX1 protein as well. In concert with this, about 70% of the patients with high androgen receptor signaling also have elevated DLX1 protein levels,” says Prof. Ateeq. The researchers have further shown that both androgen receptor and fusion gene product, ERG are responsible for increased level of DLX1 in prostate cancer cells. Having understood the mechanism responsible for prostate cancer growth and development, and it’s spread to distant organs, the researchers turned their attention to finding a way to reduce the expression of DLX1 protein in the cancer cells. They found that a particular protein (Bromodomain and extra terminal or BET) assists the function of both androgen receptor and ERG. “We found that if the BET protein is inhibited using small molecules, the function of both the androgen receptor and the ERG protein to upregulate DLX1 gets inhibited. As a result, the expression of the DLX1 protein and its tumorigenic potential is reduced,” says Goel. Preclinical mice studies showed that administering BET inhibitors alone or in combination with anti-androgen drugs resulted in about 70% reduction in tumour burden along with diminished distant metastases. “Those prostate cancer patients with higher levels of DLX1 may benefit by this treatment strategy. There are several commercially available diagnostics tests for detecting DLX1 levels, therefore it is relatively easy to categorize the patients who could respond to BET inhibitors,” says Prof. Ateeq.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/iit-kanpur-team-identifies-a-novel-target-to-treat-prostate-cancer/article37034053.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Zeolite oxygen concentrators: chemistry in three dimensions||Chemists, when they are designing or building new molecules, can be thought of as architects and builders. An organic chemist can plan a blueprint for a new molecule, and synthesize it with precision out of atoms of carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and so on. After centuries of fine-tuning this skill, chemists in the early 20th century moved up to synthesizing long, thread-like one-dimensional polymers. The polyethylene of plastic bags is made from repeating units of the ethylene molecule, (importantly, the units are linked by the same firm chemical bonds as are seen within an organic molecule. This provides the stability that ensures that a shirt made from polyester-mixed yarn is long lasting). In biological systems, proteins are 1-dimensional polymers of amino acids. Adding new dimensions In recent years, this has been taken to a new level by the creation of extended 2- or 3-dimensional structures from linking together molecular units just as was done for polymers, but in two or three dimensions. The basic units go on fitting together to form large networks, like a wire mesh fence. The network is constructed by repeated additions of a molecule with symmetry. A few such networked sheets, when stacked one over another, form a functional 2-D entity. Because words like polymer do not do justice to this complex arrangement of atoms, such molecular networks are called frameworks. Uses for these Covalent Organic Frameworks (COFs) take advantage of their stability, large surface area, controlled pore sizes, and tunable chemical environments. Just as you choose the size of the ‘pore’/hole in a wire mesh, frameworks can be designed to act as sieves in separating out molecules of a specified size. The smallest whiff of a toxic gas could be sensed - in an industrial environment, or in airline baggage. They are also suitable for both storing energy (as capacitors) and for conducting it (along membranes in fuel cells). Metal Organic frameworks (MOFs) are structured like COFs but have metals in complexes with organic entities. The choice of metals is wide, from Beryllium to Zinc, though relatively abundant metals are preferred for economic and environmental reasons. They offer great advantages: for gas storage, as in the case of hydrogen storage in fuel cells; in catalysis, where they replace very expensive metals; in sensors; and in drug-delivery – anti-cancer and other drugs with severe side effects can be trapped in the porous confines of MOFs, to be released in small and steady doses. Use of zeolites Zeolites are highly porous, 3-D meshes of silica and alumina. In nature, they occur where volcanic outflows have met water. Synthetic zeolites have proven to be a big and low-cost boon. One biomedical device that has entered our lexicon during the pandemic is the oxygen concentrator. This device has brought down the scale of oxygen purification from industrial-size plants to the volumes needed for a single person. At the heart of this technology are synthetic frameworks of silica and alumina with nanometer-size pores that are rigid and inflexible. Beads of one such material, zeolite 13X, about a millimeter in diameter, are packed into two cylindrical columns in an oxygen concentrator. The chemistry here is tailored to the task of separating oxygen from nitrogen in air. Being highly porous, zeolite beads have a surface area of about 500 square meters per gram. At high pressures in the column, nitrogen is in a tight embrace, chemically speaking, with the zeolite. Interaction between the negatively charged zeolite and the asymmetric nucleus (quadrupole moment) of nitrogen causes it to be preferentially adsorbed on the surface of the zeolite. Oxygen remains free, and is thus enriched. Air has 78% nitrogen, 20.9% oxygen and smaller quantities of argon, carbon dioxide, etc. Once nitrogen is under arrest, what flows out from the column is 90%-plus oxygen. After this, lowering the pressure in the column releases the nitrogen, which is flushed out, and the cycle is repeated with fresh air. Global volunteer efforts have made available very detailed instructions on building your own oxygen concentrator, with locally available resources. In India, IISc has transferred the technology of making oxygen concentrators to over 20 companies. ( Co-authored with      molecular modeler      Dr. Sushil Chandani )   dbala@lvpei.org and sushilchandani@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/zeolite-oxygen-concentrators-chemistry-in-three-dimensions/article37034051.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Climate stimulated||Did Venus ever have oceans? While previous studies have suggested that Venus may have been a much more hospitable place in the past, with its own liquid water oceans, a recent study by astrophysicists led by the University of Geneva found that Venus is unlikely to have harboured any ocean anytime in the past. The researchers simulated the climate of the Earth and Venus at the very beginning of their evolution, when the surface of the planets was still molten. The high temperatures seen in Venus meant that any water would have been present in the form of steam. Using sophisticated three-dimensional models of the atmosphere, similar to those scientists use to simulate the Earth's current climate and future evolution, the team studied how the atmospheres of the two planets would evolve over time and whether oceans could form in the process, a release says. “Thanks to our simulations, we were able to show that the climatic conditions did not allow water vapour to condense in the atmosphere of Venus,” says Martin Turbet of the University of Geneva and the first author of a paper published in Nature . This means the temperatures never got low enough for the water in its atmosphere to form raindrops that could fall on its surface. Instead, water remained as a gas in the atmosphere, and oceans never formed. “One of the main reasons for this is the clouds that form preferentially on the night side of the planet. These clouds cause a very powerful greenhouse effect that prevented Venus from cooling as quickly as previously thought,” he says in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/climate-stimulated/article37034065.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Why the queue?||Of late, cars have been snaking across our TV screens, stalled bumper to bumper at petrol pumps, producing inappropriately hearty ROFLMAO among us, that the U.K. should be queuing up, for a change. To us, who have grown older, wiser, fatter, sleepier — on calls which keep telling us to ‘Please wait, you are in a queue,’ this is less newsworthy than star shenanigans. We have spent at least a good percentage of our lives in queues, at banks, ticket counters, billing desks or lugging pillows to the all-night stake-out outside a school that would open its kindergarten admission window the next morning. And now, finally, the world has caught up! It’s time for us to teach everyone else some Qetiquette. Do not argue with chappals .  Chappals have rights, same as you or I. Someone who needs to attend the call of nature may legitimately leave his chappals , with full power of attorney, to replace him in the queue. Do not body-shame.  Someone’spaunch may prod your back, someone’s oily, unruly hair may fly into your mouth, someone’s onion-breath may shoot at your neck. Adjust- maadi to the overflowingness of their bodies. Squash along politely. If God meant you to social-distance, He would have made you a lamppost. Take the week off.  You spendprecious daylight hours in the queue, staring at the bald patch in front of you, instead of in office. You finally get to the counter to be gleefully told you have this form or that paper missing. Back to the back of the queue! Exploit your kid.  Everyoneloves kids. Send your kid to the front of the queue with a sob story, to buy whatever you need. Anyone who protests will be attacked by other kid-loving kind souls. In the ensuing ruckus, you can slip in and get your deal. Panic!  It couldsave your life or butt. If you see the last toilet paper roll on the shelf, grab it. Even if you have 63 at home and use them to write memos on. After all, everyone else must know something about the life-saving powers of TP that you don’t. Why should anyone else get it? Climb over the little old lady and grab it first. Spread sideways. Step out and pretend you were actually behind someone way in front. 14 others instantly follow you. Soon the line becomes triangular, circular and geometry-defining. Everyone insists they were there at the crack of dawn before everyone else. People accuse each other of suspect gene pools that include the animal kingdom. The counter shutters down. Yes, the world is running out of fossil fuels, chocolate, chips, (not chocolate chips – note the comma), time… and patience. Queue up quick! In case you’re caught short in 2050. Where Jane De Suza, the author ofHappily Never After, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-the-queue/article37034278.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Are we hugging yet?||The word ‘phygital’ was filed for copyright in 2013 by Momentum, an Australian ad agency, but 2020 saw it mentioned everywhere. That the fashion world would adapt to it has been a revelation. Most recently, we had FDCI x Lakmé Fashion Week — the first post-pandemic phygital show in India — with 10 on-ground physical shows, and digital previews. For those of us who find inspiration, freedom and livelihoods in the fashion scene, this was good news.  A big new world  Jio Convention Centre was the venue. The space looked larger as the crowd was miniscule. The usual drinks lounges and media centres were missing, and with its high ceilings and tech-driven security, it was the safest I’d felt in a public place in a while. There was a strict mask, RT-PCR, and vaccination protocol, and show director Neeraj Gaba said, “We were tested every day for 12 days, quarantined alone before the physical shows, and maintained security bubbles.” The audience sat six feet apart, on individual chairs, in circles. But I missed the buzz of stylists, photographers, editors and celebs hanging around shows and stalls.  Many of us were seeing our peers for the first time since the start of the pandemic. There was hilarious confusion before greeting anyone — ‘Are we hugging yet?’ — and air kisses are a fashion joke. As I walked out of a show, Mitali Rannorey, a model I’ve styled several times, texted me: “So glad to see you in the audience today! I can’t come closer because we are in a bubble!” When I asked her how the 2021 experience was, she replied, “Walking on the ramp feels the same, but I miss the people.”  While not officially on the FDCI x LFW roster, Vaishali S’ bridal line, Shakuntala, was the first physical show I attended in 18 months, a day before fashion week officially began. At the Taj Mahal Palace hotel ballroom, it was her first outing in India after her Paris Couture Week debut in July. Her commitment to indigenous weaves was commendable, but for some looks it did not translate well. In stark contrast, veteran couturier Tarun Tahiliani opened the calendar with a mind-boggling 78-ensemble show. “Community is of paramount importance; it became essential that we support, help, and guide each other,” said Tahiliani, as he put a celebration of Indian karigari on full display.  Show and tell  “There is no virtual medium that can replace the human experience,” Nishant Gadhok of Gently Altered — a company that elevates event experience via sound and light design — told me as he closed the finale. But he acknowledged that the time away has helped him realign his visual language. And that is something we need. Internationally, fashion weeks that returned to physical shows this season have shown a lot of creativity. For instance, earlier this month, Balenciaga’s SS 2022 show in Paris took an innovative turn. Creative director Demna Gvasalia had guests and models walk the red carpet, and then watch a new Simpsons episode — where the characters walked as models. An immersive experience where the audience became a part of the show. Yes, making fashion weeks go live once again in India is step one, but fashioning them to be more creative will help bring fun in step two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/are-we-hugging-yet/article37034279.ece
17 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Demand for Union Territory for tribals gains momentum||In the second week of October, a meeting was organised in the southern Odisha district of Koraput attended by politicians from Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh. Though they hailed from three different States, they were united on one common goal — a union territory for tribals. Decades of reported neglect by the Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh governments have made these politicians join hands on one platform and demand Dandakaranya Union Territory. CPI(Maoist) influence Dandakaranya, synonymous with poverty and underdevelopment, has been a so-called division of the outlawed CPI(Maoist) rebels, who used to hold sway there almost for three decades. However, their influence is on the decline now following massive deployment of security forces. In late 1950s, the Indian government had settled displaced persons from Bangladesh (East Pakistan) and named it the Dandakaranya Development Authority. They were settled in Odisha and the present day Chhattisgarh. Jayaram Pangi, a former Minister, four-time MLA and once Member of Parliament of Koraput, recently decided to end his association with the Bharatiya Janata Party and work towards the cause. “The tribals are never given due importance in policies and their implementation. Neither the State nor the Central government has worked for their development,” said Mr. Pangi. An umbrella body has been formed — ‘Dandakaranya Parbatmala Bikash Parishad’ (DPBP) — to carry the movement forward. During the past several months, the group has been fighting for a permanent solution to the Kotia gram panchayat in Koraput district disputed by both Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. The people are reported to be disheartened by the alleged apathetic attitude of the Naveen Patnaik government and other mainstream political parties towards their cause. When a meeting of the DPBP was convened on October 10, the group received a ‘pleasant’ surprise when the former Central Minister and prominent Chhattisgarh tribal leader, Arvind Netam, and Gangadhara Swamy Setti dropped in to extend their support. Mr. Setty had unsuccessfully fought the Assembly election in Araku valley in Andhra Pradesh. Former District Collector of Koraput Gadadhar Parida, an active member of the DPBP, said, “Big dam projects in undivided Koraput district have rendered thousands of people displaced and villages submerged. The hydro-power generated from here illuminated urban area . But the people in mostly tribal areas remained in the shadow of development.” “Similarly, the big mining industrial project by public sector NALCO and defence project by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited did not benefit the local people, who had parted with their land,” he said. “The only development the local tribals saw were roads, hospitals and schools meant for Bangladeshi settlers. The Sri Lankan refugees were settled in Malkangiri. But, the tribals felt alienated because nothing was done for them. The fault-line between local tribals and setters is widening,” Mr. Parida added. The undivided Koraput district, which was constituted in 1936, decided to stay with Odisha, Mr. Parida said, adding, about 85 years have lapsed, neither the Odisha government nor those at the helm of the affairs have accepted them. “It is a hard reality now that the Odisha government would not come to our rescue. There is no option left for us but to start demanding the UT status for Dandakaranya. We don’t want a separate State,” he said. Mr. Pangi said, “Demanding UT is the right step towards safeguarding the future. Like the British, the present-day government is taking away valuable mineral resources using gram sabhas.” Mr. Netam said, “The region has a homogeneous population. They speak Disari language and their culture is the same. We have invited the DPBP leadership to hold meetings in Chhattisgarh and if the people wish to have a separate identity, what can the government do?” Mr. Setti appears to be more ambitious. He said, “The tribals living in bordering areas of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Telangana should have a separate State. They can decide on abundant mineral resources available in their region.” The confidence of Mr. Pangi stems from the fact that majority of population in Dandakaranya area is tribal. “My tribe – Kandh — constitutes 40% of the total population. They will definitely get united for the cause.”  The tribals are never given due importance in policies and their implementation Jayaram Pangi Ex-MP Koraput||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/demand-for-union-territory-for-tribals-gains-momentum/article37034541.ece
17 October 2021||Shahjahanpur,||Asaram followers booked for violating section 144 in U.P.||A group of followers of self-styled godman Asaram, who is serving a life sentence in a rape case, was booked for violating prohibitory orders by holding a programme here to worship him, the police said on Saturday. Those booked are Rajkumar, the main organiser of the event, Rakesh, Sunil, Chandan Das, Daksh Muni and some unidentified people, they said. The Superintendent of Police (City) Sanjay Kumar said a few followers of Asaram were holding a programme in the Kant police station area. They were asked by a local BJP leader, Santosh Dixit, to stop the programme but they did not agree. Mr. Dixit informed the police, who stopped the programme after reaching the spot, he said. Later, a case was registered. While five people have been named in the FIR, the others have not yet been identified, he added. Mr. Kumar said that Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) is in force in Shahjahanpur and prior permission from the administration is needed for holding a programme. However, the organisers of this event did not have the necessary permission. Asaram was convicted in April 2018 of raping a Shahjahanpur girl at his ashram in Manai village near Rajasthan's Jodhpur in 2013. He was arrested by the Jodhpur police on August 31, 2013 and has been in jail since then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/asaram-followers-booked-for-violating-section-144-in-up/article37034536.ece
17 October 2021||Thane,||Accident victim’s family to get Rs. 16 lakh compensation||The Thane Motor Accident Claim Tribunal (MACT) has awarded a compensation of Rs. 15.82 lakh to the family of a driver from Karnataka, who was killed in a road accident at Panvel in Maharashtra in 2019. In the order passed recently, MACT member R.N. Rokade asked the owner of a tipper truck and the private insurance company to jointly make the payment to the family along with 8% interest from the date of filing of the compensation claim. At the time of his death, Somaraya Mahur, 38, was employed as a driver. “On May 20, 2019, Mahur had parked his tipper at a stone crusher centre in Bombaipada, of Panvel and was waiting for it to be loaded. At that time, another tipper came in the reverse direction in high speed and knocked him down following which he died during treatment. An offence was registered with the Panvel city police station against the driver of the offending tipper,” advocate G. K. Shambhu, who appeared on behalf of the claimants, said. Sole bread winner The deceased was the sole bread winner in the family. The insurance company contested the claim on various grounds. The man is survived by his elderly parents, widow and three children. “It is brought to the notice that the widow does not reside with his parents and children. The minor applicants live with their grandparents. It is the bounden duty of the tribunal to protect the interest of minor applicants,” the MACT said in the order. It said that on realisation, the widow is entitled to receive an amount of Rs. 3,00,000. It also directed that a compensation of Rs. 2,00,000 be paid to the son and Rs. 3,50,000 each be invested in the fixed deposit schemes in the name of the two daughters and the remaining amount with interest be distributed equally among the parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/accident-victims-family-to-get-rs-16-lakh-compensation/article37034538.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccine for malaria||The story so far: On October 6, the World Health Organization made a historic announcement, endorsing the first-ever malaria vaccine, RTS,S, among children in sub-Saharan Africa, and in other regions with moderate-to-high Plasmodium falciparum malaria transmission. It made its recommendations based on the results from a pilot programme administering the vaccine to children in Ghana, Kenya and Malawi. Why is this significant? Malaria is a life-threatening disease caused by micro-organisms that belong to the genus Plasmodium, and is transmitted by infected female Anopheles mosquitoes. In 2019, according to the WHO, there were an estimated 229 million cases of malaria, and the estimated deaths were 4,09,000. About 67% of the deaths were among children aged under five, the group most vulnerable to malaria. Furthermore, 94% of the cases and deaths due to malaria occurred in the WHO African region, a disproportionately high share of the burden. But the WHO says its regions of Southeast Asia, eastern Mediterranean, western Pacific, and the Americas are also at risk. While research for a vaccine and therapeutics for malaria had been on for nearly half-a-century, success has been elusive until recently. While preventive and treatment interventions have continued (bed nets and indoor residual insecticide spraying) over the years, it was clear that the best tool against the constantly mutating pathogen would not emerge until an effective vaccine was at hand. As Matthew B. Laurens argues in a paper in Human Vaccines and Immunotherapeutics : “An effective malaria vaccine would be an important tool to combat the enormous socioeconomic burden caused by this disease. Vaccines promote both individual and public health, and are thus considered among the most highly successful public health tools. After provision of clean water and sanitation, vaccination against infectious diseases has contributed the greatest to public health worldwide, compared with other human interventions.” And it was at a time when it was believed that anti-malarial research was flailing, that RTS,S did emerge. Pilot projects rolled out in sub-Saharan Africa showed that among children aged 5-17 months who received the recommended four doses of RTS,S, the vaccine prevented approximately 4 in 10 (39%) cases of malaria over four years of follow-up; about 3 in 10 (29%) cases of severe malaria, with a significant reduction in overall hospital admissions due to malaria or severe anaemia (a side effect). The need for blood transfusions to correct life-threatening anaemia also came down by 29%. What path did the RTS,S vaccine take? RTS,S/AS01 is a recombinant protein-based vaccine that acts against P. falciparum, believed to be the deadliest malaria parasite globally and the most prevalent in Africa. It reportedly offers no protection against P.vivax malaria, found in many countries outside Africa. The development of the vaccine was led by pharma major GSK over 30 years ago. In 2001, GSK began collaborating with PATH’s Malaria Vaccine Initiative (MVI). A five-year Phase 3 efficacy and safety trial that concluded in 2014 was implemented through a partnership between GSK and MVI, with support from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and a network of African research centres. In July 2015, the European Medicines Agency authorised the use of the vaccine, concluding that the benefits of the vaccine outweighed the risks. Known side-effects include pain and swelling at the injection site and fever, similar to the other children’s vaccines. It is associated with an increased risk of febrile seizures within seven days of administration. In the Phase 3 trial, children who had febrile seizures after vaccination recovered completely, and there were no long-lasting consequences, the WHO reported. Pilots were launched in Malawi, Ghana, and Kenya over 2019. Health workers reported that the vaccine was easy to introduce and integrate into their schedule. The data were submitted to the WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunisation and the Malaria Policy Advisory Committee that gave the go-ahead for the first ever anti-malarial vaccine. Will India use it too? Malaria is a major public health problem in India, endemic to many States, and involves multiple Plasmodium species, including P. falciparum, said the authors of a paper in Acta Tropica , an international journal on infectious diseases. India will therefore benefit from the vaccine, and Bharat Biotech has entered into a partnership with GSK for technology transfer and production. This vaccine is likely to be ready for use in India, in a couple of years, as per reports.  Bharat Biotech has entered into a partnership with GSK for technology transfer and production of the vaccine, which is likely to be ready in India in a couple of years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccine-for-malaria/article37033988.ece
17 October 2021||Guwahati,||Suspended IPS officer in judicial custody||A special court here on Saturday remanded in judicial custody the suspended Assam Deputy Inspector General of Police Rounak Ali Hazarika, who was arrested on allegations of possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. The special court remanded him in judicial custody for 14 days. Mr. Hazarika will be lodged in the Guwahati central jail. The Chief Minister’s Special Vigilance Cell, which had arrested him on October 5, has been allowed to interrogate him. Vigilance Cell Superintendent of Police Rosy Kalita said the special court rejected the cell’s plea for further custody of Hazarika and sent him to judicial custody. “We hardly got three days to question him while in custody. As for the rest of the period, he was hospitalised,” she said. Probe ordered The SP added the special court has asked the State Director General of Police to order an enquiry by an officer not less than the rank of Deputy Inspector of General of Police or Inspector General of Police to probe whether Hazarika was faking illness as the results of all clinical and toxicological tests conducted on him were found to be normal. During an enquiry into a case registered against him in June this year, it was found that Hazarika had amassed immovable and movable assets which were disproportionate to his known sources of income from 1992 to 2021 when he was posted in Bongaigaon district, the police said. It was found that he had spent Rs. 1.74 crore for the education of his two children till date and had undertaken international travel nine times without permission from the competent authority. The IPS officer was suspended in July for allegedly going abroad several times since 2011 without taking necessary permission of the Home department. Mr. Hazarika had joined the Assam Police Service in 1992 and was promoted to the IPS cadre. He was serving as DIG, Border, at the time of his suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/suspended-ips-officer-in-judicial-custody/article37034532.ece
17 October 2021||Mumbai,||Will work for poor, Aryan tells NCB officials in jail||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan assured the Narcotics Control Bureau officials during counselling that he would work for the welfare of the poor and never do anything that would tarnish his name in the future, an official said on Saturday. Aryan (23) is currently lodged in Arthur Road prison here after he was arrested by the NCB following alleged drug seizure from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2. During counselling by the officials including NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede and social workers, Aryan said after his release, he will work for “social and financial uplift of the poor and downtrodden” and never do anything which could bring him publicity for the wrong reasons, said an agency official. “He said ‘I will do something that will make you proud of me’,” the official added. After the arrest, Aryan along with seven other accused, including two women, underwent a counselling session. A special court for Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act cases would pass order on his bail plea on October 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wont-tarnish-name-aryan-tells-ncb-officials-in-jail/article37034335.ece
17 October 2021||New Delhi,||More than 13 lakh drinking water samples tested||More than 1.11 lakh of the over 13 lakh drinking water samples tested across the country under a government programme have been found contaminated, according to official data. The samples were taken from the government’s drinking water testing and surveillance programme. The contamination of samples includes that from naturally occurring chemicals and minerals, such as arsenic, fluoride, iron and uranium, in the earth layer, local land use practices like fertilizers, pesticides, livestock and concentrated feeding operations, the data under the Jal Shakti Ministry programme stated. It also said that contaminations can also be by manufacturing processes like heavy metals or cyanide near drinking water sources. Water contamination also includes malfunctioning on-site wastewater treatment systems such as septic systems and twin pit toilets; microbial contamination through mixture of waste water in drinking water source or distribution line, the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-than-13-lakh-drinking-water-samples-tested/article37034602.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Recycle, reuse||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/recycle-reuse/article37034540.ece
17 October 2021||Artwork:,||Laal Paar||Ritu and Surya Singh of Jaipur-based practice, Wolf, have teamed up with Srila Chatterjee of Mumbai’s Baro for a show that has recycled and upcycled waste, and found objects, at its heart. Inspired by the Bengal handwoven cotton sari, Laal Paar will showcase artwork that explores energies and new life. From October 22, at Method, Kala Ghoda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/laal-paar/article37034277.ece
17 October 2021||Timothée Chalamet:,||Wonka||The fashion-forward actor is never far from the news. After his MET Gala live stream, he’s making headlines for the first look ofWonka, the prequel musical directed by Paul King starring Chalamet as a young Willy Wonka. And then there’s hisTimecover, where he rocked a monochrome look, and revealed the advice he lives by: ‘no hard drugs, and no superhero movies’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wonka/article37034283.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Conversations in theatre||Ranga Shankara’s ‘Pustaka Sambhrama/Celebrating Books’, will feature author Vivek Shanbhag. Call 26493982 for details. Entry is free. October 17 at 12 noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/conversations-in-theatre/article37034280.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Date night chats||Catch artist-model Bani J and actor Sayani Gupta, who co-starred inFour More Shots Please!, on the Bumble’s series,Dating These Days. The second season has curated conversations around the dating scene in India, especially post pandemic. Bani and Gupta discuss the former’s take on happily ever after — “travel, spend time with people that I really want to, create projects that I care about” — and why the latter is a romantic at heart. Catch the episode on the women-first dating app’s YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/date-night-chats/article37034282.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Behind a hearty meal||There’s something aboutkheerthat makes everything right. A rich, creamy Manipur black ricekheeris part of Spirit of the Earth’s 2021 Diwali hamper. The artisanal heritage rice brand’s other ready-to-cook blends include one from Tamil Nadu and another from Chhattisgarh. Rs. 1,250, on spiritoftheearth.in. Tons Valley Shop, in Uttarakhand, now has an Instant Himalayan Rajma Masala, with organic mountain garlic — used by the shepherds there. Add it to pastas, salads, or a bloody Mary. Rs. 423, on tonsvalley.shop||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/behind-a-hearty-meal/article37034284.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Pushing boundaries||As art comes back to physical galleries, there’s plenty of experiments to get excited about. At Tate Modern, Korean-American artist Anicka Yi is exploring new ways of how machines might inhabit the world — with floating ‘aerobes’. HerIn Love With the Worldinstallation blends science, microbial activity and scent. Till January 2022. Closer home, at the Embassy of France, photography exhibitUnsealed Chamberis under way. Four artists reflect on self, society, ecology, etc, post pandemic. At Alliance Française de Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pushing-boundaries/article37034285.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Take the time||Bring some colour to your wrist game. Benetton has partnered with Timex India to launch Benetton Timewear. The first drop of 42 styles includes a ‘Social’ line, with bright straps made of vegan cellulosic fibres, and a ‘Signature’ range, with dials in black, white, and blue. Between Rs. 2,995 and Rs. 7,995, on Flipkart. Meanwhile, Gucci has released its latest issue ofChime Zine. Featuring voices and art of activists and artists from around the world, it amplifies the call for gender equality. Read it now on equilibrium.gucci.com/zine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/take-the-time/article37034286.ece
17 October 2021||October 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Designs and weaves||The Mystery of the Patola, a talk on the woven double Ikat, will be presented by Belaa Sanghvi, a craft designer and revivalist of antique handloom weaving styles. Curated by Chandra Jain and Yashodhara Shroff, the event will be held at BIC (Bangalore International Centre) Domlur on October 18. Exhibition and sale at ffolio, Vittal Mallya Road on 18 and 19. Magnolia Bakery’s Deepavali gift hampers can now be pre-ordered. The small wooden tray is priced at Rs. 1400 and the large wooden tray at Rs. 2,300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/designs-and-weaves/article37034287.ece
