18 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kottayam, Idukki worst hit; Kerala rain toll at 27||The death toll in rain-related incidents in Kerala rose to 27 on Sunday, with the recovery of more bodies from the landslip-ravaged areas of Kottayam and Idukki districts. While the State experienced a marked reduction in rainfall activity on Sunday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan advised continued caution as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast widespread rainfall again from Wednesday. The disaster management machinery in the State would function round the clock, he said, urging the public to avoid unnecessary travel. The bodies of more landslip victims were recovered from Koottickal, taking the overall toll in Kottayam district to 13. In Idukki, the bodies of eight landslip victims have been recovered from Kokkayar and one body from the nearby Peruvanthanam village, Idukki District Collector Sheeba George said. Kerala also reported a number of drowning deaths, including that of an 18-month-old girl from Eramala in Kozhikode district. Thrissur and Palakkad districts reported one death each — of a 62-year-old man from Kunnamkulam and a 75-year-old man from Pattambi. Two persons lost their lives at Kanjar in Idukki on Saturday after their car was trapped in floodwaters. The State will provide Rs. 4 lakh each in financial assistance to the kin of landslip victims in Plapally and Kavali areas of Koottickal panchayat, Revenue Minister K. Rajan said. Five more teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) would be deployed in Idukki, Kottayam, Kannur, Palakkad and Kollam districts, the CM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kottayam-idukki-worst-hit-kerala-rain-toll-at-27/article37047183.ece
18 October 2021||Coimbatore,||Coimbatore receives season’s highest rainfall on Saturday||Coimbatore received 62.5 mm rainfall on Saturday, the highest this South-West Monsoon season, according to the data shared by the Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. This was the second highest rainfall received in a 24-hour period this year, the first being the 70 mm received on January 7, said S.P. Ramanathan, the Centre head. The city had also received good rainfall on a day in May this year – 42 mm. The Saturday rain was a part of the 110 mm rainfall the Centre had predicted for five days starting Friday. The city was expected to receive 25 mm on Sunday and 10 mm each on Monday and Tuesday. The rain was a part of the South-West Monsoon, which was continuing well into October, he said. The rainfall data shared by the Coimbatore district administration, however, showed that the precipitation in the university in the 24-hour period ending 8 a.m. Sunday was 39.2 mm. The rainfall recorded for the period in other parts of the district was – Annur- 6 mm, Mettupalayam- 4.5 mm, Cincona- 62 mm, Chinnakalar- 92 mm, Valparai PAP areas- 72 mm, Valparai taluk- 62 mm, Sholayar- 78 mm, Aliyar- 26 mm, Sulur- 33 mm, Pollachi- 20 mm, Coimbatore south- 42 mm, airport- 39.2 mm and Periyanaickenpalayam- 25 mm. In the city, the Coimbatore Corporation said there was inundation of underpasses in Lanka Corner, beneath Avinashi Road flyover, Kaleeswara Mill Road, Shastri Road near Kikani school, North Coimbatore and in Ondipudur, Kembatty Colony and a few other places. The Corporation had deployed lorries to draw out water near the TNSCT depot in Ondipudur, Bharathi Nagar, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and Variety Hall Road CMC Colony and earthmovers to remove blocks in channels near Singanallur farmers’ market (Uzhavar Sandhai) and in a few parts of the city. The Corporation had also removed fallen branches in a few parts of the city, the sources said and added no major inundation of houses was reported in the city. The Corporation Commissioner, Raja Gopal Sunkara, held a meeting with zonal assistant commissioners, assistant executive engineers and sanitary officers to review the impact of the rain, the sources said. Mr. Sunkara said the civic body was also keeping a tab on the water level in the tanks it had taken up for development under the Smart Cities Mission. Sources in the Water Resource Organisation wing of the Public Works Department said following rain there was good flow in the River Noyyal and channels that fed water to the Noyyal system tanks on Sunday. Water level in the Kolarampathi, Narasampathy, Krishnampathy,Selvampathy, Kumarasamy, Ganga Narayana Samudram, Sottaiandi Kuttai and Singanallur tanks had touched the full tank level and in Selva Chinthamani and Perur was fast rising. The two tanks could see water level touch the full tank level in the next few days, if the rain continued. Water was also flowing fast into Kurichi tank which at present had 80% water. There was a problem in water flowing into the Vellalore tank because of a block near Podanur. The department was taking steps to remove the blocks, the sources added. The district administration said it was closely monitoring the water level in various reservoirs and rivers in the district. There was nothing to be concerned about as of Sunday. It had not issued flood alerts and relocated people along banks as the situation did not warrant one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/coimbatore-sees-seasons-highest-rainfall-on-saturday/article37047311.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Finding a way forward together||Last March, like thousands of others, when 34-year-old Charles Edward Xavier, an IT professional in a leading firm, was let go, he felt crushed and lost. Around the same time, his childhood friend Dinesh Kumar, who worked as a human resources professional in a leading five-star hotel in the city, also lost his job. “Our minds seemed shrouded with uncertainty, and we did not know the way forward. That’s when six of us, who did not have jobs, decided to turn into reality one of our casual discussions about running a restaurant. Subsequently, I used a part of my savings and bought a vehicle, customised it and obtained the necessary permissions, and by October, we had started a food truck in Tiruvallur,” Mr. Dinesh says. Today, a year later, the food truck named ‘Thaayin Koodu Jigiri Dosth’ has been running fairly well, with no one regretting the decision. In a few weeks, they planning to put one more vehicle on the road. “Initially, it seemed tough. Used to working in an air-conditioned room, it was tough standing under a tin roof in the scorching heat. I’m also earning only half of what I used to. Yet, I continue to do this because, it is immensely satisfying to work with friends. From Rs. 5 to Rs. 50, anyone can afford our food. A part of our earnings goes towards an old age home that Mr. Dinesh runs. It feels satisfying in more ways than one,” Mr. Xavier says. Idli, pongal, poori and vadai  for breakfast, a variety of rice items for noon and biriyani, chilli chicken, noodles and kothu parotta for dinner, the food truck draws a good crowd everyday, says S. Jeyamaan, the chef. “ Parotta and Madurai salna and muttai kalaki are popular. I did get offers abroad after I lost my job at a hotel. But I did not feel like taking it up. I consider cooking and serving food sacred, and the work I have done in the past year has been immensely satisfying,” he adds.  Initially, it seemed tough. Used to working in an AC room, it was tough standing under a tin roof in the scorching heat. I’m also earning only half of what I used to. Yet, I do this because, it is immensely satisfying to work with friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/finding-a-way-forward-together/article37047359.ece
18 October 2021||Srinagar,||2 more migrant workers killed in J&K||Terrorists shot dead two more non-local labourers and injured another on Sunday in Kulgam district of south Kashmir, prompting the police to direct that all non-resident labourers in the Valley be brought to the nearest security camps “immediately” for safety, officials said on Sunday. This is the third attack on non-local workers in less than 24 hours, and is the latest in a series of shootings targeting civilians in recent weeks. A street vendor from Bihar and a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh were killed by the ultras on Saturday. “Terrorists fired indiscriminately upon #NonLocal labourers at Wanpoh area of #Kulgam. In this #terror incident, 2 non-locals were killed and 1 injured,” Kashmir zone police said on Twitter. Police and security forces cordoned off the area. According to officials, the militants entered the rented accommodation of the labourers and fired on them indiscriminately. The deceased have been identified as Raja Reshi Dev and Joginder Reshi Dev, while Chun Chun Reshi Dev has been injured. All are residents of Bihar, the officials said. A message flashed to all 10 district police stations in the Valley said: “All non-local labourers in your respective jurisdiction should be brought to the nearest police or central paramilitary force or Army establishment just now.” The attack drew strong condemnation from political parties across the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-more-migrant-workers-killed-in-jk/article37047173.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,||CBSE schools orient students towards new term 1 exam format||As the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is expected to release a schedule soon for the term 1 examination to be held in November, schools are preparing students for the new test format. Earlier this year, the CBSE announced that instead of the examinations to be held at the end of the academic year, Class X and XII students would take up two term examinations in different formats. The term 1 examination will have a paper with multiple choice questions. It will have a duration of 90 minutes. The final results will be based on the term 1 and 2 examinations. “The new pattern has meant that there has been a paradigm shift in how we prepare our students to take the board examinations. Multiple choice questions require a thorough understanding of the concepts, are very precise, and competitive,” said Ashok Shankar, secretary, CBSE Schools Management Association. He said schools had striven to ensure access for students to resources such as model question papers, worksheets and practice tests. Teachers were administering practice tests and spending more time with students to facilitate a good grasp of the concepts. “Rote learning will not help students in a paper of this pattern, and they need to know the concepts well. Earlier, students used to be awarded marks even if they wrote down the formula and attempted a question. For the new format, better preparation is needed since they can only get a mark if the right option is selected,” said K. Lakshmi, a chemistry teacher. Students are aware of the importance of a thorough understanding of the concepts; they have been asking their teachers to explain and revise concepts, she said. Juwariya Nilofur, who teaches economics and business studies for Class XII, said that chapter-wise training tests were being conducted to orient students towards the new format. “The sample papers released by the CBSE helped us a lot...” Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and the delay in the reopening of schools, the CBSE announced earlier this year that the syllabus would be rationalised. “With students taking up the term 1 examination covering 50% of their syllabus which has been rationalised and has no negative marking, we believe students can do well in this format with good training from teachers,” said C. Satish, director-general, ABS Group of Schools. He said schools would soon start the practical examinations ahead of the term 1 examination.  Rote learning will not help students in a paper of this pattern, and they need to know the concepts well K. Lakshmichemistry teacher||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbse-schools-orient-students-towards-new-term-1-exam-format/article37047301.ece
18 October 2021||COIMBATORE,||Search continues for woman washed away in stream near Coimbatore||The Fire and Rescue Services personnel on Sunday continued the search for the woman who was washed away in a stream at Mathipalayam, near Coimbatore, on Saturday. The searches continued till Sunday evening and the fire brigades could not trace M. Vijaya, a resident of Ambedkar Street at Mathipalayam. A 40-member team of the Fire and Rescue Services led by District Fire Officer R. Jegadheesh, Assistant DFO P. Alagarsamy, and station officers Velusamy and Ravichandran were involved in the search operation. The team also searched a tank, namely Sennanur kuttai, into which the stream flows. Vijaya, a farm worker, was washed away while trying to cross the stream around 3.30 p.m. Rainwater carried her away and a search was launched immediately. An officer from the Fire and Rescue Services said that there were two check dams across the stream. “According to people from the locality, the check dams were five to six feet deep where soil carried by the rainwater has been accumulated. We suspect that the woman could have got stuck in one of the check dams and got buried under the soil. The soil will be removed on Monday using excavators,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/search-continues-for-woman-washed-away-in-stream/article37047315.ece
18 October 2021||MYSURU,||Two Ugandans escape from State Home||Two women from Uganda, who were to be deported to their country, have escaped from the State Home for Women in Mysuru. The two, who were part of a group of Africans detained by the police in Bengaluru for overstaying in the country without valid visas, had been sent to the State Home for Women at Vijayanagar in Mysuru about two months ago till the formalities for their deportation were completed. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Pradeep Gunti expressed hope that the police would trace the two women soon. Sources in the State Home for Women here said the women pushed the security guard at the entrance before scaling the compound wall with barbed wire and escaped. Around 10.30 p.m. on Saturday night, the lock at the entrance was opened by the guard to let into the premises a woman and her child and another mentally challenged woman brought by the police. But the two women from Uganda seized the opportunity to push the security guard aside, claiming they were going into the compound to dry their clothes and later scaled the compound wall and ran away. The women from Uganda were part of a group of 13 Africans detained by the Bengaluru City police in August this year as part of a special drive against foreign nationals overstaying in the country even after expiry of their visas. After five of them managed to escape from the State Home for Women at Siddapura in Bengaluru, the Foreigners’ Regional Registration Office (FRRO) distributed the remaining eight into two batches of four each and shifted them to Tumakuru and Mysuru. Sources at the State Home for Women here said senior officials of the Department of Women and Child Development had already requested the FRRO in Bengaluru to shift the African women out of the State home due to the inconvenience to other inmates, but to no avail. Meanwhile, the general public have been asked to alert the city police control room on 0821-2418139 or 0821-2418339 for any information about the two Uganda women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-ugandans-escape-from-state-home/article37047590.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Diesel prices cross Rs. 100 per litre mark in many parts of T.N.||Diesel prices crossed Rs. 100 per litre in several parts of the State on Sunday. Places including Cuddalore (Rs. 100.91/litre), Chidambaram (Rs. 101.19/litre), Nagapattinam (Rs. 100.35/litre) and Mayiladuthurai (Rs. 100.26/litre) saw prices cross the Rs. 100/litre mark, a historic high for the fuel, which is used mostly by truckers, industries in generators, and many cab operators. Petrol prices in all these locations are a little over Rs. 105/litre. Fossil fuels have been seeing an upward trend over the past few months and on Sunday, diesel increased by 33 paise per litre and petrol went up by 31 paise/litre. S. Jude Mathew, Independent Rental Vehicle Owners Association, said as most cars give a mileage of 10 km-12 km per lire and at Rs. 100/litre, they wont be able to earn much. “Cars that used to get 8-10 trips a day are getting just 4 -5 trips daily, which is just about enough to keep the business alive. Since temples had remained closed over the weekends, outstation business too had been hit. The only way out seems to be a reduction in diesel prices by the Central government,” he said. A dealer said that they were taking the flak for high fuel rise from customers. “With each increase, things have become tougher because consumers are finding it difficult to shell out more on travel. If a person owns a car and has to travel 20 km one-way, he would be spending Rs. 350 per day just to commute to and from work, which is an enormous chunk of his earnings. It is time that the government decrease excise duty and not keep blaming international crude prices,” he said. Indian Oil Corporation Chairman S.M.Vaidhya, who was on a visit to the State, told reporters that the price rise was due to increase in demand and also high crude oil prices.  The price rise is due to increase in demand and also high crude oil prices S.M.Vaidhya, Chairman, Indian Oil Corporation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-parts-of-tn-diesel-prices-cross-rs-100-per-litre-mark/article37047297.ece
18 October 2021||Vijayawada,||Kerala keen on replicating RBK model||Kerala Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has lauded the initiatives taken by the Andhra Pradesh government related to the farm sector, with a specific reference to the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs). “Several States are keen on emulating the schemes introduced in Andhra Pradesh. We will seek the cooperation of Andhra Pradesh in setting up facilities similar to the RBKs in Kerala,” Mr. Prasad told the media after visiting an RBK at Tukkuluru village in Nuzvid mandal of Krishna district on Sunday. Mr. Prasad said that the priority given to the agriculture by the Andhra Pradesh government was being discussed in the country and asserted that by rendering various services, the RBKs made farming easy. ‘Easy access to inputs’ Otherwise, he observed, the farmers had to run from pillar to post to acquire inputs and avail other services which the Agriculture Department was supposed to provide. He pointed out that the Gujarat government had studied the concepts introduced in A.P. and started implementing some of them. Mr. Prasad said he was impressed with the RBKs that were rendering services — from purchasing seed to realisation of remunerative prices and organic farming. Agriculture Joint Director (RBKs) V. Sridhar gave a presentation on the initiatives introduced in the farm sector and said a wide variety of services were being rendered by 10,778 RBKs across the State. The Kerala government delegation comprised State Finance Commission Chairman S.M. Vijayanand, Director of Agriculture T. Subhash, Agriculture Planning Board member S.S. Nagesh and Deputy Directors M.S. Pramod Kumar, K.S. Pratap, Vinod Mohan and T. Vijay Kumar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-keen-on-replicating-rbk-model/article37047181.ece
18 October 2021||Belagavi,||Basavaraj Bommai holds meeting in Udasi’s house||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai arrived in Hangal on Sunday to campaign for the byelection to the Assembly constituency. He held a meeting of party leaders in the house of Member of Parliament Shivakumar Udasi. The meeting seemed to have come in response to rumours that the Udasi family was upset over the party not nominating one of them for the bypolls. The election was caused by the death of Channabasappa Udasi, MLA and the MP’s father. There was widespread speculation that one of three women in the family, Mr. Udasi’s wife, Neelamma, his daughter, Jayashree Tilavalli, or his daughter-in-law, Revati, will get party ticket. But the party chose the former MLA Shivaraj Sajjanar to contest the bypolls. This led to reports that the Udasis, a local Lingayat family with enough clout, were upset. The Chief Minister used the opportunity to send a message that the Udasi family members are actively involved in the party campaign. Party State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Ministers V. Sunil Kumar and B.C. Patil, leaders Arvind Bellad and Munirathna Naidu and Mr. Shivakumar Udasi were present at the meeting. The Chief Minister addressed some rallies in nearby villages. Before leaving for Hangal, the Chief Minister announced that the BJP nominees will win both the seats as there is a pro-BJP environment in those areas. “I will spend time campaigning in both the constituencies,’’ he said. “Congress leaders have contributed to the losses suffered by the cooperative factory at Sangur. The factory that has its own history. Congress leaders have ensured its closure. It is the BJP that has revived it,’’ he said. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah countered Mr. Basavaraj Bommai’s statement that the Congress members were responsible for the losses suffered by the Sangur sugar factory. “Who were chairpersons of the Sangur factory? No one other than BJP leaders, including Shivaraj Sajjanar and C.M. Udasi. How can the Congress be responsible for the losses in the factory then?” he wondered. He was speaking to journalists at the airport in Hubballi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/basavaraj-bommai-holds-meeting-in-udasis-house/article37047435.ece
18 October 2021||KOCHI,||Nokkukooli not a right, says Rajeeve||Nokkukooli, or the practice of insisting on compensation for notional works, should not be considered a right. At the same time, workers’ opportunities should not be denied and new opportunities should be created, said Industries Minister P. Rajeeve here on Sunday. He was speaking at the inauguration of the second day of a workshop on labour code organised by the Kerala Institute of Labour and Employment (KILE). He said even while trade union leadership was taking a stand against ‘nokkukooli’, there were problems at other levels. These issues cannot be fully addressed through legal means. He appealed to KILE to create awareness among workers, officials, and employers on various issues involved, said a communication from the organisers of the workshop. ‘Ease of living’ The State Government was bound to the promise of ensuring fair wages, he added. While the Union Government was focusing on ease of doing business, Kerala was trying to create ease of living through industrial progress. The workshop discussed in detail the wage code. The discussions covered areas like the Code on Society Security 2020, Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code 2020. Labour Minister V. Sivankutty inaugurated the workshop on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nokkukooli-not-a-right-says-rajeeve/article37047489.ece
18 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Schools need fitness certificates: Minister||Guidelines for school reopening in the State will be followed strictly, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. He was addressing mediapersons on Sunday after visiting the spot where a migrant worker from Jharkhand Nagardeep Mandal got swept away at Kannammoola here. The Minister stressed that officials concerned should go through guidelines and take steps to implement them. In case the fitness of a school could not be ensured ahead of resumption of classes on November 1, a school or some other safe institution nearby would be identified and classes held there temporarily. The Minister said the Government gave maximum priority to children’s safety and health. The rain over the past two days was unexpected. Many areas had been flooded. The rain may continue for another two days. In such a situation, if any school structure had suffered damage, permission would not be given to hold classes there. Schools should reopen only after receiving certificates from officials concerned of the city Corporation, local self-government institutions, and Public Works Department. Efforts should be made to restore the functioning of the school with the support of all sections once the rain subsided, Mr. Sivankutty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-need-fitness-certificates-minister/article37047493.ece
18 October 2021||MANGALURU,||College teachers in the dark over NEP implementation||With about a fortnight remaining for the commencement of the 2021-22 academic year, college teachers of Mangalore University have said that they are in the dark as far as implementing the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 is concerned. A college principal who did not want to be named told The Hindu that many teachers are now into evaluation of answer scripts of the odd semester examinations. Some more teachers will be on duty for the final semester examination. Hence, teachers need some time to refresh themselves and prepare for teaching under the changed circumstances. There is no clarity on the syllabi to be followed, on the total working hours of teachers, on the qualification of teachers for teaching skill development subjects and on the list of skill development subjects to be offered and the like. Teachers are in a dilemma, he said. The managing council of the Association of Mangalore University College Teachers (AMUCT), which met a week ago, also urged the university to issue peer guidelines and the structure to be followed by the affiliated and autonomous colleges to implement NEP 2020. Association president N.M. Joseph and general secretary Vishala B.K. said that the council met on October 9 and, members discussed the policy at length. The council urged the university to finalise the issues regarding major, minor, open electives, skill enhancement courses and credits to be fixed without much delay. It resolved to urge the university to consider open elective and skill enhancement courses for workload of teachers. The council sought the inclusion of Functional Kannada only for those who have not learnt Kannada in the lower levels of their education, while other students can be given the freedom to select any two languages. The meeting sought safeguards to the interest of the teachers, aided and unaided, who are working tirelessly for the betterment of students for many years now in their respective colleges. They should not lose their jobs, while NEP is implemented, it said. Vice-Chancellor of the university P.S. Yadapadithaya said that the Boards of Studies (BoS) of a majority of subjects have approved the revised syllabi prepared for two semesters. If the syllabi of some subjects are not ready before the BoS, the university will approve the model syllabi sent by the government. The Vice-Chancellor said that the university will upload the FAQ (frequently asked questions, with answers) on its website either on Monday or Tuesday. It will clear a majority of the doubts of teachers, he said. He will address all college teachers on October 25 on the implementation of NEP. A joint faculty meeting has been called on October 26. The Academic Council will meet on October 27 and pass the syllabi and the revised regulations. The government has allowed the university to introduce the courses as per NEP expecting approval to the revised regulations from the Governor, he said and added that the first semester classes should resume on October 29.  A college principal who did not want to be named said that many teachers are now into evaluation of answer scripts of the odd semester examinations hence, they need some time to refresh themselves and prepare for teaching under the changed circumstances||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/college-teachers-in-the-dark-over-nep-implementation/article37047572.ece
18 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID-19 claims four more lives||The State reported five COVID-19 deaths and 432 infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, which took the cumulative toll to 14,307 and the tally to 20,60,472. The number of active cases had come down to 6,034 as 586 patients recovered during the period. The recovery rate and the total number of recoveries stand at 99.01% and 20,40,131. The daily positivity rate of the 31,712 samples tested was 1.36%. The positivity rate of the 2.89 crore tests conducted so far was 7.11%. Krishna district reported two deaths in last 24 hours, while Chittoor, Guntur and West Godavari reported one each. Chittoor reported 87 new infections. It was followed by Guntur (61), Krishna (60), Nellore (43), Prakasam (41), Visakhapatnam (39), West Godavari (30), East Godavari (29), Srikakulam (12), Anantapur (10), Kadapa (8), Kurnool (6) and Vizianagaram (6). The district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,92,897), Chittoor (2,45,762), West Godavari (1,78,542), Guntur (1,77,362), Anantapur (1,57,739), Visakhapatnam (1,57,302), Nellore (1,46,015), Prakasam (1,38,217), Kurnool (1,24,091), Srikakulam (1,22,866), Krishna (1,18,533), Kadapa (1,15,381) and Vizianagaram (82,870).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-claims-four-more-lives/article37047178.ece
18 October 2021||Vijayawada,||Damodaram Sanjeevaiah’s house to be converted into memorial||The Jana Sena Party (JSP) has decided to create a fund of Rs. 1 crore for converting former Chief Minister Damodaram Sanjeevaiah’s residence at Peddapadu village in Kallur mandal of Kurnool district, into a memorial, said its president Pawan Kalyan. Sanjeevaiah was the first Dalit Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, who had dedicated his life for the uplift of the downtrodden. He achieved a lot in his two-year stint as the CM, for which he deserved full praise, Mr. Kalyan said in a release. Sanjeevaiah had played an instrumental role in the campaign that was launched for the development of Telangana and Rayalaseema regions and the north coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh. But for Sanjeevaiah’s efforts, the State would not have got projects like the Vamsadhara in Srikakulam, the Gajuladinne in Rayalaseema and the K.L. Rao Sagar (Pulichintala) in Guntur district, the Jana Sena chief said. Besides, Sanjeevaiah strove for affinity among various castes and took various steps for improving the living standards of Dalits in Hyderabad through various administrative reforms. Sanjeevaiah was such a humble and honest leader that he had a cash balance of just Rs. 17,000 and a Fiat car at the time of his death, Mr. Kalyan observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/damodaram-sanjeevaiahs-house-to-be-converted-into-memorial/article37047179.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,||‘30% of dogs in IIT-M shelter died in the past year’||A total of 56 (or 30%) of the 188 stray dogs confined in the dog shelter on the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) campus died in the past year, the administration confirmed to Tamil Nadu Health and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian on Sunday. Minister’s visit The Minister, who inspected the shelter following complaints of a high number of deaths, quoted the administration as saying that another 29 had been given up for adoption, 14 were let out as they were not aggressive and two had escaped. He said the administration had been asked to furnish details on the dogs that were adopted. The remaining 87 dogs were confined to two spaces in a 10,600 sq ft area, he said. “The administration said old age and illnesses were the main reason for the deaths. Most dogs that died were eight to 10 years of age,” Mr. Subramanian said, adding that a post-mortem examination was done on a dog that died recently. Pointing out that the IIT-M administration’s main reason to keep the dogs in confinement was that they were a threat to the campus’ deer population, the Minister quoted the administration as saying that 55 of the 92 deer that died in 2018 were killed due to dog attacks. ‘Lives important’ “They said that another 38 deer died in 2019 and 28 in 2020. Only this year, the death has come down to just three,” Mr. Subramanian said. “I have told them that the lives of both animals are equally important, and dogs should also be taken care of,” he added. While stating that the overall functioning of the shelter looked satisfactory, with nine people engaged to take care of the dogs, he said the administration had been asked to keep the Greater Chennai Corporation officials in the loop on all developments. Arun Prasanna of the People for Cattle in India (PFCI), who filed a public interest litigation in the Madras High Court in this regard and who met the Minister during the inspection, said the number of dog deaths as per the IIT-M’s figures were alarming. “These stray or feral dogs suffer trauma and stress if kept in confinement. In their response to the High Court, IIT-M said the dogs were healthy. If that was the case, 30% of them should not have died. These dogs generally live for around 14 years,” he said. He said the numbers cited on the dogs given up for adoption, ones that were let go, and those that escaped sounded suspicious. Details awaited “They are yet to furnish details on these. As an animal rights activist, I know that finding people to adopt stray dogs is not easy, particularly if they are not puppies,” Mr. Prasanna said. Denying IIT-M’s claims that the dogs posed a threat to the deer, he said that it was not in the nature of stray dogs to attack or hunt the deer. “We do not have solid evidence or post-mortem reports to prove that the dogs were the cause of death,” he claimed. He appealed that the remaining 87 dogs be released immediately for their well-being.  The administration said old age and illnesses were the main reason for the deaths. Most dogs that died were eight to 10 years of age Ma. Subramanian Tamil Nadu Health and Family Welfare Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/30-of-dogs-in-campus-shelter-died-in-the-past-year-says-iit-m/article37047282.ece
18 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Rs. 7.5 crore each for villages with large number of fishermen||Union Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Information and Broadcasting L. Murugan said on Sunday that the Union Government will invest Rs. 7.5 crore for developing infrastructure in each such village where fishermen lived in large numbers. Speaking at a programme in Malpe, Udupi, the Minister said that such villages will be identified shortly. The funds will also be utilised for education of fishermen and to promote fishing activities in such villages. He said that the Union Government will invest Rs. 725 crore for promoting fisheries activities in the State in the next five years. The government has approved a fisheries harbour in Hejmady. The Minister said that the government is developing five ports in the country. Those ports will have infrastructure conducive for fisheries activities, ice plants, hospitals, among others. Minister for Fisheries, Ports, Inland Water Transport S. Angara said that the State Government has sent 16 proposals to the Union Government for developing fisheries sector. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat said that the government should exempt fishing boats from paying cess and reduce taxes on diesel supplied to boats. Fisherman Raviraj Suvarna said that the government should introduce sea ambulance for fishermen to address their health concerns while they go fishing. Fisherwoman Sumithra demanded allocation of spacious land for selling dry fish in the Malpe Port area.  The Union Government will invest Rs. 725 crore for promoting fisheries activities in the State in the next five years and the government has approved a fisheries harbour in Hejmady, says Union Minister of State L. Murugan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-75-crore-each-for-villages-with-large-number-of-fishermen/article37047571.ece
18 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Place of worship desecrated near Baikampady Industrial Area||A place of worship was found desecrated near Baikampady Industrial Area in the city on Sunday. According to the devotees of the Karkera Moolastana, which is on the road leading to the industrial area, the place of worship had been locked after puja on Friday evening. When it was opened on Sunday morning, devotees found an idol of a Snake God on the floor. Another idol had been thrown outside the Moolastana and a portion of a Nandi idol had also been damaged. Articles in the sanctum sanctorum of the Moolastana had been ransacked as also the office of the place of worship, a devotee said. “Miscreants entered from the rear entrance and desecrated the place just to create tension,” said a member of the Moolastana administration committee. The miscreants have not stolen any articles from the place, he added. The Surathkal Police visited the spot with fingerprint experts. The Moolastana, which has been operating for over several years now, has not set up any closed circuit television camera. The police suspected that the miscreants have targetted the place with an eye on treasure. “They have searched the place and have left after failing to find any valuable material,” an officer said. Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty, who visited the place, concurred with the Moolastana administrators and said that the miscreants have tried to disturb peace in the area. He urged the police to trace the culprits at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/place-of-worship-desecrated-near-baikampady-industrial-area/article37047576.ece
18 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian tourists help Maldives recover from pandemic blues||Call it the triumph of soft power or Stimulus Maitri , one South Asian country is silently thankful to Indians’ indefatigable wanderlust which has lifted its recovery prospects from the pandemic’s disastrous aftermath, even as the Chinese have gone virtually missing in action. After COVID-19 hammered a 33.2% contraction on the Maldives’ tourism-dependent economy in 2020, the country’s growth prospects for this calendar year have seen the biggest upgrades from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) — at least five percentage points — thanks to Indian hodophiles. Last week, the World Bank raised its 2021 growth projection for the Maldives from 17.1% to 22.3%. The ADB had pegged 2020’s GDP fall for the Maldives at 32% and expected it to rebound with a 13% uptick this year, but has now raised growth hopes to 18%. The Maldives’ travel receipts rose by 104.5% in the first half of the year, which the ADB has attributed to a “strong rebound” in tourist arrivals from India and Russia even as traditionally large visitor sources like China and Europe remained wary. Tourist arrivals had crossed half a million, rising 33.4% from 2020 levels, boosted by very large increases in visitors from the Russian Federation and India who now have a combined share of 42% in wayfarers welcomed by the Maldives, from just 16.7% a year ago, it noted. Lesser traffic Travel buffs from Europe now account for lesser traffic at 41.5% of arrivals, “somewhat below their 44.1% share of the 1.7 million peak arrivals in 2019 before the pandemic”, the ADB has pointed out in its latest development outlook update. Arrivals from the People’s Republic of China, which held a major 16.7% market share in 2019, only accounted for 0.1% of total tourists between January and June this year. Unique appeal The Maldives’ unique appeal of a “one island, one resort” model that helps assuage concerns about the risks of COVID-19 infections has played no small part in its attractiveness as a go-to destination for travel-starved wanderers, while other tourism-driven economies like Nepal, Bhutan and Sri Lanka are yet to see a recovery. The Bank expects the Maldives to cross the one million tourists’ mark as vaccination efforts improve and travel curbs are gradually lifted. “Among South Asian countries, Maldives has had the most robust recovery in tourism. Visitor arrivals to the country recovered to over 60% of the pre-pandemic level by March,” the World Bank has noted in its latest report on the South Asia’s economy, adding that the surges in COVID-19 across countries, including India, did dampen that recovery “reflecting the sensitivity of tourism to fresh COVID-19 outbreaks”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indian-tourists-help-maldives-recover-from-pandemic-blues/article37046972.ece
18 October 2021||YADGIR,||Yadgir journalist gets anticipatory bail||The Cyber Crime, Economic Offences and Narcotics wing here has registered a case against unknown persons for creating fake mail identities and letterhead in the names of VIPs and sending mails to various departments seeking cancellation of a transfer application of an officer of the Information Department working in Yadgir. According to a release from Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy, the fake mail identities and letterhead created in the name of Indhudhar Sinnur, district president of the Working Journalist Association, the former MP Basavaraj Patil Sedam, Member of Legislative Assembly Venkatareddy Mundal, the former Minister Baburao Chinchansur and Minister C.C. Patil were used to send mail to the Chief Minister of Karnataka, the Secretary of Information Department and other officers seeking cancellation of the transfer application of the officer of the Information Department. Dr. Vedamurthy told The Hindu that the accused, Sagar Kumar Desai, who is a journalist working with a Kannada daily in Yadgir, has obtained anticipatory bail from court. Thus, the police followed the directions of the court and completed the formalities. A case has been registered under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code and 66 (D) of the Information Technology Act. Investigation is on.  A case has been booked against unknown persons for creating fake mail IDs and letterhead||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yadgir-journalist-gets-anticipatory-bail/article37047437.ece
18 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian tourists help Maldives recover from pandemic blues||Call it the triumph of soft power or Stimulus Maitri , one South Asian country is silently thankful to Indians’ indefatigable wanderlust which has lifted its recovery prospects from the pandemic’s disastrous aftermath, even as the Chinese have gone missing in action. After COVID-19 hammered a 33.2% contraction on the Maldives’ tourism-dependent economy in 2020, the country’s growth prospects for this calendar year have seen the biggest upgrades from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) — at least five percentage points — thanks to Indian hodophiles. Last week, the World Bank raised its 2021 growth projection for the Maldives from 17.1% to 22.3%. The ADB had pegged 2020’s GDP fall for the Maldives at 32% and expected it to rebound with a 13% uptick this year, but has now raised growth hopes to 18%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indian-tourists-help-maldives-recover-from-pandemic-blues/article37047326.ece
18 October 2021||MISSAMARI (ASSAM),||UAVs boost Army watch in eastern sector||The Army Aviation has recently got control of Heron-I unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) in the eastern sector, which were earlier with the Artillery, bringing all aviation assets under one roof and augmenting its ability to keep an eye on Chinese activities across the border. The move comes just months after the raising of a new Aviation Brigade at Missamari in Assam. “Army Aviation got control of the UAVs in August this year from Artillery. There are certain advantages of UAVs or remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) being with Army Aviation,” an officer said. The Army Aviation Brigade at Missamari was raised in March this year to enable better command and control of aviation resources, the officer said. The officer added that in the future battlefield, manned and unmanned aircraft teaming will reap huge dividends. The Brigade operates the Cheetah and Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) Dhruv utility helicopters, Rudra weaponsied ALH and Heron-I UAVs. Three RPA flights are working under the Army Aviation squadrons which consists of around 14 UAVs, according to the officer. ‘More responsive’ With the UAVs being under the Army Aviation, the receipt capability has become seamless and more responsive, officials said. All aerial assets are under one umbrella which allows optimised employment of RPAs during operations in conjunction with other aviation assets. “It also helps in upgradation of flight safety management and practices and also boosts training infrastructure for RPA aircrew,” the first officer cited above said. “It also ensures better maintenance and serviceability by optimising the supply chain and spares management,” the officer said and added, “It smoothens out the command and control process especially during operations.” Talking to a group of visiting journalists on the new inductions, Lt. Col. Amit Dadwal, posted at the base, said it has given them round-the-clock capability for surveillance as well as operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uavs-boost-army-watch-in-eastern-sector/article37047174.ece
18 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Tribal hurt as TS police open fire in Vizag Agency||A tribal man was injured, when a 10-member team of Nalgonda police from Telangana allegedly opened fire in self-defence, when a large number of villagers reportedly tried to attack them to protect a ganja smuggler near Lambasingi in Visakhapatnam Agency area on Sunday. According to the police, the Nalgonda police had recently busted a ganja case and arrested a few accused. As part of investigation, they came to Visakhapatnam district on Friday. The Telangana police were heading to Annavaram village, when a group of locals allegedly tried to attack them using knives and axes near Lambasingi. “When the villagers attacked them, the Nalgonda police had to open around two rounds of fire in self-defence and also to scare the locals. One bullet ricocheted and hit one of the villagers,” said Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao. The injured was shifted to Narsipatnam Area Hospital immediately and was provided treatment. The condition of the injured tribal is said to be out of danger. Meanwhile, sources in Visakhapatnam police said that the Telangana police had come on their own and did not inform them about their arrival in the Agency. If the Nalgonda police had informed them, the mishap could have been averted, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tribal-hurt-as-ts-police-open-fire-in-vizag-agency/article37047186.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Standing the test of time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/standing-the-test-of-time/article37047325.ece
18 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State posts 7,555 new cases||The State on Sunday reported 7,555 new cases of COVID-19 when 73,157 samples were tested in 24 hours. The active case pool has declined to 87,593, with 10,773 recoveries. According to the Health Department, only 10% of the active cases are currently admitted to treatment centres. The official cumulative case fatality now stands at 26,865, with the State adding 74 deaths to the list. Current ICU occupancy was 1,442. The number of patients requiring ventilator support was 578. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals went up to 901, while the number of persons currently in hospitals is steadily declining and stands at 10,205. The cumulative case burden is 48,54,321. Among districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases with 998 cases, Ernakulam 975, Thiruvananthapuram 953, Kozhikode 746, Kottayam 627, Kollam 604, Kannur 446, Malappuram 414, Pathanamthitta 377, Idukki 365, Palakkad 345, Alappuzha 303, Wayanad 271 and Kasaragod 131||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-posts-7555-new-cases/article37047490.ece
18 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Telangana reports 122 COVID cases, 1 patient dies||Telangana has recorded 122 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total to 6,68,955. While 26,676 samples were put to test, results of 540 were awaited. One more COVID patient had died. The new 122 infections include 55 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), nine from Karimnagar. No infection was detected in 10 districts. From March 2, 2020 to October 17 of this year, a total of 2.7 crore samples were put to test and 6,68,955 positive cases were so far detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 3,924 are active cases, 6,61,093 have recovered, and 3,938 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-122-covid-cases-one-patient-dies/article37047456.ece
18 October 2021||Hassan,||Two killed in accident||Two persons, including a 13-year-old girl, died when their bike was hit by a car near Dasenahalli Gate on Arsikere-Channarayapatna Road on Saturday evening. The deceased are Beere Gowda, 42, of Siddapura near Gandasi in Arsikere taluk and his relative, Moksha. Beere Gowda was riding the bike and he died on the spot. Moksha succumbed to her injuries in a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-killed-in-accident/article37047593.ece
18 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Cricketer Yuvraj Singh arrested, let off on bail||Cricketer Yuvraj Singh was arrested by the Haryana Police on Saturday in a case pertaining to offensive remarks against the Scheduled Castes on a social media platform. He was later released on interim bail. Nitika Gahlaut, Hansi Superintendent of Police, said the cricketer was arrested and released on court orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cricketer-yuvraj-singh-arrested-let-off-on-bail/article37047343.ece
18 October 2021||LUCKNOW/NEW DELHI,||Lakhimpur Kheri: notices to farmers in second FIR||After arresting the son of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra in connection with the mowing down of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, the police have now served notices on local farmers in the second first information report lodged in the incident on the death of three BJP workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lakhimpur-kheri-notices-to-farmers-in-second-fir/article37047345.ece
18 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Raijor Dal hopes to add to Assembly seat tally||More than a fortnight after a pre-poll alliance with the Congress failed to materialise, the Raijor Dal has exuded confidence about adding to its Assam Assembly seat tally. The party has its president, Akhil Gogoi, as the lone representative in the 126-member House. Mr. Gogoi had in September asked the State unit of the Congress to support its candidates for two of the five Assembly seats — Mariani and Thowra in eastern Assam — where byelections are scheduled for October 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/raijor-dal-hopes-to-add-to-assembly-seat-tally/article37047536.ece
18 October 2021||MYSURU,||Restrictions to Chamundi Hills on Tuesday||The district administration has banned the entry of public and private vehicles to Chamundi Hills from 4 a.m. to 10 a.m. on Tuesday. The ban is to prevent congregation of large crowds for the Chamundeshwari Rathothsava which will be held from 7.18 a.m. to 7.40 a.m., in view of the pandemic situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restrictions-to-chamundi-hills-on-tuesday/article37047592.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Byelections not a referendum on govt.: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is facing the first-ever Assembly poll test under his leadership with the upcoming byelections, has maintained that the polls will not be a referendum on the effectiveness of his governance or the BJP’s popularity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/byelections-not-a-referendum-on-govt-cm/article37047594.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Only 1,531 registered homestays across State’||During the recent session, the Tourism Minister admitted that there are only 1,531 registered homestays in Karnataka. This raised many questions, as the popularity and number of homestays is undeniably far higher than the admitted numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/only-1531-registered-homestays-across-state/article37047595.ece
18 October 2021||Vizianagaram,||30 screens to live-stream temple fete||The district administration is arranging 30 screens to live-stream the ‘Sirimanotsavam’ of the Sri Pydithalli Ammavari temple here on Tuesday. This year too, devotees will not be allowed to take part in the festival in view of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/30-screens-to-live-stream-temple-fete/article37047685.ece
18 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Jumma Namaz: efforts to find solution futile||Offering of Jumma Namaz in an open commercial space in Gurugram has courted controversy for almost a month now. The protests by residents have been rising and the administration’s efforts to find a solution by bringing both parties to the negotiation table have proved futile so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jumma-namaz-efforts-to-find-solution-futile/article37047327.ece
18 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Raijor Dal hopes to add to Assembly seat tally||More than a fortnight after a pre-poll alliance with the Congress failed to materialise, the Raijor Dal has exuded confidence about adding to its Assam Assembly seat tally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/raijor-dal-hopes-to-add-to-assembly-seat-tally/article37047328.ece
18 October 2021||New Delhi,||Sidhu touts his ‘Punjab Model’ in letter to Sonia||Days after meeting top party leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, in Delhi, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday made public his letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in which he listed priorities for the State Government to deliver upon and claimed that it was “Punjab’s last chance for resurrection and redemption”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sidhu-touts-his-punjab-model-in-letter-to-sonia/article37047329.ece
18 October 2021||BELAGAVI,||‘My opposition to RSS is not a poll strategy’||“My opposition to RSS and its divisive ideology is neither new, nor opportunistic. I have been opposing it for over 50 years now. I have always opposed them publicly. It is based on my belief in secularism and the multi-cultural character of Indian society. It is not an electoral strategy,” Siddaramaiah has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/my-opposition-to-rss-is-not-a-poll-strategy/article37047436.ece
18 October 2021||KALABURAGI,||‘Rahul wants everybody to accept his leadership’||Briefing about the developments in the recently concluded Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge has said that party leader Rahul Gandhi is ready to return as the president of the party if everybody agreed to accept his way of functioning. “A unanimous decision was taken to make Rahul Gandhi the president of the Congress. He has said that he will consider the CWC demand if everybody accepts his leadership, ideas and the way of functioning for party building,” he said, in his brief interaction with mediapersons in Kalaburagi on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rahul-wants-everybody-to-accept-his-leadership/article37047440.ece
18 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Jumma Namaz: efforts to find solution futile||Offering of Jumma Namaz in an open commercial space in Gurugram has been in the eye of a controversy for almost a month now. The protests by the residents have been growing with each Friday and the administration’s efforts to find an amicable solution by bringing both parties to the negotiation table have proved futile so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jumma-namaz-efforts-to-find-solution-futile/article37047535.ece
18 October 2021||New Delhi,||Sidhu touts his ‘Punjab Model’ in letter to Sonia||Days after meeting top party leaders, including former party president Rahul Gandhi, in Delhi, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday made public his letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in which he listed priorities for the State Government to deliver upon and claimed that it was “Punjab’s last chance for resurrection and redemption”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sidhu-touts-his-punjab-model-in-letter-to-sonia/article37047537.ece
18 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Singhu murder: 3 sent to police custody||The three men arrested in connection with the murder at the Singhu border of a man over alleged desecration of holy Sikh scripture, were remanded to six days in police custody by the local court here on Sunday. Led by accused Narain Singh, the three confessed before the court to having committed the murder, said the Haryana Police. Four persons have been arrested by the Haryana Police so far in connection with the murder of Lakhbir Singh near the farmers’ protest site at Singhu border on Friday. Narain Singh, Bhagwant Singh and Govind Preet were arrested on Saturday. Sarabjit was arrested a day earlier. “Narain Singh told the court that he along with the three committed the murder over desecration of the holy Sikh scripture. The three told the court that the man had committed a mistake and they punished him,” said Virender Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Law and Order, Sonipat. Mr. Singh heads a Special Investigation Team probing the gruesome murder. Mayank Gupta, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Kharkhoda, heads another SIT in the case. In addition, several Crime Branch teams are also involved in the investigation. ‘Punished for sacrilege’ Before his arrest on Saturday, Narain Singh, talking to the media, had said Lakhbir Singh had been “punished” allegedly for sacrilege. Mr. Singh told The Hindu that blood-stained clothes of Narain Singh, who had surrendered before the Punjab Police in Amritsar, and the sword used by him to commit the murder were recovered. “Narain, who heads one of the deras , wore the same set of clothes at the time of his arrest which he wore during the commission of crime. He also got his sword recovered,” said Mr. Singh, not ruling out more arrests in the case. Hours after Narain Singh had surrendered in Punjab on Saturday, Bhagwant Singh and Govind Preet, both Nihang Sikhs, reached the Kundli Police Station late in the evening to surrender in the murder case. Bhagwant, a native of Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh, and Govind, a resident of Jalandhar in Punjab, are both part of Fatehgarh Dera in Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/singhu-murder-3-sent-to-police-custody/article37046964.ece
18 October 2021||New Delhi,||Sidhu touts his ‘Punjab Model’ in letter to Sonia||Days after meeting top party leaders, including former party president Rahul Gandhi, in Delhi, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday made public his letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in which he listed priorities for the State Government to deliver upon and claimed that it was “Punjab’s last chance for resurrection and redemption”. In his letter of October 15, Mr. Sidhu also sought an appointment with Ms. Gandhi to present before her “a Punjab Model with a 13-Point Agenda to be part of the Congress manifesto for the 2022 Assembly Elections”. Mr. Sidhu also reminded the Congress president of the party’s 18-point agenda that was “given” to the previous Chief Minister of Punjab, and stressed that it was still relevant. “The issues at Punjab’s heart as understood very well by you, and signified by the 18-Point agenda given to the last Chief Minister are equally relevant today. I stood for each point in that agenda through the responsibility vested in me of the organisation, keeping the executive under check, to be guardian of Punjab’s rights,” he wrote. His latest letter, written just a day after he met Mr. Gandhi and All India Congress Committee (AICC) Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat in Delhi, indicates that Mr. Sidhu’s differences with the Charanjit Singh Channi government persist despite his public statement earlier that “everything has been sorted”. The Punjab Congress chief said the people of Punjab demand justice for the 2015 police firing at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in Faridkot following the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib during the previous Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-BJP regime. While he asked the people of Punjab to reject the “three black farm laws” at any cost, Mr. Sidhu said the State Government must release a white paper on power purchase agreements (PPAs) and cancel “all faulty PPAs as promised by us”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-touts-his-punjab-model-in-letter-to-sonia/article37046979.ece
18 October 2021||New Delhi,||Children’s vaccination still away: Govt.||The Union Government will take a final decision on vaccinating children and adolescents against COVID-19 on the basis of overall scientific rationale as well as the supply situation of vaccines available for those below the age of 18, COVID Task Force chief V.K. Paul said on Sunday. Mr. Paul, who has been playing a key role in the Government’s efforts in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, said that though infections were coming down and the second wave was subsiding, it would not be fair now to say that the worst was over since many countries had seen more than two waves. Currently, three vaccines — Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V — being administered in the country were only for those above 18 years of age. The Zydus Cadila’s indigenously developed needle-free COVID-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D, was set to become the first vaccine that would be available in India for those in the age group of 12 to 18 years. It had received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA). Multiple factors “We do know that several countries have introduced vaccination for adolescents and children. We will take a final decision based on the overall scientific rationale and the supply situation of the child-licenced vaccines, going forward,” Mr. Paul said. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) was looking at how ZyCov-D should be positioned for most optimum use. According to Mr. Paul, Covaxin was a part of the adult vaccination programme and how to provision the vaccine, if at all for children, had to be also examined in the totality of the requirements of the vaccination programme. “A pragmatic decision [on vaccination of children and adolescents] can be taken [only] by balancing the supply and the potential eligibility,” he said. ‘Preparations on’ While noting it would not be possible now to give a particular timeline on when the COVID-19 vaccination would start for children, Mr. Paul said, “The preparation for incorporation of Zydus Cadila’s vaccine into the vaccination programme is proceeding well, training is already being held. NTAGI advice for the best use of the vaccine is explored. Soon, this will be rolled out.” According to Mr. Paul, children were part and parcel of the chains of COVID-19 transmission and were infected in large numbers. But COVID-19 infections in children were very mild or asymptomatic. On the other side, he said once there was enough vaccine available that could be used in children, “so why not protect them”. Schools have reopened in many States, mainly for higher classes. Asked if the worst of the pandemic is over, Mr. Paul said, “It is reassuring that the number of COVID cases are now on the decline and the second wave is now subsiding but to say that the worst is over will not be fair because we have seen in other nations, there have been more than two waves.” Cautioning that the country is passing through a phase when there are festivals and potential gatherings, he said this is a critical phase as the virus can spread again. “We have seen that even in other countries where vaccine coverage is good, the escalation in the pandemic can happen and has happened,” he said. “Therefore, certainly we should not assume that this situation of the declining trend will continue and definitely we should not think that the worst is over, we have to be ever watchful,” he emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-jab-for-children-still-away-govt/article37047123.ece
18 October 2021||LUCKNOW/NEW DELHI,||Notices to farmers in second FIR||After arresting the son of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra in connection with the mowing down of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, the police have now served notices on local farmers in the second first information report (FIR) lodged in the incident on the death of three BJP workers. A police officer confirmed that notices were being served in the second FIR, but did not pinpoint an exact figure as the process was still on. A Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson said notices had been sent to 50 farmers to appear before the Crime Branch in Kheri to record their statement. Among those issued the notice was farmer and local BKU leader Sahab Singh from Tikonia, where the incident in which eight persons were killed on October 3 took place. The notice asked him to appear before the police at 10 a.m. on October 18 to record his statement. Waiting for instructions Mr. Singh said he would decide on appearing before the Crime Branch after instructions from his organisation. “We will do what we are instructed from top,” he told The Hindu , adding that as of now he did not intend to appear before the police. While the first FIR named Mr. Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra and 15 to 20 others on the charges of murder, criminal conspiracy and death by negligence for allegedly mowing down farmers, the second FIR, lodged against unidentified persons for murder and other charges, BJP worker Sumit Jaiswal, the complainant, alleged that the farmers threw stones at the vehicle and attacked it with sticks. Apart from four farmers, Raman Kashyap, a local journalist; two BJP workers Shubham Mishra and Shyam; and Hari Om Mishra, the driver of the jeep, were killed in the incident. Mr. Jaiswal alleged that the protesting farmers had attacked the vehicle in which he was sitting to receive visiting Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Protesters attacked the cars with stones and lathis, and Mr. Jaiswal’s car came to a halt after the driver, Hari Om, was hit on the head, he alleged. Hari Om was then pulled out of the car and attacked with lathis and swords, alleged Mr. Jaiswal. As the other BJP workers tried to flee, the protesters also caught hold of Shubham, who was later found dead, he added. ‘Support farmers’ BKU spokesperson Dharmendra Malik said 50 persons had been issued notice. He said the outfit would support the farmers in the case and accused the Union Government of harassing the farmers. “Modi ji  is trying to save his Union Minister while farmers are being harassed and served notices so that they come to a compromise,” he told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/notices-to-farmers-in-second-fir/article37047162.ece
18 October 2021||new Delhi,||Sonia’s stand seeks to formalise Rahul’s role||Sonia Gandhi’s assertion of being a “full time, hands-on” Congress president was, perhaps, aimed at achieving two immediate objectives. First, it was a clear message to the group of 23 (G-23) leaders — the group that is seeking internal reforms and a “visible and effective leadership” — that she is still the boss. Second, and more important, it was meant to convey her endorsement of some of the recent decisions taken by the party that had clear imprints of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Under scrutiny Whether it was the elevation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Congress chief or unseating of Amarinder Singh as Punjab Chief Minister or the induction of former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Students Union president Kanhaiya Kumar into the party, several decisions believed to be driven by the Gandhi siblings have come under scrutiny. “In our party, at the moment, there is no president. So, we don’t know who is taking these decisions” — senior G-23 leader Kapil Sibal’s comments at a press conference had thrown an open challenge to the Gandhis. Ms. Gandhi’s sharp rebuttal at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Saturday seems to have had the desired effect. Inside the CWC, G-23 leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma reiterated their faith in her leadership and were satisfied with the concession of holding the organisational elections (a key G-23 demand); at a press conference outside, general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal took on journalists who had asked in what capacity Mr. Gandhi was trying to resolve the leadership crises in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Punjab. “We will take decisions as per our party interests. The entire Congress, its rank and file, support Shri Rahul Gandhi for his commitment and dedication to fight on principles. I want to tell you one more thing. Every single decision of the party is taken by honourable Congress president, Smt. Sonia Gandhi. She is competent, capable and nobody can question her leadership,” he told reporters on Saturday. Ms. Gandhi’s statement at the CWC sought to formalise the informal arrangement: Mr. Gandhi would be central to decision making whether or not he enjoys any formal position. In fact, on Saturday evening, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who had been delaying, if not avoiding, an expansion of his Cabinet to accommodate supporters of arch rival Sachin Pilot, called on Mr. Gandhi to discuss the issue. Before this, on Thursday, Mr. Sidhu had met Mr. Gandhi to iron out his differences with Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. And in Chhattisgarh, the former Congress chief is already playing the role of an umpire between Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo in their leadership tussle. Eventual elevation But beyond the immediate context, by deciding to elect a new party chief only by September 20 next year, the Congress and Ms. Gandhi seem to be preparing the ground for Mr. Gandhi’s eventual elevation ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha election. In the next 11 months, Mr. Gandhi will have enough time and space to take the party in a direction that he thinks is best suited to take on the Narendra Modi Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonias-stand-seeks-to-formalise-rahuls-role/article37046977.ece
18 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Only 3.9% children malnourished’||The value of a key indicator used in the Global Hunger Index is ‘inflated’ as only 3.9% of the anganwadi children were found to be undernourished, the Union Government said on Sunday. “The real-time data of beneficiaries registered on the Anganwadi platform include 7.79 crore children aged between 6 months to 6 years as per real-time Poshan Tracker data [as on 16-10-2021]. Corresponding number of undernourished children reported on Poshan Tracker is 30.27 lakh which comes to only 3.9%,” according to a reply from the Ministry of Women and Child Development to a report in The Hindu , “Global Hunger Index not based on an opinion poll”, published on October 17. It said, “These beneficiaries are representative of the poorest strata of society and the low levels of undernourishment in them surely reflects that the Indian data is highly inflated.” The GHI 2021 ranked India at 101 out of 116 countries. The index is based on four indicators — under-nourishment, wasting, stunting and under-five mortality. Of these, India’s performance is shown to deteriorate only for undernourishment, which is what the Government has challenged. According to FAO’s data, which is used in the Index, the prevalence of undernourishment in India rose from 14% in 2017-2019 to 15.3% in 2018-2020 which the Government has called exaggerated. However, undernourishment and undernutrition used as synonyms by the Government are treated as two different indicators by FAO and in the GHI. The Government has also alleged that there has been a “selective approach adopted to deliberately lower India’s rank” by relying on higher values of indicators such as stunting and wasting from different datasets available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-39-children-malnourished/article37047118.ece
18 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Jumma Namaz: efforts to find a solution in Gurugram futile||Offering of Jumma Namaz in an open commercial space in upscale Sector 47 near Bakhtawar Chowk here has been in the eye of a controversy for almost a month now. The protests by the residents have been growing with each Friday and the administration’s efforts to find an amicable solution by bringing both parties to a negotiation table have proved futile so far. Several residents assembled at the site for a Jumma Namaz this past Friday as well, chanting the Hanuman Chalisa and playing bhajans on a hand-held portable music system. Holding placards against Namaz in the open, they soon began to march towards the faithful, but the police, deployed at the site, hurriedly intervened to stop them. Spearheading the protests, local councillor Kuldeep Yadav argued that the residents were not against any religion, but opposed to the gathering of “outsiders” in their residential area. He also said that the site was earmarked for a market and the same should be constructed at the earliest. Sector 47 Resident Welfare Association president Sunil Yadavsaid the permission to hold Jumaa Namaz at the said ground was granted only for a day in 2018. In two rounds of meetings held between the two parties with the initiative of the administration and the police this past week, the residents have demanded that the place of Namaz be shifted outside Sector 47 and suggested an open space near Subhash Chowk as an alternative. Altaf Ahmad, part of the talks on behalf of his community, said the site was designated by the administration for holding Namaz and shifting to another place without a valid reason made little sense. “And it is not going to help in any way because the protests are not about the place but are aimed at the community itself. The local authorities had designated 30-odd places for Namaz after protests by a few Hindu groups against Namaz in the open in 2018. But there had been renewed protests since March this year led by Dinesh Bharti, head of Bharat Mata Vahini. He succeeded in stopping Jumma Namaz in Sectors 39, 40 and 43 in March and April,” Mr. Ahmad said. Aman Yadav, ACP, Sadar Bazar, said efforts were on to find a solution and two rounds of meetings were held. Mr. Yadav told the media that there was neither any “information” nor any “formal complaint” of harassment of women or any crime at this site. He said fake news was spread through social media to vitiate the atmosphere. Ritu Raj, Shiv Sena spokesperson, Haryana, said the administration had in 2018 agreed to gradually bring down the number of designated Namaz places and remove parks and public places from the list, but it was not done. Mr. Ahmad said the administration had in 2018 brought down the number of open places for Namaz to 30-odd, including three mosques, from around 100 earlier.  There was neither any “information” nor any “formal complaint” of harassment of women or any crime at this site Aman Yadav ACP, Sadar Bazar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jumma-namaz-efforts-to-find-a-solution-in-gurugram-futile/article37046982.ece
18 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 possible despite earlier infection: doctors||Stressing the need for vaccination, doctors say COVID-19 infection will not protect everyone against reinfection. Vaccination, in fact, can give a higher rate of protection, they say. “We can’t say with certainty that past natural COVID infection offers 100% protection against reinfections,” said Sarita Sharma, consultant paediatrician at PSRI Hospital, New Delhi. Pointing out that the pandemic is evolving, Dr. Sharma stressed that not everybody who had been infected would have protection. An infection is believed to be approximately as effective as vaccination, but the protection offered by the former can be enhanced by vaccination, through “hybrid immunity”, said Rajeev Jayadevan, vice-chairman of the Research Cell of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kerala. He said recurrent infections within the same community was the theme of SARS-CoV-2, adding that reinfections were mild or asymptomatic, and did not cause death or serious disease in this cohort. “Multiple studies from India have shown rates of 8.2% (KIMS, Thiruvananthapuram), 9.6% (Vellore), 16% (Kozhikode) and 25.3% (MAX Hospitals) of breakthrough infections within a few months of vaccine roll- out. These were mild or asymptomatic,” Dr. Jayadevan said. “This data will help us redirect our strategies. ‘Herd immunity’ is a myth for this virus. We need to understand that clearly, so that we don’t continue to make wrong policy decisions based on that,” he added. Explaining the basis for durable protective immunity after COVID-19 infection or vaccination, Hari Kishan Gonuguntla, consultant interventional pulmonologist at Yashoda Hospitals in Hyderabad, said that following COVID-19 infection, the immune system retained a memory of the virus. Most studies have shown that durable memory can last more than 12 months. “However, this will not protect everyone from reinfection. People can still have reinfection. However, the severity of illness and rates of hospitalisation is less in people with prior infection,” Dr. Gonuguntla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-possible-despite-earlier-infection-doctors/article37047115.ece
18 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dip in air quality prompts Delhi CM to seek action||As Delhi’s air quality deteriorates with several areas recording “very poor” air quality, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to the Governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to understand their responsibilities towards reducing stubble burning and controlling pollution. The average AQI in the capital based on the readings of 31 weather stations stopped two notches short of the “very poor” category on Sunday at 298. Other parts of the NCR such as Gurugram, Faridabad and Ghaziabad entered the “very poor” category with AQI readings of 332, 312 and 310, respectively. “For the past one month, I have been tweeting data of air quality in Delhi. Pollution has increased in the last 3-4 days and it is due to stubble burning in neighbouring States. Farmers in neighbouring States are compelled to burn stubble as their Governments are doing nothing to provide an alternative,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that the Delhi Government was doing its bit to curb vehicular and dust pollution and pollution from stubble burning by spraying bio-decomposer but could not do much to stop the air quality from deteriorating as neighbouring States were yet to act on stubble burning. Adverse impact Environment Minister Gopal Rai said that in the past three days, incidents of stubble burning had increased rapidly in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana which had an adverse impact on Delhi’s air quality that was in the “moderate” category on Wednesday. “The Central Government has given about Rs. 250 crore to Punjab for the management of stubble, with which, bio-decomposer can be sprayed free of cost on 50 lakh acres of land but the State Government has not started providing the solution to farmers and no plan has been made to start the use of bio-decomposer outside Delhi,” Mr. Rai said. He added that the pollution was increasing with the same speed with which incidents of stubble burning had increased in neighbouring States and that the air quality had taken longer to deteriorate this year as the rainy season had lasted longer delaying the harvest season. Measures adopted About the measures within Delhi to curb air pollution, Mr. Rai said “Red Light On, Gaadi Off campaign” would start in the city from October 18 across Delhi to curb vehicular pollution and several long-term measures such as tree transplantation policy and an electric vehicle policy and ensuring factories used PNG had been introduced. “The Chief Minister has been tweeting the level of pollution in Delhi every day for the last several days. If you look at that chart and the incidents of stubble burning, it will be clear how the stubble leads to a dangerous situation in Delhi’s pollution level,” Mr. Rai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dip-in-air-quality-prompts-delhi-cm-to-seek-action/article37047120.ece
18 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific on agenda of British Foreign Secretary, CDS||British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss and outgoing Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS), General Nick Carter, will visit India this week even as the Indo-U.K. naval exercises involving the Carrier Strike Group (CSG) in the Bay of Bengal gets under way from October 21 to 27, and ahead of a pending visit by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, sources said here. While the strategic purpose of the visits is to discuss the U.K.’s Indo-Pacific strategy and the newly announced Australia-U.K.-U.S. (AUKUS) alliance, both sides are also expected to focus on the situation in Afghanistan, amidst the perception in Delhi that the British Government had played a major role in talks with the Taliban that led to them taking control of the country. The visits, beginning October 22, are also being scheduled ahead of the Climate Change COP26 summit in Glasgow on October 31 and November 1. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is likely to visit Italy for the G-20 summit on October 30 and 31, is yet to decide on his plans for COP26, said officials. Gen. Carter is expected to meet CDS Gen. Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs. He is also likely to call on National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, who is planning to host a regional conference on Afghanistan in November. New Delhi has been seeking space on events in Afghanistan, given the Taliban control and links to Pakistan, and discussions with the British military leadership will focus on countering the regional terror threat from Afghanistan. Gen. Carter raised eyebrows in Delhi for comments he made in an interview on August 18, just days after the Taliban takeover of Kabul, where he called the militant group “country boys”. He claimed that the Taliban would recognise the need for an inclusive government, and would allow women to work. He later said not just he but “everybody had got it wrong” on Afghanistan. The comments — and his frequent meetings in Kabul, Islamabad and Doha in the last few months — had been noted by the South Block, and Mr. Doval and Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla are understood to have raised them with the U.K. officials.  (With inputs from Dinakar Peri)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghanistan-indo-pacific-on-agenda-of-british-foreign-secretary-cds/article37046981.ece
18 October 2021||New Delhi,||Circular on non-local labourers fake: IG||Amid spate of killings of non-local workers in the Kashmir Valley, the Jammu and Kashmir police issued directive to all police stations to bring all “non-local labourers” to the nearest police station, or Army or Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) camps. Vijay Kumar, Inspector General, (Kashmir division), however, told The Hindu that the order was “fake.” There was no clarity if a First Information Report (FIR) was being lodged to trace the persons who allegedly circulated the “fake” order. As a copy of the order circulated on social media triggered panic, it being a tourist season, the police distanced themselves from the missive that was sent to all district police stations and offices of the Deputy Inspector General in the Kashmir division. Explaining the rationale behind the unprecedented order, a senior government official said, “there has been several inputs to target non-locals over the past 2-3 months. In the wake of serial killings, it is better to provide them security. For the time being, if they feel secure living in a security camp, they can do so.” The series of attacks on civilians come days before Home Minister Amit Shah is to make his maiden visit to Srinagar and Jammu after Article 370 that gave special status to the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir was read down by Parliament in August 2019. The State was bifurcated into two Union Territories — Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Targeted attacks Officials of several Central agencies were rushed to the Valley after three civilians — a Kashmiri Pandit pharmacist, a street vendor from Bihar and a taxi operator from Bandipora — were killed in targetted attacks on October 5. The Resistance Front (TRF), which the police believe is a front for the Pakistan-based Laskhar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Islamic State in Jammu and Kashmir, claimed responsibility for the killings. On October 16, Mr. Kumar in a press statement said that “13 terrorists have been eliminated in nine anti-terrorist operations including three out of five terrorists of Srinagar city who were killed within less than 24 hours.” The statement added that as of now “only two terrorists were active in Srinagar city — Mehran and Wasim” — and efforts were on to nab them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/circular-on-non-local-labourers-fake-ig/article37047348.ece
18 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, U.S. militaries match skills in Alaska||The 17th edition of the India-U.S. bilateral exercise, Yudh Abhyas 2021, got under way at the Joint Base Elmendorf Richardson, Alaska, U.S., with the two sides set to hone their skills in counter-terror operations in mountainous terrain and cold climate conditions. Interestingly, this is the only India-U.S. service exercise continuing in bilateral format. Malabar trilateral The India-U.S. Malabar naval exercise became trilateral with the addition of Japan in 2015 and further brought in all the Quad partners together with the inclusion of Australia in 2020. Similarly, Japan joined the India-U.S. bilateral air exercise, Cope India, as an observer in 2018 and the plan is to make it trilateral in phases. India and the U.S. also hold a tri-service exercise. “The exercise aims at enhancing understanding, cooperation and interoperability. It will focus on combined arms manoeuvres in cold climatic conditions and is primarily aimed at sharing tactical level drills and learning best practices from each other,” the Army said. The exercise scheduled from October 15 to 29 will culminate after a 48-hour validation phase. Exercise Yudh Abhyas is the largest running joint military training and defence cooperation endeavour between the two countries, the Army said. From the U.S. side, 300 soldiers belonging to the First Squadron (Airborne) of the 40th Cavalry Regiment and 350 soldiers of the 7 Madras infantry battalion of the Army are participating in the exercise. The 14-day training schedule includes activities on joint training in a counter-insurgency, counter-terrorism environment under the U.N. mandate, the Army said. “This will help them in undertaking joint operations at the battalion level in mountainous terrain with cold climatic conditions under the ambit of the U.N.” The previous version of this exercise was organised at the Mahajan Field Firing Ranges in Bikaner in February 2021. At the opening ceremony, Maj. Gen. Brian Eifler, Commander U.S. Army, Alaska, stressed the importance of free exchange of ideas, concepts and best practices and the necessity to learn from each others’ experiences. Cope India Other than the Malabar exercise, Japan had sent observers for the first time during Cope India 2018 as an Observer in 2018. As was reported by The Hindu then, the U.S. had proposed a trilateral air exercise with the three countries and so Japan was included as an Observer and the exercise elevated to trilateral level in phases. This leaves the bilateral Army exercise in which too the U.S. had suggested the inclusion of Japan a few years ago but was not accepted by India at that time. It could happen in the future, an official source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-us-militaries-match-skills-in-alaska/article37046965.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Police warn of attack on fishermen||The Tamil Nadu police have issued an alert on the possibility of an attack on fishermen crossing the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL) for fishing in Sri Lankan waters. Law-enforcing agencies along the coastal districts have been advised to sensitise the fishing community to the risks in the backdrop of simmering differences between fishermen from India and Sri Lanka over the catching of fish in the Katchatheevu area. According to police sources, fishermen with mechanised boats in Rameswaram were on a week-long protest, demanding that the Central and State governments permit fishermen from India and Sri Lanka to fish in the Katchatheevu sea area. They also demanded suitable compensation for boats that were seized by the Sri Lankan Navy. Katchatheevu, an uninhibited off-shore island in the Palk Strait, is administered by Sri Lanka. Though the island was jointly managed by India and Sri Lanka, allowing fishermen from both countries to dry their nets there, it was ceded to Sri Lanka in 1974. Since then, Katchatheevu has remained an issue, with some parties from Tamil Nadu demanding that the island be returned to benefit the fishermen from India. With the fishermen with mechanised boats set to enter the sea for fishing from October 16, security agencies have perceived the need to mount a vigil at sea. The Coastal Security Group of the Tamil Nadu police have issued an alert, stating that the possibility of an attack on Tamil Nadu fishermen by the Sri Lankan fishermen cannot be ruled out. Stating that it had received inputs on the crossing of the IMBL by Tamil Nadu fishermen, which was objected to by their counterparts in Jaffna and Mannar, the agency said Sri Lankan fishermen had planned to stage an agitation at sea on October 17 and 18, demanding the implementation of the Trawler (Mechanised Boat) Prevention Act. When contacted, Additional Director-General of Police, Coastal Security Group, Sandeep Mittal said the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard had been alerted to provide enhanced security in vulnerable areas. However, incidents of aggression by the Sri Lankan Navy against Indian fishermen had increased over the last eight months. “The Sri Lankan Navy needs to be sensitised against the use of aggressive force against Indian fishermen,” Dr. Mittal said. AIADMK’s plea In a related development, the AIADMK has called for the Union government’s intervention to ensure the release of 23 fishermen arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy on October 13. AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam, in a letter, drew the attention of the Prime Minister to the arrest of the fishers at Point Pedro, where they had gone from Nagapattinam for fishing. The Sri Lankan Navy seized their boats and took the fishermen into custody. Mr. Panneerselvam said fishers were venturing into the sea with constant fear of attacks by the Sri Lankan Navy,.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-warn-of-attack-on-fishermen/article37047266.ece
18 October 2021||COLOMBO,||Protest demanding implementation of laws against bottom trawling||Dozens of fishermen  from the north of Sri Lanka on Sunday  set out on  boats from the coast of the eastern Mullaitivu district to Point Pedro in Jaffna in the north, demanding that the Sri Lankan authorities implement laws banning the destructive bottom trawling method of fishing. The protest comes in the wake of an increase in reported intrusions by Indian trawlers over the last few weeks into Sri Lanka’s territorial waters. On October 13, the Sri Lankan Navy arrested 23 Indian fishermen and seized two fishing vessels on charges of trespassing, resuming action months after limiting the arrests of foreign fishermen, fearing COVID-19. Northern Sri Lankan fishermen have been resisting Indian trawlers in their seas for over a decade. Bilateral talks and governmental mechanisms have not delivered a solution yet. India has been unable to prevent its fishermen from crossing the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL), and has not been successful in diverting them to deep-sea fishing practices elsewhere. Tensions have persisted, at times with a human cost like in January this year, when four fishermen from Tamil Nadu were found dead following an attack allegedly by the Sri Lankan Navy. The protest on Sunday was led by Tamil National Alliance (TNA) MPs M.A. Sumanthiran, S. Shritharan and Shanakiyan Rasamanickam, and former MP Shanthi Sriskantharajah, and sought to pressure Fisheries Minister and Jaffna MP Douglas Devananda to use Sri Lankan laws to initiate action against those engaged in illegal fishing. “We have joined the protest to demand that our fishermen’s livelihoods be protected, and the Fisheries Minister initiate appropriate legal action against fishermen using bottom trawling,” Mr. Sumanthiran told the media in Jaffna. Sri Lanka banned bottom trawling in 2017, and imposed hefty fines in 2018 to deter illegal fishing, which has been a recurring concern in the narrow Palk Strait, running between northern Sri Lanka and Tamil Nadu. The 2017 law, banning trawlers, was based on a Private Member’s Bill, tabled by Mr. Sumanthiran in 2015. The new law and stiff penalty saw a reduction in the number of Indian fishing vessels in Sri Lankan waters briefly. It brought some relief to thousands of northern Sri Lankan fishermen, whose post-war livelihoods were severely affected by the Indian trawlers ravaging their coastline. But the trawlers from India are back again in large numbers, according to the northern fishermen, some of whom wrote to the Indian Consulate in Jaffna recently, seeking compensation. While Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu are repeatedly caught trespassing, the TNA has avoided a frontal challenge to Tamil Nadu on the issue due to the solidarity extended by the State to Sri Lankan Tamils during the civil war years and after. The TNA rarely challenges India, seeing the country as an ally and arbiter in its call for a long-pending political solution from the Sri Lankan government. Fragmented polity The largest grouping of Tamil legistators — with 10 seats in the 225-member Parliament — from the north and the east, the TNA also faces criticism for ignoring its voters’ economic concerns. “As an alliance, they don’t show a shared understanding or clarity on our problem and how we ought to respond to it collectively and responsibly. Tamil politicians should not use our problem to settle scores between themselves. That will only dilute our struggle,” said Annalingam Annarasa from the Federation of Jaffna District Fishermen’s Cooperative Society Unions. “We are neither supporting today’s protest, nor opposing it,” he said. For the northern fishing community, it is hard to turn away rare support coming their way. It is also difficult to antagonise the politically influential Fisheries Minister, a local MP, whose intervention they will need in resolving their crisis, fishermen observed.  India has been unable to prevent its fishermen from crossing the International Maritime Boundary Line and has not been successful in diverting them to deep-sea fishing elsewhere||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/implement-laws-against-bottom-trawling-say-sri-lankan-fishers/article37047273.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Two more migrant workers killed in J&K||“There are no words strong enough to condemn the repeated barbaric attacks on innocent civilians. My heart goes out to their families because they leave the comforts of their homes to earn a dignified livelihood. Terribly sad,” PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. BJP State spokesman Altaf Thakur said the killings were “nothing but pure genocide”. “The gruesome murder of non-locals is nothing but inhuman and shows the frustration of militants,” he said. CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami said killing innocent labourers who came to earn their livelihood was a heinous crime. “This is aimed at targeting the interests of people of Kashmir, and this is happening at a time when the harvesting season is at its peak,” he said. Mr. Tarigami said mere condemnation was not enough, and it was time for all to come forward and unitedly speak against the criminals who were committing such heinous crimes. “We appeal to civil society, political parties irrespective of their political agenda to raise their voice against such barbaric acts,” he said. ‘We’ll hunt them down’ Amid the civilian killings, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday vowed to avenge every drop of their blood by hunting down terrorists and their sympathisers. Mr. Sinha said attempts were being made to disrupt the peace and socio-economic progress of Jammu and Kashmir and the individual growth of people, and reiterated the commitment to the fast-paced development of the Union Territory. “I pay my heartfelt tributes to the martyr civilians and condolences to the bereaved families. We’ll hunt down terrorists, their sympathisers and avenge every drop of innocent civilians’ blood,” he said in his monthly radio programmeAwaam ki Awaaz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-more-migrant-workers-killed-in-jk/article37046966.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||UAVs boost Army watch in eastern sector||“Army Aviation got control of the UAVs in August this year from Artillery. There are certain advantages of UAVs or remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) being with Army Aviation,” an officer said. The Army Aviation Brigade at Missamari was raised in March this year to enable better command and control of aviation resources, the officer said, adding that in the future battlefield, manned and unmanned aircraft teaming will reap huge dividends. The Brigade operates the Cheetah and Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) Dhruv utility helicopters, Rudra weaponsied ALH and Heron-I UAVs. Three RPA flights are working under the Army Aviation squadrons which consists of around 14 UAVs, according to the officer. With the UAVs being under the Army Aviation, the receipt capability has become seamless and more responsive, officials said. All aerial assets are under one umbrella which allows optimised employment of RPAs during operations in conjunction with other aviation assets. “It also helps in upgradation of flight safety management and practices and also boosts training infrastructure for RPA aircrew,” the first officer cited above said. “It also ensures better maintenance and serviceability by optimising the supply chain and spares management,” the officer said and added, “It smoothens out the command and control process especially during operations.” Talking to a group of visiting journalists on the new inductions, Lt. Col. Amit Dadwal posted at the base said it has given them round the clock capability for surveillance as well as operations. He said the ALH has become the backbone of the main operations of the Army as of now. “With the ALH we have been doing night casualty evacuation,” he added. The Army has 90 ALH and 75 Rudra helicopters in service, which are indigenously designed and developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). The Army Aviation is also very soon slated to induct a surveillance downlink system, anti-aircraft missiles, countermeasures against missile systems, new generation surveillance pods among others which will enhance the existing role to manifold. In the last few years, the Army and Air Force have significantly upgraded their defences in the eastern sector, including induction of new equipment, as part of efforts to match China’s build up and infrastructure development on its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The Israeli Heron-I UAVs are in the process of being upgraded and officials said they will also be deployed in this sector in due course. In addition, the Army has recently leased four Heron-TP Medium Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) from Israel Aircraft Industries which are much more capable than the Heron-1s. These are expected to be deployed in eastern Ladakh. During the standoff in eastern Ladakh, the Army Aviation had seen a quantum jump in the employment of helicopters along the northern borders. However, a major issue of concern is the ageing fleet of Cheetah and Chetak helicopters and their delayed replacement. The technical life of these helicopters will wind down from 2023, which will further exacerbate the deficiencies. The Ka-226T utility helicopter deal with Russia along with the indigenous Light Utility Helicopter (LUH) are meant to replace them but the Ka-226T deal has been stalled for several years over the percentage of indigenisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uavs-boost-army-watch-in-eastern-sector/article37046968.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Kottayam, Idukki worst hit; Kerala rain toll at 27||The State would provide Rs. 4 lakh each in financial assistance to the kin of landslip victims in Plapally and Kavali areas of Koottickal panchayat, Revenue Minister K. Rajan said. Five more teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) would be deployed in Idukki, Kottayam, Kannur, Palakkad and Kollam districts, the CM said. At present, the NDRF has teams deployed in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram districts. Till Sunday, 156 relief camps had been opened in the State, the government said. Across the State, 1,253 families (4,713 persons) have been evacuated to various camps since October 11. This includes 321 families in Kottayam district and 219 families in Idukki. The Kerala State Electricity Board, which reviewed reservoir storage on Sunday, said water is being discharged only from the smaller dams at present. The rain havoc on Saturday affected 4.18 lakh electricity connections across the State. The power utility has pegged the overall losses from damage caused to power infrastructure at Rs. 13.67 cr.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kottayam-idukki-worst-hit-kerala-rain-toll-at-27/article37046973.ece
18 October 2021||New Delhi,||Priyanka will be face of Cong. in U.P., says Punia||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will be the face of the Congress’s election campaign in Uttar Pradesh, the party’s newly appointed campaign committee chief, P.L. Punia, said on Sunday, asserting that the All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary is the most popular political figure in the State at present. Mr. Punia, who on Friday was named as the head of the key 20-member election campaign committee of the Congress for the U.P. election next year, noted that very rarely had the Congress announced a chief ministerial face. He said not having declared one till now would not hamper the party’s chances as it already had a personality like Ms. Vadra to lead the charge against the BJP. It was a direct contest between the Congress and the BJP in the U.P. election as both the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) had “fallen behind” and were “not in the fight anymore”, Mr. Punia said. Mr. Punia said Ms. Vadra had fought for the truth on all issues and when the Lakhimpur Kheri incident happened, she immediately left to meet the family of the victims and was detained in Sitapur, but remained determined in her quest for justice. He said she was “successful” in her struggle and went to Lakhimpur Kheri and Bahraich to met the families of the victims. Mr. Punia said earlier also, be it Sonbhadra, Unnao or Hathras incidents, Ms. Vadra had fought for justice. “So, the people are impressed by her and currently in the entire State, no politician is more popular than Priyanka. As far as around whom the campaign will be centred, we are fortunate that Priyanka is available for [campaigning] all the time,” he said. There were demands from other States for Ms. Vadra to campaign and hold meetings, but in U.P. she was available 24X7, Mr. Punia said. “The election campaign will be revolve around her,” he said. Mr. Punia also said the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and justice for farmers would be important issues in the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-will-be-face-of-cong-in-up-says-punia/article37046984.ece
18 October 2021||New Delhi,||Circular on non-local labourers fake, says IG||Amid a spate of killings of non-local workers in the Kashmir Valley, the Jammu and Kashmir police issued a directive to all police stations to bring all “non-local labourers” to the nearest police station, or Army or Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) camps. Vijay Kumar, Inspector General (IG), (Kashmir division), however, told The Hindu that the order was “fake.” There was no clarity if a First Information Report (FIR) was being lodged to trace the persons who allegedly circulated the “fake” order. As a copy of the order circulated on social media triggered panic, it being the tourist season, the police distanced themselves from the missive that was sent to all district police stations and offices of the Deputy Inspector General in the Kashmir division. Explaining the rationale behind the unprecedented order, a senior government official said, “In the wake of serial killings, it is better to provide them security. For the time being, if they feel secure living in a security camp, they can do so.” The series of attacks on civilians come days before Home Minister Amit Shah is to make his maiden visit to Srinagar and Jammu after Article 370 that gave special status to the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir was read down by Parliament in August 2019. The State was bifurcated into two Union Territories — Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Officials of several Central agencies were rushed to the Valley after three civilians — a Kashmiri Pandit pharmacist, a street vendor from Bihar and a taxi operator from Bandipora — were killed in targetted attacks on October 5. The Resistance Front (TRF), which the police believe is a front for the Pakistan-based Laskhar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Islamic State in Jammu and Kashmir, claimed responsibility for the killings. On Saturday, Mr. Kumar said, “13 terrorists have been eliminated in nine anti-terrorist operations including three out of five terrorists of Srinagar city who were killed within less than 24 hours.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/order-on-non-local-workers-fake-ig/article37046970.ece
18 October 2021||New Delhi,||Notice to Centre, CRPF over officers’ allowances||The Delhi High Court has issued notice to the Centre and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) on a petition filed by over 40 Assistant Commandants seeking payment of their transfer travelling allowance (TFR/TA) along with other consequential benefits, such as joining time pay. A Bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Navin Chawla of the Delhi High Court has directed the Centre and the CRPF, India’s largest Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), to respond to the petition within four weeks. The petition sought directions to pay TFR/TA as per the statutory rule on transfer of petitioners, who are officers of the rank of Assistant Commandants, from CRPF academy to their battalions after completion of their basic training as per Central Civil Services Rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/notice-to-centre-crpf-over-officers-allowances/article37047165.ece
18 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Unorganised workers’ portal sees good traffic||Over four crore unorganised sector workers had been registered on the e-Shram portal in under two months of its launch, Labour and Employment Minister Bhupender Yadav said on October 17. Marking the milestone, the Minister said in a tweet that once registered on the portal, the unorganised workers would be able to access the benefits of various welfare schemes easily. The portal was launched on August 26 with the aim of creating a national database of unorganised workers. As on October 17 morning, the portal ( eshram.gov.in ), showed 4.15 crore registrations. In a statement, the Ministry said,50.02% of the registered workers were women and the remaining 49.98% were men. Forty-three per cent of the registered workers were from the OBC communities, 27% from the general category, 23% from Scheduled Castes and 7% from Scheduled Tribes, the statement said. Agriculture sector “As per the latest data, the States of Odisha, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh are at the forefront of this initiative with the highest number of registrations,” the Ministry said. “The largest number of workers registered are from agriculture and construction, given the sheer volume of these two sectors in employment generation,” it added. Domestic, apparel sector, automobile, education, healthcare, tourism and hospitality and food industry workers were among those who had registered. “Around 65.68% of these registered workers are in the age group of 16-40 years and 34.32% are in the age group of 40 years and above,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/e-shram-portal-witnesses-good-traffic/article37047129.ece
18 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Raijor Dal hopes to add to Assembly seat tally||More than a fortnight after a pre-poll alliance with the Congress failed to materialise, the Raijor Dal has exuded confidence about adding to its Assam Assembly seat tally. The party has its president and former activist, Akhil Gogoi, as the lone representative in the 126-member House. Mr. Gogoi had in September asked the State unit of the Congress to support its candidates for two of the five Assembly seats — Mariani and Thowra in eastern Assam — where byelections are scheduled for October 30. The deal did not work out as the Congress offered one seat each to the Raijor Dal and the Assam Jatiya Parishad. The latter’s candidate is expected to contest the Majuli Assembly seat, vacated by Shipping and Ayush Minister Sarbananda Sonowal when the byelection is announced later. The Raijor Dal has fielded Sanjib Gogoi for the Mariani seat and Dhaijya Konwar for the Thowra seat. Both are contesting as Independents. The front runners in these two seats are believed to be BJP candidates Rupjyoti Kurmi (Mariani) and Sushanta Borgohain (Thowra), both former MLAs who defected from the Congress recently. “We are confident of winning both the seats,” Mr. Gogoi said while campaigning for his party candidates. BJP leader and Water Resources Minister Pijush Hazarika said the people of Sibsagar Assembly constituency had started regretting their decision to elect Mr. Gogoi, and this was likely to reflect on Mariani and Thowra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raijor-dal-hopes-to-add-to-assembly-seat-tally/article37047113.ece
18 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi CM lays foundation stone of new hospital||To improve the health infrastructure in the city and prepare for the possibility of further waves of COVID-19, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday laid the foundation stone of a new hospital with a capacity of 1,430 beds at Shalimar Bagh. Being constructed at a cost of Rs. 275 crore, the hospital would be ready in six months, he said. He announced the government’s plan to build seven new hospitals with a total capacity of 6,800 beds in the next six months. “The Delhi government is taking all necessary steps in view of the possible third wave of COVID-19. We are going to make such a system under which every citizen of Delhi will have their own health card. Earlier, it used to cost Rs. 1 crore to make a normal bed, but our government is spending only Rs. 20 lakh on an ICU bed,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “All the 1,430 beds at the hospital will have ICU facilities. If you want to use it as a normal bed, then you can and if you want to use it as an ICU bed, then the complete infrastructure of ICU will be available on all 1,430 beds,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Speaking about the Health Information Management System (HIMS), the Chief Minister said within the next one-and-a-half years, every citizen of Delhi will have his own health card. He further said that HIMS will eliminate queues at hospitals and people will be able to make an appointment with the doctor via a computer or an app and receive free treatment.  Earlier, it used to cost Rs. 1 crore to make a normal bed, but our government is spending only Rs. 20 lakh on an ICU bed Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-cm-lays-foundation-stone-of-new-hospital/article37047330.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Greatness of Sri Rudram||Most of us are devoted to God and engage in worship, prayer, dhyana, etc, as part of propitiating Him. But when each one asks himself the true purpose for propitiating God, the answer is best known to him and to God, of course. Generally people being bound to this world, often tend to seek worldly goals from the Lord. These are, of course, necessary to cross this world of samsara. But the Lord is so compassionate towards the ignorant devotee who is sadly missing out on the chance of seeking salvation from Him, pointed out Sri. B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. It is by His grace that the desire for salvation can take root in the devotee. There is a very astonishing section of the Vedas, Sri Rudram, that teaches man what to seek from God and also ask for forgiveness of sins. It is a powerful mantra in the Taittiriya Samhita that is in the Krishna Yajur Veda. Sri Rudram is the fifth Prasna placed carefully in the central and fourth kanda. Namakam and Chamakam are the fifth and seventh chapters in this section and herein the Vedas pay homage to Siva, the supreme deity in Saivism and extol His omnipresence, omnipotence and omniscience. The Namakam enumerates the various epithets and names of Rudra. The Chamakam asks for fulfilment of wishes that encompass all the requirements of all beings in all walks of life. In this list is also included Moksha or salvation which is subtly shown to be the ultimate requirement over all else which are ephemeral. Appayya Dikshitar in his Siva Ashtottara praises the Lord as “Apavarga Pradayakaya Namaha.” This means one who is capable of granting the highest Purushartha Moksha. The Lord is so magnanimous that He is satisfied with even the offer of the simple Tumbha flower and in return grants moksha to one who sincerely wishes it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/greatness-of-sri-rudram/article37047116.ece
18 October 2021||New Delhi,||It is sabka vinash, not vikas: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took a dig at the Union Government over the rising prices of petrol and diesel by tweaking a popular slogan used by the Narendra Modi Government. Posting a news report that claimed that the price of petrol would have been Rs. 66 a litre and diesel Rs. 55, Mr. Gandhi tweaked the “ Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas ” slogan. “ Sabka vinash, Mehengaai ka vikas [destruction for all, development of rising prices],” Mr. Gandhi tweeted. “With daily hikes, the Government has made the diesel prices cross Rs. 100. Under the BJP rule, workers and farmers are reeling under the burden of rising prices, while only Modi’s friends are getting richer,” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-is-sabka-vinash-not-vikas-rahul/article37046967.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article37046975.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Work in progress||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/work-in-progress/article37047112.ece
18 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Yuvraj Singh arrested, let out on bail||Cricketer Yuvraj Singh was arrested by the Haryana police on Saturday in a case pertaining to offensive remarks against the Scheduled Castes on a social media platform. He was later released on interim bail. Confirming the arrest, Nitika Gahlaut, Hansi Superintendent of Police, said the cricketer was arrested and released on court orders. An FIR was registered against Mr. Singh on February 14 for allegedly making offensive remarks against the Scheduled Castes on a social media platform during a live video chat with fellow cricket players. The case was registered under Section 3 of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and others on the complaint of Rajat Kansal, a Dalit rights activist. Mr. Kansal had then told The Hindu that Mr. Singh had made unsavoury comments against the Scheduled Castes when talking about fellow cricketer Yuzvendra Chahal in June 2020. He said the video went viral on the social media platforms, and crores of people watched it. Mr. Singh had expressed regret for the comments, and apologised for unintentionally hurting public sentiments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yuvraj-singh-arrested-let-out-on-bail/article37047163.ece
18 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Northeast sweats in October heat||Summer appears to have “encroached” upon autumn’s space, resulting in one of the hottest Octobers across the northeast in the past 50 years. But the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a few spells of rain or thundershowers in the next few days to tame the mercury. Guwahati recorded an average of 37.07°C over three days till October 16, when most cities in the northeast registered temperatures 4-5 degrees higher than usual. Itanagar the hottest Arunachal Pradesh capital Itanagar was the hottest on October 16 at 37.8°C followed by Tripura capital Agartala at 34.8°C, Mizoram capital Aizawl at 29.2°C, Manipur capital Imphal at 28.8°C, Nagaland capital Kohima at 26.5°C, and Meghalaya capital Shillong at 26.2°C. “The rise in temperature is due to a low-pressure system in the Bay of Bengal. There is less moisture because of the low pressure, resulting in this dry weather,” said Sunit Das, a meteorologist at the IMD’s Regional Meteorological Centre. “But the temperature is set to go down with rain or thundershower likely in the next three or four days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/northeast-sweats-in-october-heat/article37047121.ece
18 October 2021||United Nations/Geneva,||WHO group to consider emergency use listing of Covaxin||The World Health Organization’s technical advisory group will meet on October 26 to consider the Emergency Use Listing (EUL) of Covaxin, a vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech protecting against COVID-19, the health agency’s chief scientist said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-group-to-consider-emergency-use-listing-of-covaxin/article37047164.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. identifies 1,364 vending zones; list to be finalised this month||After a delay of almost five years, the Greater Chennai Corporation has resumed work on identification of vending zones and non-vending zones in the 15 zones of the city. As the list is set to be finalised this month, residents are keeping their fingers crossed, worried about the possibility of new vending zones being designated in their neighbourhoods. The civic body has held a series of meetings in the past few weeks to finalise the list of vending zones this week. An interim list of vending zones and non-vending zones, approved by the zonal vending committees, was sent to the Revenue Department of the Corporation recently. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the committee in the 15 zones had identified 1,364 vending zones. The list is likely to be modified based on representation from residents’ association in such localities. T. Nagar resident V.S. Jayaraman said the demarcation of the area for street vendors should be made after consultation with the residents’ association. “We are affected by unauthorised vending in our residential area. We request the Corporation officials to get the opinion of residents before making a decision on vending zones,” he said. Potential civic issues Many residents have pointed to the civic issues caused by street vendors, who block the footpaths, reduce the carriageway, pollute drains, cause traffic congestion and dump garbage on the streets. They have complained about the encroachment of footpaths by vendors in their localities. Residents’ association members have stressed the need to properly study pedestrian movement, vehicular traffic and road width before finalising the list of vending zones. A specific plan, suitable for the local conditions of each neighbourhood, has to be formulated in the city, they said. The Corporation has also identified 2,889 non-vending zones so far. All street vendors will be shifted from these zones shortly. ‘Fine-tuning needed’ Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Vishu Mahajan said: “The first list of vending and non-vending zones needs some fine-tuning. This is because zones that have a large number of street vendors, particularly in Adyar zone, also have many non-vending zones.” “We want to take another look as there are multiple police jurisdictions overlapping with a particular division. So, there are some coordination issues as multiple agencies have to give inputs regarding the vending and non-vending zones. In some zones, another round of meetings have to be conducted and by the end of this month, we will be finalising the vending and non-vending zones. After that, we will be starting the process of issuing vending certificates as per the Act,” he said. Adyar zone has identified the largest number of streets where vending is expected to be permitted. At least 398 vending zones and 2,484 non-vending zones have been identified as per the interim list. Changes are likely to be made based on the inputs of residents’ associations in such zones. The 15-member committee is being headed by the Executive Engineer of the zone with members including residents, traders, non-governmental organisations and the police. “The executive engineer, who heads the committee in each zone, will receive representation from the residents regarding vending and non-vending zones,” Mr. Mahajan said. The town vending committee is a joint panel, and the police are part of it. The tentative details submitted for 12 zones so far are ones where the police have given no objection certificates (NoCs). In Kodambakkam, Valasaravakkam and Adyar, another meeting has been proposed with the police to finalise the vending zones. The traffic police have reportedly not given an NoC in many stretches. The Corporation is yet to make a decision on overruling the police in finalising such vending and non-vending zones. In continuation of the orders of the High Court, instructions were issued to zonal officers to identify vending and non-vending zones as per the Street Vendors Central Act 7 of 2014 and the Tamil Nadu Street Vendors Schemes and Rules, 2015. More than 27,000 street vendors were identified four years ago. But the final list of vending zones was not released. Most of the vendors identified in the city were those selling clothing, vegetables, fruits and cooked food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-identifies-1364-vending-zones-list-to-be-finalised-this-month/article37047286.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversions planned in Purasawalkam for Metro work||Traffic diversions have been put in place in order to facilitate work on Metro’s phase 2 project on Purasawalkam High Road. The traffic changes will come into force from Tuesday, and will be in effect for nine months. As per the new arrangements, traffic on Puraswalkam High Road from Millers Road to Kellys junctions is now one way. Vehicles on Millers Road coming from Dr. Alagappa Road and Ponniamman Koil junction will not be allowed to take a left turn at Ranganathan Avenue junction. Instead, these vehicles will proceed straight on Millers Road, and reach their destination by taking a left turn on Purasawalkam High Road and onto Kellys junction. Motorcycles and light motor vehicles on Medavakkam Tank Road, coming from Ayanavaram, should take a compulsory right turn at Kellys junction and reach their destination via Kellys Road, Ranganathan Avenue and Millers Road. MTC buses and heavy vehicles should take a compulsory right turn at Kellys junction and reach their destination via Balfour Road, a left turn, Ormes Road, a left turn, and Millers Road. MTC buses and heavy vehicles on Harleys Road would not be allowed to take a left turn at the Balfour Road junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diversions-planned-in-purasawalkam-for-metro-work/article37047280.ece
18 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Huge crowds throng T. Nagar||With just over two weeks left until Deepavali, a large number of shoppers thronged the commercial hub of the city — T. Nagar and Pondy Bazaar — on Sunday. Most of them threw caution to the wind as COVID-19 norms on masks and distancing went for a toss. Traffic was thrown out of gear on Usman Road, Pondy Bazaar and adjoining areas since morning. Given the long holiday for the festival, many people gathered here to purchase clothes and other goods. “We have a separate scheme for festival bandobust, and adequate police personnel have been deployed to monitor the shopping areas. We have separate teams for imposing fines on those not wearing masks. In T. Nagar alone, we have 17 zonal enforcement teams for enforcing mask wearing. The Sunday crowd was due to the long holiday,” a senior police officer said. The police have a list of criminals involved in snatching mobile phones/chains, and have been monitoring the movement of shoppers. They have been provided with an advanced facial recognition application to expedite the process of checking criminal antecedents. Plainclothes personnel will be deployed and watchtowers erected shortly. Similarly, many thronged the Marina on Sunday despite the authorities banning entry into the beach. The police intensified their vigil and surveillance. Even so, a few people gave them the slip and entered the seawater area. The police chased away those trying to take a bath there. “Entry to the beach is prohibited on Sundays. Using a public address system, we are constantly advising the people not to venture into the sea,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/huge-crowds-throng-t-nagar/article37047296.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two new varieties of cassava introduced||The ICAR-Central Tuber Crop Research Institute, Thiruvananthapuram, has introduced two new disease-resistant and high-yielding varieties of cassava ( Maravalli Kizhangu ) in three villages of Tamil Nadu. In Kolli Hills in Namakkal district, the institution has distributed the Sree Reksha sticks meant for planting since August-September is the season for planting in the hilly areas. These are more resistant to the yellow mosaic disease that leads to curling up of leaves and reduces the yield by about 20% to 80%. “Farms in Kolli Hills seem to have a higher incidence of this disease, which is why this variety is being introduced there. The idea is to provide the planting material to a few farmers this year and then distribute it to more farmers next year from this crop,” said R. Muthuraj, principal scientist, seed technology, division of Crop Production at the Institute. A team of scientists from ICAR-CTCRI, Thiruvananthapuram, including Mr. Muthuraj, K.M. Senthilkumar, scientist, biotechnology, division of Crop Improvement and P. Prakash, scientist, agricultural economics, extension, and social sciences, visited the villages and introduced the crop and their features to farmers. Sree Athulya, which is a high yield variety, was distributed to farmers in Gudamalai in Salem district and Gandarvakottai in Pudukottai district. “This variety gives a yield of 15-18 tonnes of cassava. The Thailand and the Muluvadi varieties of crop that are commonly used by farmers, give only around 10 to 12 tonnes an acre,” he added. Farmers in Salem had done their planting in February and their crop would be ready for harvest in November-December. All these farmers were provided inputs, including fertilizers without any cost, under the Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCSP) programme. “Cassava harvested in Salem is used to produce javvarisi or saabudhana, which is then sent to north India. In Kerala, it is consumed as kappa along with fish,” he added. The objective of the programme is to transform farmers into seed entrepreneurs to overcome the acute shortage of quality planting material for improved varieties of cassava. Cassava has been globally recognised as a potential candidate for climate resilient crop due to its ability to grow under low management conditions with economical yield. Cassava has been identified as part of the Centre’s “One District One Product” initiative for Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-new-varieties-of-cassava-introduced/article37047631.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Of HR&CE Act and appointment of non-Hindus||Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani has objected to the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department calling for applications only from Hindus for the posts of teachers and other staff at the Arulmigu Kapaleeswarar Arts and Science College in Kolathur, which was launched by the Department. He argued this was against the Constitution, adding that the ‘Hindus only’ stipulation should be nipped in the bud. Should the posts of teachers in colleges run by the HR&CE Department be open only to Hindus? Yes, said officials of the Department. They pointed to Section 10 of the HR&CE Act, which says the Commissioner and other officers or servants appointed to carry out the purposes of this Act shall be persons “professing the Hindu religion”. “This means whoever is appointed for fulfilling the purpose of the Act has to be a Hindu,” a senior official said. Moreover, every person appointed or deemed to have been appointed under the HR&CE Act shall sign a pledge that he or she is a Hindu by birth and professes the religion. When asked what could prevent the Department from employing people from other religious groups as teachers and other staff, since the positions did not involve religious activities, the official said that while there was no restriction on these schools and colleges in imparting general education, the Act was clearly in favour of the Hindu community when it came to appointments. He said a combined reading of Section 66(1)(g), Section 10 and Section 6(5) made it clear that for an educational establishment set up by a religious institution as a ‘charitable endowment’ for the benefit of members of the Hindu community, the same being for the fulfilment of the purpose of the HR&CE Act, such servants and officers have to be Hindus. As per Section 66(1)(g), the funds from the endowment can be appropriated for the purpose of establishment and maintenance of educational institutions where the instruction of the Hindu religion is also provided. Section 6(5) defines charitable endowments as “all property given or endowed for the benefit of, or use of the right by, the Hindu, for support or maintenance of objects of utility to the community members”. It includes rest houses, choultries, pathshalas, schools and colleges, homes for feeding the poor and institutions for the advancement of education, medical relief and public health. Justice K. Chandru, former Judge of the Madras High Court, said the government could use the exemption under Article 16(5) of the Constitution because the appointment of teachers and other staff in the college was not connected to religious activities. In 2011, he struck down “blatant discrimination adopted by the Department of Archaeology” against the appointment of K.P.A. Nallamohamed to the post of curator on the ground that he was a Muslim. “It is not as if the post of an Epigraphist or an Archaeologist must work inside a Hindu temple. In a country like India, where there had been civilization even before the advent of all religions, the work of Epigraphists or Archaeologists cannot be confined to persons professing the Hindu religion alone. Further, all the religions recognised by the Constitution also have similar heritage and antiquity,” he said in his order. When the Department invited applications from all for appointments in colleges in Palani and Melaiyur, why should it resort to “only Hindus” for the current appointments, he asked. “Religious reservation should be followed for posts directly connected to temple administration and religious practice, and not for posts unconnected to temple activities.”  Teacher posts in colleges run by the Dept. should be open only to Hindus HR&CE officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/of-hrce-act-and-appointment-of-non-hindus/article37047303.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR&CE Act and appointment of non-Hindus||DK president K. Veeramani has objected to the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department calling for applications only from Hindus for the posts of teachers and other staff for the four colleges launched by the department. He has argued that it is against the Constitution. Should the posts of teachers in colleges run by the HR&CE Department open only to Hindus? Yes, say, officials. They point to Section 10 of the HR&CE Act, which says the Commissioner and other officers or servants appointed to carry out the purposes of this Act shall be persons “professing the Hindu Religion”. Every person appointed or deemed to be appointed under the HR&CE Act shall sign a pledge that he or she is a Hindu by birth and professes Hindu religion. When asked what could prevent the department from employing a person from other religious groups as teachers and other staff, as it did not involve religious activities, a senior official said while there was no restriction for these schools and colleges to impart general education, the Act was clearly in favour of Hindus when it comes to appointments. As per Sec. 66(1)(g), the funds from the endowment can be appropriated for the purpose of establishment and maintenance of educational institutions where instruction of Hindu Religion is also provided. In such schools and colleges, instruction with respect to Hindu Religion can also be provided. Section 6(5) defines “Charitable Endowments” as all property given or endowed for the benefit of, or uses as of right by, the Hindu, for support or maintenance of objects of utility to the community members. It includes rest-houses, choultries, patasalas, schools and colleges, houses for feeding the poor and institutions for the advancement of education, medical relief and public health, etc. Justice K. Chandru, former Judge of the Madras High Court, said the government could use the exemption under Article 16(5) of the Constitution because the appointment of teachers and other staff in the colleges is not connected with religious activities. In 2011, he had struck down “blatant discrimination adopted by the Department of Archaeology” against the appointment of K.P.A.Nallamohamed for the post of curator on the ground he was a Muslim. To drive home that point that Hindus should be appointed only for posts directly connected with religious activities, Mr. Chandru recalled his 2011 verdict against a Christian security company, FORCE 1 Guarding Services Pvt. Ltd, which had approached the court against termination of its contract for providing security to Tiruchendur Murugan temple. “Religious reservation should be followed for posts directly connected with temple administration and religious practice and not for posts unconnected with temple activities,” he added.  Reservation s must be followed for posts directly connected with administration and religious practice and not for posts unconnected with temple activities Justice K. Chandru Former Judge of Madras HC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hrce-act-and-appointment-of-non-hindus/article37047361.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh weather system to bring showers||Rainfall may take a dip in the State for two days, even as it lashed parts of districts in the south and along the Western Ghats on Sunday. A fresh weather system may influence an increase in rain, particularly over the southern parts, from Wednesday. Officials of the Meteorological Department said thunderstorms with moderate rain were likely in one or two places over a few districts, including Namakkal and Villupuram, on Monday. Coastal areas and south Tamil Nadu too may experience isolated light rain. A fresh spell of easterly wave is likely to have an impact on the State for three or four days from Wednesday, said officials. N. Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, said a new weather system was likely to form over the Bay of Bengal, off the Comorin region, and this may bring rain of even heavy intensity. However, the possibility of very heavy rain would depend on the strengthening of the system, he said. The weather system off Kerala that faded into a trough brought extremely heavy rain along the Western Ghats and in the southern districts. During the last 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, Papanasam in Tirunelveli received a whopping 27 cm of rainfall and Pechiparai in Kanniyakumari received 22 cm of rain, he said. Rain continued on Sunday as well in places including Salem, Kodaikanal, Chennai, Kanniyakumari and Valparai, which received nearly 4 cm of rain till 5.30 p.m. on Sunday. On Wednesday, thunderstorms with heavy rain are likely to occur at one or two places over Pudukkottai, Tiruchi, Madurai and the delta districts. A few other places in the south may get moderate rain. Only light rain is likely over the northern parts of the State, said officials. However, Chennai has low chances of rain or thunderstorm till Tuesday, and the maximum temperature may be around 35 degrees Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-weather-system-to-bring-showers/article37047264.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 1,218 fresh infections and 15 fatalities||Fresh COVID-19 cases continued to decline in Tamil Nadu for the 24th consecutive day, with 1,218 people testing positive for the infection on Sunday. With this, the State’s tally touched 2,687,092. The State reported 15 more deaths, taking its toll to 35,899. As many as 1,411 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 2,636,379. Chennai logged the highest number of cases at 156, followed by Coimbatore with 132. Seven other districts — Erode (90), Chengalpattu (88), Tiruppur (73), Thanjavur (68), Salem (56), Tiruvallur (55), and Namakkal (51) — reported over 50 infections. Of the remaining 29 districts, seven logged cases in single digits. Tenkasi reported the lowest number of cases at just two. Twelve districts reported a marginal increase in cases compared with the previous day, while the remaining 26 recorded a marginal dip. Of the 15 deaths, Coimbatore reported four, while Chennai, Tiruchi, Tiruvarur and Vellore logged two each. Erode, Tiruppur and Tiruvannamalai reported one fatality each. All the deceased had co-morbidities. One of them was a 57-year-old, while the others were aged over 60. The oldest was an 82-year-old from Coimbatore, who was admitted to a private hospital on October 6 after testing positive. He died on Saturday. The number of RT-PCR tests done in the State also continued to decline for the fourth day in a row — 1,27,843 tests were performed and the test positivity rate stood at 0.95%. As many as 94,201 vaccine doses were administered on Sunday. Those vaccinated included 58,133 people in the 18-44 age group, 26,109 people aged 45 to 59 and 9,714 people aged 60 and above. The State has so far administered 5,07,61,433 doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-1218-fresh-cases-15-fatalities/article37047294.ece
18 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Excessive screen time delays development, says study||Too much exposure to television or mobile phone screens for children below the age of five could be detrimental to their development, a study by Chennai-based researchers has found. The study assessed the performance of the children and their understanding of commands from their mothers, and found that children who had been exposed to several hours of television or mobile phone screens exhibited an inability to comprehend what they were being told. Samya Varadarajan, the lead author of Prevalence of excessive screen time and its association with developmental delay in children aged <5 years: A population-based cross-sectional study in India, which was published recently in the journal PLOS One, said the study tried to understand the association between excessive screen time and developmental delay in children below five years of age. The study was done in 2019, but Dr. Varadarajan, an assistant professor of community medicine at Sri Ramachandra University, said it could be extrapolated to the current scenario, where children are forced to rely on online classes during the pandemic. As much as 70% of the 718 children aged six months to five years, who were studied, had been exposed to excessive screen time, the study found.  Most children had been introduced to screens as early as when they were six months of age, and a majority of the children had been exposed to television screens before they turned a year old. Excessive screen time (ST) results in a delay in development of expressive and receptive language. Children learn to express themselves by imitating their parents or caregivers. By the age of three, they start speaking a lot of words. But those exposed to too much ST are unable to do so. “We have taken eight parameters to understand the development of the child. We say there is a developmental delay when the child is unable to understand what the mother is saying. When the mother says ‘Come here and sit down’, she is issuing two commands. But the child manages to understand just one command. That is a developmental delay,” Dr. Varadarajan explained. The study found that children exposed to ST tried to imitate the slang they picked up from watching television. They used inappropriate words and were unable to understand simple commands. Though the study was done before the COVID-19 pandemic, she said the results would only be starker now. Schools could have online classes, but for children below the age of five, it should be more activity-based instead of having them watch the screen, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/excessive-screen-time-delays-development-says-study/article37047305.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP functionary held in Chennai for inflammatory tweets||The Cyber Crime Wing of the Central Crime Branch has arrested R. Kalyanaraman, 55, a BJP functionary, on charges of posting tweets, which allegedly promoted enmity, hatred and ill-will between classes. Kalyanaraman was arrested following a complaint by Gopinath, an advocate from Tondiarpet. The complainant alleged that Kalyanaraman, using his Twitter handle, had posted 18 tweets in two months. All his posts promoted enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion. He has been continuously doing this with the intention to incite violence or clashes between two groups, the police said. They added that after analysing the tweets, the allegation was found to be true, and a prima facie case was made out against the accused. Kalyanaraman was picked up from Virugambakkam and was later produced before a magistrate’s court for remand. Kalyanaraman is the former national secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Mazdoor Mahasangh and a BJP State working committee member. In February, he was arrested for his hate comments, made on January 30, against a particular community during a BJP rally. He was also arrested in 2016 for making a similar statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-cadre-held-for-inflammatory-tweets/article37047271.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Of HR&CE Act and appointment of non-Hindus||Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani has objected to the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department calling for applications only from Hindus for the posts of teachers and other staff for the four colleges launched by the department. He has argued that it is against the Constitution and the ‘Hindus only’ stipulation should be nipped in the bud. Should the posts of teachers in colleges run by the HR&CE Department open only to Hindus? Yes, say, officials of the department. They point to Section 10 of the HR&CE Act, which says the Commissioner and other officers or servants appointed to carry out the purposes of this Act shall be persons “professing the Hindu Religion”. “This means that whoever is appointed for fulfilling the purpose of the Act has to be a Hindu,” a senior official explains. Moreover, every person appointed or deemed to be appointed under the HR&CE Act shall sign a pledge that he or she is a Hindu by birth and professes Hindu religion. When asked what could prevent the department, a wing of the State government, from employing a person from other religious groups as teachers and other staff, as it did not involve religious activities, the official said while there was no restriction for these schools and colleges to impart general education, the Act was clearly in favour Hindu community members when it comes to appointments. He said a combined reading of the Section 66(1)(g), Section 10 and Section 6(5), an educational establishment set up by a religious institution as ‘charitable endowment’ for the benefit and use of right by Hindu community members, the same being for the fulfilment of the purpose of the HR&CE Act, such servants and officers have to be Hindus. As per Sec. 66(1)(g), the funds from the endowment can be appropriated for the purpose of establishment and maintenance of educational institutions where instruction of Hindu Religion is also provided. In such schools and colleges, instruction with respect to Hindu Religion can also be provided. Section 6(5) defines “Charitable Endowments” as all property given or endowed for the benefit of, or uses as of right by, the Hindu, for support or maintenance of objects of utility to the community members. It includes rest-houses, choultries, patasalas, schools and colleges, houses for feeding the poor and institutions for the advancement of education, medical relief and public health etc. Justice K. Chandru, former Judge of the Madras High Court, said the government could use the exemption under Article 16 (5) of the Constitution because the appointment of teachers and other staff in the colleges is not connected with religious activities. Blatant discrimination In 2011, he had struck down “blatant discrimination adopted by the Department of Archaeology” against the appointment of K.P.A.Nallamohamed, for the post of curator on the ground he was a Muslim. “It is not as if the post of an Epigraphist or an Archaeologist must work inside a Hindu temple. In a country like India where there has been civilization even before the advent of all religions, the work of Epigraphists or Archaeologists cannot be confined to persons professing Hindu religion alone. Further, all the religions recognised by the Constitution also have similar heritage and antiquity,” he had said in his order. When the department invited applications from all for appointments for colleges in Palani and Melaiyur, why should it resort to “only Hindus” in the present appointments, Mr, Chandru asked. To drive home that point that Hindus should be appointed only for posts directly connected with religious activities, Mr. Chandru recalled his 2011 verdict against a Christian security company, FORCE 1 Guarding Services Pvt. Ltd, which had approached the court against termination of its contract for providing security to the Tiruchendur Murugan temple. “Religious reservation should be followed for posts directly connected with temple administration and religious practice and not for posts unconnected with temple activities,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/of-hrce-act-and-appointment-of-non-hindus/article37047413.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DGP cycles to Tiruvallur for inspection||Director General of Police Sylendra Babu cycled to Tiruvallur from the city and inspected the Tiruvallur taluk police station and the all-women police station. He also interacted with personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services. During the inspection, he sought explanation from the police personnel on safety of arms, maintenance of records, lock room and pending cases. Later, Mr. Babu went to the police quarters located nearby and listened to the grievances of family members of personnel staying there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgp-cycles-to-tiruvallur-for-inspection/article37047287.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One lakh street vendors identified for assistance||Following the pandemic, the Greater Chennai Corporation has identified one lakh street vendors for assistance under various schemes. “As per the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM-SVANidhi) data, one lakh vendors have been identified for the the loan scheme in the 15 zones by the Greater Chennai Corporation,” said Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Vishu Mahajan. With respect to the PM-SVANidhi Scheme, the city is highest in the State and second across the country in terms of sanctions and disbursals. In the first phase, 27,195 vendors were identified and given identity cards. It is a five-year recurring cycle. Next phase of identifications will start next year. Of the 1.04 lakh applications uploaded under the scheme, banks have sanctioned only 40,000 applications. More than 32,000 street vendors have received loans under the scheme. Over 27,000 applications have been returned by the banks, and Corporation officials are trying to help such vendors get loan assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-lakh-street-vendors-identified-for-assistance/article37047291.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. under fire for buying a unit of power at five times the price||PMK founder S. Ramadoss said on Sunday that buying a unit of electricity for as high as Rs. 20 would destroy Tangedco, which is already reeling from severe financial stress. In a statement, he said buying one unit of electricity for five times the normal price when the gap between demand and supply is increasing day by day would be harmful. “Electricity generation from wind has decreased from 7 crore units last December to 2.3 crore units this year. Solar power production has decreased from 2 crore units to 1.2 crore units. In the coming days, wind and solar power production will come down further. In the last few days, around 2,850 MW has been bought, and on October 14, one unit was purchased for a minimum of Rs. 17.77 and a maximum of Rs. 20. Tangedco is paying the price for not predicting the demand,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said the Minister for Electricity had admitted that there would be a deficit of 2,500 MW, and had said efforts were being made to procure power at Rs. 2.61 a unit. “However, it is doubtful whether one unit of power can be bought for Rs. 2.61. Tangedco has Rs. 1.59 lakh crore in debts. It should try to reduce the debt burden and not increase it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-under-fire-for-buying-a-unit-of-power-at-five-times-the-price/article37047299.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SPCSS-TN demands withdawal of clause for staff appointments||The State Platform for Common School System TN (SPCSS-TN) has submitted a memorandum to the Commissioner of the HR&CE Department, seeking withdrawal of the condition that only Hindus can apply for a teaching and non-teaching position in Arulmigu Kapaleeswarar College of Arts and Science. The memorandum was submitted following an employment advertisement notification for walk-in interviews for the college, which is managed by the HR&CE department, which had a condition stating that “only Hindus can apply". In their memorandum, the SPCSS-TN said that they have learnt that the officers concerned have relied upon Section 10 of The Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (TNHR & CE Act). “Religious institutions defined by the TNHR & CE Act and educational institutions established by religious institutions are not one and the same. There is a clear distinction in purpose between the two entities. One is for the purpose of performing religious duty and the other is for the purpose of imparting education to the future leaders of this country who will be serving the entire society in various capacities,” their memorandum said. The SPCSS-TN further said that opportunities to serve in the educational institution established by the religious institution governed by the said Act cannot be confined to persons professing a particular faith alone. ‘A separate entity’ “An educational institution, even if it is established by the religious institution, is a separate entity and is governed by the laws and rules framed for establishing such educational institutions. In Chennai, the arts and science colleges are affiliated to the University of Madras and the Act that regulates the University and Rules framed there under and the guidelines prescribed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) prescribe the Rules that are to be followed both in recruitment of staff and admission of students,” the memorandum said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withdraw-clause-for-staff-appointments/article37047300.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth falls to death from 8th floor of apartment in Chembarambakkam||A 21-year-old accidentally fell to his death from the eighth floor of an 18-storey apartment in Poonamallee while climbing a pipeline to reach his room. Police identified the victim as Navin Kumar Arun, a native of Nellore, Andhra Pradesh. He was doing B.Tech in biomedical science at an engineering college in Thandalam, near Poonamallee, and stayed with his friends at the apartment in Chembarambakkam. The police said on Saturday night, the group was celebrating a friend’s birthday in a flat on the ninth floor. After midnight, Navin wanted to return to his room, and he tried climbing down the pipe to enter his room through the window. He fell and died on the spot. Police personnel sent the body for post-mortem examination. A case was registered, and Navin’s friends were interrogated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-falls-to-death-from-8th-floor-of-apartment-in-chembarambakkam/article37047276.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RT-PCR test: 8 miss flight||A technical glitch in the COVID-19 testing lab at the airport on Friday resulted in eight passengers missing their flight as they could not get their rapid RT-PCR results on time. Passengers who were going to Sharjah came to the airport and took rapid RT-PCR tests. But there was a snag in the server in Hindlabs, and eight passengers could not get their results on time and take their flight. While the issue was set right in an hour, it took nearly another hour to restore normalcy and clear the crowd. Officials of the Airports Authority of India said they had provided accommodation for the passengers, refunded their tickets and booked them on another flight. “We will ensure this does not occur again and already had a discussion with Hindlabs. We are also planning to add more counters,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8-miss-flight-due-to-delay-in-rt-pcr-test-results/article37047289.ece
18 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||3-year-old found dead near Sriperumbudur||A three-year-old girl was found dead in a lake near Sriperumbudur on Saturday. The police identified the victim as Prathiksha, the daughter of Sudhakar, owner of a stone crusher unit, of Umayal Paranancheri village, near Sriperumbudur. She had been missing since Saturday morning when she was playing on the street. Sighted near lake Following this, a few villagers informed her parents that Prathiksha was seen at the nearby lake. The Fire and Rescue Services and the police were informed. Fire and Rescue personnel came from Sriperumbudur and searched for the girl. Her body was retrieved on Sunday morning. Personnel from the Oragadam police station sent the body for post-mortem examination and registered a case. Investigation is on to identify the cause of death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-year-old-found-dead-near-sriperumbudur/article37047288.ece
18 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Raj Bhavan issues advisory on fake e-mail accounts||Raj Bhavan has issued an advisory on fake email accounts impersonating the Governor and cautioned the public not to believe them. In an official press release, it said, “Some miscreants creating fake email accounts impersonating Governor and sending emails with objectionable contents have been reported recently. A complaint has been lodged with police in this regard to investigate and locate the miscreants for their criminal prosecution and other appropriate legal action against them.” The official email of Raj Bhavan is govtam@nic.in (govtam[at]nic[dot]in) and the official Twitter account is @rajbhavan_tn. People have been informed not to trust any mails from any other other email or Twitter accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raj-bhavan-issues-advisory-on-fake-e-mail-accounts/article37047302.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shankar Jiwal discharged||City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal was discharged from hospital on Sunday after three days of treatment for chest pain. Mr. Jiwal complained of chest pain on Thursday afternoon, and was immediately admitted to Apollo Hospitals, Greames Road. His condition was stable after treatment. On Sunday, he was discharged and was greeted by police officers. He will resume regular work soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shankar-jiwal-discharged/article37047277.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One held for murder of homeless man||Personnel from the Sembium police station have apprehended a 24-year-old mentally ill man from Tirupati for allegedly killing an elderly homeless person. Late on Friday, the police received information about a body near a public toilet on Kannabiran Koil Street. The body was retrieved and sent to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGH) for post-mortem examination. The police identified the deceased as Murthy, 65, a homeless person. After investigation, the police arrested D. Hemanth, of Tirupati, and found that he was mentally ill. He was being treated at a clinic in Andhra Pradesh since 2012, and was later shifted to a care centre for the mentally ill in Madanandapuram. He recently escaped and came to the city. The police said Hemanth hurled a stone at Murthy, which ended up killing him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-held-for-murder-of-homeless-man/article37047292.ece
18 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cameras placed for tiger estimation go missing||The Forest Department has launched a probe into the missing of cameras it had placed for tiger estimation in a reserve forest area near Anaikatti in Coimbatore district. District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar said that two cameras were reported missing and the Department was investigating. He denied a media report that said another camera captured footage of armed men moving in the forest. “We have not come across any footage of armed men moving in the forest areas of Coimbatore Forest Division. Two cameras went missing from Anaikatti region and it has been reported to authorities,” he said. He added that instructions were given to check visuals captured from cameras installed near the ones that were missing. Another Forest Department official said that the Naxal Special Division and the Special Task Force of the police were conducting patrols in forest areas bordering Kerala to prevent infiltration and activities of left wing extremists. “We have not received any information on the movement of armed men from them too,” said the official. An official from the ‘Q’ Branch said that there were no recent incidents of Maoist movements in forest areas bordering Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cameras-placed-for-tiger-estimation-go-missing/article37047313.ece
18 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minimal human presence for rewilding tiger cub||An eight-month-old tiger cub that was captured by the Forest Department from the Valparai region of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) last month will have minimal interaction with humans during the rewilding programme. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj told The Hindu on Sunday that just one or two staff of the Department would take care of the cub. A specially designed enclosure will be set up inside the Manambolly forest range of ATR in two to four weeks. Mr. Niraj, along with ATR Field Director S. Ramasubramanian and senior officials, visited the male tiger cub, which is currently kept in a cage near the Department’s rest house in Manambolly. He said the cub was active and was taking cut meat. “Food will be provided to the cub through an opening... The programme will continue till the animal learns to hunt prey,” he said.  “The enclosure will be 10,000 sq ft. The caretakers will not allow the cub to become friendly with them,” he said. The enclosure will have chain-link and solar fencing to protect the cub from other wild animals. “An artificial den and a trough will be built for the cub inside the enclosure. Infrared surveillance cameras will also be set up inside the enclosure to monitor its activities,” Mr. Ramasubramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minimal-human-presence-for-rewilding-tiger-cub/article37047267.ece
18 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CFC to organise Coimbatore marathon from Dec. 1 to 31||The Coimbatore Cancer Foundation (CCF) will organise the 9th edition of Coimbatore marathon virtually- ‘Rise and Run’- from December 1 to 31, according to a press release. Participants can choose between a three km/ 5 km run/walk, a 10 Miler [16.1 km), half marathon (21.1 km), a 20 Miler [32.2km] and a full marathon (42.2 km]. They also have a choice of date (any day in December).Participants can register for marathon on www.coimbatoremarath   on .com and  for details, write to:  info@coimbatoremarathon   .com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cfc-to-organise-coimbatore-marathon-from-dec-1-to-31/article37047306.ece
18 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Village panchayat secretary placed under suspension||A village panchayat secretary attached to Theethipalayam village in the district was placed under suspension recently for alleged financial misappropriation. Sources said Ms. Kavitha produced forged bills in the names of former conservancy workers from 2016 and allegedly misappropriated Rs. 19 lakh of the village panchayat’s funds. Sundari, Block Development Officer (BDO) of Thondamuthur, checked the accounts of the panchayat and found that funds to the tune of Rs. 19 lakh were appropriated. The BDO submitted a report to the District Collector based on which Kavitha was placed under suspension on October 13, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/village-panchayat-secretary-placed-under-suspension/article37047307.ece
18 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||4 deaths, 132 new COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||A total of 132 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday. While 151 persons recovered from the viral disease, the district had 1,552 active cases on Sunday. The toll increased to 2,382 after four more persons died of COVID-19. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 1.3 % on Saturday when it reported 136 new cases. 73 cases in Tiruppur Tiruppur district had 818 active cases of COVID-19, including the 73 persons who tested positive for the disease on Sunday. A total of 76 persons recovered on Sunday. The Health Department said that a 65-year-old man from Tiruppur died of the disease on Saturday and the toll increased to 968. Tiruppur district had a TPR of 1.4 % on Saturday. In the Nilgiris, 21 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 33,304. The toll stood at 207 on Sunday and 358 persons are under treatment. 90 cases in Erode A total of 90 new cases were reported in Erode on Sunday. Salem and Namakkal reported 56 and 51 cases respectively. Twenty-three cases each were reported in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-deaths-132-new-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article37047316.ece
18 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in accident||A 43-year-old man was killed and two others suffered minor injuries after the two-wheeler they were travelling in was hit by a courier van near Perumanallur on Sunday. The deceased was identified as D. Jeyasekaran, a resident of the Sri Lankan refugee camp at Perumanallur and the injured were Padmanaban (45) of Tirunelveli and Murugesan (38) of Perumanallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-in-accident/article37047319.ece
18 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man dies in accident||A man was killed and two others suffered minor injuries after the two-wheeler they were travelling in was hit by a courier van near Perumanallur on Sunday. The police said D. Jeyasekaran (43), a resident of the Sri Lankan refugee camp at Perumanallur, was killed in the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-in-accident/article37047430.ece
18 October 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore logs 20 cases||Cuddalore district recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Sunday. As many as 20 persons tested positive for the infection, taking the district’s tally to 63,813. The district saw 62,669 recoveries and 280 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 11 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases to 45,699. Kallakurichi district reported 15 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 31,217.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-logs-20-cases/article37047638.ece
18 October 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M): BJP behind Sasikala’s projected entry into AIADMK||BJP leaders were reportedly instigating V.K. Sasikala to enter AIADMK, said CPI (M) State general secretary K. Balakrishnan on Sunday. Speaking to reporters here, he said in many States the BJP was behind such acts. Ms. Sasikala’s entry into the AIADMK might lead to weakening of the party and intra-party rift might grow. The party functionaries might be busy fighting with one another, he said. Mr. Balakrishnan said the BJP’s objective was to create confusion in the minds of the AIADMK cadre. On the coal shortage, the Left party leader said the Union government, instead of concentrating on addressing such issues, was focused on indulging in behind-the-scene acts. The AIADMK regime claimed there was an adequate stock of coal, but it was not the case. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin should order a probe into the handling of coal during the previous AIADMK rule, he urged. The elected rural local body representatives should be given more responsibilities and powers by the State government. If they got adequate funds, the rural areas would get infrastructure, including potable water and quality roads. Temples should be only with the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department, he said in answer to a question on the row, and said the idea of the RSS to hand them over to Hindus was dangerous. In the past too, the courts had in several orders stated that temples should remain under the control of the government. Many valuables, including gold and silver, land and other immovables, were offered by devotees to the temples. They should only be with the government, he stressed. The CPI (M) conducted a day-long conference in Dindigul district where Mr. Balakrishnan addressed the cadre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-bjp-behind-sasikalas-projected-entry-into-aiadmk/article37047375.ece
18 October 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Even if Centre wishes, it cannot withdraw NEET, says Raja||Even if the Central government intended, NEET could not be scrapped, said BJP senior leader H. Raja on Sunday. Speaking to reporters here, he said NEET was given shape and introduced by the previous Congress regime, supported by the DMK that was part of the then Union Cabinet. For political gains, the DMK misled the people stating that it would ban or withdraw or ensure that it would get exemption from NEET for students of the State, he said. ‘Mandatory’ It was impossible. Even if the Centre decided, it could not scrap NEET as it had become mandatory after the apex court directive, Mr. Raja said and added that it would be better for the DMK to have NEET in Tamil Nadu. Like many other promises made during Assembly elections, the DMK had not given Rs. 1,000 to homemakers, he added. The BJP Dindigul district unit had been demanding the administration to close down a Tasmac outlet functioning on Mangarai Street as there were educational institutions and residential colonies in the vicinity. Though the RDO and other authorities assured to shift the Tasmac outlet after the villagers had passed a resolution to this effect at the gram sabha meeting on October 2, the officials had not shifted the liquor outlet. Hence, the BJP, led by its district president Dhanapal, resorted to a stir. The police arrested the protesters and detained them. Assuring the cadre that he would take up the issue with higher authorities, Mr. Raja said the Tasmac outlet would be moved shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neet-cannot-be-withdrawn/article37047376.ece
18 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||College student wins DRDO’s contest||A student of Bannari Amman Institute of Technology in Sathyamangalam has bagged the Defence Research and Development Organisation’s (DRDO’s) innovation contest ‘Dare to Dream 2.0’ at the national level. DRDO had launched the contest during the fifth death anniversary of former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam to promote individuals and start-ups for innovation in defence and aerospace technologies in the country after the call of Atmanirbhar Bharat given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Pravin of Bioprocess and Bioproducts Special Laboratory of the college submitted the project “Flame retardant Biobased epos resin composite under the problem domain of “Materials and Technologies for Fire Suppression/ Protection” in October 2020. Out of 65,000 individual participants, he has cleared three rounds and received a third prize of Rs. 3 lakh in individual category from Minister for Defence Rajnath Singh at a function held recently. The idea was also approved by jury members of the DRDO contest for proposal submission under Technology Development Funding (TDF) scheme for a funding of upto Rs. 10 crore. The student was guided by R. Ravi Kumar, M. Kirupa Sankar and A. Vimalarasan, faculty in-charges at the lab. Explaining about the project, Mr. Pravin said that over 1.13 lakh deaths happen due to fire accidents in the country every year of which 284 deaths happened due to aircraft crashes in the country. After analysing the reasons for various fire and aircraft accidents, it was found that enhancing the fire retardant of composite can reduce the severity of accidents. Commercially available composite contains petroleum based products that have the capability to catch fire when exposed to high temperature and it is not eco-friendly. So we are in need of flame retardant composite by using natural and renewable resources. For the flame retardant property, he has used nanoparticles obtained from natural resources and incorporated those flame retardant nanoparticles onto our natural fibre composite thus making our whole product as biocompatible and biodegradable. “This idea is novel and it is eligible for patent too”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-student-wins-drdos-contest/article37047415.ece
18 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Leopard kills seven goats in Erode||A leopard that strayed out of forest area near Sathyamangalam killed seven goats and injured three on Sunday. Rangaswami, a farmer at Kempanaikenpalayam near Perumpallam dam, owns over 20 goats and runs a goat shed. On Sunday, he found the carcass of the goats and the injured animals in his shed. Farmers appeal Sathy Beat Forester A. Pradeepkumar and other officials visited the place and found pug marks of leopard. The farmers in the area urged the Forest Department to place a cage to capture the animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-kills-seven-goats-in-erode/article37047419.ece
18 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Leopard dies in roadkill at STR||A male leopard died in a roadkill in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve during the late hours of Saturday. According to forest officials, a male leopard aged about four was hit by an unidentified vehicle on the road between Chikkali and Neythalapuram in Thalavadi forest range while the animal was crossing the road. Forest Range Officer Sathish and other forest personnel rushed to the spot and brought the carcass to the range office. The officials conducted field inspections and collected CCTV footages from Maharajapuram check post to identify the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-dies-in-roadkill-at-str/article37047427.ece
18 October 2021||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||Spot admissions to Govt. ITI in Hosur extended||Spot admissions for various technical course at the Government Industrial Training Unit have been extended up to October 31. According to an administration release, men between 14 years and 40 years of age are eligible to apply. Women over 14 years of age are eligible for admissions and are exempted from an upper age limit. Admissions for courses that include two-year course for wiremen, and one-year course for welders will require an educational qualification of 8th standard. Other courses for those with SSLC qualification includes computer operator and planning (one-year course), hardware and site maintenance (one-year course), software (two years), among other courses. Applications entail Rs. 50 towards admission cost, and Rs. 185 and Rs. 195 towards tuition fee for one year and two year courses respectively. A monthly stipend of Rs. 750 will be paid to the students along with free books, uniform, shoes, laptop, cycle, bus pass, and hostel facility for men. Eligible women and men are called to apply to the Government ITI. For further details, contact: 04344-262457.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spot-admissions-to-govt-iti-in-hosur-extended/article37047433.ece
18 October 2021||Hyderabad,TAMIL NADU||Bid to get UNESCO tag for Golconda Fort||Bolstered by the World Heritage Site status for the Ramappa Temple in Palampet, the Telangana Government has made its intentions clear about securing UNESCO status for the Golconda Fort and the Qutb Shahi Tombs complex. Speaking on the floor of the Legislative Assembly recently, Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister K.T. Rama Rao said, “We are working towards securing the World Heritage Site status for the Qutb Shahi Tombs and the Golconda Fort.” “We need to do a lot of work. We have to work on the Golconda Fort as well as restore the pathway to connect the fort with the tombs complex. The Quli Qutb Shah Development Authority will have to play an important role for this work,” said Mr. Rao, drawing a road map for site management, which is one of the key criteria for UNESCO WHS status. The conservation effort at the Qutb Shahi tombs has been hampered by litigations with over 40 cases being filed from 2007 to stop the work. “The Aga Khan Foundation is doing stellar work. Mein unka shukriya ada karna chahta hoon [I want to thank them for the the effort]. It’s important we acknowledge our partners. We acknowledge their contribution and the honour and commitment they have shown in doing their work.” Among the steps needed for getting the WHS status are protection of the sites which the Department of Heritage is doing at the Qutb Shahi tombs complex, and the Archaeological Survey of India is doing at the Golconda Fort and Charminar. “Another requirement is an interpretation centre, which is essentially a new age museum, where the story of the site is to be told — but there is widespread confusion of what this structure is. It has been designed after multiple architects were commissioned to provide concept designs and approved by the Department of Heritage technical committee. The building is designed to be sunken so that views to the tombs are not affected,” says Ratish Nanda of AKTC which is partnering with the State in its conservation effort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-get-unesco-tag-for-golconda-fort/article37047131.ece
18 October 2021||KALABURAGI,TAMIL NADU||Seismometer installed at tremor-hit village in Karnataka||Taking note of the frequent tremors striking a few villages in Kalaburagi district in the past couple of weeks, a team of scientists from the National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) visited the area and took stock of the situation. The team comprised seismologists Suresh and Shashidhar from NGRI and Ramesh and Abhinaya from Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority. Associate scientist Anaveerappa Biradar from Sharan Sirasagi Seismic Centre in Kalaburagi was also present. When the scientists were at Gadikeshwar in Chincholi taluk, which reported more damage than the other villages, the area saw another mild tremor whose intensity, as per the scientists, was less than 1.0 magnitude on the Richter Scale. The scientists later put up a seismometer as a temporary arrangement at Gadikeshwar to record the motion of the ground during an earthquake. They said that the instrument will record the movement of the earth during an earthquake and send the information directly to NGRI headquarters in Hyderabad, Telangana. The data, scientists said, will help decide the steps to be taken. They briefed about the functioning of the seismometer for the local officials present at the site and arranged for a and demonstration. Lok Sabha member from Kalaburagi Umesh Jadhav and Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur stayed at Gadikeshwar for a night on Saturday to infuse confidence among villagers who were frightened by the frequent tremors. Dr. Jadhav said that he heard a strong sound from the earth at about 4 a.m. on Sunday. As part of confidence-building measure, Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna stayed at Hosalli (H), another tremor-hit village in Kalagi taluk, on Saturday, as part of her regular village stay programme.  Scientists say that the instrument will record the movement of the earth during an earthquake and send the information directly to NGRI headquarters in Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seismometer-installed-at-tremor-hit-village-in-karnataka/article37047138.ece
18 October 2021||KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||After heavy downpour, 23 villages under water in Kanniyakumari||The widespread rainfall in Kanniyakumari district since October 14 has claimed three lives so far. Many low-lying areas are inundated, with 23 villages across the district under water and no power for the last two days as many poles have been uprooted. Rescue operations started in full swing on Sunday morning after there was some relief when the rain stopped for a few hours, officials said. Residents from 40 villages were safely moved to relief camps. The rain, which started on the night of October 14, resulted in reservoirs getting filled up fast. PWD engineers, who released the water, alerted the people to stay indoors and not to venture near rivers or tanks. The water released from Pechiparai dam reached Thirparappu falls through Kothaiaru causing floods in the region. Continuous and widespread rain uprooted trees and electric poles in Kaliyal, Pechiparai, Marapadi, Mathur and Kappikadu. As a precautionary measure, Tangedco officials suspended power distribution as men were engaged in clearing the fallen trees and pulling out the poles. “If rain stops, electric supply can be resumed in less than eight hours,” an official at Pechiparai told The Hindu . Highways officials said at least 50 roads were cut off and connectivity to interior villages was snapped. Only when the rain stops, repair works could be carried out as materials had to be transported from the district headquarters. Farmers in Thovalai said about 50 acres where paddy was waiting for harvest were marooned in the rain. Two drownings Fire and Rescue Service personnel said three persons, Nishan, 17, of Kurumbarai, a class XI student, Jepin, 18, and Chitiraivel, 40, of Valayathu Vayal, met watery grave in the district. While Nishan was said to have drowned in a waterbody where he had gone for bathing with his friends, Jepin drowned in a tank. The fate of Chitiraivel was unknown as villagers said he was washed away in the floods. Firefighters were searching for the victim for the second day on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-meet-watery-grave-in-kanniyakumari/article37047373.ece
18 October 2021||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Free ambulance service launched in Karaikal||A free ambulance service has been launched in Karaikal district at the initiative of the Karaikal Unit of Anti-Corruption Movement. The service will be provided to the destitute and the downtrodden people who do not possess family card, and will serve as a support system for the Karaikal District Disaster Management Department at times of exigencies, S. Anandkumar, State President, Indian Anti-Corruption Movement, said. Those eligible to avail this free ambulance service can do so by dialling 9366666454, he said. Karai Ambulance Service Center has dedicated its ambulance to the Anti-Corruption Movement of India for free service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-ambulance-service-launched-in-karaikal/article37047371.ece
18 October 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||‘Agricultural college at Karur will become functional this year’||The agricultural college, which is to be established in Karur, will be started from the current academic year itself, according to V. Senthilbalaji, Minister for Electricity. Speaking at a Makkal Sabha programme at Kulithalai on Sunday, he said that the college would be a boon to the agricultural sector in the district. It would enable the scientists to study the soil, weather, monsoon and irrigation conditions pertaining to Karur so as to suggest crops and offer guidance to the farmers. The college has been sanctioned by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin in keeping with the interests of farmers and students, he said. Mr. Senthilbalaji said that the State government had sanctioned various schemes for the district. A sum of Rs. 2,000 crore had been allotted for the construction of two barrages and nineteen check dams. They would offer much-needed relief to the farmers of the district to store water for irrigation. Moreover, it would improve the groundwater table in and around the surrounding villages of the check dams and barrages. To support entrepreneurs and industrialists, it has been proposed to set up an industrial estate by Small Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT). Industrialists should come forward to make use of the opportunity, the Minister said. Collector T. Prabhu Shankar and officials took part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agricultural-college-at-karur-will-become-functional-this-year/article37047363.ece
18 October 2021||Krishangiri,TAMIL NADU||Co-optex fixes Rs. 3.05 crore sales target for Krishnagiri and Hosur outlets||The Cooptex Deepavali sales was inaugurated here with twice the targeted sales from the last year, by Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy on Saturday. The Deepavali sales of the government-run handloom corporation envisions a targeted sales of Rs. 3.05 crore from two centres in the district. This entails a doubled sales target from the corresponding period last year. The sales target for 2020 in the midst of the pandemic was Rs. 1.04 crore, which included Rs. 49.39 lakh in Krishnagiri outlet, and Rs. 55.39 crore in Hosur outlets. This year, of the total targeted sales, Krishnagiri outlet has been assigned with a target of Rs. 1.45 crore and the Hosur outlet has been fixed at Rs. 1.60 crore. . According to the administration, the Cooptex has displayed varied designs and original handloom silk and cotton weaves. The cotton weaves from Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruchi, Madurai, Paramakudi has found space in the outlets here alongside new organic and kalamkari fabrics. As part of the festival sales, interest free loan are offered at the outlets, according to the administration. The sales will continue on all days, including holidays.  Salem Staff Reporter adds:  In Salem, District Collector S. Karmegham inaugurated the Deepavali special sale at Kadai Veedhi. According to a release, the State government has offered 30% discount of handloom varieties for the festival. There are four Co-optex outlets in the districts and they are cumulatively targeting a sale of Rs. 7.10 crore this year. In Namakkal, District Revenue Officer Durga Moorthy inaugurated the sales and have targeted r Rs. 1.75 crore this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/co-optex-fixes-rs-305-crore-sales-target-for-krishnagiri-and-hosur-outlets/article37047407.ece
18 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||Two persons died in an accident near Thenkanikottai here on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Soudareddy (60) and Kiran (12). According to the police, a group of villagers from Pandeshwaram near Thenkanikottai travelled to Akalakottai in a pick-up van to attend a marriage on Saturday. While returning, the driver lost control of the vehicle and it slipped into a gorge along the road in Osatti. Soudareddy and Kiran died on the spot and 19 others who travelled in the van suffered injuries. They were sent to Thenkanikottai government hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accident/article37047429.ece
18 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Much-awaited Deepavali shopping season is here again||With further relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions, people in Madurai have started their Deepavali shopping. On Sunday evening, people thronged the shopping areas in the heart of the city leaving the roads choked with traffic. The shopping frenzy was more prominent at East Masi Street - South Masi Street Junction near Vilakkuthoon. People shopped for a wide range of products - from textiles to readymade garments and groceries, and the streets were filled with people and all kinds of vehicles. With no signs of a heavy rain in the evening, people were encouraged all the more to come out for shopping with their families. But most of them flouted the mandatory COVID-19 protocol. While some wore face masks, maintaining physical distance went for a toss. A large number of street vendors had spread their ware. They are hoping to recover the business lost during the lockdown last year. While the police allowed pedestrians and two-wheelers into the core shopping areas, cars were denied entry beyond the Veli streets due to the huge crowds. People were of the view that due to heavy traffic on most of the roads, mini buses run by the TNSTC should be diverted through roads with less traffic till Deepavali is over. Movement of share autorickshaws should also be regulated for smooth traffic flow. However, not everyone is encouraged by the relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions. The fear of a possible third wave still looms large. A resident of Sakthi Nagar said that she preferred online shopping, like her neighbours. “People were complacent during the second wave of COVID-19. We cannot take chances,” she said and pointed out that people were not following the mandatory COVID-19 protocol. Assistant Commissioner of Police -Town Traffic A. Thirumalai Kumar said that public announcements are being made in the heart of the city urging people to follow the rules and the COVID-19 protocol. Also, traffic diversions are announced over the public address system for the convenience of the shoppers. Since the crowd is expected to swell in the coming days, temporary parking arrangements would be made, he said.  Since the crowd is expected to swell in the coming days, temporary parking arrangements will be made, A. Thirumalai Kumar ACP -Town Traffic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/much-awaited-deepavali-shopping-season-is-here-again/article37047560.ece
18 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK celebrates party’s golden jubilee||Garlanding the statues of former Chief Ministers M. G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa on Melur Road, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) functionaries and cadre celebrated the golden jubilee of the party here on Sunday. Former Minister Sellur K. Raju, MLA V.V. Rajan Chellappa and other senior leaders garlanded the statues of the two leaders, which stood on a traffic island illuminated with colourful lights to mark the occasion. The leaders distributed sweets and participated in ‘annadhanam’ programmes organised at various locations in Madurai district. MLA R. B. Udayakumar and a group of cadre hoisted the party flag in many villages in Tirumangalam and Usilampatti Assembly constituencies. Speakers at the celebration said that the AIADMK would emerge victorious again and the DMK’s win at the recent rural local body polls was stage-managed. The AIADMK, with its strong cadre base, would continue to serve people. The leaders took a pledge to be with the high command led by Edappadi K. Palaniswami and O. Panneerselvam. Though posters welcoming V. K. Sasikala, a confidante of Jayalalithaa, back into the party were pasted at a few places in Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli districts, the party functionaries said that they would continue to repose faith in the leadership of EPS-OPS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-celebrates-partys-golden-jubilee/article37047565.ece
18 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses plea against quarrying notification||Taking into account the fact that crushed stones were an alternative source available to the construction industry, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed a petition that challenged the notification issued by the Dindigul Collector calling for tenders for granting the rough stone quarry lease in Mallanampatti village in Nilakottai taluk of Dindigul district. The court was hearing a petition filed by A. Mary of Dindigul district. The petitioner said that quarrying would affect agricultural lands and the residential areas nearby. The proposed quarry site was within 300 metres of residential houses. The decision to grant lease for quarrying was taken in contravention of public interest, she said. However, the State government submitted that the stone quarry in government poramboke in the Nilakottai taluk was one of the oldest in the area and was functioning for the past 40 years. It was catering to the needs of the local residents and government projects. Also, lands surrounding the government poramboke were rugged and unfit for cultivation, it was submitted. Justice J. Nisha Banu took note of the fact that the petition had become infructuous as there was a subsequent notification. So the notification that was challenged had become outdated. It was said that there were about 29 residences within a 300-metre radius of the quarry site. But there was no seal or signature as to vouch it. At the same time, a report was submitted to the Collector, stating that no permanent structures were present within a radius of 50 metres from the quarry site and there were no habitations or approved layouts within 300 metres from the quarry site. The petitioner did not appear before the Collector for a personal hearing, the judge observed. The judge also observed that quarrying of river sand remains banned. So crushed stones were the alternative source for the construction industry. The rough stone quarry site was in operation for about 40 years and was the main source for the construction industry in Nilakottai taluk. Therefore, the public interest at large must be taken into account, the judge said and dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-dismisses-plea-against-quarrying-notification/article37047392.ece
18 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Southern Tamil Nadu gets heavy rainfall||Many rain-gauge stations in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu recorded heavy rain, while two stations, including Papanasam in Tirunelveli, received extremely heavy rain in the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. Sunday, Public Works Department officials said. The rainfall in 2021, till October 17, has been heavy, compared with 2020 and 2019, across Theni, Dindigul, Madurai, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts. Officials said the Papanasam dam in Tirunelveli had water up to 131.30 feet (the maximum level being 143 feet), as against 108.30 feet in 2020 and 106.30 feet in 2019. The Manimuthar reservoir had 74.50 feet of water (the maximum level being 118 feet), as against 73.80 feet in 2020 and 44.20 feet in 2019. The rain-gauge stations in Tirunelveli district recorded a total of 1,092.80 mm of rain in October this year, as against 348.50 mm in 2020 and 486.90 mm in 2019, the officials said. In neighbouring Kanniyakumari district, continuous rain over the last four days sent a steady flow to many dams and inundated low-level areas. According to the Fisheries Department, fishermen have been asked to stay off the sea until a further update from the India Meteorological Department. In Dindigul, the level in the Manjalar dam stood at 54.60 feet, as against the maximum of 57 feet, and the Sothuparai dam had 100 feet of water as against the maximum of 126.28 feet. Many areas witnessed widespread rain. In Theni, PWD officials said the Periyar dam had 131.30 feet of water as against the permissible level of 142 feet. The dam received 7,815 cusecs and let out 1,300 cusecs. The Vaigai dam had 55.68 feet of water (the maximum level being 71 feet) with an inflow of 1,265 cusecs and a discharge of 1,119 cusecs. The Periyar dam area received 170 mm of rain, the highest amount in the recent times, while Thekkadi received 126.6 mm. Major waterfalls, including Courtallam (the Main falls and the Five Falls) in Tenkasi district and Chinna Suruli in Theni district, experienced flash floods. As the State has not yet permitted tourists to visit the falls, the locations wore a deserted look.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-tamil-nadu-gets-heavy-rainfall/article37047275.ece
18 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC sets aside black mark on constable, orders promotion||Bringing relief to a police constable, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has set aside the punishment of ‘black mark’ imposed on him and directed the police higher authorities to promote him to the post of Head Constable. The court was hearing the petition filed by P. Deenadayalan from Madurai. He was issued a charge memo in 2008 after his ex-wife lodged a complaint against him over dowry harassment. Following an inquiry into the issue, the charge against the petitioner stood proved. In 2009, the punishment of postponement of increment for one year without cumulative effect was imposed on him. He filed an appeal before the authorities but it was rejected. He filed a revision petition and his punishment was modified to black mark. Subsequently, he filed a mercy petition before the Home Department. It was rejected in 2013 and a government order was issued. He challenged the order. He filed the petition before the High Court in 2014. The court was informed that the criminal case registered at the instance of his ex-wife had ended in acquittal. The woman had lodged the complaint against him immediately after he had filed for a divorce. The charge was based on the complaint given by the ex-wife against the petitioner. Justice S. S. Sundar observed that when the disciplinary proceedings were initiated against a government employee on the basis of a criminal complaint initiated at the instance of family members, great care should be taken. The judge observed that in such circumstances the department should be cautious in taking departmental action. When the department cannot proceed against the government servant independently, they cannot ignore the verdict given by the criminal court. Only on the basis of the criminal complaint, the departmental action was initiated. When the petitioner was acquitted, findings during departmental action cannot be based on surmises and conjectures, in a case of this nature, when the misconduct is not in connection with the employment. The appellate authority, the review authority and the Home Department passed the order without assigning reasons for accepting the order of the disciplinary authority, the judge said and set aside the punishment order that imposed the black mark.  Care should be taken when proceedings are taken on the basis of complaint initiated at the instance of family members Justice S. S. Sundar Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-sets-aside-black-mark-on-constable-orders-promotion/article37047390.ece
18 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Education loan mela on Wednesday||With the objective of ensuring that aspiring students pursued higher education without any hassles, the district administration had proposed to conduct an education loan mela on The American College campus on October 20, Wednesday. In a press statement, Collector Aneesh Sekhar said that major banks would participate in the loan mela which would be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Candidates, who have completed their school education, and fulfil the eligibility criteria could avail themselves of the loan facility. Owing to various reasons, many students could not pursue higher education as COVID-19 pandemic had either ruined or strained the financial position of many families. To ensure that such students went ahead and fulfilled their dreams, the district administration had planned to assist them through this loan mela, Dr. Sekhar said. A special counter to assist the students had been opened at M-Section of the Madurai Collectorate. The students could get further details there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/education-loan-mela-on-wednesday/article37047566.ece
18 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Sunday stood at 131.30 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 7,815 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 55.68 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 1,265 cusecs and a discharge of 1,119 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,445 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was (in mm): Periyar dam 170, Thekkadi 126.6, Gudalur 77.4, Shanmuganadhi dam 38.7, Veerapandi 32, Uthamapalayam 31.2, Thaniyamangalam 25, Melur 22, Kodaikanal 15.6, Peranai dam 13.5, Maruthanadi dam 12.6, Chittampatti 7.6, Manjalar dam 7, Sothupparai 6, Vaigai dam 4.8, Pulipatti 3.6 and Idayapatti 1.2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37047394.ece
18 October 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||70-year-old woman electrocuted||A 70-year-old woman was electrocuted near Pallipalayam here on Saturday. According to police, Pallipalayam and nearby areas received rain coupled with strong winds on Saturday. When Rajammal of Kaliyanur near Pallipalayam went to tie her goats in the shed, she accidentally stepped over a snapped power line and got electrocuted. Three goats also died of electrocution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/70-year-old-woman-electrocuted/article37047418.ece
18 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||DMK leader urges govt. to intervene in getting MCC lifted||Leader of the Opposition and DMK convener R. Siva has urged the AINRC-BJP government to intervene in getting the model code of conduct imposed by the State Election Commission (SEC) lifted in the interests of the people in the wake of the Madras High Court ordering that proceedings on the local bodies elections be kept in abeyance. In a statement, Mr. Siva pointed out that the SEC had, in response to a joint plea by political parties on lifting the model code, stated that it would remain in operation as the Madras High Court had not stayed it in its ruling on a petition challenging the second notification for conduct of the civic polls. The SEC’s position went against the spirit of democracy as the legislators represent the people, Mr. Siva said. Alleging that the NDA government was responsible for the failure to implement welfare schemes for the people, Mr. Siva said the continued enforcement of the model code would adversely affect the people. He pointed out that already the implementation of schemes had been stalled because of the rift between the AINRC and the BJP over Cabinet formation and portfolio allocation. The Budget was presented only on August 26 though the alliance was elected to power on May 2. The implementation of the Budget announcements, such as regularisation of contract appointees, reopening of ration shops, and disbursal of salary arrears would be held up with the model code of conduct in force. As proper delimitation of wards and reservation of seats could take months, Mr. Siva said Puducherry's development would be severely affected if the government does not implement the schemes till then. He called for government’s intervention to get the model code of conduct lifted and Budget announcements implemented in public interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-leader-urges-govt-to-intervene-in-getting-mcc-lifted/article37047635.ece
18 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Coda, produced in Auroville, to be screened in South Asian Short Film Festival||A short film produced in Auroville under a Masterclass series, led by top cinema professionals, has been selected for screening at the fourth South Asian Short Film Festival 2021, scheduled to begin in Kolkata in mid-November.  Coda, directed by Sudipto Acharyya, was put together during a month-long masterclass session held by the Auroville Film Institute in December-January 2020-21. The teaching-mentoring sessions were led by a faculty of industry professionals. The film (English/fiction category) has been selected in the competition section of the festival scheduled to be held at Nandan, Kolkata, from November 15 to 22. The 10-minute film revolves around its musician-protagonist Andrei, a Londoner, who is attracted to the work-life philosophy of Auroville. Andrei, who has been teaching music to young children in Auroville for many years, loves his work and time in the experimental township. However, the day comes when Andrei’s wife and son come from London and want him to go back with them as he has been given a respectable position in a conservatory there. Andrei is forced to take a decision against his wish. He goes out to teach his students for one last time and loses his way in the woods. His students find him, and they improvise a music class in the woods. The film closes with Andrei breaking down as the music reaches a crescendo. “Considering that we are now just winding down a masterclass in Ladakh, the news of a film we made during a similar session at Auroville last year comes as a sweet surprise,” said Richa Hushing, filmmaker and co-director of Auroville Film Institute-Auroville Timelines. She, along with Rrivu Laha, were the executive producers of Coda . The other collaborators were Shanti Bhushan Roy (cinematographer), Amitabh Chakraborty (editor), Madhu Apsara (sound design) and Dawn Vincent (sound recordist).  The film has been selected in the competition section of the festival scheduled to be held at Nandan, Kolkata||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coda-produced-in-auroville-to-be-screened-in-south-asian-short-film-festival/article37047630.ece
18 October 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records one death, adds 52 fresh cases to tally||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death on Sunday to take the cumulative toll to 1,850 while 52 new cases were added to the tally of patients under treatment. The fatality was reported in Mahe. The toll by region stands at 1,447 in Puducherry, 250 in Karaikal, 107 in Yanam and 46 in Mahe. Puducherry accounted for 35 of the new cases, which were detected from 4,119 tests, followed by Karaikal (9), Mahe (7) and Yanam (1). With 64 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 585. Of this, 99 were in hospital and 486 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.26%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.09%. The Union Territory has so far registered an aggregate of 1,27,396 cases against 1,24,961 patients recovered. Of an estimated 18.68 lakh tests administered so far, over 15.84 lakh samples returned negative. Meanwhile, 5,279 persons took the jab in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered a total of 10,75,096 doses of COVID-19 vaccines. Vellore count The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,660 with 16 new cases reported on Sunday. In Ranipet district, 12 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,290. In Tirupattur district, 13 new cases were reported on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-one-death-adds-52-fresh-cases-to-tally/article37047384.ece
18 October 2021||Pudukkottai,TAMIL NADU||Mega customer-contact programme today||A mega customer-contact programme will be conducted by the district lead bank from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Monday. Customers of the 24 banks that altogether have 217 branches in the district will be apprised about the aspects of services in the backdrop of modernisation, Lead Bank Manager R. Ramesh said. Under the banner ‘Association of Banks’, the public sector and private sector banks, and cooperative banks will facilitate the customers to avail multiple services at one spot People could utilise the opportunity to know about various schemes by furnishing requisite details pertaining to their bank accounts, Mr. Ramesh said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-customer-contact-programme-today/article37047368.ece
18 October 2021||RAJAPALAYAM,TAMIL NADU||‘NEP will benefit students in higher education’||The New Education Policy (NEP) had been formulated after an unprecedented collaborative, inclusive and highly participatory consultation process, said Prof. Rajive Kumar, member-secretary, AICTE, New Delhi, here on Sunday. Delivering the third and fourth convocation address at Ramco Institute of Technology (RIT), he highlighted the features of the NEP as a transformational reform in school and higher education system. The graduates had to be thankful to their parents, teachers and the institution, which had given life to their dreams in becoming engineers. Being engineers, he said, the students might have put themselves into situations wherein they would have realised that constant learning alone would make them globally competent and ethically fruitful in an automated and digitalised modern era.  Presiding over the ceremony, Ramco Group of Companies Chairman P.R. Venketrama Raja recalled the vision of his father and founder Chairman P.R. Ramasubrahmaneya Rajha to offer value-based quality technical education at an affordable cost. Principal L. Ganesan welcomed. Graduates of the academic year 2015-2019 and 2016-2020 received their certificates. S. Rajakarunakaran, Vice-Principal, proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nep-will-benefit-students-in-higher-education/article37047399.ece
18 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||90 COVID-19 cases reported in Erode||A total of 90 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Erode on Sunday. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. The district had 906 active cases. One death was reported in the district. In Salem, 56 cases were reported. According to health officials, 43 cases were indigenous and 12 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 51 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Twenty-three cases each were reported in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri. In Coimbatore, a total of 132 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. The district had 1,552 active cases of the disease on Sunday, while 151 persons recovered. The toll increased to 2,382 after four more persons died of COVID-19. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.3 % on Saturday when it reported 136 new cases. Tiruppur district had 818 active cases of COVID-19, including the 73 persons who tested positive for the disease on Sunday. A total of 76 persons recovered from the disease on Sunday. In the Nilgiris, 21 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/90-covid-19-cases-reported-in-erode/article37047420.ece
18 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Adventure activities to be introduced at Annavari Muttal eco-tourism site||The Forest Department is planning to introduce adventure activities at the Annavari Muttal eco-tourism site as part of measures to improve tourist amenities. The Annavari Muttal eco-tourism site located near Attur has a waterfall and a lake and the site was developed to provide livelihood to tribal people at the locality. As part of improving visitors’ amenities at the Annavari Muttal falls, the Forest Department has planned to introduce various activities like kayaking and zipline at the Muttal lake and visitor refreshment amenities at the waterfalls. District Forest Officer R. Gowtham said the eco-tourism centre had been seeing better footfall following resumption of activities after relaxations in COVID-19 restrictions. The Forest Department had planned to set up benches and seats with animal replicas along the lake. About one acre along the lake bund had been readied to set up visitor sheds and install children playing equipment, he said. A watch tower would also be set up. Tourist amenities like barricades, restrooms and changing rooms were also being readied near the water falls. Mr.Gowtham said a tribal museum and interpretation centre to educate visitors on life of tribal people and their culture would come up at the place. According to officials, the entire work was estimated to cost about Rs. 10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adventure-activities-to-be-introduced-at-annavari-muttal-eco-tourism-site/article37047417.ece
18 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Donations received under govt. scheme||The Salem Corporation on Friday received contributions under the ‘Namakku Namme’ to construct a storm water drain at one of the residential areas here. Representatives of Sri Kaliamman Temple Street Residents Association handed over a cheque for Rs. 2.85 lakh to Corporation Commissioner T.Christuraj. According to a release, under the scheme, various public works will be carried out in residential areas when one-third of the estimated amount of the work is contributed by the residents. Two-thirds of the estimated amount would be contributed by the government. Using the contribution, 181-metre stormwater drain would be constructed on Sri Kaliamman Temple Street at Rs. 8.5 lakh. Mr. Christuraj recently held a meeting with over 150 representatives of residents’ associations and appealed to them to contribute under the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donations-received-under-govt-scheme/article37047426.ece
18 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Seven fined for trespassing into forest||The Forest Department fined seven persons for trespassing into forest area and bathing in a forest stream here. According to forest officials, during patrolling, a few persons were found bathing at the forest stream in Pannikaradu Reserve Forest area here. Forest personnel registered a case against them. They were fined Rs. 500 each. The officials warned that stern action would be taken against people trespassing into forest area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-fined-for-trespassing-into-forest/article37047428.ece
18 October 2021||SALEM/ ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Continuous rain in Salem, Erode districts||Salem and Erode districts received widespread showers on Sunday and rainwater stagnated at several places here due to continuous rain. In Salem, an average rainfall of 19.25 mm was recorded on Sunday. Mettur received the highest amount of rainfall, 92.2 mm followed by P.N.Palayam 45 mm, Yercaud 39.6 mm, Gangavalli 25 mm, Salem 24.7 mm, Attur 22.4 mm, Anaimadavu 17 mm, Veeraganoor 7 mm, Omalur 6 mm, Edappadi 4.6 mm, Kadayampatti 3.3 mm and Kariyakovil 2 mm. An average rainfall of 15.2 mm was recorded in Erode. The highest amount of rainfall was recorded at Thalavadi, 41.6 mm. Erode received 16 mm rainfall, Perundurai 14 mm, Gobi 4.2 mm, Sathy 4 mm, Bhavanisagar 8.2 mm, Bhavani 21 mm, Kodumudi 1.8 mm, Nambiyur 25 mm, Chennimalai 41 mm, Modakkuruchi and Kavundapadi 9 mm, Elanthakuttai Medu 5.2 mm, Ammapet 26 mm, Kodiveri 13 mm, Kunderipallam 4.6 mm and Varattupallam 11 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/continuous-rain-in-salem-erode-districts/article37047425.ece
18 October 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver found dead with head injuries||An autorickshaw driver, Illangovan, 42, of Chinna Kovilankulam South Street, was found dead with head injuries in Oothumalai near Alangulam on Sunday. Police said Illangovan was living in Chennai with his wife and daughter. After the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak, the family had moved to his native place, while he was working in Chennai. Recently, to cast his vote in the rural body poll, he had come home. He left home at noon on Saturday, but did not return. The family informed the police and even as they were on searching for Illangovan, he was found dead. Preliminary inquiries revealed that his father Chelladurai was an AIADMK functionary in the locality. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-driver-found-dead-with-head-injuries/article37047395.ece
18 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||278 died in accidents in Thoothukudi this year: SP||Stressing the need for safe driving practices, Superintendent of Police S. Jeyakumar on Sunday said Thoothukudi district had recorded 278 deaths in road accidents till date this year against 344 deaths in 2020 and 378 deaths in 2019. Speaking on World Trauma Care Day, organised by the Department of Emergency Medicine at Thoothukudi Government Medical College and Hospital, he said that though the number of fatal accidents might have fallen, the lives could have been saved, if they had followed road rules. The Good Samaritan Law, which was introduced in 2014, was done to encourage the public, who rushed road accident victims to the nearest hospital, the SP said and added that police would not question the public, whoever saved the lives, or harass them to visit the police station. The objective was to save lives and whoever had been instrumental should be honoured and not harassed. By following road rules, motorists could prevent accidents and also ensure that other road users, including pedestrians, were safe, while moving out in public space. Wearing seat belts for four-wheeler drivers and helmets for two-wheeler riders was mandatory. The public should wear helmets and seatbelts on their own, Mr. Jeyakumar said and hoped that the coming years would see the district safe for motorists. The doctors led by Resident Medical Officer Cylus Jeyamani, Medical Superintendent Rajendran, Surya Prabha and Prataban and Emergency Medicine Head Rajavel Murugan interacted with police officers. The students enacted a skit near VVD junction about the need for safe driving and the steps to be followed while rushing a victim to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/278-died-in-accidents-in-thoothukudi-this-year-sp/article37047403.ece
18 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Retaining wall along Uyyakondan canal starts developing cracks||The retaining wall along the Uyyakondan canal on Anna Nagar Link Road has begun to show signs of wear and tear. Cracks have surfaced and the pathway is also damaged, posing a risk to walkers and cyclists. The Tiruchi Corporation had set up the walking path, behind the District Court complex, along the Anna Nagar Link Road and the Uyykondan canal for morning walkers and cyclists who enjoyed spending time along the waterbody. However, the walls seem to be weak, as, within a few years of its construction, cracks and other signs of damage seem to have appeared, the morning walkers lamented. Apart from the walkers, children play along the path, sit on the wall watching water flowing in the canal. There is also an open gym, set up by the civic body. The 750-metre long path has a very short wall, and with the recently-developed cracks could pose a serious risk to the public who use the area as a recreational space, they said. The recently inaugurated walking park on the opposite bank of the Uyyakondan has tall retaining walls, and a metal barricade to ensure safety of the users. “If they could think of the safety on that side, why not on this side?” a walker asked. Their worries are not entirely baseless as a portion of the retaining wall had once collapsed due to heavy rains. “In 2018, some parts of it broke away in the early hours following heavy rains. If the wall falls now, there is nothing to protect the users,” A. Meenakshi, a walker said. The users, with the support of local residents' associations plan to approach the corporation seeking its intervention in reconstructing the wall and conducting repairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retaining-wall-along-uyyakondan-canal-starts-developing-cracks/article37047365.ece
18 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Co-optex trebles sales target||Having trebled the business target this year in Thanjavur region, Co-optex outlets in the region launched their Deepavali special discount sales on Sunday. A sales target of Rs. 20 crore has been set for 2021 Deepavali business through co-optex outlets in the region. The target for last year was Rs. 7.38 crore. In Thanjavur district, a sales target of Rs. 3 crore has been set, counting on the 30 percent discount offered on the range of silk (Kancheepuram, Arani, Tanjore and Tiruvananthapuram) sarees and (Kora and Koorainadu) cotton sarees, handloom sarees, blankets, bed spreads, pillow covers, lungies, cotton shirts, curtains, foot wear, nighties, and other export quality products. District Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver launched the sales. The Co-optex is implementing the scheme of 10 month subscription from customers, entitling them to 20 percent discount in the eleventh and twelfth month of subscription, officials said. In Pudukottai, Collector Kavitha Ramu said after launching the sales that sales to the extent of Rs. 92.70 lakh was achieved last year. This time around, the 2021 festival target has been set at Rs. 2.25 crore, the Collector said. In Nagapattinam, the special sales was inaugurated by A.K.S. Vijayan, Tamil Nadu Government's Special Representative in New Delhi, in the presence of District Collector A. Arun Thamburaj. A target of Rs. 75 lakh has been set for the outlet in Nagapattinam town, and Rs. 60 lakh for the one in Vedaranyam, the District Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/co-optex-trebles-sales-target/article37047372.ece
18 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Soon, guidelines for premature release of convicts: Minister||Law Minister N. Regupathy said on Sunday that the State government would complete the process of framing guidelines for releasing 700 convicts, who had served lengthy durations in prisons, within two to three weeks. Speaking to reporters after visiting the Central Prison here to inspect the medical facilities and vocational training being given to the convicts, Mr. Regupathy said Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had announced in the State Assembly that 700 convicts, who had been serving their term in jail beyond 10 years, would be released on the occasion of birth anniversary of late Chief Minister C. N. Annadurai. Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had made this announcement in the Assembly on September 13. Mr. Stalin had said that the government would take steps to commute the sentence of 700 life convicts and grant them premature release on humanitarian grounds and as a gesture of goodwill “There were no hurdles in releasing them. The government is particular that no convicts, who had been involved in heinous crimes and had indulged in anti-national activities, should be released under the pretext of the goodwill gesture. Hence, the process of framing guidelines to list out the beneficiaries was going on. It would take at least 15 days to arrive at the list. The listed convicts would be set free soon,” Mr. Regupathy said. Detention of foreigners To a question on extended detention of foreign nationals including Sri Lankans in special camps even after serving their terms, the Minister said that no one had been detained beyond the term period in the special camps. There was no need for the State government to keep them in special camps. There were foreigners, who did not want to return to their countries. A few of them had some serious pending cases against them and only such foreign nationals had been detained in the special camps, he said. Mr. Regupathy said that the DMK government was committed to fulfilling its promise on releasing seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Similarly, a number of steps had been taken to get an exemption for the State from the ambit of the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET). Chief Minister M. K. Stalin met Governor R.N. Ravi a few days ago and impressed upon him the need to give assent to the Bill passed in the State Assembly, seeking an exemption to the students of the State from NEET. School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Collector S. Sivarasu and senior officials accompanied the Law Minister.  The government is particular that no convicts, who had been involved in heinous crimes and had indulged in anti-national activities, should be released N. Regupathy Law Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-framing-guidelines-for-premature-release-of-convicts/article37047382.ece
18 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts continue to report a dip in cases||The central region reported 20 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. Four deaths due to the infection were registered in the region. Two patients succumbed to the illness in Tiruchi, while two others died in Tiruvarur. Thanjavur district reported a dip in the number of cases compared to previous days. On Sunday, 68 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported 45 fresh cases of COVID-19. The other seven districts in the region reported less than 30 fresh cases. In Tiruvarur, 28 patients reported COVID-19 positive, while Nagapattinam registered 22. Mayiladuthurai district registered 13 cases, Karur, 11 and Pudukottai, 10. In Ariyalur, seven patients tested positive while Perambalur had the least number of fresh cases with four cases reported on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-continue-to-report-a-dip-in-cases/article37047366.ece
18 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Neeraj Chopra lays foundation stone for new boys hostel in NIT-T||Neeraj Chopra, Olympic Javelin Gold medallist - Tokyo 2020, laid the foundation stone in virtual mode for ‘Amethyst’ the 506-seater boys hostel at National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi with a pep talk for students on Sunday. “Everyone has a dream or a craze in life which gives happiness; one has to put in hard work with sincerity and dedication to succeed, the Olympic gold medallist said, citing his own instance of succeeding through these traits. Mr. Neeraj was appreciative of the importance given by NIT-T for sports and games. In her address, Mini Shaji Thomas, NIT-T Director said that sports was an integral part of NIT-Tiruchi activities, and said that the institution has been performing well in inter-NIT sports meets. Kumaresan, Dean - Students' Welfare, said the tradition of naming hostels after precious stones and gems signifies a motivation to the students to shine in their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neeraj-chopra-lays-foundation-stone-for-new-boys-hostel-in-nit-t/article37047369.ece
18 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Abandoned man rescued||Members of a civil society group in Tiruchi rescued a man who was lying in an unconscious state for the last few days on the platform of the Central Bus Stand on Sunday. The man looked ill, and had not eaten for at least a few days, said K. C. Neelamegam, Secretary, Thaneer, a voluntary organisation. “We were informed by a friend who works at the bus stand,” he said. A group of volunteers from Shri Foundation went to the spot along with Mr. Neelamegam. “The people had apparently ignored him because they thought he was an alcoholic,” he said. Following the instructions of the city police, the volunteers called ‘108’ ambulance services, and before it arrived, purchased clothes, a bedsheet and a few essential items for the man. “We will follow up at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital where he is admitted and hope he will tell us more about himself so we can rehabilitate him,” Mr. Neelamegam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/abandoned-man-rescued/article37047367.ece
18 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 90.51 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 14,400 cusecs and the discharge 100 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article37047383.ece
18 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault on minor||The All Women Police Station, Tiruppur north, on Saturday arrested a 28-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl. The police said that S. Manikandan from Chinnamanur in Theni district was arrested based on a complaint lodged by the parents of a 16-year-old girl from a place near Perumanallur. According to the police, the girl’s parents lodged a complaint on May 5 this year stating that their daughter went missing on April 29. Their complaint said that the girl went to a nearby shop and did not return. The police registered a case and started searching for the girl. On Saturday, the police received information that the girl was found at the new bus stand in Tiruppur. On inquiry, the girl told the police that Manikandan took her to Theni and sexually assaulted by promising to marry her. The police arrested Manikandan from Tiruppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor/article37047317.ece
18 October 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown restrictions extended||Existing lockdown restrictions will continue in Tiruvannamalai till October 24, District Collector B. Murugesh said on Sunday. Hotels, bakeries and tea shops in the temple town would be allowed to function only between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on all days; parcels in these outlets would be allowed up to 10 p.m. every day. All shops, including roadside eateries, hawkers and petty traders can function between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. in the town. Likewise, 50% occupancy should be maintained in hotels and tea shops with owners and staff of these outlets and establishments having received the second dose of vaccination. Imposition of fines for not wearing face masks and social distancing in public places for individuals and 50% occupancy in government buses are other stringent restrictions that have been intensified. The extension of the existing lockdown restrictions and conduct of vaccination camps are mainly to prevent spread of the infection in the district. At the fifth Mega Vaccination Camp held on October 10, the district had set up 1,075 camps, which was also the highest among nearby districts of Vellore and Ranipet, vaccinating 53,875 persons, including 23,790 persons from Cheyyar block. At present, the district has a total of 19.62 lakh persons in the age group of 18 years and above. So far, 57% of the total population have been vaccinated in the district. At present, the Tiruvannamalai municipality has a total of 39 wards covering key areas like Pallavan Nagar, Thenimalai, Samuthivam Kalani and Ajish Colony with a population of around 8 lakh. The easing of lockdown restrictions, especially since July 11, had increased the flow of traffic in the town with key routes like Tiruvannamalai Road, Vellore - Thoothukudi High Road, Perumpakkam Road, Polur Road and Avalurpettai Road witnessing pre-Covid levels of traffic congestion. In fact, most of these key routes connect the famous Arunachaleswarar temple to adjoining districts like Vellore, Tirupattur and Villupuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-restrictions-extended/article37047682.ece
18 October 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||No girivalam from Oct. 19-21||The district administration has announced a ban on Girivalam in Tiruvannamalai from October 19 to 21. According to a press release, Collector B. Murugesh, on Sunday said that every full moon day, devotees from various parts of the State and also from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala would visit the temple. With October 19 - 21 being full moon days, a large number of devotees and tourists are expected to visit the temple to take up Girivalam resulting in overcrowding. In view of the pandemic, the district administration has decided not to allow Girivalam from October 19 to 21, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-girivalam-from-oct-19-21/article37047683.ece
18 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Governor visits Botanical Garden||Governor R.N. Ravi planted saplings at the Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam during the third day of his visit to the district. Earlier, Mr. Ravi and his family took the Nilgiri Mountain Railway train to Coonoor from Udhagamandalam. They then returned to Udhagamandalam by road after lunch. Later in the day, Mr. Ravi took a tour around the Botanical Garden and planted a sapling on the garden’s lawns. Mr. Ravi’s wife Laxmi Ravi, Nilgiris DSP Ashish Rawat and Collector J. Innocent Divya were also present. On Saturday, the Governor and his family visited Upper Bhavani and the Mukurthi National Park. He will be in the Nilgiris till October 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-visits-botanical-garden/article37047322.ece
18 October 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||NGOs help Forest Dept. provide compensation to herders||To discourage herders from poisoning cattle killed by carnivores in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), conservation NGO Arulagam with the help of Mariamma Foundation in Bandipur and the Tamil Nadu Forest Department is providing immediate monetary compensation to cattle owners. Recently, seven herders in Vazhaithottam, Mavanallah, Anaikatti, Achakarai and Bokkapuram received compensation amounting to Rs. 5,000 per person for the cattle they lost to predators over the last month. In the past, cattle killed by carnivores have been poisoned by herders, killing not just carnivores, but other wildlife. In MTR last year, a tiger as well as five Asiatic wild dogs (dhole) were killed in suspected poisoning incidents, while vultures too have died in previous years from consuming poisoned carcasses. Top officials of the Department, including Deputy Director of MTR (Buffer Zone), P. Arunkumar, local rangers and members of Arulagam were present at the event to hand over the compensation. S. Manigandan, research scholar at Arulagam, told The Hindu that the initiative will not only help protect carnivores such as tigers and leopards, but also scavengers like the critically-endangered species of vultures that inhabit the Sigur, as well as other wildlife such as striped hyenas and dholes. “Arulagam is also working towards increasing the compensation amount awarded to the herders. The initiative has been ongoing since last year to provide timely compensation to cattle owners,” said Mr. Manigandan. Field Director of MTR, D. Venkatesh, said that such efforts, along with the Forest Department’s own compensation package of Rs. 30,000 for cattle preyed on by carnivores, will lead to fewer instances of retaliation by the local public against wildlife. The compensation provided by the Forest Department will be given to the herders separate from the initiative by Arulagam, officials said. “When a cattle is killed by a predator, we usually request the owners to hand over the cattle to us so we can leave it inside a reserve forest for scavengers. The Forest Department hopes that such initiatives can help wildlife and also involve local communities in their protection,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngos-help-forest-dept-provide-compensation-to-herders/article37047309.ece
18 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Restoration of Jalakanteshwara temple nearing completion||The restoration work at the Vijayanagara-era Jalakanteshwara temple in the Fort complex here is nearing completion. Chemical conservationists from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Chennai Circle, were removing fungus formation from the outer surface in the last leg of restoration. Along with the mosque and the parapet wall of the Fort, the Shiva temple is a protected monument in the Fort complex. “With the reopening of tourist spots , the restoration will attract more visitors to the ancient temple,” said M. Varadaraj Suresh, Archaeological Officer, ASI (Vellore). Removal of vegetation and fungus is the major part of the work. Most of the structures, especially granite pillars and walls, have developed cracks with the growth of plants. The sculptures on the walls have been disfigured by fungus. Water seepage and weathering are the major reasons for the damage. A 25-member team, comprising chemical conservationists, archaeologists, draftsmen and helpers, has been working on the monument for the past few months. Herbicides and water repellents are being used in the work. Vijayanagara-era Built during the reign of Vijayanagara king Sadasivadeva Maharaya (1540-1572 CE), the temple has the typical style of the 16th century architecture in the Arcot region, with its large wooden gates, sculptures, carved granite pillars and towers. After the Vijayanagara empire, the temple and the Fort complex came under various rulers, including the Bijapur sultans (1656-1678), the Marathas (1678–1707), the Mughals (1707–1760) and finally the British (1760–1947). During British rule, the Fort complex was taken over by the ASI in 1921. Most rulers used the temple as an arsenal. Worship resumed four decades ago, prompting the ASI to term the temple a ‘living monument’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vijayanagara-era-jalakanteshwara-temple-restoration-work-nearing-completion/article37047357.ece
18 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 16 new COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,660 with 16 new cases reported on Sunday. While a total of 48,325 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 207. The district's death toll is 1,128. In Ranipet district, 12 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,290. In Tirupattur district, 13 new cases were reported on Sunday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,193. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 19, taking the total number of cases to 54,705. Out of this, 53,826 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 212.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-16-new-covid-19-cases/article37047681.ece
18 October 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||No one can weaken AIADMK: ex-Minister||Former Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Sunday said that the AIADMK is a cadre-based party and V.K. Sasikala has no place in the party. He was speaking after distributing welfare measures as part of the party’s golden jubilee celebrations here, Mr. Shanmugam said that none can weaken the AIADMK and even if several Sasikalas came up with claims of representing the AIADMK, the party would stand as a rock. “Ms. Sasikala would not be able to carry out any of her plans to weaken the party since she had not been able to protect her own party [Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam],” he claimed. “The AIADMK is a cadre-based party. We do not need Sasikala since AIADMK has the blessings of former Chief Ministers MGR and Jayalalithaa and support and strength of 1 crore workers,” the former Minister added. None in the AIADMK can be taken for a ride again however much Ms. Sasikala might make attempts to seek to implement her designs, Mr. Shanmugam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-one-can-weaken-aiadmk-ex-minister/article37047637.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Separate events mark AIADMK’s golden jubilee||Taking exception to Ms. Sasikala using the party flag on her car and being identified as the AIADMK general secretary, D. Jayakumar, organisation secretary and former AIADMK Minister, asserted that she had “neither moral right nor legal right” to use the party’s name and call herself the general secretary. This act amounted to “violation of the Election Commission’s rules and contempt of court”, Mr. Jayakumar said, holding Ms. Sasikala and her family responsible for the defeat of the AIADMK in the 1996 Assembly election. Emphasising that Jayalalithaa would remain the “permanent general secretary”, the former Minister questioned the need for Ms. Sasikala to be referred to as ‘Thyagathai’ (mother of sacrifice), and said no volunteer of the AIADMK would accept Ms. Sasikala, irrespective of such portrayals by her camp. Addressing the gathering, which included former Minister M. Anandan and former Chief Government Whip in the Assembly, P.M. Narasimhan, at Ramapuram, Ms. Sasikala alluded to the assumption of office by Mr. Palaniswami and his team of Ministers in February 2017 and recalled that “even in trying times”, she ensured that the party remained in power. She stepped aside from politics as she did not want “an inch of damage” to be caused to the party. “The Kazhagam is our temple. It is the responsibility of all of us to protect throughout our life the Kazhagam, which has grown out of the sacrifice of Puratchi Thalaivar [MGR] and the dedication of Amma [Jayalalithaa]. The need of the hour is unity,” she said, adding that it was the “divisions among us that has given the space to our enemy”. Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami, accompanied by senior leaders, paid floral tributes at the mausoleums of C.N. Annadurai, MGR and Jayalalithaa on the Marina. At the party headquarters, they handed over demand drafts for Rs. 3 lakh each to the families of five deceased workers of the party. They launched a CD containing the party song and a publication of poetry, besides participating in a feast. On the DMK In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam said the DMK regime, which had captured power on the basis of “false assurances”, was now struggling to fulfil its promises. The DMK was now “in the grip of a family”, he said, urging members of his party to work for the AIADMK’s return to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/separate-events-mark-aiadmks-golden-jubilee/article37047269.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In violation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-violation/article37047633.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tradition lives on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tradition-lives-on/article37047378.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail -TVL||Briyanioutlets have mushroomed in Tirunelveli. Since the food is cheap, these stalls attract a crowd, especially youngsters. Most of them sell the food items on the roadside. Nobody knows whether these stalls have licence to conduct business, and whether health authoritities have checked the meat or preparation of the food. Will the Corporation health oflficials look into the issue and put a check on the health hazard. Rajakumar Arulanandham Palayamkottai   Piped water supply in Eruvadi town panchayat in Tirunelveli district has low pressure due to uneven distribution of water connections. Residential areas have sprung up fast but water supply has not kept pace with it. So, people wait for long to fill water tanks, even while keeping other household chores pending. The authorities must look into the matter and ensure that pressure is maintained all the time. A. Kaja Nazimudeen Eruvadi   Thirumal Nagar en route to Reddiarpatti, is a fast-growing suburb of Tirunelveli. Opposite to plot No. 26 and 27 of Thirumal Nagar Extension on the south side of Perumal temple, the LED light on the first post is not functioning for the past several months. When monsoon starts this month, it is the breeding season for frogs, the main prey of snakes. So, in the absence of street light, pedestrians stand the risk of snake bite at night. So, I request the authorities to replace the LED lamp before the onset of monsoon. A.M.N. Pandian Tirunelveli   On the outskirts of Tirunelveli, new houses and apartments have mushroomed, particularly in wards 26 and 27. While drinking water supply by the Corporation is inadequate and erratic, many households are awaiting new connections. Further, the Slum Clearance Board plans to build more apartments to accommodate people evacuated from encroachments on the banks of Tamirabarani. So, an additional source of drinking water supply is needed. The Ariyanayagipuram drinking water project is moving at a snail’s pace, though Minister K.N. Nehru, during his visit in July, said it would be completed by September. Hence, I request the authorities to expedite the drinking water project. V. Ganesan Tirunelveli   Stray dogs roam freely inside graveyards in Thoothukudi and pose a threat to people coming to pay homage to the deceased. The Corporation must to take steps to curb this menace. Further, there are no street lights on the road between MGR Park and the graveyard. The pitch dark road emboldens miscreants to indulge in illegal activities. So street lights must be installed on this road. To prevent illegal activities at night, the Corporation must ensure that gates of all graveyards are closed by evening. Periodic police patrol in this area would instil fear in the minds of miscreants. P. Selwyn Basker Thoothukudi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-tvl/article37047679.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail -DGL||TNSTC authorities must resume issuing one-day bus pass, which was suspended in January 2018. It must be noted that such passes are being issued in other States now. Besides, after the TNSTC depot was shifted to Madappuram from Tiruppuvanam, all buses are operated towards the depot from 12.30 p.m to 2.30 p.m. So, there are no services to many villages during this time. I request TNSTC Madurai division to ply two buses of Ponmeni depot from Periyar bus stand to Tiruppachethi during lunch time. S. Saravanakumar, Tiruppachethi.   In Ramanathapuram town, electricity board periodically prunes branches of trees on the roadside so that they will not touch overhead power lines. Unfortunately, the tree branches that are cut are left on the roads, causing inconvenience to road users. I appeal to officials to ensure that the cut tree branches are cleared using a garbage truck by enlisting the cooperation of the municipality. Asmabagh Anvardeen, Ramanathapuram.   There is no blood bank at Paramakudi Government Hospital. This causes much hardship to patients. I appeal to the authorities concerned to establish a blood bank at the GH. V. Rajendran, Paramakudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-dgl/article37047402.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - City||Madurai traffic police have introduced a traffic regulation at Kalavasal junction: vehicles from Guru Theatre side of Bypass Road should use only the flyover to go to Chockalinganagar side and vice versa. The traffic police have not taken a few matters into account. For example, if a person coming from Guru Theatre side has work near Big Bazaar, he must take a left turn and go till Arasaradi signal and take a ‘U’ turn and come back to Kalavasal junction and take a left turn. Those coming from Sammattipuram Road are required to take a left turn at Kalavasal junction, go till PP Chavadi on Theni Road and take a ‘U’ turn to reach Kalavasal junction again and go towards Guru Theatre side. The Commissioner of Police must have a re-look and modify this arrangement. V. Kannan, Vilangudi   The report that a girl suffering from paralytic attack due to a rare disease, Mixed Connective Tissue Disorder, could regain strength and mobility after treatment at Government Rajaji Hospital redeems our faith in State-run hospitals. Had it been performed at a private hospital, it would have cost a fortune. As our doctors are second to none in the world in their capabilities, it is for the government to provide required infrastructure and adequate manpower at all levels so that the hospital premises are kept clean and the medical staff motivated to do their best. K. Natarajan, Tahsildar Nagar   The section of canal at the intersection near a fitness centre at Mahalaxmi Nagar on Iyer Bungalow- Moodrumavadi Road has no parapets on either side.This place poses a danger to vehicle users and pedestrians, particularly at night. Corporation authorities should look into this urgent matter and build parapets at this point before something untoward happens. V. Ilengai Arasan, Iyer Bungalow   One can see cars of ‘used vehicle’ dealers parked on the roadside in many parts of Madurai. These dealers do not care about road users and if anyone makes a complaint to the traffic police, the dealer will honour the request for a day and encroach upon the roadside again. Why not allot them space inside omni bus terminus in Mattuthavani, in the huge empty space. They can be charged monthly as per space occupied. This way there will be more space on the roadside while the Corporation can also earn some revenue. S. Bala, TVS Nagar   The TNSTC authorities must resume issuing one-day bus pass, as it was suspended in January 2018. It must be noted that such passes are being issued in other States now. Besides, after the TNSTC depot was shifted to Madappuram from Tiruppuvanam, all buses are operated towards the depot from 12.30 p.m to 2.30 p.m. So, there are no services to many villages during this time. I request the TNSTC-Madurai division to to ply two buses of Ponmeni depot from Periyar bus stand to Tiruppachethi during lunch hours. S. Saravanakumar, Tiruppachethi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-city/article37047568.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||READERS MAIL||A muddy path to a three-km stretch from Puthanampatti Perumal Kovil to Kottathur Road in Musiri Panchayat Union warrants attention of the authorities. Since the path is used daily by the farming community, it has to be black-topped. Also, a rivulet crossing the path poses problems during rainy season. The stretch requires construction of two to three culverts. At times of heavy rains, habitats remain cut-off. The local body had apparently taken note of the requirement, but there has been no remedial action. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti   Of late, cost of vegetables has skyrocketed, following escalation in prices of groceries and edible oils. The government must make sure that this rise is not caused by hoarding. Also, inspection agencies must ensure that cooking oil is not adulterated. Government must take action against hoarding and adulteration. T. M. Ranganathan Srirangam   Construction of houses seem to be in full swing now if unloading of the building materials on roadsides is any indication. In Renga Nagar where UGD work is in progress, unloading of construction materials has narrowed the space for vehicle movements. Johnson Tiruchi   In Kumbakonam, the Four Road junction is a heavy traffic zone, as it is at a vantage point for schools and hospitals. Several buses bound for Chidambaram and Mayladuthurai pass through this signal point. Due to the drainage work undertaken recently, the condition of the roads around the signal point has deteriorated. Traffic jams could be avoided if the stagnating water in the pits is cleared at frequent intervals. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram   Medical shops being run under Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Kendra scheme are patronised well by sick people especially the senior citizens, as the medicines are available at a cheaper rate for their ailments such as hypertension and diabetes. Though there are 35 such outlets across Thanjavur district, only one shop located at Thirukattupalli caters to the requirement of the public in entire Budalur taluk. Opening more outlets in the taluk will be of immense help to the public. M. Sheik Abdullah Budalur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article37047380.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||Ganga College of Nursing: Lamp Lighting Ceremony, 3 p.m.  KGiSL Institute of Technology: Students Day programme, 10 a.m.  PSG Institute of Technology and Applied Research: Workshop on “IoT - Edge ecosystem: A security Perspective”, 9 a.m.  Coimbatore Management Association: Virtual meeting for a talk on “Leveraging People Abilities for all round Prosperity”, 6.30 p.m.  Avinashilingam Institute of Home Science and Higher Education for Women: World Food Day celebrations, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article37047312.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||OCTOBER 20||Kadirnaikenpalayam sub-station (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)  Rakiapalayam, Kumarapuram, Narasimhanaikenpalayam, Bombaynagar, Teachers Colony, Ganesh Nagar, Sri Ram Nagar, Kadirnaikenpalayam, and Thoppampatti.  Kovilpalayam sub-station (9 a.m. to 2 p.m.)  Sarkarsamakulam, Kovilpalayam, Kurumbapalayam, Manikampalayam COINDIA area, Vaiyampalayam, Agraharasamakulam, Kottaipalayam, Kondaiyampalayam, Kunnathur, Kalipalayam and Mondikalipudur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/october-20/article37047320.ece
18 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Byelections not a referendum on govt.’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is facing the first-ever Assembly poll test under his leadership with the upcoming byelections, has maintained that the polls will not be a referendum on the effectiveness of his governance or the BJP’s popularity. “Such things are decided in the general elections,” he told reporters on Sunday in Haveri, en route to Hangal, where he addressed a party rally. “When Siddaramaiah was Chief Minister, the then ruling Congress won two bypolls to the Assembly. But he lost the general elections. This shows that bypolls are not indicative of party popularity,” he said. At the same time, the Chief Minister expressed confidence that the BJP would win both seats set to see bypolls. He also said that Mr. Siddaramaiah and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy were engaged in a competition to abuse the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. “They are doing it only to win over the minority vote in these elections. Their allegations against nationalist organisations such as the RSS are baseless,” he said. Mr. Kumaraswamy’s allegation that RSS-supported persons who were nominated to universities were engaged in large-scale corruption are meaningless and untrue, he added. Later, at Hangal, Mr. Bommai addressed a party workers’ rally and said voting for the BJP would lead to a new chapter of development of the taluk. The Chief Minister, who earlier called on the family members of the late C.M. Udasi, apparently to pacify them in the wake of the family not getting party ticket, showered praise on the veteran leader, whose death necessitated the bypoll in Hangal. “Mr. Udasi worked for the taluk till his last breath. He brought the government engineering college, diploma and ITI colleges to the district. He organised farmers and created awareness among them about crop insurance. The farmers in Hangal constituency are probably the largest beneficiaries of the crop insurance scheme,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/byelections-not-a-referendum-on-govt/article37047254.ece
18 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||My opposition to RSS is not a poll strategy, says Siddaramaiah||“My opposition to RSS and its divisive ideology is neither new, nor opportunistic. I have been opposing it for over 50 years now. I have been in public life since 1971 and I have always opposed them publicly. It is based on my belief in secularism and the multi-cultural character of Indian society. It is not an electoral strategy or an attempt to appease minorities,” Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah told the gathering at a byelection campaign for his party candidate in Hangal on Sunday. He was responding to allegations by some BJP leaders that Mr. Siddaramaiah’s opposition to the RSS ideology only comes before elections or that it was aimed at getting minority votes. “The BJP is inspired by the RSS ideology of communal politics. BJP leaders benefit from its hate politics. Does the BJP have one Muslim MLA anywhere in the country? [Minister] K.S. Eshwarappa has insulted the Muslim community by saying Muslims have to sweep the BJP office floor before seeking party nominations,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. He criticised the Union and State Governments for not taking steps to reduce petrol and diesel prices. Are the high prices of petrol and diesel not affecting the common man? Diesel was sold at Rs. 47 a litre when Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister. But it has crossed Rs. 100 now. Tax on diesel was Rs. 3.45 per litre then. But, now, it has risen to Rs. 31.84 per litre. If the Union and State Governments reduced taxes, the price will reduce proportionally, he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who served as Finance Minister in the past, said that Goods and Services Tax had centralised the process of tax collection and taken away the autonomy of the States. He complained that the former Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa did not attend GST Council meetings, while Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai attended them. To a query on reports of the Congress seeking his services at the national level, he said that he was not interested. “I am not interested in national politics. I am 74 years old now. I am happy being at the State level,’’ he said. He said that this was not discussed at his recent meetings with the party leadership. “I will not go to national politics, even if invited,’’ he said. “I have been a Congress Working Committee member. Those days, I had said that I am not interested in national politics. I still hold the same opinion,’’ he said. “The Congress has announced elections to the post of the AICC president post. Party leader Rahul Gandhi has also given his opinion. I have expressed my opinion that Rahul Gandhi should be the AICC president. A lot of members have expressed similar opinions,” he said. He said that the Congress had asked all leaders and workers to campaign for the party in the two bypolls. “C.M. Ibrahim is a senior leader. He may come here for campaigning. Who will stop him? Campaigning is party work. Not a personal mission of any leader,” he said, responding to Mr. Ibrahim’s comments about his participation in the party campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/my-opposition-to-rss-is-not-a-poll-strategy-says-siddaramaiah/article37047443.ece
18 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Kumaraswamy’s charge is false, baseless’||Some Muslim leaders from the Congress held a press conference in Hubballi on Sunday, to respond to the allegations made by Janata Dal(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy about Congress leadership’s attitude towards minorities. The former Minister and MLA U.T. Khader said that Mr. Kumaraswamy’s allegation that the “Congress had decimated Muslims’’ was false and baseless. The Janata Dal(S) leader is making false and baseless allegations only because he does not like Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah. There is no truth in his claims, he said at the press meet at the Press Club. Mr. Kumaraswamy has released a series of tweets making personal allegations and insulting remarks against Mr. Siddaramaiah. This is unbecoming of a former Chief Minister, Mr. Khader said. “Mr. Kumaraswamy never helped Muslims while he was the Chief Minister. Now, however, he is fielding two Muslims in the bypolls, only to help the BJP. That is why he is making false allegations against the Congress. This is nothing but opportunistic behaviour,’’ Mr. Khader said. Mr. Kumaraswamy did not induct a single Muslim Minister in his Cabinet. Neither did he release enough funds. Instead, he ensured the defeat of C.K. Jaffer Sharief’s grandson by fielding a Muslim candidate against him. His allegation that Mr. Siddaramaiah was responsible for the defeat of Mr. Sharief’s grandson is false, Mr. Khader said. Party leader Nazeer Ahmed said that Mr. Kumaraswamy was making false allegations against the Congress only to snatch away a part of its vote bank and help the BJP. “It is part of his tacit understanding with the BJP,’’ he said. Mr. Kumaraswamy did not give additional scholarships to minority students. He forgets about minorities when he is in power. He remembers them only before elections, Member of Legislative Assembly Rizwan Arshad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kumaraswamys-charge-is-false-baseless/article37047446.ece
18 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Will take call on lowering fuel tax after bypolls: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said he would take a call on reducing the tax on petrol and diesel by reviewing the financial condition of Karnataka after the bypolls to two Assembly seats. Speaking to reporters at Hubballi airport, he said there was scope for reduction of taxes if there is an improvement in the State’s financial condition. His statement comes close on the heels of diesel prices hitting Rs. 100 a litre in Bengaluru. “... the taxes on fuel are related to the economy. I have said this earlier also. We will consider lowering the taxes after a team of senior officers review the condition of the economy,” Mr. Bommai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-take-call-on-lowering-fuel-tax-after-bypolls-cm/article37047255.ece
18 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Three arrested||Belagavi Police have arrested an inter-State gang that was striking at lorries, after drugging their drivers. Abeed Khan, Ashwin Jain and Rizwan Nooruddin were arrested on Sunday. A police team traced them after a complaint by a Maharashtra lorry owner who said that these three had drugged his lorry driver and cleaner near the Chikkodi Check-post. They had made away with the container lorry carrying tyres worth Rs. 32 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested/article37047444.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA to provide space for metro, helipads, and e-charging points on proposed PRR||After several futile attempts to implement the ambitious Peripheral Ring Road (PRR), the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has once again taken a stab at the Rs. 21,000 crore project. It has started holding discussions with private agencies interested in implementing it. This time around, though, officials said the proposed 70-km project linking major highways in the city will be different from other road projects, as the development authority plans to also create supporting infrastructure. BDA chairman S.R. Vishwanath told The Hindu that to facilitate future metro networks, along the alignment on the PRR, land will be provided on the median of the road. Helipads will be built for air-ambulance services at six identified locations as well as charging points for electric vehicles at strategic points. To beautify the stretch, boulevards will be built on either side of the road. With the aim of providing an impetus for tech-hubs to be formed near PRR, the BDA will allow construction of high-rise buildings. When asked about the status of the project, Mr. Vishwanath said: “Apart from Indian firms, several international companies from Israel, Switzerland, and Turkey have shown interest in the project. We have held preliminary discussions with an Israel-based company. In the coming days, a global tender will be floated to implement the project.” He said that due to the higher cost involved in the project, the BDA is not in a position to bear the expenses. More than 2,400 acres of land would be required for the project. “The selected company will invest money for land acquisition as well as road construction. The State Government will acquire land from the owners and give it to the possession of the company for construction of the road. In return, the company will be allowed to collect toll and be awarded advertising and other revenue rights ” Project in 3 packages? The BDA is reportedly contemplating taking up the infrastructure project in three packages instead of taking up a single package from Tumakuru Road to Hosur Road. “Initially, we will float global tenders to implement the project in a single project. As the cost involved is high, we have to see the response from the companies,” Mr Vishwanath said. He added that based on the responses, a decision will be taken on whether to break it up in three packages. If the project gets implemented in three packages, the BDA will float tenders from Tumakuru Road to Ballari Road (road that connects Kempegowda International Airport); then Tumakuru Road to Old Madras Road; and Old Madras Road to Hosur Road. The issue of tender is likely to come up for discussion in the next Cabinet meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-to-provide-space-for-metro-helipads-and-e-charging-points-on-proposed-prr/article37047222.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only 1,531 registered homestays across Karnataka: Minister||Sought after tourist destinations in the State, from Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu to Hampi and Agumbe, have one more thing in common - the popularity of homestays. For travellers wishing for a home away from home, homestays are the preferred type of accommodation. And for owners of these accommodations, it is a source of income. But during the recently concluded session, the Tourism Minister, responding to a question, admitted that there are only 1,531 registered homestays in Karnataka. This has raised many questions, as the popularity and number of homestays is undeniably far higher than the admitted numbers. What has also been pointed out is just how many of these accommodations are unauthorised and how many are adhering to the rules. Ironically, the Minister’s response also denied having come across complaints of unauthorised homestays. Those in the tourism sector too admitted that not everyone wanted to fall under the government’s radar post registration. No one has the correct figure. “In Kodagu alone, there are more than 2,000 registered and unregistered homestays. Same is the case in Chikkamagaluru. There are people who don’t want to come into the picture, but are making money nevertheless,” said a homestay owner, requesting anonymity. Utham Hulikere, Chikkamagaluru District Homestays’ Association president, said in Chikkamagaluru, there are 150 association members. “We check if the guidelines are being followed. If anyone is off the line, we haven’t taken their membership,” he said. Those in the sector say hesitancy to register could be because of numerous reasons. “It may not be a recorded property; or they may not able be to provide all documents needed for a homestay licence; or they may have diverted from the plan and added more rooms. Then there are some people who don’t have these issues, but simply do not want to be in the picture as they are earning what they have to. There are some others who don’t want to deal with harassment from officials, or the taxation that comes with it,” said another Homestay Association member. But Mr. Hulikere said registration has its advantages. For one, if offers recognition on the government’s website which is usually accessed by visitors from across the world. It creates a certain confidence in the property as well as access to government schemes. Sindhu B. Rupesh, director, Tourism Department, said according to the Karnataka Tourism Trade Facilitation Act, 2015, registration is required. “Since 2016, the focus has been on registering only homestays. Now, 26 trades have been notified and all of them are supposed to register - from hotels and resorts to amusement parks and travel operators. We are working with the Karnataka Tourism Society to get more people to register. Till now, we have not had a good database of hotels from the department and we are doing that now. People who want to claim COVID-19 related benefits from the government have to register too,” she said. M. Ravi, founder member of Karnataka Tourism Society, said apart from Chikkamagaluru, Sakleshpur and Kodagu, the coastal belt too is seeing a lot of homestays coming up and doing really well. “We are encouraging more people to register, which will benefit everyone. For example, when we go for a roadshow, people who have registered will get a discount apart from other benefits,” he added.  It may not be a recorded property; or they may not able be to provide all documents needed for a homestay licence; or they may have diverted from the plan and added more rooms. Then there are some people who don’t have these issues, but simply do not want to be in the picture as they are earning what they have to. There are some others who don’t want to deal with harassment from officials, or the taxation that comes with it. Homestay Association member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-1531-registered-homestays-across-the-state-minister/article37047234.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DesignBoxed accused of expenditure inflation||DesignBoxed, a political campaign management firm working with the Congress that was recently searched by Income Tax sleuths, has been found to be allegedly indulging in inflation of expenditure, under-reporting of revenue, and unaccounted-for cash payments. A Finance Ministry release — without identifying the company — on Sunday said that a group engaged in digital marketing and campaign management was found to have inflated expenditure and under-reported revenue. The group has also allegedly been found to have indulged in unaccounted-for cash payments and booking personal expenses of the directors as business expenses in the account books. “Luxurious vehicles used by the directors and their family members are found to have been purchased in the name of employees and the entry provider,” the release stated. Income Tax officials had searched the offices of DesignBoxed on seven premises in Bengaluru, Surat, Chandigarh, and Mohali on October 12. The release stated that incriminating evidence found revealed that the group has been engaged in obtaining accommodation entries using an entry operator. “The entry operator has admitted to have facilitated transfer of cash and unaccounted-for income of the group through hawala operators.” However, the MD of DesignBoxed, Naresh Arora, in a note, alleged that the searches were “obviously political” and “part of the process of stifling the oppositionthrough state power”. He also claimed that no unaccounted-for valuables of any kind had been found and the searches were meant to target him and his colleagues because they had been working for the opposition, mainly the Congress. He said the search was an outright “abuse of tax agencies” for political gain. Bogus bills Another group, engaged in solid waste management catering to Indian municipalities, which was also searched on October 12 has been found to have indulged in booking bogus bills for expenses and sub-contracts. A preliminary estimate of bogus expenses is Rs. 70 crore, the release stated. The search also found unaccounted-for investment in property of about Rs. 7 crore. The seizure included unaccounted-for cash of Rs. 1.95 crore and jewellery worth Rs. 65 lakh.  Luxurious vehicles used by the directors of DesignBoxed and their family are found to have been purchased in the name of employees and the entry provider Finance Ministry, in a release||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/designboxed-accused-of-expenditure-inflation/article37047257.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||War of words between Siddaramaiah and Kumaraswamy continues||The war of words between two of the State’s former Chief Ministers, who are at loggerheads after the Janata Dal (S) fielded minority candidates in Hangal and Sindgi, continued on Sunday with Congress leader Siddaramaiah making a cryptic tweet over allegations thrown at him by JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy. “Hindus called Mahatma Gandhi anti-Hindu, Dalits called him anti-Dalit, and Muslims called him anti-Muslim. When critics did not spare the Mahatma, will they spare a lesser mortal like me? Sabko sanmathi de bhagavan (God bestow wisdom to all),” he tweeted. Mr. Siddaramaiah’s response came after Mr. Kumaraswamy, on Saturday, launched an indirect attack on the Congress leader, calling him “anti-Muslim” and accusing him of conducting “political genocide” of Muslim leaders in the Congress. The JD(S) leader had not taken Mr. Siddaramaiah’s name while making this attack. In recent days, the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly has come under continuous attack from Mr. Kumaraswamy. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had also attacked him for his statement that the government had handed over law and order to the RSS and was establishing “jungle raj”. Meanwhile, Mr. Siddaramaiah, who had refused to react to the accusations of Mr. Kumaraswamy on Saturday, told reporters in Hubballi that he had decided not to react. “Mr. Kumaraswamy is a hit-and-run person. He always peddles lies. I have decided not to react to his allegations. The minority leaders will tell whether I have committed fraud on minority leaders or not. I will not speak.” Furthermore, he said that the Congress office had invited all leaders to take part in the byelection campaign. “No one has asked C.M. Ibrahim not to come. He may come in the future,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/war-of-words-between-hdk-and-siddaramaiah-continues/article37047250.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four youth beat man to death, drive to police station with body to surrender||A 24-year-old garment factory supervisor was tortured and beaten to death by four men who then transported the body in an autorickshaw to the police station where they surrendered. The incident took place at Annapoorneshwari Nagar on Saturday night. Based on their confession, the police arrested auto driver Muniraju, 28, taxi driver Nagesh, 22, and their two associates Maruthi, 22, who runs an ironing shop, and Prashanth, 20, a school dropout. All four have been charged for the kidnap and murder of the victim, Bhaskar. According to the police, Bhaskar and Muniraju’s sister, Kavitha (name changed), worked at the same garment factory on Hosur Road. “He was a supervisor and Kavitha reported to him. Over a period of time, they became romantically involved with each other,” said a police officer. Around 15 days ago, Kavitha’s husband learned about their relationship. She took her two children and moved to her mother’s house in Chandrashekar Layout. On Saturday evening, Bhaskar arrived at Kavitha’s mother’s house in an autorickshaw and convinced her to come with him. He promised that he would help her find a house near the factory. “Kavitha’s son called his uncle, Muniraju, to inform him about what was happening. Enraged, the accused called three friends and drove in his auto to his mother’s house. They arrived just as Bhaskar was leaving with Kavitha and the children,” said a police officer. In his confession, Muniraju allegedly told the police that he followed Bhaskar and stopped them before they could go too far. Muniraju then brought his sister and her children back to his mother’s house. Following this, he, along with his associates, took Bhaskar in his autorickshaw and drove to an isolated area in Kebbehalla near Sunkadkatte where they confessed to beating him. “After getting him food, they took Bhaskar in the same autorickshaw back to the city but continued to beat him on the way back. One of the blows landed on the temple, and the victim collapsed,” said a senior police officer. Muniraju called his mother in panic, after which he drove the autorickshaw with Bhaskars body to the Annapurneshwari Nagar police station. They parked the auto-rickshaw at a distance from the police station. Muniraju walked to the police station and narrated all that had transpired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-youth-beat-man-to-death-drive-to-police-station-with-body-to-surrender/article37047219.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Houseful: Theatres see patrons after more than 18 months||Finally after over 18 months, films are running to packed theatres at least during the weekend, much to the relief of proprietors and the film industry. Many expressed hope that it was a sign of the beleaguered industry finally picking up. Two Kannada films starring marquee names, Kotigobba 3 with Sudeep, and Salaga starring Duniya Vijay hit the screens on Friday. They are running to packed houses not just in Bengaluru but across the State. “It had been a year and a half since we saw a ‘houseful’ board in front of our theatres. It is such an exhilarating experience to see it again. Not just in Bengaluru, even in other centres most theatres are running to full house. Both Kannada films released seem to be hits and will occupy theatres for the next three weeks,” said K.V. Chandrashekhar, president, Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association. With the number of COVID-19 cases reported from the State daily hovering below 500 for several weeks now, many film buffs made their maiden trip to the theatre over the weekend, their first since the pandemic broke out in March 2020. “While we used to watch at least a movie a week, we did not go to a theatre for the last 18 months. We finally decided to end this dry spell, and watched No Time to Die this week,” said Rakesh Kumar, software engineer and resident of Marathahalli. While being away from theatres for so many months may have pushed film buffs back to the big screen, COVID-19 safety protocols that have been put in place are also inspiring confidence among patrons. “We were asked for vaccination certificates and those who could not furnish them were not allowed in. Theatres are also insisting that everyone wear masks,” said Sandeep K. from Bengaluru. Mr. Chandrashekhar said theatres are sanitising screening halls after every show, as per the guidelines issued by the State Government. With the audience response being cheerful, the industry is preparing for a long line of big releases. These include Vikram Rana starring Sudeep and Bhajarangi 2 with Shivarajkumar in Kannada. The multi-starrer Suryavamshi with Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, and Ranveer Singh is also expected to draw in crowds. However, all hopes are now pinned on Rajinikanth’s Annaatthe slated for a Deepawali release in November first week. “A Rajinikanth film is a big event even during normal times. We hope it brings the audience back to the theatres in droves,” said a senior executive at one of the multiplex chains. “Theatres in Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra still have 50% occupancy restriction, which needs to be lifted for the film industry to return to normalcy. Once that is done, there will likely be a glut of films at the theatres,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/houseful-theatres-see-patrons-after-more-than-18-months/article37047227.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Demand for day-care centres to reopen rises||Childcare is proving to be a hurdle for parents who have been asked to report back to work. With COVID-19 cases falling and more people getting vaccinated, many firms are making it mandatory for employees to return to offices at least thrice a week. However, for nuclear families and working parents with young children, this is proving to be difficult as schools have not resumed physical classes and childcare is hard to come by. Only a handful of day-care centres have opened. Most continue to remain closed as owners and staff are wary of dealing with the consequences should a child contract COVID-19 on their premises. Running a day-care centre with just a few children as a precautionary measure against COVID-19 is not financially feasible, and we don’t want to take the risk of children contracting the virus, said many day-care centre owners. For parents, this is proving to be a problem. Sachin S., said his firm is no longer offering work-from-home as an option as all employees in his company have been vaccinated. “My wife too started going to her office premises last month. We are finding it difficult to take care of our three-and-half-a-year-old son. We have been dropping off our son to his grandparents’ house every day, but this is not a feasible option in the long run,” he said. Another parent, Vasavi M., said that although a dozen parents had petitioned the day-care centre they used before the pandemic to re-open, the owners were awaiting more clarity from the State government. But there is no clarity on which government department day-care centres fall under – the Department of Primary and Secondary Education or the Department of Women and Child Development. While pre-schools fall under the Department of Primary and Secondary Education, there continues to be ambiguity over who regulates day-care centres. In fact many schools and preschools that run day-care centres are planning to reopen these facilities by the end of the month. However, managements said they will not reopen primary classes. Pruthvi Banwasi of Karnataka Council of Pre-Schools said that this ambiguity has created confusion. “Some have reopened after taking consent letters from parents stating that they have no objection to their children attending it,” he said. Others have adopted a wait-and-watch approach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-day-care-centres-to-reopen-rises/article37047240.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Experts fear NEP’s multiple entry, exit system may increase dropouts||With the National Education Policy of India (NEP) allowing multiple entry and exits for undergraduate programmes from the 2021-22 academic year, education experts and lecturers are worried that it may encourage students to drop out midway through the programme. As per the NEP, students who sign up for UG programmes will receive a certificate if they choose to exit the course after completing the first year. Students will be awarded a diploma if they drop out after the second year. They will be awarded a degree at the end of the third year and an honors degree if they complete the fourth year. Students who drop out midway can continue their education later at any university or college and their credits can be transferred. While this move is likely to help students who want to continue their studies later, education experts and lecturers feel that it could also lead to students dropping out after the first or second year. “Students particularly from low-income families may opt to drop out after the first or second year as they will get a certificate or a diploma. Earlier, many of them would have stayed on to complete their degree as they did not want their efforts to be in vain. But now with this option, students may choose to drop out earlier,” a lecturer said. Counselling A principal of a government first grade degree college said that the Department of Higher Education must insist that students who choose to drop out undergo counselling to understand why they are taking this decision. “Lecturers should not encourage students to stop their studies midway,” the principal added. More takers K.R. Venugopal, Vice Chancellor, Bangalore University, however said that it would encourage more students to enroll for undergraduate programmes. “As students are sure they will get a certificate or diploma, many who would otherwise have not opted for higher education will be encouraged to join UG programmes,” he said, adding that these students can rejoin the programmes and complete the course when they have the means and the time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/experts-fear-neps-multiple-entry-exit-system-may-increase-dropouts/article37047245.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man robbed of Rs. 5.9 lakh by online ‘friend’||A 50-year-old man was robbed of Rs. 5.9 lakh when he went out with a female friend whom he had met online two years ago. During their first meeting, the woman along with three of her male associates kept the man prisoner in a hotel room until he wired Rs. 5.9 lakh to an account. The incident occurred last week. In his complaint, the victim said that around two years ago, he received a WhatsApp message from an unknown number. The message was from a woman and the two began chatting over the months during the pandemic. The woman claimed she lived in another city. After two years of messaging, she recently reached out to him claiming that she would be in Bengaluru and that the two should meet. The victim agreed to meet her at a hotel at Kalyan Nagar, where she was staying. “He said that when he knocked on the door, four people surrounded him, one of whom was the woman. They claimed to be police officials and said they would book him for dealing with drugs. The victim tried to reason with them, but the accused snatched his mobile phone, unlocked it. They also took his wallet and his cards, locked him inside the room and left,” said the police, By the time he was able to escape by calling room service, the gang had transferred Rs. 5.9 lakh from two of his accounts. The police are verifying the guest lists and CCTV footage in the hotel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-robbed-of-rs-59-lakh-by-online-friend/article37047224.ece
18 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BSY finalises bypoll campaign schedule||Despite his supposed unhappiness over the selection of candidate in Hangal Assembly constituency, former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is scheduled to take up campaign for the BJP’s bypoll candidates from October 20. His tour itinerary has now been finalised. Sources said the veteran leader, who so far has not hit the election trail, had to be convinced by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai who met him before making the announcement. As per the schedule released, he will take part in poll campaign on behalf of Ramesh Bhusanur in Sindgi on October 20 and 21, and for Hangal candidate Shivaraj Sajjanar on October 22 and 23. Though Hangal and Sindgi constituencies will see polling on October 30, it is the Hangal seat in Haveri district that political circles are keenly watching. With the ticket slipping away from the politically strong Udasi family, BJP sources said it has become tricky for senior party leaders, as both Mr. Bommai and Mr. Yediyurappa had favoured a member of the Udasi family for it. The MP for Haveri, Shivakumar Udasi, had sought ticket for either himself or his wife. While Mr. Bommai is keen to ensure the BJP’s victory in his home district and in his first election since taking over as Chief Minister, it has to be seen how the internal dynamics pan out before the elections, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-finalises-bypoll-campaign-schedule/article37047256.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic agencies to work together to prevent floods||Heavy rains that have been lashing the city for several days, especially in the evening, are not only exposing infrastructural problems but have also resulted in flooding in many residential areas. Chief Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta recently held a joint meeting with Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) officials to take preventive measures to avoid further instances of inundation in residential areas. Reviewing the flooding situation in Bommanahalli zone, Mr. Gupta issued directions to officials from both civic agencies to hold joint meetings at the zonal level and take up emergency measures to prevent flooding. “At several places, storm water drains are overflowing and flooding residential areas. This can be easily prevented,” Mr. Gupta said. He directed BBMP officials to review all flood prone areas and take up cleaning of drains, clear pile up of garbage, and desilt it to increase their carrying capacity. He also directed civic officials to take up building parallel drains to prevent flooding. He asked BWSSB officials to attend to places where manholes are prone to overflowing during heavy rains. As a long-term solution, Mr. Gupta said building sewage treatment plants (STPs) at all lakes is the answer to tackle the problem of flooding in residential areas. The STPS will ensure that untreated sewage is not let into the lakes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-agencies-to-work-together-to-prevent-floods/article37047223.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four killed in collision near Chikkanayakanahalli||Four people were killed on the spot and two others injured in a head-on collision between a goods vehicle and a private bus near Chikkanayakanahalli on the outskirts of Tumakuru early on Sunday. The goods vehicle, which was carrying vegetables and flowers, was headed towards Chikkanayakanahalli. “Three men and one woman in the vehicle died on the spot. The vehicle was completely damaged. Two people in the Bengaluru-bound bus were injured and are said to be out of danger,” said the police. According to the police, preliminary investigations revealed that the goods vehicle was speeding. “We have taken up a case and are investigating. The accident occurred on the bus lane,” said the police. Superintendent of Police Rahul Kumar Shahpurwad visited the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-killed-in-collision-near-chikkanayakanahalli/article37047232.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man kills wife, ends life||A couple was found dead at their rented house in Thigalarapalya on Sunday evening. The Byadarahalli police said it appeared that the man killed his wife and then ended his life. The deceased have been identified as Manjunatha, 32, who worked as a lathe machine operator, and Roja, 28. According to the police, the neighbours heard the couple fighting on Sunday and lodged a complaint with the police. When a team was dispatched to the house, they found the door locked from inside. “When we broke into the house, we found evidence of a struggle,” said a police officer.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani ph:104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-kills-wife-ends-life/article37047225.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dismissed KSRTC driver held in Rs. 15 cr. job scam||The Magadi Road police have arrested a former Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) employee for allegedly perpetuating a job scam. The accused, Manjunath Billa Nayak, had worked with the corporation as a driver before he was dismissed from service. According to the police, he cheated more than 500 people across the State to the tune of several crores of rupees. “As per the records, Manjunath was dismissed from his job for irresponsible behaviour. He hails from Hagaribommanahalli. He would target people from Ballari, Gadag, Chitradurga, and Davangere. Our probe so far reveals that he used over 100 SIMs to cheat over 500 people of Rs. 15 crore,” said a senior police officer. He convinced his victims to transfer money to the account of his associate identified as Anil, who is still at large. “Manjunath would give a commission to Anil to use his account for the transactions. Efforts are on track him,” the officer added. Based on a complaint filed by one of the people he had cheated, a team conducted an undercover operation to trap Manjunath. A police officer under the guise of a job seeker approached Manjunath and set up a meeting at a hotel in Yeshwantpur. The police are now trying to find out the trail of money he had invested. There are more people who had taken money from Manjunath promising jobs, a police officer, part of the investigation, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dismissed-ksrtc-driver-held-in-rs-15-cr-job-scam/article37047244.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||326 new cases, four deaths||Karnataka on Sunday reported 326 new cases of COVID-19. With this, the total number of positive cases rose to 29,83,459. Bengaluru Urban reported the maximum number of cases at 173, followed by Mysuru district, which registered 42. Four people – one each from Bengaluru Urban and Dharwad and two from Mysuru – succumbed to the virus. The death toll across Karnataka currently stands at 37,941. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 380 persons were discharged on Sunday, taking the recoveries to 29,36,039. The State now has 9,450 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.41%, the CFR was 1.22%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/326-new-cases-four-deaths/article37047236.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High-level meeting on Mysugar today||A high-level meeting to discuss the future prospects of the loss-making Mysore Sugar Company Ltd. in Mandya has been convened on Monday by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Elected representatives and a few farmers’ leaders have been invited to the meeting in Bengaluru. The move to privatise the nearly century-old factory, which has remained a backbone for sugar farmers in Mandya, had received flak from the JD(S) and Congress even as farmers sat on a dharna opposing the move. Mr. Bommai, who recently travelled to Mysuru to participate in the Dasara procession, had met the farmers in Mandya and assured them that a meeting would be convened soon. After controversy erupted over the privatisation move, Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani, who owns sugar factories, had assured the Legislative Council that his group would not participate in the tender process for privatisation, which he promised would be transparent. He, however, stated that privatisation was the best way to bail out the ailing factory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-level-meeting-on-mysugar-today/article37047258.ece
18 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two booked for firing in the air||The Talaghattapura police are on the lookout for a man who allegedly opened fire with his gun during a Dasara function with around a hundred people in attendance. The incident took place on Gubbalala main road on Friday. Head constable Sagar along with his colleague Naveen Kumar said Vasanth shot in the air while the crowd looked on. Mr. Sagar seized the gun along with two cartridges from Vasanth before he could fire a second round. He claimed that the gun belonged to his father. However, he escaped while being escorted to the station. According to the police, Vasanth shot in the air on the instruction of the temple priest, who is also reportedly absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-booked-for-firing-in-the-air/article37047228.ece
18 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||12 fresh cases in Shivamogga||Shivamogga reported 12 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday. Among them, six were in Shivamogga taluk, one each in Bhadravati, Thirthahalli, Sagar, and Sorab and two in Hosanagar taluk. So far 1,071 people have died in the district due to the infection. As many as 55 people are under treatment. Hassan reported 10 fresh cases on the day. Among them, three each were in Arsikere and Sakleshpur taluks, one in Channarayapatna taluk, two in Holenarsipur and one more from outside the district. So far 1,366 people have died due to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/12-fresh-cases-in-shivamogga/article37047598.ece
18 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KSE slams HDK on Ram temple funds||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa said former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has no right to demand the accounts of funds collected for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya. Speaking to presspersons in Shivamogga on Sunday, Mr. Eshwarappa said only those people who had contributed donations for the construction of the temple had rights to demand accounts. He wanted to know if Mr. Kumaraswamy had contributed money to the temple. “If Mr. Kumaraswamy had contributed money for the temple, believing that a mosque was built after demolishing a temple at Ayodhya, he should make it clear. Then he can ask for the accounts of the money collected”, he said. Answering a question, the Minister said that the BJP candidates would win both the seats going for the by-poll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-slams-hdk-on-ram-temple-funds/article37047608.ece
18 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||High Court orders status quo in KIADB land allotment case in Dharwad district||The Dharwad Growth Centre Industries Association which had objected to the allotment of land at Mummigatti-Narendra Industrial Housing Area for purposes other than industrial township has obtained interim relief with the High Court of Karnataka, Dharwad, ordering maintenance of status quo in the issue. Various industrialists who are members of the Dharwad Growth Centre Industries Association had strongly objected to the land allotment and had said that when the land earmarked for industrial township itself was inadequate, KIADB had allotted land to private parties for purposes other than industry. After its appeals to government authorities had failed, the association approached the High Court. Accepting the Writ Petition (No 103873 of 2021 GM-KIADB), a Bench headed by Justice S.R. Krishna Kumar passed the interim order directing maintenance of status quo in the land allotment issue till the next date of hearing. The Ministry of Industries, Union of India, the Principal Secretary to the Department of Commerce and Industries, Government of Karnataka, the Chief Executive Officer and Executive Member, the Joint Director, the Assistant Secretary and the Development Officer of Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) have been made respondents in the writ petition, along with Prakalpa Hospitalities and Rashtrotthan Parishat that have been allotted the land. As per the Union Government’s guidelines, 241.5 acres of land along the Dharwad-Belagavi National Highway located in Mummigatti and Narendra villages were acquired for developing industrial township for the Dharwad Growth Centre in 1994. And, during 2019-20, KIADB passed a resolution on developing residential extension in 11 acres and the work is under way. The association had objected to the allotment of various plots in the remaining 130.5 acres for purposes other than industry and despite the opposition, KIADB allotted three plots to three parties, Rashtrotthan Parishat, Prakalpa Hotel and Prakalpa Hospital, which, according to the association, has been done in clear violation of the guidelines. According to the association, residential facilities are required for nearly 10,000 industrialists and workers and even 241.5 acres was not sufficient to meet the requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-orders-status-quo-in-kiadb-land-allotment-case-in-dharwad-district/article37047450.ece
18 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Rahul wants everybody to accept his leadership’||Briefing about the developments in the recently concluded Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge has said that party leader Rahul Gandhi is ready to return as the president of the party if everybody agreed to accept his way of functioning. “A unanimous decision was taken to make Rahul Gandhi the president of the Congress. He has said that he will consider the CWC demand if everybody accepts his leadership, ideas and the way of functioning for party building,” he said, in his brief interaction with mediapersons in Kalaburagi on Sunday. The senior Congressman added that the CWC also discussed many issues, including the rising prices of fuel and other essential commodities, the controversial farm laws, deepening farm crisis and those related to Jammu and Kashmir. “We have resolved to encourage young leaders in the party, prepare the cadre for party-building and announce the party’s candidates for elections well in advance. We have also discussed steps to be taken in constituencies where the Congress lost in the last elections,” Mr. Kharge said. Holding the Union and State Governments responsible for the constantly rising fuel prices and the resultant price rise of other essential commodities, Mr. Kharge said that the prices of petroleum products can be controlled as was done during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) Government, headed by the Congress. “We, during the Congress-headed UPA Government, had controlled fuel prices despite the crude oil prices being high in the international market to ensure that petroleum products were available to people at cheaper prices. Now, the crude oil price in the international market has drastically fallen as compared to the time when the UPA was in government, yet the prices of petroleum products are skyrocketing. If the Union and State Governments reduce taxes on fuel, the prices of petroleum products could be brought down. But the BJP, which is in power both in the State and at the Centre, is not ready to do it. The rising prices of petrol and diesel will severely hit the economy as a whole with agriculture and industries being at the receiving end,” Mr. Kharge said. Hitting out at the BJP for what he called its divide and rule tactics, Mr. Kharge said that the BJP will have to face the consequences in the days to come. “Pressuring Congress leaders to join the BJP and threatening them with Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate raids if they refuse to join the BJP have become the order of the day in the BJP regime. The Congress is a century-old party and it will not budge to such threats,” he said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is an expert in getting publicity. He doesn’t hesitate to have publicity even in national security matters. The Congress never resorted to such cheap publicity. Mr. Modi and the BJP do less and get more publicity. But the Congress contrarily does more work without paying attention to publicity,” Mr. Kharge added. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson Sharan Prakash Patil, legislator M.Y. Patil, District Congress Committee president Jagadev Guttedar, party leaders Allamprabhu Patil, Tippannappa Kamaknur, Chetan Kumar and others were present.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi is an expert in getting publicity and he doesn’t hesitate to get publicity even in national security matters Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of the Opposition, Rajya Sabha   ‘A unanimous decision was taken to make Rahul Gandhi the president of the Congress and he has said that he will consider the CWC demand’ ‘CWC also discussed many issues, including the rising prices of fuel and other essential commodities, the controversial farm laws, deepening farm crisis and those related to Jammu and Kashmir’ ‘Pressuring Congress leaders to join the BJP and threatening them with Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate raids if they refuse to join the BJP have become the order of the day in the BJP regime’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rahul-wants-everybody-to-accept-his-leadership/article37047449.ece
18 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sea weed culture being promoted in a big way: Murugan||Sea weed culturing is being promoted across the country in a big way and steps are being taken to identify places in the State where such culturing units can be set up, Union Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Information Broadcasting L. Murugan said here on Sunday. Talking to reporters after visiting an ice plant and a cage aqua culture unit set up under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) here, Mr. Murugan said that sea weed culture and cage aqua culture are the new age techniques that the PMMSY is actively promoting for empowerment of fishermen, more so women. “There is a great demand for sea weed, which has medicinal properties, in India and abroad. Sea weed cultivation helps in empowerment of the fishing community, especially women,” he said. The Tamil Nadu Government has already started promoting it this year by earmarking funds. A sea weed economic park is coming up in Tamil Nadu. More such parks will be set up across the country, he added. The Union Government is working on strategies to drastically increase earning from fishing. With an eye on boasting fishing activities, the government has allocated Rs. 20,000 crore for developing, among others, landing centres, fishing harbours, processing units and cold storages. While encouraging new age fishing techniques, the government is supporting inland fishing and also keen on increasing export of fish through various projects proposed under the PMMSY. Mr. Murugan said that the Union Government is yet to decide on a proposal for increasing its component of assistance to fishermen for the manufacture of deep sea boats at the Cochin Ship Yard. Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport S. Angara and Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty accompanied Mr. Murugan.  ‘The Tamil Nadu Government has already started promoting it this year by earmarking funds and a sea weed economic park is coming up in that State, while more such parks will be set up across the country’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sea-weed-culture-being-promoted-in-a-big-way-murugan/article37047582.ece
18 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bishop launches synodal process||Bishop of Mangaluru Peter Paul Saldanha inaugurated the first phase of Synod 2021-2023 during the Eucharistic Mass held at Our Lady Holy Rosary Cathedral here on Sunday. He launched the synodal process in the diocese by unveiling the logo of the Synod, in the presence of priests, religious brothers and sisters and others gathered. The theme of the Synod depicted on the logo read: “For a Synodal Church: Communion, Participation and Mission”. In his address, the Bishop said that Pope Francis has opened a three-year synodal journey of consultations and discernment on October 9 and 10 at the Vatican, Rome. This will culminate with an assembly in October 2023 in Rome. The process includes three phases: diocesan, continental and universal. The Vatican has issued the preparatory document and a handbook (Vademecum) for dioceses as part of the global church’s preparation for the 2023 assembly of the Synod of Bishops, he said. To discuss the synodal process in the diocese, a study session for priests, religious and other leaders will be held on October 21 during the 50th anniversary of Diocesan Pastoral Council, organised at Urwa Church, the Bishop said, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bishop-launches-synodal-process/article37047579.ece
18 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Written test||A written test for recruitment of civil police constables in Dakshina Kannada will be conducted on October 24, from noon to 1.30 p.m., at Ujire. The venues will be SDM Pre-University College, SDM Degree College, SDM Post-Graduation Centre, SDM Polytechnic, SDM Institute of Technology and SDM CBSE School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/written-test/article37047583.ece
18 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Amendments to sugarcane procurement order to be opposed||The Karnataka Sugarcane Cultivators Association has opposed the proposed amendments to the Sugarcane Order, 1966, that facilitates the sugar mills to pay the farmers in instalments over 60 days. The earlier order mandated that the FRP to the farmers should be paid within 14 days of procurement of sugarcane. The order also had a provision as per which failure to comply with the 14-day deadline would result in the mills having to pay an interest of 15 per cent per annum. Opposing the amendments proposed by the Centre, Kurubur Shanthakumar, president of the association, said here on Sunday that the farmers are already in doldrums due to the delayed payment by the sugar mills. More than Rs. 600 crore was pending due to delayed payments to the farmers during the last financial year alone. Instead of supporting the farmers to get their rightful due, the government is poised to pass a law that will further delay the payment and help the mill owners but will drive farmers to desperation, said Mr. Shanthakumar. He said though the existing law provided for payment of 15 per cent rate of interest on delayed payment, it has never been invoked by the government and the new law will add to the delay. Mr. Shanthakumar said the network of sugarcane farmers association across the country have expressed its opposition to the amendment. If the Centre does not drop the proposed order the farmers will stage an agitation in front of the offices and residences of the MPs who will also be apprised of the farmers’ position and urged to oppose the changes. The association has also criticised the Centre for fixing Rs. 2,900 per tonne as the Fair and Remunerative Price for sugarcane for the current year. This is too low and does not even meet the cultivation cost which is Rs. 3,200 per ton and hence will be opposed, said Mr. Shanthakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amendments-to-sugarcane-procurement-order-to-be-opposed/article37047605.ece
18 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology setting up branch unit in Mysuru||Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, Bengaluru, will shortly set up its branch at the Super Specialty Hospital on KRS Road in Mysuru. Director of the Institute Ramachandra disclosed the plans during a meeting with Mysuru MP Pratap Simha and Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Chairman H.V. Rajeev on Saturday. “Shortly, a unit of the Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, to be set up at a cost of Rs. 250 crore on the premises of the Trauma Care Centre, will start operations”, said Mr. Simha. Dr .Ramachandra also proposed to start a cancer research centre in the city and sought an allocation of 50 acres of land for the purpose. In response, Mr. Rajeev and Mr. Simha said MUDA will consider the request. Dean of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMC&RI) Nanjaraj was presen.. The setting up of the branch in Mysuru is expected to give a boost to treatment of cancer in the city, which attracts patients from not only Mysuru, but also surrounding districts of Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Kodagu and Mandya. Also, Mysuru, according to doctors, had reported a surge in the number of cases of cancer in recent years, leading to a demand for a dedicated cancer care facility in the city. Elected representatives too had voiced the demand for setting up a cancer care facility in Mysuru on the lines of the branch of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, which has already been established and is functioning from its independent premises on KRS Road. It may be mentioned here that former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had already said that a regional cancer treatment centre will be set up in Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kidwai-memorial-institute-of-oncology-setting-up-branch-unit-in-mysuru/article37047601.ece
18 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||K.M. Cariappa’s statue installed||A life-size bronze statue of late Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa has now been installed at the junction of Jhansi Lakshmi Bai Road with Vinoba Road (Hunsur Road). The junction, which was earlier known as Metropole Circle, has already been renamed as Field Marshal K.. Cariappa Circle. Chamaraja MLA L. Nagendra unveiled the statue in the presence of former Mayor Ravikumar and representatives of Kodava Samaj, Kodava Samaja Cultural and Sports Club and other Kodava organisations. Though a bust of the late Field Marshal existed at the junction earlier, the demand for a life-size statue at the spot had been mooted a long time ago. President of VeKare Ex-Servicemen’s Trust (V-KET) and veteran Sergeant of IAF Mandetira N. Subramani said he had suggested more than 15 years ago that a life-size bronze statue of the late Field Marshal should be installed at the circle named after him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/km-cariappas-statue-installed/article37047603.ece
18 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Sale, use of toy trumpets banned||The City police has banned the sale and use of plastic toy trumpets in and around Mysuru palace after receiving complaints of the nuisance caused by its shrill sound. The blowing of the plastic toy trumpets by youngsters in and around the palace and on the illuminated streets of the city had become a source of nuisance to the tourists and other visitors. After receiving complaints in the regard, City Police Commissioner Chandragupta has banned their use and asked officials to ensure that the ban is effectively implemented. On Saturday, the police officials seized more than 200 toy trumpets. It may be mentioned here that the toy trumpets had similarly caused nuisance when the Mysuru district administration had earlier organised the Open Street Festival. A large number of youths were blowing them on D. Devaraj Urs Road, where the event was held, forcing the authorities to ban them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sale-use-of-toy-trumpets-banned/article37047607.ece
18 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CIPET extends last date for admission||The Central Institute of Petrochemicals Engineering and Technology (CIPET), Mysuru, has extended the last date for direct admission to job-oriented diploma courses to October 20. It conducts AICTE-approved job-oriented diploma courses and progammes in various disciplines in polymer/petrochemicals engineering and technology such as Diploma in Plastics Mould Technology (DPMT) and Diploma in Plastics Technology (DPT) besides Post-Graduate Diploma in Plastics Processing and Testing. The extension is as per government guidelines for the benefit of students of Karnataka, who have appeared/passed SSLC, PUC (Science), ITI (Fitter, Turner and Machinist) and BSc for taking direct admission. Contact 9791431827/9480253024, 9141075968 or website: cipet.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cipet-extends-last-date-for-admission/article37047596.ece
18 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Last date for registration of voters||The last date for receipt of applications for registration in the electoral rolls for Karnataka South Graduates’ constituency is November 6. A note from the office of the Regional Commissioner, Mysuru, who is also the Electoral Registration Officer, Karnataka South Graduates’ constituency, said all the persons entitled to be registered should send their applications in application form No. 18 appended to the Registration of Electors Rules 1960. The details are also available on the website of the Chief Electoral Officer, Karnataka, at www.ceokarnataka.kar.nic.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/last-date-for-registration-of-voters/article37047597.ece
18 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||JSS STU VC honoured for role in technical education research||Vilas V. Karjinni, Vice-Chancellor of JSS Science and Technology University, Mysuru, was honored at Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) 50th annual convention award function held at Mumbai, recently. He was awarded for his contribution in technical education research, institution capacity building and socially relevant development activity and industry-institute collaborations, a release said. Udhav Thackeray, Chief Minister of Maharashtra, handed over the award. Pratapsinh Desai , President, ISTEm and others were present. ISTE has more than 1,28,500 technical teachers as active members, 5,35,000 student members, more than 2,740 institutional members (including IITs, IISc., NITs and other leading technical institutions), 1,414 faculty chapters and 1,505 students’ chapters at the national level and 19 sections at the State level. The major objective of the ISTE is to provide quality training programmes to teachers and administrators of technical institutions to update their knowledge and skills in their fields of activity and to assist and contribute in the production and development of top quality professional engineers and technicians needed by the industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jss-stu-vc-honoured-for-role-in-technical-education-research/article37047599.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Photos of policemen in saffron attire kick up a political storm||The police personnel in these police stations had shed their khaki uniform to don the saffron on Vijayadashami day. While personnel in Vijayapura wore a saffron shawl, at Kaup police personnel they wore a saffron shirt. “After the Chief Minister justified hooliganism as reaction to an action, it seems the police have locked up the law in the police station and have taken to the streets to bring jungle raj. It is better for the public to remain at home for their safety,” he said. Further, he stated: “On the one hand, police illegally harass youth and on the other a legislator storms into a police station to get the accused released. Elsewhere, tridents are distributed openly and calls are given for violence. All these get open support from the Chief Minister. Is there governance in the State?” A police officer from Vijayapura said that such Vijayadashami celebrations were held in several police stations. The Superintendent of Police attended the celebrations in the rural police station. Other officers attended the celebrations in other stations, the senior officer said. He, however, declined to react to the comments the pictures had received on social media. N. Satish Kumar, IGP, Northern Range, said that he would look into the issue and see if any service rules were violated. Kaup incident Coming to the support of the police, Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat tweeted that on special occasions the police do wear traditional dress. In terms of uniformity, all have worn similar coloured dress. If its ‘kesari’ what is wrong in it. Taking on Mr. Siddaramaiah, Mr. Bhat said: “You have displayed sword on Tipu Jayanti. You have also worn traditional cap when you visited mosques. And you call this religious harmony and secular conduct. People like you, who are in responsible position, should see everybody in equanimity.” A senior police official from Udupi, who did not want to be quoted, told The Hindu that usually police do wear traditional dress on special occasions and Kaup police has done the same on Ayudha Pooja day. There is nothing amiss in dress they wore, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/photos-of-policemen-in-saffron-attire-kick-up-a-political-storm/article37047238.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Risky journey||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/risky-journey/article37047230.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Showcasing creativity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/showcasing-creativity/article37047448.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||The tone and tenor of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s recent sharp rebuttal to Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah caught many people by surprise. Accusing the former Chief Minister of “getting Hindus killed” and “being deaf, dumb and blind to the killing of Hindus”, Mr. Bommai sent out a series of tweets using very crass and acerbic language, something he is not known for. An apparently surprised Mr. Siddaramaiah tweeted in return, “I did not expect you to speak like loudmouths ( koogu maari ) of your party.” He even said the Chief Minister’s tweets had enough material to warrant a defamation case. When asked about the trading of barbs online, Mr. Bommai brushed it aside and said, “These things happen on Twitter.” It is well known in political and media circles that none of the prominent political leaders handle their Twitter accounts themselves. It is usually handled by media teams or party workers. “Many times, the leaders only clear the content of their tweets, but gaffes can happen if those actually composing the tweets are not conscious of their language, tone and tenor. The recent tweets by the Chief Minister were uncharacteristic of him and raised eyebrows. Many times, it is the social media teams battling it out on Twitter,” said a man who was formerly in charge of social media for a party.   The scaled-down Dasara celebrations and a truncated Jamboo Savari in Mysuru offered the people’s representatives as well as officials a rare opportunity to display their hidden talents. Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, who is also in charge of Mysuru district, was in his element on Vijayadashami day when he set aside protocol to join the folk artists and perform with them on the Mysuru palace premises (in picture) . As if dancing to the musical tunes of folk instruments was not enough, he also beat drums and cymbals himself. Joining Mr. Somashekar briefly was the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru, Bagadi Gautham. After the conclusion of Dasara, when Mr. Somashekar was expecting a pat on the back for organising the festivities in a meaningful manner despite the limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic, he received compliments for his talents as a folk artist rather than his organisational capabilities from no less than former Minister G.T. Deve Gowda, who himself had not hesitated to run and stumble at the Dasara half-marathon when he was in charge of the district in 2018. K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj Laiqh A. Khan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article37047252.ece
18 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Floodwaters enter Kuttanad||Though rainfall almost subsided in Alappuzha, an increase in flow of water from the eastern side resulted in the flooding of low-lying areas on Sunday. Swelled up rivers including Pampa, Manimala, and Achencoil breached their banks at several places in Kuttanad, Chengannur, Mavelikara and Karthikappally taluks. Floodwaters have entered a number of houses in Thalavady, Neerattupuram, Thakazhi, Muttar, Edathua, Veeyapuram, and Pallippad in Upper Kuttanad. Water also entered the Chakkulathukavu Bhagavathy temple. Parts of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road, Ambalappuzha-Thiruvalla road, and several rural roads remain waterlogged. Thirty families of Kuthirachal Puthuval colony at Thalavady, who were trapped after floods inundated the surroundings, were rescued by volunteers and Fire and Rescue Services personnel. The families were later shifted to a relief camp opened at Chakkulathukavu auditorium. In view of the rising water level, several families in Kuttanad have moved to safer places. With the water flow through the rivers expected to increase further due to heavy downpours in the neighbouring districts in recent days, the district administration has made all necessary arrangements to deal with any exigency. Emergency situation In case of an emergency situation, bedridden patients in Kuttanad will be shifted to Alappuzha Town Hall. Changanassery Town Hall in Kottayam will be used to house people from the eastern parts of the Kuttanad taluk. In Chengannur, several houses in Pandanad, Mulakuzha, Venmony, Edanad, Mangalam, Angadikkal, Puthencavu, and Keezhcherimel have been inundated. People living in low-lying areas and prone to flooding were shifted to safer places. The district administration has so far opened 16 relief camps in the taluk and shifted 552 people of 166 families there. Waterlogging has also been reported from several places in Mavelikara and Cherthala taluks. The rain has resulted in crop loss in different parts of the district. Several paddy fields in Kuttanad remain submerged and floodwaters are threatening to wash away the second crop in its entirety. Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian has chaired a meeting and reviewed the situation. As of Sunday evening, the administration has opened 27 relief camps in different parts of the district and shifted 1,279 people from 358 families there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/floodwaters-enter-kuttanad/article37047545.ece
18 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Six more bodies recovered in Idukki||Rescue workers on Sunday recovered the bodies of six persons who were missing following a major landslip at Kokkayar, on the border of Idukki and Kottayam districts, on Saturday evening. Seven persons were missing from the landslip-hit area at Poovanchi, near Kokkayar. The bodies of Shaji Chirayil, 55; Cheripurathu Fousia, 28; her son Ameen Siyad, 7, and daughter Amna Siyad; Kallupurackal Afsan Faisal, 8; and Ahiyan Faisal, 4; were recovered. The body of Vadasheril Joji, 44, was recovered from Peruvanthanam on Saturday. With this the total number of deaths in the district due to flood and landslips rose to nine. The bodies of two persons who drowned when a car got washed away in the flash flood were recovered from Munnunkavayal, near Kanjar, on Saturday. A joint search operation by the National Disaster Response Force, Fire and Rescue Services personnel and local people recovered the bodies from the Kokkayar. The bodies were shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, for post-mortem examination. Rescue works at the landslip site by local people on Saturday had to be suspended due to bad weather. Tragic scenes were witnessed at the landslip site on Sunday. The bodies of three children, Amna, Afsan and Ahiyan, were found hugging each other. Revenue Minister K. Rajan, Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine, Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose, District Development Commissioner Arjun Pandiyan and Peerumade MLA Vazhoor Soman led the search operations. Rain subsides Rain subsided in the district on Sunday. Peerumade taluk received the highest rainfall of 305.5 mm on Saturday. This was the highest rainfall in the State in recent times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-more-bodies-recovered-in-idukki/article37047523.ece
18 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki dam water closer to orange alert level||Water in the Idukki reservoir is reaching near to the orange-alert level. As per the data available at 4 p.m. on Sunday, the water level was only less than a foot below the orange-alert level. The data released by the Dam Monitoring and Research Station said the water level reached 2,395.96 ft at 4 p.m. where as the orange alert level is 2,396.86 ft and the red alert level is 2,397.86 ft. An official of the Kerala State Electricity Board said rainfall had come down on Sunday. However, there was good inflow through the Periyar. The shutters of smaller dams, including Malankara, remained open on Sunday. The shutters of Kallarkutty and Lower Periyar also remained open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-dam-water-closer-to-orange-alert-level/article37047522.ece
18 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad farmer comes out with ‘paddy art’ on Buddha||Praseed Kumar Thayyil, a progressive farmer from Wayanad district, has showcased his new rice paddy art, an image of Buddha, with varying hues of rice varieties on a huge canvass that is his farmland. The Japanese art form called Tanbo Art, or Rice Paddy Art, makes use of thousands of rice shoots strategically grown to produce a 3D art form. Mr. Kumar says he created the work on 30 cents of his 2.5 acres of paddy field at Kazhambuvayal near Nambikolly under the Nenmeni Krishi Bhavan in the district to sensitise youths to take up agriculture as profession. He has also cultivated 52 varieties of rice plants with medicinal properties, collected from various parts of the country, in the remaining area of the land. For the paddy artwork, he has used four varieties of rice plants such as Nazar Bath, a variety with purple leaves, Rakthasali, Chinnar, and Jeerakasala, varieties with dark and light greenish leaves, to create the 3D image. While Nazar Bath was procured from Maharashtra, the Chinar variety was sourced from Tamil Nadu, Rakthasali from Kollam and Jeerakasaala, an endemic aromatic rice variety, from Wayanad itself. Mr. Kumar says that the modern generation is gradually detached from agriculture, especially from rice cultivation, perhaps due to the high input and low returns. Tourism prospects Farmers in Japan and China began using paddy art to beautify their fields some three decades ago. It attracted tourists, and the farmers earned a good income from tourism, besides returns from rice cultivation, he points out. “Wayanad, a hill station, is emerging as a major tourism destination in the country. If the farmers in the district can attract tourists to their paddy fields, they can also earn a better income,” he says. Visitors He claims that on average, more than 50 visitors, including students, farmers and tourists from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, visit his site every day. This is the fifth consecutive year that Mr. Kumar is creating artworks on his rice field. He has spent nearly Rs. 10,000 for the art. S. Prasad, an artist from Sulthan Bathery, drew the outline with the assistance of 15 workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-farmer-comes-out-with-paddy-art-on-buddha/article37047504.ece
18 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Fish, dairy industry waste can enhance microalgae biomass production: researchers||At a time when algae researchers around the world are striving to develop cheaper nutrient sources for large-scale production of microalgae, a group of research students from the Phytoscience Laboratory, Central University of Kerala (CUK), Kasaragod, has established that wastewater from fish and dairy industries act as suitable nutrient resource to increase algal biomass production and enhance algae-based bioproducts. Microalgae have attracted considered interest worldwide due to their extensive application potential in the renewable energy, biopharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries. The research was carried out by a team comprising K. Arunkumar, Professor and Head of the Department of Plant Science, CUK; and research students Vidya D., Nayana K., Sreelakshmi M., Keerthi K.V., and Sneha Mohan. Ms. Vidya said that in Kerala, the average fish production was 5.4 lakh tonne and dairy production 4.6 billion litres per year. The lack of a proper system of wastewater treatment results in the discharge of untreated waste into water bodies and land, resulting in severe pollution and contamination issues. “Utilisation of waste by understanding its actual value reduces the additional cost of pre-treatment and opens the way to global cleanliness. Microalgae have the ability to absorb organic and inorganic nutrients from these waste for their growth and production of high-value products,” Ms. Vidya said. She said that unlike previous studies by researchers, who had used Scenedesmus and Chlorella microalgae, the CUK team had utilised five commercially important microalgae, including Chlorella Coelastrella, Haematococcus, Dunaliella, andChroococcus, for the breakdown of nutrients in the dairy and fish waste water. “The study found that the process not only provides efficient and cost-effective wastewater treatment, but also that algae biomass grown during this water treatment process could be used as a source of protein, carbohydrate, pigment, or biofuel production”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fish-dairy-industry-waste-can-enhance-microalgae-biomass-production-researchers/article37047502.ece
18 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Soon, help desk for transpeople||In a first-of-its-kind initiative, the Social Justice Department in association with the Ernakulam Welfare Services, Sahrudaya, is gearing up to set up an exclusive help desk for the transgender community in the city. The facility is likely to turn operational at Ernakulam North next month. It assumes significance in the wake of three alleged suicides among the transgender community in the district since March this year. A partner of the victims also reportedly died by suicide. ‘Attention needed’ “The community needs individual attention on a daily basis and psycho-social intervention to address the diverse issues they face. They also need support to secure various benefits, including transgender cards, and to deal with atrocities like alleged fake cases foisted on the community members,” said K.K. Subair, District Social Justice Officer. The proposed help desk will function between 10 a.m and 5 p.m. It will be managed by a seven-member team, comprising a social worker, councillor, doctor, and a medical officer among others. As of now, the community has no such facility to fall back on or for regular follow-up in the event of any need other than the district Social Justice Department office and a shelter dedicated to the community. “Transpeople qualified for the job will indeed be given preference in running the help desk. Among other things, the help desk will also tend to create awareness among the larger public since the lack of societal acceptance remains a major problem faced by the community,” said Fr. Jose Koluthuvellil of Sahrudaya. Such a facility is particularly significant in the city considering that Ernakulam has one of the largest openly declared transgender communities in the State. It also plays host to community members from across the State and even outside. The city had recently played host to a day-long workshop of transpeople. An institutional mechanism to address their various problems and offer counselling was one of the demands raised at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soon-help-desk-for-transpeople/article37047518.ece
18 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||LDF to form human chain against alienation of port land||The Ernakulam District Committee of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has decided to form a human chain on October 18 between 5 p.m. and 5.10 p.m. from the Thoppumpady BOT bridge and Venduruthy bridge to raise awareness about protecting business at the Cochin Port Trust and preventing alienation of port land. A communication from committee convenor George Edaparathy said on Sunday that the decision to form the human chain was taken at a meeting held at Lenin Centre. Though it was promised that the opening of the Vallarpadam International Container Transshipment Terminal (ICTT) would result in transshipment business from Colombo coming to Kochi, the projections have not been realised. There has been appropriation of property of the port. The communication said hundreds of workers would join the human chain. CPI(M) district secretary C.N. Mohanan will open the protest. There will be a public meeting in front of the Cochin airport. Meanwhile, the All India Youth Federation (AIYF) has demanded that the Centre intervene to protect the port. A communication from the AIYF said the ICTT had not created the promised number of jobs. It alleged that the Centre’s policies would help sell off real estate belonging to the port.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-to-form-human-chain-against-alienation-of-port-land/article37047516.ece
18 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Now, a trip to Russia for globetrotting tea-seller couple||For those who have not heard about the couple Vijayan and Mohana, the banner in front of their unassuming coffee shop next to Salim Rajan Road at Gandhi Nagar in Kochi may appear intriguing. It declares that the shop will remain closed from October 21 to 28 as the couple will be away on a trip to Russia. But, it hardly evokes curiosity among locals, as they know that it is just another foreign trip for the globetrotting tea-seller couple, who have visited 25 countries across six continents in the past 14 years. “We will be visiting Moscow and St. Petersburg in the week-long visit. Russia is a country that has always fascinated me right from the Soviet Union era. It is the land of the bloody October Revolution and of people who suffered not just at the hands of occupants but also that of their own rulers,” said Mr. Vijayan. The trip would have happened last year if not for the pandemic. The couple took bank loans to fund their initial trips and repaid them from what little they could save from the coffee shop. They run the shop alone and leave for themselves the daily wages, which they would have had to pay had they engaged others. But, as the number of trips increased, so did the loan, which last year stood at around Rs. 4 lakh. However, as their fame spread, they started getting sponsors to the point that they need not have to pay for their trips any longer. Their last trip to Australia and New Zealand was sponsored and so is their latest trip to Russia, which is being funded by a travel agency. Unlike their past trips, this time they will be accompanied by their two daughters and their families who, however, will have to fund the trip on their own. “It will take around Rs. 13.50 lakh, which they will raise by taking loan from their provident fund or pawning their ornaments,” said 71-year-old Mr. Vijayan, who considers life as countless journeys strung together. He also has a trip to Singapore lined up to inaugurate the office of a travel agency, of which he is the brand ambassador, a role for which he is being paid. Japan is where he wants to head next followed by Vietnam and Cambodia with his 69-year-old wife who is also enthusiastic about travelling. The couple brought out a book last year, Chaaya Vittu Vijayanteyum Mohanayudeyum Loka Sancharangal , which loosely translates into ‘The global tours of Vijayan and Mohana by selling tea’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-a-trip-to-russia-for-globetrotting-tea-seller-couple/article37047520.ece
18 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NBFGR inks deal with Chennai oceanarium||The ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources (NBFGR) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with VGP Marie Kingdom, Chennai, a pioneer in operating oceanariums in the country, for marketing captive-raised marine ornamental shrimps. The MoU follows the NBFGR setting up a germplasm resource centre for marine ornamental invertebrates at Agatti, which is part of the Lakshadweep group of islands. The germplasm centre was the first-of-its-kind venture in the country, said NBFGR sources. The NBFGR is an institute working on fish genetic resources of the country for intellectual property protection and sustainable utilisation. After the germplasm centre was established, the NBFGR had given hands-on training to 45 women of Agatti. It was followed by establishing community aquaculture centres. The units were supplied with captive-raised shrimps. Twenty beneficiaries in the programme reared the ornamental shrimps for two months, and they have now reached marketable size, and the MoU is for direct procurement of the captive-raised shrimps from the beneficiaries. The captive-raised shrimps will be displayed at the souvenir shop attached to the oceanarium of the company in Chennai for marketing purposes, NBFGR sources added. They also said that explorations conducted by the NBFGR team off the different islands of Lakshadweep yielded many ornamental shrimps, which included some hitherto unknown varieties. It was then decided that captive propagation techniques would be adopted for selective shrimps, based on the commercial value of the species in aquarium trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nbfgr-inks-deal-with-chennai-oceanarium/article37047512.ece
18 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Postal cover to honour Chendamangalam weavers||The Postal Department has honoured hundreds of weavers under the brand Chendamangalam Handloom with a postal cover that was unveiled recently. The special postal cover, priced at Rs. 20, is a celebration and recognition of the handloom variety gaining a place in the Geographical Indication Registry 10 years ago, said Ajitkumar Gothuruth of Karimpadam Cooperative Handloom Weavers’ Society. He added that the release of the postal cover was a special recognition for traditional weavers. According to Mr. Gothuruth, the handloom sector in the area was in severe crisis, and that the number of weavers had dropped to around 500 from the previous 5,000. For the record, the Chendamangalam handloom was one of the worst affected by the August 2018 floods. Since then, weavers have been struggling to make both ends meet, as there was another wave of floods in 2019, which was followed by the pandemic and the resultant freeze on sales for two years, Mr. Gothuruth said. He called upon the government to come up with incentives to attract fresh hands into the sector, as more and more people were abandoning it.  The handloom sector is in severe crisis, and the number of weavers has dropped to around 500 from the previous 5,000 Ajitkumar Gothuruth Karimpadam Weavers’ Society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/postal-cover-to-honour-chendamangalam-weavers/article37047519.ece
18 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Easing in Ernakulam||Kochi heaved a collective sigh of relief following a let-up in the rain situation on Sunday. Sun shone bright during the first half of the day in Ernakulam even as rain battered other parts of the State. It rained in some areas of the city for a short duration late in the evening. Kochi remained more or less free of flooding this time as flood management efforts proved effective. There was respite from rain in Aluva, Kanayannur and Kochi taluks till 5 p.m., while Paravur and Kunnathunad taluks received rain for some time during the day. Water level up The water level at the Idalamalayar dam shot up to 164.65 metres, while the maximum capacity of the dam is 169 metres. Since October 1, the district has received 60% excess rain. It rained 390.1 mm against the average of 177.1mm, according to the authorities. Five flood relief camps are operational in Aluva, Muvattupuzha, Kochi and Kothamangalam taluks. As many as 95 persons have been shifted to the camps, according to the district authorities. Crop loss was also reported in some parts of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-situation-eases-in-district/article37047515.ece
18 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||975 more test positive||A total of 975 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 9.26%. Among the patients, two had arrived from outside the State, while 952 persons contracted the infection through local contacts. Nine health workers have also tested positive. As many as 1,671 persons recovered from the infection and 10,528 samples were sent for testing on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/975-more-test-positive/article37047513.ece
18 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cocaine seized, two arrested||Sleuths from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) arrested two women from Nigeria on Sunday after the seizure of 530 grams of cocaine. The carrier has been identified as a 21-year-old woman, who arrived at the Cochin International Airport from Lagos via Doha in a Qatar Airways flight on Saturday, it is learnt. The parcel of cocaine was hidden in the false bottom of the woman’s baggage. Seizure kept secret Another Nigerian woman, residing in Mumbai, was identified as the collaborator of the cocaine carrier and she was arrested from Ernakulam Junction railway station after she arrived to meet the carrier on Sunday. The DRI sleuths kept the seizure of the drug concealed to draw the collaborator, it is learnt. Remanded They were produced before a magistrate, who has remanded them in 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/530-grams-of-cocaine-seized-two-arrested/article37047505.ece
18 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||125 persons shifted to relief camps in Kollam||The district administration has shifted a total of 125 persons to five relief camps opened in various parts of Kollam following incessant rains. At present, 33 families that include 52 women, 50 men and 23 children have been evacuated from inundated parts and areas prone to severe waterlogging. While large-scale crop damage has been reported from many regions including villages on the bank of Ithikkara river, seven houses were completely destroyed in the rains. The number of houses that suffered partial damage is 140 and the district has incurred a loss of Rs. 7 lakh so far. While the shore was battered by strong waves in many parts, roads remained inundated despite a visible decrease in rain intensity on Sunday. Overcast sky Most parts of the district had an overcast sky and sporadic drizzle, though moderate to heavy rain was reported from eastern regions. A special team has been deployed for security and rehabilitation activities along the coast. Camps are being opened as needed in the eastern region and other distressed areas. The shutters of Thenmala dam are being opened slowly to minimise the flooding in river banks and low-lying areas. Food was delivered to 60 isolated families residing on the shore of Achankovil river and arrangements have been made to ensure their safety. Power outages in various areas are being restored and according to officials, out of the 1,600 complaints received in a single day, 90% were resolved. Traffic restricted Traffic was restricted on the Ayur-Anchal road and precautionary measures have been taken in view of possible landslides on the Kollam-Shencottai highway. Considering the emergency situation, the authorities have imposed a two-day ban on the entry to all tourist places. The district administration has opened 24-hour control rooms at the district headquarters and all taluks for coordinating relief activities. Public can contact the control rooms by dialling 0474-2794002, 2794004 (Kollam Collectorate), 0474-2742116 (Kollam taluk), 0476-2620223 (Karunagappally taluk), 0474-2454623 (Kottarakara taluk), 0476-2830345(Kunnathoor taluk), 0475-2350090 (Pathanapuram taluk), and 0475-2222605 (Punalur taluk).  A special team has been deployed for security and rehabilitation activities along the coast||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/125-persons-shifted-to-relief-camps-in-kollam/article37047546.ece
18 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Balagopal, Chinchu Rani review arrangements at relief camp||Ministers K.N. Balagopal and J. Chinchu Rani on Sunday visited the relief camp functioning at Government High School, Koyikkal, to assess the arrangements. All the camps in the district are operating in complete in adherence with COVID-19 protocol and the officials have been instructed to ensure medicine and the service of experts. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said steps would be taken on a war footing to repair the roads washed away in the rains. “Data on houses damaged in the rain is being collected and compensation will be provided. Protective walls will be constructed in the areas that have been reporting recurrent flooding,” he said. Ms Chinchu Rani said relief measures focusing on the safety of people was being carried out. “Maximum people have been evacuated from the flooded areas to safer places. The cooperation and participation of the public is essential in the situation,” said the Minister who also urged the people’s representatives and local body officials to join hands in the disaster-hit areas. District Collector Afsana Parveen said that steps had been taken to ensure safety in coastal areas if the water level in Kallada river rose. “Flood-prone areas are under special surveillance and teams led by tahsildars are on duty 24 hours a day,” she said. Seven fishing boats from the district were transported to neighbouring Pathanamthitta for rescue operations in flooded parts. “Twenty more boats and fishers have expressed willingness to participate in rescue operations and they will be deployed as required,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/balagopal-chinchu-rani-review-arrangements-at-relief-camp/article37047548.ece
18 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||604 test positive in Kollam||Kollam reported 604 new cases of COVID-19 and 549 recoveries on Sunday. While 595 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include two persons from other States and seven health workers. At present, the district has 20,655 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 24,90,356. While 904 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 3,92,400 primary and 21,242 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 12.5 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/604-test-positive-in-kollam/article37047550.ece
18 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||15th anniversary of rehabilitation centre observed||Goa governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai on Sunday inaugurated the 15th anniversary celebrations of the rehabilitation centre for differently abled at Gandhibhavan, Pathanapauram. District panchayat president Sam K. Daniel presided over the function and Gandhibhavan secretary Punalur Somarajan welcomed the gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/15th-anniversary-of-rehabilitation-centre-observed/article37047547.ece
18 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Death toll in Kottayam rises to 13||About 24 hours after a series of landslips hit the villages on the Kottayam-Idukki border on Saturday, the death toll in rain-related incidents in the district rose to 13 with rescue workers recovering more bodies from the mud, tree trunks and debris that covered the region. As per official records, the landslip at Kavali claimed the lives of six members of a family while the disaster that struck Plappally claimed four lives. Three others from Valyentha, Ilamkadu and Kanjirappally lost their lives after being caught in heavy currents. The bodies that were taken to the Government Medical College Hospital here and the Kanjirappally taluk hospital were handed over to relatives after post-mortem examination. Eyewitnesses’ accounts suggested that heavy rain, purportedly triggered by a mini-cloudburst, caused the Pullakayar river, which courses down the Koottickal and Kokkayar villages to burst its banks. The torrent of mud, water and debris unleashed on the village swept away the six-member family of Ottalunkal Martin, including his wife Sini Martin, 45, three daughters Sona, Sandra and Sneha, and Claramma, 55. Other persons who were killed were identified as Sisily, 50, Roshni Venu, 48, Allen Jobi, 14, Sonia Jobi, 45, Sarasamma Mohan, 62, Rajamma, 64 and Shallet, 29. Revenue Minister K. Rajan announced a financial assistance of Rs. 4 lakh to the family members of the deceased. Arrangements have been made to provide treatment to those injured. The rescue-and-relief operations, which had been suspended following bad light and inclement weather on Saturday evening, resumed by 8 a.m. on Sunday. The searches were led by a combined team of the National Disaster Response Force, the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services and local residents. The deluge had destroyed several houses, pulled trees out by their roots, and washed vehicles away. With the run-off water and mud sweeping through most of the houses in the village, several residents were evacuated and shifted to relief camps. Restoration work The landslip caused power-supply disruption and destroyed the area’s freshwater network. A total of 2,146 members from 548 families have been shifted to 35 relief camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-toll-in-kottayam-rises-to-13/article37047525.ece
18 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mud deluge leaves several homeless in Koottickal||Sixty eight-year-old Muhammad Aslam last saw his two-storey house the day fierce rain unleashed havoc on his village surrounded by hills and the Pullakayar river on the foothills of the Western Ghats. From what he has been able to gather, the torrents of mud, water and debris unleashed on the village on Saturday, swept away the structure he called home. His searches to find it at Koottickal Chappath, where it had stood earlier, have been without success ever since. “As the water level began rising, I along with my wife Seenath moved to another house of my relative but the water chased us there too. When we came back in the morning, we could see nothing but a heap of debris at the location where my home stood,” said Mr. Aslam. He is not the only person in the village who desperately searches for his home. Rasheed, whose house was located near the Chappath, Rishitha who had escaped the flood waters with her bed-ridden mother on the shoulders, or K.M. Shahul of Kochalumoottil all have similar experiences to narrate. “I looked out the window and there were no more homes and had to runaway with empty hands,” said Mr. Shahul. Having been accommodated in a rescue camp, they spent the night hoping to find someone with information about their loved ones. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the officials also worked to organise socially distanced relief camps, though with little success. On Sunday, some of them scrambled over the unstable terrain to rescue possessions from the muck, but the rescue personnel asked them to stay away. While the government agencies are yet to complete assessment of the total losses, preliminary reports suggested that houses located within a two-kilometre stretch on the banks of the Pullakayar river were destroyed with the water level rising upto 15 feet. The heavy rain and landslides were also reported to have caused flash floods in the Thalunkal, Yendayar and Kokkayar rivers, the tributaries of the Pullakayar. Hundreds from Kodunga, Ilamkadu, and Koottikkal Chappath have been shifted to the relief camps opened at St Mary’s School, Koottikkal, and JJ Murphy School, in Yendayar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mud-deluge-leaves-several-homeless-in-koottickal/article37047552.ece
18 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Army, navy join rescue, relief ops||Based on a request from the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA), a helicopter from Naval Air Station, INS Garuda, was deployed to drop relief materials at Koottickal in Kottayam and Kokkayaar in Idukki. An official statement said the Indian Navy also ferried relief materials, including water bottles, from the Southern Naval Command resources to the nearest helipad at JJMM HS School at Yendayar. The helicopter undertook aerial sorties to assess the status of the floods and landslips for authorities to plan any land-based search and rescue operations. On standby At present all air assets, rescue teams, and team of naval divers are kept on standby to assist civil administration at short notice, it said. Three columns deployed by the Indian Army have been at the forefront of the rescue and relief operations. An army team of 40 personnel was the first rescue team to be deployed at Kavali village, near Koottickal. Braving the harsh and inclement weather conditions, the team recovered three bodies from the debris. Valuables salvaged Engaging in recovery operation after the landslip was cleared, the team salvaged large quantities of gold and expensive accessories and these were handed over to the district administration. The team has also been clearing and regulating traffic and diverting the flow of water into streams to ensure unhindered movement of rescue materials. Another army column from the Defence Security Corps (DSC) Centre in Kannur, which was equipped with engineering and medical products, reached Wayanad to launch rescue operation. A specialist Engineering Task Force (ETF) under Headquarters Dakshin Bharat Area was also deployed in Mundakayam and Koottickal from Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/army-navy-join-rescue-relief-ops/article37047527.ece
18 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rain subsides in Kozhikode district||Despite the incessant rain in southern parts of Kerala, Kozhikode district did not record much rainfall on Sunday, and except for a few incidents, the situation has been normal. The Meteorological Department has issued a yellow alert for the district. The District Disaster Management Authority has informed that there is no need to panic, but people should stay alert. A child died at Eramala after he fell into a swollen stream by accident. The deceased has been identified as one-and-a-half-year-old  Mohammed Reyhan who had followed his brother without the latter noticing him on Sunday morning. The house of Suresh at Kalpathur was damaged in lightning, and the loss was estimated at around Rs. 10,000. Another house was damaged in the locality after an uprooted coconut tree fell on it. The damage was estimated at Rs. 28,500. Instances of land caving in have been reported from different parts of the district. Based on statistics from the Meteorological Department, the district had an average of 63.9 mm rainfall on Saturday, with the Kakkayam station recording 100.5 mm rainfall. Kozhikode, Koyilandy and Vadakara stations recorded 31.6, 53 and 70.4 mm rainfall respectively. The heavy rain on Saturday night did swell river Iruvazhinji, but the water level subsided eventually. It has gone below the dangerous level of 32.8 metres. Kuttiady and Chaliyar rivers too had a slight rise in water level at night, but it came down by afternoon. The water level at the two reservoirs in the district, Kakkayam and Peruvannamuzhi, is way below their capacity. The shutters of the Peruvannamuzhi reservoirs have been opened, and water is being let out in a controlled manner. At present, there are no relief camps functioning in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-subsides-in-kozhikode-district/article37047496.ece
18 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Internet de-addiction clinic opened||The Kozhikode District Legal Services Society in association with the Health Department has launched a novel project, E-Mochan, a first-of-its-kind clinic for internet de-addiction. High Court Judge and executive chairman of the Kerala State Legal Services Authority (KELSA) Vinod Chandran launched the clinic at the Government Mental Health Centre in the city on Sunday. The clinic aims to help children, adolescents and even adults to free themselves from internet addiction, which has increased manyfold in the State over the past one year, as most people spent their time online due to the pandemic situation. E-Mochan aims at identifying internet addiction in the early stages through behavioural changes in persons and drive them away from conditions such as game disorder. It also aims to improve the mental state of children and develop their life skills. The clinic will remain open from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. every Saturday. It can be contacted at 0495-2741385 or 9400058020 to seek help. District Judge and Chairperson of DLSA Ragini P. presided over the inaugural event, while KELSA member secretary and District Judge Nisar Ahamed K.T. was the guest of honour. RDO Chelsasini V., Deputy Commissioner of Police Swapnil Madhukar Mahajan, Additional District Medical Officer N. Rajendran, DLSA Secretary Shyjal M.P. and Superintendent of Mental Health Centre K.C. Ramehsan were present. Senior clinical psychologist Dr. Sandish later held a session on ‘Digital Detox’ for medical and nursing students. An exhibition on mental health organised by students of the Government College of Nursing was also held on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/internet-de-addiction-clinic-launched/article37047497.ece
18 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Riyas hails Thangal’s contributions||Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas has underscored the importance of having visionaries like Sayed Mohammedali Shihab Thangal for strengthening secularism in the country. Inaugurating a new block of M.S.T.M. Arts and Science College at Poopalam near Perinthalmanna on Sunday, Mr. Riyas said the Constitution was facing the biggest threat now. He recalled the contributions of the late Shihab Thangal to education in Malabar. Sayed Munawwarali Shihab Thangal, chairman of Nooriyya Orphanage, presided. Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama general secretary K. Alikutty Musliar, Manjalamkuzhi Ali, Najeeb Kanthapuram, MLAs, and former Minister Nalakath Soopy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/riyas-hails-thangals-contributions/article37047499.ece
18 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad suffers heavy crop damage||The rain that has been lashing the district from Friday has led to widespread destruction of crops, especially paddy. Hill areas such as Attappady, Parambikulam and Nelliyampathy were under constant threat of landslips even as the rain continued unabated on Sunday. Six dams in the district continued to spill out the excess water that flowed into the reservoirs. The Malampuzha dam raised its shutters to 25 cm, sending messages of caution to the people living on the banks of the Bharathapuzha in Palakkad and Malappuram districts. A house at Sholayur, Attappady, was destroyed in continuous rains. Early estimates indicated that 8.2 hectares of paddy crop were destroyed in the downpour. The Bharathapuzha was swollen in the western parts of the district. The shutters of the Chenganamkunnu and Velliyamkallu regulators were opened. District authorities said that flooding was unlikely. Two brothers, aged 15 and 12, were injured at Chalavara, near Ottappalam, when a television glass-stand crashed after being struck by lightning. The road to Nelliyampathy was blocked after an uprooted tree fell across it. The Fire and Rescue Services and Forest Department personnel cleared the road. Minister for Power K. Krishnankutty will lead a meeting of officials here on Monday morning to discuss the situation in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-suffers-heavy-crop-damage/article37047668.ece
18 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Flood torments parts of Pathanamthitta district||Several locations in the Mallappally and Thiruvalla taluks of Pathanamthitta reeled under a flood-like situation, where a large number of houses got inundated as the water level of some rivers rose following heavy rains over the past few days. However, no loss of human life has been reported so far due to it. Several houses and commercial establishments in and around the Mallappally town and villages surrounding it came under the water by Saturday night with the Manimalayar ploughing past its banks due to the heavy rains over the past couple of days. Several people were evacuated from their houses while the entire location was cut off as roads and culverts remained under the run-off water. Fishing boats brought from Kollam were deployed to evacuate people stranded in their houses. Officials of the National Disaster response Force, Fire and Rescue, police and revenue departments led by the District Collector Veena S. Iyer carried out the rescue and relief efforts. The floodwaters began entering the settlements along the river bank in Thiruvalla taluk by Sunday afternoon even as most of the people from the low-lying areas here had already been evacuated. Traffic along the Main Central Road, Aranmula-Chengannur and the Thiruvall-Ambalappuzha routes were affected by the flooding. As many as 1,840 people of 515 families were shifted to 63 relief camps in the district till Sunday evening. About 1,004 members of 282 families were shifted to the camps on Sunday in Thiruvalla while in Kozhencherry, 180 people of 47 families were shifted to nine relief camps. In Adoor, two relief camps have been opened where 16 people of five families are staying while in Konni, 295 persons of 99 families have been shifted to the camps. Residents of the Ezhikkad Harijan colony in Aranmula, which had been severely hit by the mega floods of 2018, were shifted to relief camps from Sunday morning onwards. Health Minister Veena George, who convened several rounds of meetings to assess the flood situation and preparedness, said the flow of water to the reservoirs in the district had come down. But with all major rivers including Pampa and Achenkovilar flowing in full spate, she advised the public to exercise caution.  As many as 1,840 people of 515 families were shifted to 63 relief camps||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flood-torments-parts-of-pathanamthitta-district/article37047554.ece
18 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rain subsides, 14 relief camps opened in capital district||Even while the unseasonal rain subsided on Sunday, there appeared to be no respite for the woes of large sections of people who were unsettled by the downpour in the capital district. As many as 516 displaced people have sought refuge in the 14 relief camps that have been operationalised in Thiruvananthapuram. Among them, 312 people belonging to 78 families have been accommodated in the five camps in Thiruvananthapuram taluk. At Neyyattinkara As many as 125 people belonging to 45 families are staying in six camps in Neyyattinkara taluk.In Chirayinkeezhu taluk, 25 families numbering 79 people have been rehabilitated in three camps. No such facilities have been opened in Nedumangad, Varkala and Kattakada taluks thus far. District authorities have recorded two houses to be fully damaged and 45 houses partially damaged in the heavy wind and downpour that the district witnessed on Saturday. These structures with varying degrees of damage included 11 houses in Thiruvananthapuram, 15 in Nedumangad, 13 in Chirayinkeezhu, three in Kattakada, two in Varkala and one in Neyyattinkara. With the shutters of the Peppara, Neyyar and Aruvikkara reservoirs open, the district administration has cautioned the public residing on their downstream. Notwithstanding the alert issued against venturing into waterbodies on account of the rising water levels, there have been instances of such warnings being neglected. Abhilash, 23, of Kaimanam, drowned in the Kallar after he and three others had gone to a check-dam in Nellikunnu near Vithura. The incident occurred around 5.30 p.m., shortly after the group reached the area after they were turned back at the Ponmudi hill station where visitors have been barred entry since Saturday. According to the Vithura police, another member of the group too was caught in the strong waves, but he managed to latch on to a creeper until he was rescued by local residents. The body of the deceased was shifted to the Vithura taluk hospital. The search operation of the migrant worker who went missing in the Amayizhanjan canal in Kannammoola a day ago continued on Sunday, albeit without result. Aid announced General Education Minister V. Sivankutty, who supervised the efforts, offered all possible assistance to the family of Jharkhand native Nagardeep Mandal, who was swept away after he had gone to bath in the Amayizhanjan canal around 1.50 p.m. on Saturday. Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil, Mayor Arya Rajendran and V.K. Prasanth, MLA, also visited the area.  516 displaced people have sought refuge in the 14 relief camps that have been operationalised in the district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-subsides-14-relief-camps-opened-in-capital-district/article37047660.ece
18 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Landslips due to mini cloudbursts’||The landslips and floods which swept hilly areas of central Kerala on Saturday were very likely the products of mini cloudbursts. Mini cloudbursts are defined as short, intense rain events where 5 cm or above rainfall is recorded in two consecutive hours. Preliminary analysis of satellite and Automatic Weather Station (AWS) data have indicated that several places in the Peerumade belt recorded 5 cm and above rainfall in two-hour periods on Saturday, Abhilash A. S., director, Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research, Cochin University of Science and Technology, said. ‘Better suited’ The classification of ‘mini cloudburst’ is better suited to the Kerala situation than the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) definition of a ‘cloudburst’ as a rain event where 10 cm rainfall is received at a station in one hour, according to him. “Our studies on the 2019 floods showed that we do not need 10 cm rainfall in one hour to cause landslips and flash floods here. Rainfall of 5 cm in two consecutive hours is ample to trigger similar results,” he said. Peerumade in Idukki and Kanjirapally in Kottayam recorded the highest rainfall during the 24-hour period which ended at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, said IMD data released on Sunday. Both places recorded extremely heavy rainfall (above 20 cm in 24 hours). Peerumade recorded 29 cm and Kanjirapally 27 cm. Several other places recorded very heavy rainfall (11 cm to 20 cm) on Saturday. The list included Thodupuzha (20 cm), Poonjar (17 cm), Seethathode (15), Irikkur and Panniyur (14 cm each), while Punalur, Pattambi, Angadipuram and Thenmala recorded 11 cm each. Rainfall over Kerala had intensified over the past week under the influence of a low pressure area over southeast Arabian Sea which moved toward the Kerala coast and another low pressure system over the Bay of Bengal which moved eastward towards the Andhra-Odisha coasts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/landslips-due-to-mini-cloudbursts/article37047531.ece
18 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Parking lot: Corpn., Govt. to share excess tender costs||The city Corporation and the State Government will equally bear the cost of tender excess in multi-level car parking lots in Putharikkandam and inside the Corporation main office compound at Palayam. Errors in the estimates prepared by the project consultant KITCO had led to a cost escalation of more than Rs. 1 crore in the projects. The total cost of the two projects have increased from Rs. 17.64 crore to Rs. 18.91 crore. The civic body and the State Government will now equally bear the cost, with the extra fund requirement to be met from the savings made in the estimates for the multi-level car parking project at Medical College. According to a Government order regarding the revised administrative sanction, items such as grade beam in the foundation, the roofing for the car parking lot, general lighting and liasing charges were not considered in the original estimate prepared by KITCO. These items were missing from the estimate prepared for the multi-level car parking lot at Putharikkandam maithanam too. In addition, the original estimate had also not considered the fire stair and lightning conductor. To limit the estimate, it has now been decided to remove from the project scope items such as two-wheeler parking, solar panels and toilet block. These will now be constructed from the Corporation's own fund simultaneously as a separate project. The multi-level car parking facility project at the Corporation office in Palayam is being executed under the Union Government’s AMRUT scheme, at a total cost of Rs. 5.64 crore. Out of this, 50% of the cost will be borne by the city Corporation, 30% by the Central Government and 20% by the State Government. As per the plans for the multi-level car parking lot at Putharikkandam maithanam, it has a space to accommodate 216 cars, 45 autorickshaws and 250 motorcycles. While the parking lot at Putharikkandam will cater to the public visiting the crowded shopping areas of East Fort and Chala market, the one at the Corporation will come as a relief for the public visiting the Corporation office. Severe space crunch within the compound has been causing much difficulties to the visitors there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parking-lot-corpn-govt-to-share-excess-tender-costs/article37047664.ece
18 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU Library embraces automation||Kerala University Library, the oldest university library in the state, has ushered in an automated management system. Established in 1942 during the pre-independence era, the library has evolved into a digitalised facility replete with radio frequency identification (RFID) tags, self check-in/out stations and smart cards that encompass its collection of 3.6 lakh titles. The RFID-enabled library services, implemented at a cost of Rs. 70 lakh, is bound to enable efficient circulation of books. According to assistant librarian (selection grade) P.K. Suresh Kumar, the tags can be easily scanned using handheld readers and will also enable locating misplaced books. A security gate system that has also been put in place is meant to detect unauthorised RFID-tagged books with a read range of 90cm and is equipped with an inbuilt alert system to prevent thefts. RFID chip-based smart cards will also be issued to all library members. Yet another feature of the automation is the self check-in and out station (or drop box) that has been installed at the library entrance. Library members will be able to return books at anytime of the day through the facility. While such books go to a bin, the users are issued receipts that record the date and time of return, number of books and overdue amount. Touch-screen information kiosks have also been introduced to enable users to search the status of books and trace their location. The university has a networked library system comprising of the Central Library (or Kerala University Library) in Palayam, Campus Library in Karyavattom, and 43 teaching department libraries and three regional study centre libraries with a total stock of 9,55,731 books, rare documents, theses, bound volumes of periodical and newspapers, government publications, journals and others. Dr. Kumar said the library also has a Rs. 30-lakh resource centre for visually challenged users, including senior citizens, with assistive technologies that can convert text into speech. The centre is equipped with modern computers, smartphones, Digital Braille devices and reprographic reproduction scanners. Digital repository The university has also operationalised a digital repository of 20 lakh pages of rare and old books, periodicals and grey literature hosted in open source digital library Dspace at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-library-embraces-automation/article37047657.ece
18 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Row over ‘protest homam’ by UDF||A protest ‘homam’ organised by councillors of the United Democratic Front (UDF) at the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation office against alleged misappropriation of revenue funds and other issues has led to a controversy with Mayor Arya Rajendran saying that it as a move which is aimed at disrupting the secular character of a Government institution. The UDF councillors have been sitting in protest at the Corporation lobby since the past few days over the fund misappropriation issue, over which two officials at the zonal offices have been arrested till now. The councillors of the opposition BJP have been sitting in protest inside the council hall. On Sunday, the UDF councillors organised a 'homam' at the lobby, with the various allegations against the Corporation presented as chants. A video of the 'homam' was also circulated widely on social media. The Mayor, in a statement issued on Sunday evening, said that the Corporation is a secular institution like all Government institutions, which treat equally people belonging to all religions and castes. Such protests which disrupt the secular character of the institution are aimed at communal polarisation in the state. Elected councillors should desist from such moves and work towards protecting Kerala's secular character, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-protest-homam-by-udf/article37047665.ece
18 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rain likely to intensify again from Wednesday||After a short break on Monday and Tuesday, rainfall is likely to gain in strength over Kerala again by Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. The State could expect fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain for three to four days starting Wednesday, courtesy a fresh spell of easterly wave which is likely to affect south peninsular India, according to the IMD Meteorological Centre here on Sunday. The IMD has put several districts on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall on Wednesday and Thursday. The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) has warned that sea will be rough along the Kerala coast till Monday night. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has warned of widespread rainfall in the State for at least four days from October 20. The IMD has sounded a yellow alert in 10 districts on October 20 and on six districts on October 21. “We should infer that heavy rain is yet to abate,” he said. The current spell would last at least till October 18 evening, he said. He urged the public to exercise utmost caution. He encouraged citizens to prepare themselves to move to relief camps, higher ground or safer localities if requested by officials. He urged the people to put off inessential travel. The Government had issued a lightning warning. Water level may rise Mr. Vijayan said the Centre Water Commission had warned that rivers flowing through Pathanamthitta, Kottayam and Thiruvananthapuram would continue to be in spate, and water levels might rise further in the next 24 hours. He warned residents in the following riparian neighbourhoods to be cautious. The localities are Madama, Kallupara, Thumbamon, Pullakayar, Magickal in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts and Vellaikadavu and Aruvippuram in Thiruvananthapuram.  Yellow alert in 10 districts on Oct. 20 and in six districts on October 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-likely-to-intensify-again-from-wednesday/article37047528.ece
18 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Veteran BJP leader’s autobiography released||Goa Governor P. S. Sreedharan Pillai released the first copy of veteran BJP leader O. Rajagopal’s autobiography, Jeevitha Amritham . Syro Malabar Archbishop Cardinal Mar Baselios Cleemis accepted the copy from Mr. Pillai. Former diplomat T. P. Sreenivasan made the introductory remarks about the book. BJP State general secretary P. Sudheer, BJP former State president K. Raman Pillai, BJP district president, V. P. Rajesh and Janmabhoomi news editor, P. Sreekumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/veteran-bjp-leaders-autobiography-released/article37047655.ece
18 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||953 new COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 953 COVID-19 cases and 1,213 recoveries as the active caseload continued to fall to reach 10,847 on Sunday. The test positivity rate stood at 11.1%. The district currently has 46,305 people who are undergoing quarantine. The COVID-19 death toll stood at 4,129, according to available statistics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/953-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article37047661.ece
18 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two wanted men arrested||The Kazhakuttom police have arrested two people who have been long absconding for various criminal cases. The accused were identified as Ratheesh alias Kinkaran Binu, 41, of Manvila, and Prakash alias Kukaduvan, 48, of Vadhyarukonam. While Ratheesh has 23 cases pending against him including a murder case in Chirayinkeezhu, Prakash is known to be a notorious burglar. After both of them went absconding after obtaining bail in various cases, the court had a Long Pending warrant against them, the police said. The Kazhakuttom police which had received information of their whereabouts nabbed them from Manvila and Venjaramoodu respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-wanted-men-arrested/article37047662.ece
18 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for supplying liquor||The Kovalam police on Sunday arrested a 40-year old man who was wanted for allegedly supplying liquor during the recent lockdown when liquor outlets were closed across the state. The police identified the accused Muhammed Yusuf of Panangode, who allegedly held a beer party in his restaurant in the Kovalam beach during the pandemic-induced lockdown. He has been booked under provisions of the Abkari Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-supplying-liquor/article37047663.ece
18 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Holiday today||A holiday has been declared for all educational institutions, including polytechnic and engineering colleges, functioning under the Higher Education Department, on Monday on account of the inclement weather. A release said universities have postponed examinations on the day. The Government issued orders to defer the reopening of junior batches in colleges to October 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holiday-today/article37047529.ece
18 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur takes steps against relentless rain||With no let-up in downpour, low-lying areas in Thrissur district have come under water. Shutters of all dams in the districts have been opened and all rivers are in spate. People were evacuated from the banks of rivers and high ranges on Sunday. Forty families were evacuated from the Puthur panchayat, where there is a threat of landslips. While 11 families were shifted to a relief camp opened at St. John’s Academy, Vettukad, others were shifted to their relatives’ houses. Ten families were shifted from Kokkath Colony in Kainur. Many families on the banks of rivers such as Chalakudy, Manali, Bharathapuzha, and Kuramali were evacuated. With rain continuing, more people have been reaching the camps. Six relief camps are functioning in the district and the authorities are planning to open more. Trained teams of fishers A team of fishworkers, specially trained for rescue operations, have been deployed in the district. The fishworkers have undergone special training in sea rescue and other life-saving operations. Boats of Matsyafed are also ready for rescue operations. Low-lying areas of Kodungallur taluk are under water. Two relief camps have been opened in the taluk at Kaipamangalam and Edathiruthy villages. Twenty-three persons from Kanjirappally colony at the Pariyaram panchayat have been rehabilitated to relief camps at Konnakuzhy in the wake of a landslip threat. A control room is functioning at the Kunnamkulam municipality as the flood situation is severe. Floodwater entered many shops near the new bus stand. Vaduthala, Chattukulam, and Vattampadam too are affected. Many areas on the Pattambi road and the Guruvayur road are under water. Water level in the Chalakudy river has been rising with the release of water from the Peringalkuthu reservoir. Low-lying areas of Athirappilly, Pariyaram, and Meloor panchayats are under water. As water level at Peechi reservoir increased, all dam shutters were opened. The Manali river is overflowing and authorities are trying to evacuate people from the banks. A relief camp has been opened at the Manathala government school to rehabilitate families in Chavakkad municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-takes-steps-against-relentless-rain/article37047672.ece
18 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Women facing bias in science sector: Gagandeep Kang||Discrimination against women in society resonates in the field of science and technology too, eminent virologist and vaccine researcher Gagandeep Kang has said. She was delivering the Prof. V. Aravindakshan Memorial Lecture on ‘Women and Science Sector’ at Kerala Sahitya Akademi here on Sunday. Former Education Minister M.A. Baby presented the Prof. V. Aravindakshan Memorial Award to Dr. Kang. “Though around 43% of women get graduate-postgraduate degrees, only 14% of them become teachers or scientists. Women do not reach the top echelons of eminent science institutes. No woman has ever led an IIT or IISER. Women face high degree of discrimination and prejudice in the sector,” she noted. “If men have to scale seven steps for a promotion, women may need to take at least 17. If men are expelled from a field after three consecutive failures, women will be out on the very first instance of failure. Though the situation is comparatively better in medical fields, only a few women reach the top positions,” she said. “Efficient women should helm science institutions for their structural development and cultural improvement. If they get effective training and encouragement, women can excel,” Dr. Kang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-facing-bias-in-science-sector-gagandeep-kang/article37047670.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||No-entry zone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-entry-zone/article37047511.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Gearing up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gearing-up/article37047501.ece
18 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rollout of road accident database on Nov. 1 likely||The Union Ministry of Road Transport, which has launched a pilot project in six States on preparing a common database for the country through the Integrated Road Accident Database (iRAD) project, is scheduled to launch it in Andhra Pradesh from November 1. The Police, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the Road Transport Authority (RTA), Department of Health, Roads & Buildings, and Insurance sector would be involved in this project as part of which each and every accident would be recorded, and a permanent database would be prepared to understand the nature of the accidents and the reaction time within the golden hour. “This information will be available on the iRAD Mobile Application and iRAD website. Field officers will be accorded the permission to enter the accident-specific data from the spot,” said Deputy Transport Commissioner N. Sivaram Prasad. The District Rollout manager Somala Naik told The Hindu that the Commissionerate asked all the stakeholders to get their field-level staff trained by the end of October third week. Training session “We have demonstrated the software operation to the department heads so that they can plan the training classes for their field-level staff such as the Station House Officers, Motor-Vehicle Inspectors, Assistant Engineers in Road and Buildings Department and the NHAI, Primary Health Centre (PHC) staff,” said Mr. Naik. An ASI or SI rank official will key in the data pertaining to accidents, the registration numbers of the vehicles involved, and the details of the victims, which will be sent to the other field officers. Even as all of them can access the information, the officer concerned only will have permission to key in the verified data from the spot such as fitness of vehicles, drivers’ licence, insurance and etc, which will get populated from the ‘Vahan’ website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rollout-of-road-accident-database-on-nov-1-likely/article37047188.ece
18 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure allocated Krishna water reaches Rayalaseema, Balakrishna tells govt.||TDP MLA from Hindupur N. Balakrishna has said the State government must make efforts to get the allocated Krishna waters to the Rayalseema region by enhancing the drawal capacity of the Handri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS) project within a definite time frame, and complete the linking of the Godavari and the Penna. Mr. Balakrishna was speaking at the party’s third regional meeting on ‘Krishna water and its future in Rayalaseema’ organised in Hindupur on Sunday. TDP leaders from eight parliamentary constituencies of four districts attended the meeting. Seeking immediate measures to obtain the approval of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) for all the ongoing irrigation projects mentioned in the A.P. State Reorganisation Act of 2014, Mr. Balakrishna said HNSS was the brainchild of TDP founder N.T. Rama Rao. “The State government must immediately take up the linking of the Godavari, the Krishna and the Penna, and ensure Rayalaseema its due share of Krishna waters,” Mr. Balakrishna said. Party coordinator for Rayalaseema and former Minister Kalava Srinivasulu flayed the government for not making any effort to exercise its right to reallocate the State’s quota of 512 tmcft Krishna water to different projects. The meeting favoured that all the headworks of Krishna water projects being shared by the two Telugu States be managed by the KRMB on the lines of the Tungabhadra Board. “The Chief Minister of Telangana is talking to the Union Jal Shakti Minister and ensuring that the projects on the Krishna are not stopped. But A.P. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is not mounting pressure on the Centre only to extricate himself from the court cases,” the TDP leaders alleged. Party leaders from Chittoor, Kurnool, and Kadapa districts alleged that the government was not taking any initiative in enhancing the capacity of the HNSS project. They sought clear cut allocations for the Telugu Ganga, the Galeru-Nagari, the Veligonda, and the Nettampadu projects. TDP Hindupur LS constituency in-charge B.K. Parthasarathy presided over the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-allocated-krishna-water-reaches-rayalaseema-balakrishna-tells-govt/article37047619.ece
18 October 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miscreants beat up friends from different faiths in Belagavi||Miscreants beat up a young man and a woman, who belonged to different religions, for trying to go to a park together in Belagavi recently. Rahul Raju Gurav of Chinchali village and Shakeera Banu Shabbir of Sankeshwar had come to Belagavi bus stand on Wednesday. They wanted to go for a stroll in a park in the city and engaged an autorickshaw to go there. The driver saw that the woman was wearing a burkha while the man had vermilion on his forehead. He took the couple to a vacant plot in Aman Nagar instead of the park. By then, he had called up his friends and asked them to join him. He also picked up some friends from Aman Nagar, saying he was sharing the cost of the ride. But they ended up being his accomplices, who attacked the duo. The driver and his friends beat up the man and berated him for going around with a Muslim woman. They also beat up the woman and asked her why she was going around with a Hindu man. They asked her to “find a man from her own community” and also abused her verbally. They threatened to kill both of them and throw them on the railway tracks after tying up their hands and legs. The woman has lodged a complaint at the Mala Maruti police station. In it, the victims alleged that the attackers also took away their mobile phones and the Rs. 20,000 that was with them. The complainants said 20 people had attacked them. “We were beaten mercilessly with sticks and rods. We went home, sought treatment, and came back to file a complaint,” the woman said. The young man had come to appear for a recruitment test and the woman, a family friend, had accompanied him, the police said. The woman wanted to borrow some money from the man and wanted to sit at a place to discuss this. This was misunderstood by the attackers, it was said in the complaint. Police have arrested an auto driver in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/miscreants-beat-up-inter-faith-friends-in-belagavi/article37047135.ece
18 October 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Row over photos of police in saffron attire||Pictures of Vijayapura police sporting saffron shawls for Vijayadashami and Kaup police wearing saffron shirts posted on social media kicked up a political storm on Sunday. Pictures of Vijayapura Superintendent of Police Anand Kumar and other police personnel wearing white kurta pyjama with saffron shawls taken before the rural police station were shared widely on social media. These pictures attracted strong criticism from Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah who took Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to task over such a trend and asked him to quit if he could not uphold constitutional principles. “This is not a jungle raj like Yogi Adityanath’s Uttar Pradesh. Karnataka has a tradition of providing good governance,” Mr. Siddaramaiah tweeted. “Why did you only change the police uniform? Provide trident and ask them to indulge in violence. Your dreams of establishing jungle raj could come true,” he told the Chief Minister. The Congress leader also tagged two group photographs of the police personnel at Kaup police station in Udupi district and Vijayapura Rural Police station. The police personnel in these police stations had shed their khaki uniform to don the saffron on Vijayadashami day. While personnel in Vijayapura wore a saffron shawl, at Kaup police personnel they wore a saffron shirt. “After the Chief Minister justified hooliganism as reaction to an action, it seems the police have locked up the law in the police station and have taken to the streets to bring jungle raj. It is better for the public to remain at home for their safety,” he said. Further, he stated: “On the one hand, police illegally harass youth and on the other a legislator storms into a police station to get the accused released. Elsewhere, tridents are distributed openly and calls are given for violence. All these get open support from the Chief Minister. Is there governance in the State?” A police officer from Vijayapura said that such Vijayadashami celebrations were held in several police stations. The Superintendent of Police attended the celebrations in the rural police station. Other officers attended the celebrations in other stations, the senior officer said. He, however, declined to react to the comments the pictures had received on social media. N. Satish Kumar, IGP, Northern Range, said that he would look into the issue and see if any service rules were violated. Kaup incident Coming to the support of the police, Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat tweeted that on special occasions the police do wear traditional dress. In terms of uniformity, all have worn similar coloured dress. If its ‘kesari’ what is wrong in it. Taking on Mr. Siddaramaiah, Mr. Bhat said: “You have displayed sword on Tipu Jayanti. You have also worn traditional cap when you visited mosques. And you call this religious harmony and secular conduct. People like you, who are in responsible position, should see everybody in equanimity.” A senior police official from Udupi, who did not want to be quoted, told The Hindu that usually police do wear traditional dress on special occasions and Kaup police has done the same on Ayudha Pooja day. There is nothing amiss in dress they wore, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/row-over-photos-of-police-in-saffron-attire/article37047136.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Events by rival camps mark AIADMK’s golden jubilee fete||The inauguration of the AIADMK’s golden jubilee celebration on Sunday saw rival camps holding separate events. While the official camp, led by party coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, hoisted the party flag at the organisation’s headquarters in Royapettah, the other camp, led by V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the party, did the same at the memorial house of party founder M.G. Ramachandran in T. Nagar. Ms. Sasikala appealed for “unity and the restoration of the AIADMK’s rule” in the State during an event at the private residence of MGR in Ramapuram, where she partook of a feast with schoolchildren. The plaque at the memorial house, which was prepared for the inauguration of the celebration, described Ms. Sasikala as the “[All India Anna Dravida Munnetra] Kazhagam general secretary”. Taking exception to Ms. Sasikala using the party flag on her car and being identified as the AIADMK general secretary, D. Jayakumar, organisation secretary and former AIADMK Minister, asserted that she had “neither moral right nor legal right” to use the party’s name and call herself the general secretary. This act amounted to “violation of the Election Commission’s rules and contempt of court”, Mr. Jayakumar said, holding Ms. Sasikala and her family responsible for the defeat of the AIADMK in the 1996 Assembly election. Emphasising that Jayalalithaa would remain the “permanent general secretary”, the former Minister questioned the need for Ms. Sasikala to be referred to as ‘Thyagathai’ (mother of sacrifice), and said no volunteer of the AIADMK would accept Ms. Sasikala, irrespective of such portrayals by her camp. Addressing the gathering, which included former Minister M. Anandan and former Chief Government Whip in the Assembly, P.M. Narasimhan, at Ramapuram, Ms. Sasikala alluded to the assumption of office by Mr. Palaniswami and his team of Ministers in February 2017 and recalled that “even in trying times”, she ensured that the party remained in power. She stepped aside from politics as she did not want “an inch of damage” to be caused to the party. “The Kazhagam is our temple. It is the responsibility of all of us to protect throughout our life the Kazhagam, which has grown out of the sacrifice of Puratchi Thalaivar [MGR] and the dedication of Amma [Jayalalithaa]. The need of the hour is unity,” she said, adding that it was the “divisions among us that has given the space to our enemy”. Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami, accompanied by senior leaders, paid floral tributes at the mausoleums of C.N. Annadurai, MGR and Jayalalithaa on the Marina. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam said the DMK regime, which had captured power on the basis of “false assurances”, was now struggling to fulfil its promises. Taking exception to Ms. Sasikala using the party flag on her car and being identified as the AIADMK general secretary, D. Jayakumar, organisation secretary and former AIADMK Minister, asserted that she had “neither moral right nor legal right” to use the party’s name and call herself the general secretary. This act amounted to “violation of the Election Commission’s rules and contempt of court”, Mr. Jayakumar said, holding Ms. Sasikala and her family responsible for the defeat of the AIADMK in the 1996 Assembly election. Emphasising that Jayalalithaa would remain the “permanent general secretary”, the former Minister questioned the need for Ms. Sasikala to be referred to as ‘Thyagathai’ (mother of sacrifice), and said no volunteer of the AIADMK would accept Ms. Sasikala, irrespective of such portrayals by her camp. Addressing the gathering, which included former Minister M. Anandan and former Chief Government Whip in the Assembly, P.M. Narasimhan, at Ramapuram, Ms. Sasikala alluded to the assumption of office by Mr. Palaniswami and his team of Ministers in February 2017 and recalled that “even in trying times”, she ensured that the party remained in power. She stepped aside from politics as she did not want “an inch of damage” to be caused to the party. “The Kazhagam is our temple. It is the responsibility of all of us to protect throughout our life the Kazhagam, which has grown out of the sacrifice of Puratchi Thalaivar [MGR] and the dedication of Amma [Jayalalithaa]. The need of the hour is unity,” she said, adding that it was the “divisions among us that has given the space to our enemy”. Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami, accompanied by senior leaders, paid floral tributes at the mausoleums of C.N. Annadurai, MGR and Jayalalithaa on the Marina. At the party headquarters, they handed over demand drafts for Rs. 3 lakh each to the families of five deceased workers of the party. They launched a CD containing the party song and a publication of poetry, besides participating in a feast. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam said the DMK regime, which had captured power on the basis of “false assurances”, was now struggling to fulfil its promises. The DMK was now “in the grip of a family”, he said, urging members of his party to work for the AIADMK’s return to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/events-by-rival-camps-mark-aiadmk-fete/article37047247.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||And a party was born...||The establishment of the AIADMK, which entered the 50th year of its formation on Sunday, was triggered by an issue — probity in public life — which remains valid even today. It all began on October 8 in Thirukazhukundram, about 75 km from Chennai, with the then treasurer of the ruling DMK, M.G. Ramachandran, urging town, taluk and district secretaries of the party to make public the details of their assets, according to a report published in The Hindu on October 9, 1972. Pointing out that the demand was made at a “mammoth public meeting” in connection with the birth anniversary of the DMK’s founder and former Chief Minister, C.N. Annadurai, the report quoted the DMK treasurer as saying that he had “strongly criticised” the government for lifting prohibition and “not implementing” the policies of Annadurai. The event had an immediate impact, with MGR being suspended from the party a few days later. Another news item in the paper, carried on October 11, stated that the decision was taken by the then party president and Chief Minister, M. Karunanidhi, and the general secretary and Education Minister, V.R. Nedunchezhian [who joined the AIADMK in the late 1970s], “following a requisition from 26 of the 31 members of the DMK executive”. Asked whether MGR ever raised the question of disclosure of assets by partymen, Karunanidhi replied that Ramachandran had “neither written nor spoken to him” about this. The disciplinary action against MGR led to widespread protests by his followers from Vellore to Tirunelveli. His fans showed their anger against the DMK by lowering the party flag and even burning the portrait of Karunanidhi. When the news regarding the suspension came, MGR was amid the shoot for a Tamil film, Netru, indru, naalai . In fact, hours before the development, he told reporters that his demand was “only to prove” the honesty of the DMK members in the context of charges of corruption by the Opposition. “It was not a mud-slinging exercise,” the paper, in an item on October 11, quoted him as having said. The subsequent events were swift. On October 13, the DMK executive first ratified the general secretary’s decision to suspend MGR. The next day, the general council followed suit. Addressing a meeting at the Marina on October 15, the then Chief Minister described the decision as “painful and agonising,” which, according to Karunanidhi, had to be taken, as MGR had gone to the extent of “casting aspersions on the integrity” of 18 lakh workers of the party. A day later, a youth from Udumalpet, Ismail, set himself ablaze in support of MGR. On October 18, MGR announced the formation of a new party, which was initially called the Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. Karunanidhi’s immediate reaction to the AIADMK’s establishment was: “He [MGR] has achieved what he wanted and planned to do.” R. Kannan, in his biography of the AIADMK founder, wrote that “He [MGR] wanted to be consulted on everything, while Kalaignar tried to free himself from MGR’s hold and assert himself.” R. Thangathurai, who also authored a book on the AIADMK leader, stated that immediately after the 1971 Assembly election, wherein he had campaigned extensively for the DMK, MGR had begun preparing himself to be a leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-look-at-the-events-leading-up-to-the-birth-of-aiadmk/article37047270.ece
18 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students trained in skills||The AP Residential Educational Institutions Society conducted a five-day soft skills and spoken English training programme as a part of its ongoing Student Enablement Programme in A.P. Residential Degree College, Nagarjuna Sagar. The programme was sponsored by P. Harshvardhan and P. Vijayavardhan and Parimala Society, Guntur. Linked with the Pradhana Manthri Kaushal Vikas Yogana and the National Skill Development Corporation’s programmes, it was held during October 13-17. The topics covered are self-esteem, etiquette, English communication, leadership and English writing and interview skills. Principal Secretary, Education, B. Rajashekhar and Secretary, APREI Society, Col. V. Ramulu participated virtually in the valedictory and took feedback from the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-trained-in-skills/article37047687.ece
18 October 2021||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||Datta shrine: Revenue Dept. invites public responses||The Revenue Department (Muzrai) has issued a public notification inviting responses from the public on Sri Guru Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah, following the High Court’s direction to reconsider the dispute and arrive at a conclusion. In the notification dated October 11, the department has appealed to the public to submit their responses to the Muzrai Commissioner’s report dated March 10, 2010, within a month of publishing the notification. In response to a Supreme Court ruling, the Muzrai Department had submitted a report recommending the appointment of a Hindu priest for the cave shrine in 2010. Later, following the court’s direction, the State Government constituted a three-member committee to listen to all concerned and submit a report. Order Based on the committee’s recommendation, the government issued an order on March 19, 2018, stating that only Muzawar, appointed by Shah Khadri, the hereditary administrator of the shrine, can conduct religious practices in the shrine, among other issues. The Datta Peetha Devasthana Samvardhana Samiti challenged the government’s order in the High Court. The court on September 28 quashed the government’s order and directed the government to reconsider the issue. The State Government constituted a cabinet sub-committee headed by Law minister J.C. Madhuswamy to resolve the issue. The Minister had recently stated that the public would be asked to file their responses and objections on the dispute before the Endowment Commissioner. Hearings he committee would hear the responses and if there were more responses from Chikkamagaluru, the members would visit the place to hold hearings. The notification states that the responses could be sent to the Commissioner of Endowment, Minto Anjaneya Bhavan, Chamarajpet, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/datta-shrine-revenue-dept-invites-public-responses/article37047132.ece
18 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP brings ‘Badvel versus Pulivendula’ to poll campaign||Ahead of the Badvel by-election, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is highlighting the ‘lack of development’ in the constituency, contrasting it with the ‘VIP constituency’ of Pulivendula represented by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “Badvel has always been tagged as underdeveloped and backward. The YSRCP government should tell the voters what it has done for the constituency so far,” said the BJP State president Somu Veerraju while campaigning for the party candidate P. Suresh on Sunday. Saying that Pulivendula stood for development on all fronts, he wondered as to why Badvel was still reckoned for the lack of it. He insisted that the development whatsoever witnessed in the constituency was a result of the funds sanctioned by the Centre. Central funds “From national highways to the distribution of rice under the Public Distribution System (PDS), it is the Central government that spends for the projects. However, the YSRCP government is trying to label them as its achievement,” he said. In an attempt to strike a chord with the voters, Mr. Veerraju referred to Hindu seer Sri Veerabrahmendra Swamy, who hails from Kadapa district. “Brahmam garu had predicted long ago that Badvel would become a big town one day, but it is yet to have proper drainage system,” he lamented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-brings-badvel-versus-pulivendula-to-poll-campaign/article37047620.ece
18 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth promote ‘better side’ of Rayalaseema on social media||In an attempt to change the faction feud narrative of Rayalaseema in many popular movies, several groups of youngsters have taken to the social media platforms to highlight the better side of the region. The youths have created exclusive pages on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to promote the natural grandeur the region is blessed with and the rich cultural heritage. While most of the content of these pages is replete with photographs of the major landmarks in the districts or cities, traditions being followed during religious and cultural events, some highlight the day-to-day developments and welfare schemes introduced by the government. The page titled ‘Kadapa Smart City’ on Instagram has more than 28,000 followers. “Backwardness, drought-prone region and faction-ridden are not the identities of Kadapa. There is a lot of positive development happening in our district, which we want to tell it to the world. This page is a small attempt in that direction,” says page admin Shaik Moula. He sources pictures from followers from the district —right from Rayachoti to Jammalamadugu—and posts it on the page While the keyword ‘Tirupati’ is usually searched for devotional content, ‘It’s My Tirupati’, with more than 81,000 followers on Instagram and 28,000 on Facebook, goes beyond it. Apart from posting information pertaining to tickets and darshan updates of the Lord Venkateswara temple and other famous shrines, the page highlights places of tourists’ interest in Chittoor district. “People visiting Tirupati not only look at Tirumala, but want to spend quality time with their families. We provide inputs on the lesser-known tourist destinations, picturesque locations and weekend hangouts,” says the page admins Nithin and Prudhvi. When the COVID-19 vaccine was in high demand during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic, the page provided updates on its availability at various vaccination centres. Of late, the newly-opened commercial outlets are finding increased presence on this page. ‘The Kadiri’, an Instagram page which is apparently an upstart with just above 425 followers, seeks to promote the cultural face of Anantapur district. “We also aim at highlighting the lack of development in and around Kadiri,” says Dada Peer, the page admin. He wants the politicians and bureaucrats to follow the page to know the pressing public issues better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-promote-better-side-of-rayalaseema-on-social-media/article37047614.ece
18 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials gearing up for paddy procurement in East Godavari||The East Godavari district authorities are gearing up to begin procurement of paddy through Rythu Bharosa Kendras in the kharif 2021-22 season. The total extent of land under paddy cultivation is above 2.25 lakh hectares in the district. The harvesting activity is likely to begin by October-end. According to Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha, the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for paddy will be given allowing a maximum 17% moisture. The MSP per 75 kg bag is Rs. 1,940 and Rs. 1,960 for Grade A quality. The Agriculture Department has set up a special cell to guide farmers on the procurement process and address their grievances. The farmers could contact the cell officials by dialling 0884-645434. Mr. Lakshmisha appealed to the farmers not to prefer ‘bondalu’ variety for rabi season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-gearing-up-for-paddy-procurement-in-east-godavari/article37047643.ece
18 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||National Cadet Corps’ Idukki airstrip lands in controversy||The airstrip of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) in Idukki is in the centre of a controversy with the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) seeking a report on the mandatory clearances for the project. The authority has sought a report from the Chief Wildlife Warden, Kerala, as apprehensions have been raised about the impact of aircraft movement on the wildlife and also the possible pollution aspects. “The authority has also sought a report from the Bengaluru office of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change on the project. We are yet to receive the report,” said Amit Mallick, Inspector General, NTCA. There were complaints that the runway of the proposed project was located just 600 metres away from the boundary of the tiger reserve. As the project is located within the 10-km radius of the tiger reserve, the statutory clearance of the National Board for Wildlife (NBW) is necessary, said M.N. Jayachandran, an environmentalist who had complained to the NTCA. The construction or upgradation of any new road within one kilometre of the boundary of a protected area needs the clearance of the national board, he said. Status of forest remain Though the holding was taken back from the Forest Department and handed over for the airstrip project, the land still has the status of forest and it features in the annual Working Plan of the Kottayam Forest Division, said Georgi P. Mathachan, Chief Conservator of Forest (High Range Circle). The Forest Department has no formal communication regarding the project or its environmental impact, he said. Brigadier P.K. Sunilkumar, Deputy Director General, NCC Kerala, said the Public Works Department (PWD) was implementing the project, on the holding identified by the NCC. PWD version C.K. Prasad, former Assistant Executive Engineer, PWD, who oversaw the implementation of the project, said an Environmental Impact Assessment was not required as the project cost was less than Rs. 10 crore. The cutting of hills and filling of land were carried out without impacting the ecology. The NBW clearance was not sought as the tiger reserve was not notified at the time of the commencement of the work. Till date, the Forest Department has not objected to the project, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/national-cadet-corps-idukki-airstrip-lands-in-controversy/article37047145.ece
18 October 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three constables receive awards||Three constables, working in different wings, received the best performance awards for showing extraordinary skills in discharging their duties. Krishna SP Siddharth Kaushal presented certificates to district IT core team constable R.V. Nagaraju, Robertsonpet police station constable M. Ramanjaneyulu and Chilakalapudi police station constable B. Srinivas Rao here on Sunday. Mr. Nagaraju was appreciated for his role in ‘Each One-Teach One’, a capacity building programme for enhancing cyber wing. Mr. Ramanjaneyulu checked 2,100 persons and identified 23 criminals through mobile security checking device. Mr. Srinivas helped cracking the infant kidnap case in Machilipatnam Government Hospital, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-constables-receive-awards/article37047688.ece
18 October 2021||Mysuru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dasara elephants given warm send-off||Elephants from the jungle camps which shored up Mysuru Dasara with their presence and took part in the famed Jamboo Savari, were accorded a ceremonial send-off from the palace on Sunday. Special prayers were held for their collective welfare and safe return next year besides felicitations to the mahouts and kavadis or assistants manning the elephants. The elephants led by howdah elephant Abhimanyu lined up for the send-off and a priest chanted hymns and performed ‘mangalarathi’to them. Prayers over, the elephants received plantains, jaggery and munched on them unmindful of the surrounding crowd which took selfies. Senior Forest Department officials including Deputy Conservators of Forest Karikalan, Mayor Sunanda Palanethra and others were present. Though it is customary to bring 12 to 14 elephants for Dasara, only 8 elephants took part in this year’s edition of the festival which was scaled down due to the pandemic. Abhimanyu, who was the cynosure of all eyes during the Jamboo Savari which took place within the palace precincts, left for Mathigodu camp along with Gopalaswamy. Elephants Chaitra and Lakshmi were sent to Ramapura camp while Dhananjaya, Kaveri and Vikrama returned to Dubare elephant camp. The 34 year-old Ashwathama, who made his debut during this year’s Nada Habba, was sent to Dodda Harave camp. Before the elephants were herded to their respective trucks, scores of people from the city who had gathered to see-off the pachyderms received an opportunity to witness them from close quarters apart from posing for photographs in front of them. The photo session entailing elephant in the foreground and the palace in the background, stretched for sometime after which Mr. Karikalan handed over cash to the mahouts and their assistants for the successful and smooth conduct of the festivities in which the elephants presence was a major attraction. Mr. Karikalan said each mahout and his assistant received Rs. 10,000 in appreciation of their work. Once the elephants are back in their respective camps, they tend to rest for a few days and are back on other forest-related duties, mainly jungle patrol, said Mr. Karikalan. Abhimanyu and Vikrama are used for combing operations or to catch other marauding wild elephants while the rest take part in the regular patrolling exercise conducted by the Forest Department. Incidentally, the elephants are not released for other ceremonial events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dasara-elephants-given-warm-send-off/article37047134.ece
18 October 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Football team selections||The East Godavari Football Association (EGFA) will conduct selections for women and men’s teams for the Andhra Pradesh Inter-District Football Championship-2021 to be held at Eluru in West Godavari district. The selections will be held at the SKVT Degree College grounds here on October 20 at 2 p.m. The selectors include Ravi Kaur, K. Srinivas and V.S. Ramachandra. EGFA honorary secretary Sunkara Nagendra Kishore said that matches for women’s teams would be held in Eluru from October 24 while the schedule of the men’s teams was yet to be finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/football-team-selections/article37047189.ece
18 October 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exclusive corporation sought for Sondis||Sri Navyandhra Sondi Kulala Samskshema Seva Sangham State president Nemalipuri Koteswara Rao on Sunday urged the State government to establish an exclusive corporation to take up welfare measures for the community. In a press release, he said that over 90% of the people belonging to the community falls below poverty line and are in dire need of financial support from the government. “We also sought OBC status for the community since many youngsters find it difficult to get reservations in Central government jobs and reputed educational institutions in other States,” said Mr. Koteswara Rao. “We recently met Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas and explained to him the grievances of the community. The government can initiate a survey to study the socioeconomic conditions of the Sondi caste people,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exclusive-corporation-sought-for-sondis/article37047190.ece
18 October 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kalinga Vysyas seek BC-D certificates||Andhra Pradesh Kalinga Vysya Development Corporation chairman Andhavarapu Suribabu has urged the officials to issue BC-D certificates to the applicants from the community since it was included in BC list five years ago. He discussed the issues of the community with the corporation’s person in-charge Mahidhara Chinnababu and directors at a meeting here on Sunday. “The BC Commission is scheduled to visit Srikakulam district on October 25. We will bring all the grievances of the community to the notice of the commission,” said Mr.Suribabu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kalinga-vysyas-seek-bc-d-certificates/article37047644.ece
18 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Modi calls Pinarayi, offers support to Kerala||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday and extended support to the State battling a flood and rain havoc situation. In a Facebook post, Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Modi had telephoned him and sought the details of the situation. Mr. Modi also said the Centre would offer necessary assistance to the State to tide over the crisis. Mr. Vijayan said National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams had been deployed in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram districts. More NDRF teams were headed for Idukki, Kottayam, Kollam, Kannur and Palakkad. The Army has been deployed in Thiruvananthapuram and Kottayam. It has mobilised a unit of the Engineering Task Force (ETF) from the Dakshin Bharath Area jurisdictional headquarters in Bengaluru for deployment in landslip-ravaged Mundakkayam in Kottayam. The Indian Air Force (IAF) has flown in two helicopters from the Sulur airbase in Coimbatore for rescue operations from the Thiruvananthapuram Air Force Station. The Defence Security Corps (DSC) has positioned at least one team in Kozhikode for rapid marshalling. Mr. Vijayan said the IAF had conducted pre-airlifting sorties over Mallappally in Kottayam. Airlifting Landslips had impeded access to the area. He said airlifting was the only recourse available to shift residents to safer ground from flood-ravaged Mallappally. A naval helicopter distributed food packets at Kuttickal in Kottayam and Kokkayar in Idukki. In Kavali, the Army helped retrieve the bodies of three residents swept away by floodwaters. It also salvaged valuable items, including gold ornaments, from disaster spots and handed them over to the local administration. Mr. Vijayan held a meeting with top revenue, police, disaster management and defence officials to review the flood situation. The administration has set up a control room for coordinating government efforts at the Secretariat. Fishing banned The government has banned fishing off the coast of Kerala, and the Karnataka and Lakshadweep administrations have also done the same. A red alert situation prevailed in Kerala State Electricity Board’s Kakki, Sholayar, Peringalkuthu, Kundala, Kallarkutty, Mattupetty and Kallar dams. The inflow from the catchment area into the reservoirs continued unabated. A relatively less intense blue alert condition prevailed in Ponmudi and Pampa dams. An orange alert situation prevailed in Irrigation Department’s Chulliyar, Peechi, Vazhani, Chimmini, Meenkara, Mangalam and Malampuzha reservoirs. Blue alert status prevailed in Pothundi dam in Palakkad and Neyyar in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/modi-calls-pinarayi-offers-support-to-kerala/article37047143.ece
18 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rituals, events lined up in TTD temples||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has announced that it would hold ‘Annabhishekam’ in a grand manner at Sri Kapileswara Swamy temple here on October 20, in tune with the COVID guidelines. ‘Suddhodaka Abhishekam’, ‘Anna Linga Udwasana’ and ‘Sugandha Dravya Abhishekam’ are lined up from 11.30 a.m. to 8 p.m. Devotees can have ‘Anna Linga Darshan’, i.e., a glimpse of the main deity in the sanctum sanctorum in the evening. The annual three-day purificatory ritual ‘Pavitrotsavam’ at Sri Pattabhirama Swamy temple in Valmikipuram will be conducted from October 19 to 21, with ‘Ankurarpanam’ on October 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rituals-events-lined-up-in-ttd-temples/article37047191.ece
18 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC Palle Velugu buses to get a facelift||Not very long ago, about 25 passengers commuting from Gokavaram to Pathakota via Gurthedu in a bus belonging to the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) had a miraculous escape when the rear axle of the bus got detatched from the tyres at Yedlakonda under Y. Ramavaram mandal in East Godavari district. The incident, which occurred amidst constant complaints of the bad condition of RTC’s Palle Velugu buses that cater to the transport needs of people in the rural areas, was almost like a wake up call, and the authorities decided to spruce up these vehicles. Of the more than 3,000 Palle Velugu buses in the RTC fleet, about 2,000 of them would get a facelift. “These vehicles have been the most neglected ones perhaps because they are not the revenue-earning services. But now, they will be refurbished to cater to the commuting needs of the rural population,” said the corporation's Vice-Chairman and Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao. Mr. Rao, who assumed charge a few months ago, has been trying to identify areas that need immediate attention. The logistics sector that has helped the corporation shore up its revenues during the difficult months of COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown, continues to give the officials a reason to smile. Parcel service With the public response to the cargo and parcel services launched by the public sector giant quite encouraging, those at the helm decided to expand the services and introduced “door delivery” of the couriers and parcels from September 1 this year. “Initially we started in a small way by accepting parcels up to only 10 kg to be delivered within a radius of 10 km in 16 places across the State just to see if we can adequately handle the delivery business,” Mr. Rao told The Hindu , informing that the corporation would, by this month-end, increase the limit of the courier/parcel weight up to 50 kg and also the radius of its operation. The door delivery facility introduced in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Rajamahendravaram, Kakinada, Eluru, Vijayawada, Machilipatnam, Guntur, Ongole, Nellore, Chittoor, Tirupati, Kadapa, Kurnool and Anantapur, is now being extended to 180 places across the State. “Customers from any of these 180 places can seek door delivery of their parcels or couriers,” he said. Electric buses The corporation is keen on acquiring 100 electric buses as part of the Centrally-sponsored scheme. “These vehicles will not only spare us the woes on account of high diesel and petrol rates, but will also usher in clean and green mode of transport,” Mr. Rao said. The APSRTC has liabilities worth Rs. 5,000 crore and the authorities are working overtime to find new avenues of revenue-generation to clear the accumulated losses in the earliest possible time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-palle-velugu-buses-to-get-a-facelift/article37047616.ece
18 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhavanis make a beeline for Durga temple||Hundreds of devotees from far off places made a beeline for the city to relinquish the ‘Bhavani Deeksha’ observed by them for 21 or 41 days. Sri Durga Malleswara Swamy Varla Devasthanam atop Indrakeeladri as well as the surroundings downhill turned into a sea of red, with the devotees of all age groups thronging the shrine on Sunday, the last day of ‘viramana’ (relinquishment). About 80,000 devotees had darshan of the presiding deity on Sunday. During the last three days, an estimated 3.5 lakh devotees had darshan of Godess Kanaka Durga. The vicinity of Indrakeeladri reverberated with chants and slogans ‘Bhavani Mata ki Jai’, ‘Jai Bhavani Jai Jai Bhavani’ as the devotees gathered to relinquish their ‘deeksha’. The devotees, after taking a holy dip in the Krishna, made a beeline for the temple from the early hours. The devotees went around the Indrakeeladri through the narrow streets and busy roads surrounding the hill shrine chanting names of the Goddess. Circumambulation of the Indrakeeladri (Giri pradakshina) is mandatory for those who take the deeksha. They offered special pujas to the Goddess, marking the relinquishment. Special pujas were performed at the temple to mark the ‘deeksha viramana’ ceremony. The ‘Bhavani Deeskha Viramana’ is the second biggest annual event of the Kanaka Durga temple after Dasara. The temple administration has arranged queues from the Vinayaka temple on the Canal Road for the convenience of the devotees. The temple made elaborate arrangements for the smooth passage of the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhavanis-make-a-beeline-for-durga-temple-for-deeksha-viramana/article37047185.ece
18 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BEE finalises plan on Building Energy Efficiency Project||The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has finalised the State government’s action plan on Building Energy Efficiency Project (BEEP) and is making arrangements to impart training to the officials tasked with the implementation with the support of Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (AP-SECM). SECM Chief Executive Officer A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy said that the BEEP was aimed at facilitating the adoption of Indo-Swiss energy efficient technology in housing. In a communication to Special Chief Secretary (Housing) Ajay Jain and Energy Secretary N. Srikant, BEE Director General Abhay Bhakre said he was impressed with the State government’s efforts in implementing the energy conservation and energy efficiency programmes including the Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC). The BEE has, therefore, sanctioned the Indo-Swiss BEEP to Andhra Pradesh for implementing the ECBC code for residential buildings. Power consumption The building sector in India consumes more than 30% of the total electricity consumption in the country, out of which 75% is used in residential buildings. Energy consumption in the residential building sector has more than tripled since 2000 and is expected to rise rapidly. Energy efficient and climate responsive designing of new houses holds the key to reducing their environmental impact, the BEE DG observed in his correspondence. The BEE is going to conduct a seminar in Tirupati on October 22 on BEEP in collaboration with the AP.-SECM. It will discuss various challenges and the way forward in rolling out the project in the temple town in the initial stages. The Indo-Swiss energy efficient building technology will help reduce the temperature by at least 2 degrees inside the houses and ensures adequate natural ventilation and daylighting potential. There will be scope for 20% saving of electricity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bee-finalises-plan-on-building-energy-efficiency-project/article37047617.ece
18 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leaders engineered attacks on Dalits, alleges TDP||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has condemned the attacks on Dalits at Maddalakatta village in Peddaraveedi mandal of Prakasam district. In a statement on Sunday, party’s State president K. Atchannaidu accused the ruling YSR Congress Party leaders of engineering the attack and said the government’s days in power were numbered. The TDP leader alleged the YSRCP had unleashed a ‘reign of terror and anarchy’ ever since they came to power and that Dalits and weaker sections were the worst victims of the ‘misrule’. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s administration is fraught with foisting false cases, illegal detentions, gang rapes, house arrests and vindictive actions. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is upset about his unpopularity among the masses and is trying to vent out his anger on the Dalit communities,” alleged Mr. Atchannaidu. He said such attacks on the weaker sections was unheard of. The Dalits had voted the YSRCP to power and the ruling party had so far targeted 158 Dalit families in the State, he alleged. The TDP leader launched a scathing attack on Education Minister A. Suresh for what he called ‘being silent on the attacks on the Dalits in his own constituency’. Alleging that the Minister was afraid of one particular community in the YSRCP, he said that perhaps explained why did not get the ‘culprits’ suspended from the party. Taking exception to the ‘failure of the government’ in taking action against Karunakar Reddy who was facing charges of raping a Dalit girl in Rajupalem in the Minister’s constituency. Referring to the attack on the SCs at Maddalakatta, he demanded that the Minister break his silence. “The Dalits, after being targeted by the ruling party, are being booked under various cases,” he said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-leaders-engineered-attacks-on-dalits-alleges-tdp/article37047626.ece
18 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||57 bound over in Patamata gang war case||Police bound over 57 persons in Patamata gang war case, in which one person died and several others suffered injuries in May last year, said Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. Two gangs headed by Thota Sandeep and Koduri Manikanta, alias Pandu, attacked each other with lethal weapons and sticks in Thota Vaari Veedhi last year. Sandeep succumbed to the injuries in a private hospital later. The police, who registered two cases, arrested the accused and sent them to judicial remand. As the accused did not mend their ways after coming out of jail, police bound over them under Section 107 CrPc, the Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/57-bound-over-in-patamata-gang-war-case/article37047642.ece
18 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four long haul trains operated in SCR Zone||Officials of South Central Railway (SCR) has operated four long haul trains, titled ‘Triveni’, on three different routes in the zone. The initiative has been taken up by Vijayawada division in a single day, said SCR General Manager (GM) Gajanan Mallya. Of the four trains, two comprising 118 open wagons each, were despatched to Talcher towards Visakhapatnam from Vijayawada. Another goods train was being operated from Adani Krishnapatnam Port by clubbing two open wagon trains, passing through Obulavaripalli and destined to Kesoram Cement. The fourth long haul train was despatched from Vijayawada to Kondapalli by clubbing BCN rakes (covered wagon trains), the GM said in a statement on Sunday and appreciated the officers for the unique operation. The initiative was taken to speed up the operation of goods trains, so that both empty and loaded wagons can be transported to their loading/unloading points in the least possible time, while also meeting the demands of the freight customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-long-haul-trains-operated-in-scr-zone/article37047686.ece
18 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. blames YSRCP, BJP for denial of SCS to State||APCC working president N. Thulasi Reddy on Sunday said both YSRCP and BJP were opposed to development of Rayalaseema, and urged the voters to teach a lesson to these parties in the ensuing Badvel by-election. In a statement, Mr. Thulasi Reddy blamed the YSRCP and the BJP for denial of Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh. The State was also denied the Bundelkhand-like development package, steel plant in Kadapa, and the Kadapa - Madanapalle - Bengaluru railway line, he alleged. He faulted the YSRCP government for shutting down the Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant for 18 months. Mr. Thulasi Reddy objected to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy writing a letter to the Centre seeking the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) office in Visakhapatnam and not in the Rayalaseema region. Earlier, APCC president S. Sailajanath said a control room had been set up for the Badvel bypoll. APCC general secretary (organisation in-charge) Parasa Rajiv Ratan, secretary (administration in-charge) N. Ravikanth, J. Kamal Prabhas (medical coordination incharge), NSUI vice-president M. Dhruv Kumar Reddy, and APCC spokesperson T. Venkateswara Rao would supervise the control room activities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-blames-ysrcp-bjp-for-denial-of-scs-to-state/article37047624.ece
18 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||East Godavari, Chittoor win beach wrestling competitions||East Godavari and Chittoor districts won the title of the State-level beach wrestling competitions in the girls and boys wing respectively while host Visakhapatnam secured the third place among girls in the first State-level S. Kodandaramaiah Memorial Junior Beach Wrestling Competitions, held at RK Beach here, on Sunday. The competitions were conducted jointly by the the AP Wrestling Association and the Visakhapatnam District Wrestling Association. Visakhapatnam West MLA and Visakhapatnam Olympic Association chairman P.G.V.R. Naidu, who inaugurated the competition, described Kodandaramaiah as the ‘Bhismacharya’ of sports, who was instrumental in Visakhapatnam getting several sports facilities. He had also brought several national and international sports competitions to the city, the MLA said. VOA secretary M.V. Manikyalu presided. AP Wrestling Association president R.K. Purushottam, Kodandaramaiah’s son Sridhar, VOA chief patron T.S.R. Prasad, Visakhapatnam Wrestling Association president V. Sharat Dora, secretary T. Jyothirmai, Visakha Container Terminal representative Naresh Kumar, Visakhapatnam Basketball Association president Sunil Mahanty, Visakhapatnam District Cricket Association representative Varma were among those who attended the inaugural function. As many as 80 girls and boys from various districts of the State participated in the competitions. K.N. Harsihta of Chittoor, D. Pujita (Prakasam), Y. Deepti (Visakhapatnam), K. Dharani (Chittoor), R. Ganesh (Chittoor), Y. Poorna Vinay Kumar (East Godavari) and B. Chandramouli (Visakhapatnam) won gold medals in different categories and have qualified for the national-level competitions to be held in Haryana from November 2. Mr. Naidu handed over the prizes to the winners at the ceremony held in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eg-chittoor-win-beach-wrestling-competitions/article37047198.ece
18 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meat, liquor outlets do brisk business in city||Meat stalls and liquor shops did brisk business in the city as holidayers went into celebration mode taking advantage of the Dasara festival and weekend. The sale of meat went up on Friday, Saturday and Sunday while fish sale was seen only on Sunday. Long queue lines were witnessed at meat stalls on Friday and Sunday. Many people were seen buying one to two kg chicken on an average. Some preferred to purchase both chicken and mutton. One kg of broiler chicken (skinless) was sold for about Rs. 260 a kg, while a kg of broiler chicken (with skin) was sold for Rs. 250 a kg. “We normally buy only a kg of chicken, but with relatives visiting us and special dishes being prepared for Dasara, we had to purchase 2.5 kg,” said Adinarayana, a resident of MVP Colony. According to president of Poultry Association of Visakhapatnam, T. Apparao, this was a prolonged Dasara. People purchased meat on Friday, Saturday and then again on Sunday. While the sale of chicken was good on Friday and Sunday, it was moderate on Saturday. “On Sundays, there would be a sale of about 2.30 lakh fowls in Visakhapatnam district. Today, there is a rise in sales by 10 to 15 %,” he added. Long queues were witnessed at liquor outlets in many areas of the city since morning on Sunday. There was good sale of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) at many outlets. However, officials were not available to provide the details regarding the liquor sales during the past three days. Meanwhile, Beach Road and local tourist places saw huge rush in view of Dasara festival and weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meat-liquor-outlets-do-brisk-business-in-city/article37047694.ece
18 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga and meditation useful in keeping spine supple, says surgeon||All those who have gone through the excruciating pain in the spine, while getting up from the bed or after sitting in front of the computer monitor for a long time, know the importance of keeping the spine healthy. A healthy and flexible spine can make our everyday life easy and comfortable. Our success in life is rooted in spine health, either directly or indirectly, says P.V. Ramana, consultant neuro and spine surgeon, Pinnacle Hospitals, in connection with the ongoing World Spine Week. The blood supply to spinal discs, vertebrae and soft tissues around it, can be improved through daily exercise, which also reduces inflammation and accelerates healing. Exercising in the early morning sunlight improves Vitamin D, which keeps the spine strong. Dr. Ramana says that yoga and meditation have proven to be useful to keep one’s spine supple and maintain proper ergonomics. The postures in yoga are designed such that it encourages one to keep the spine’s curvatures as natural as possible. Maintaining a proper posture at the workplace is of utmost importance as a greater part of the day is spent in the office. Stretching a bit and short workouts at regular intervals during the office hours keep the spine less strained. Those suffering back pain, which does not reduce with rest, can try using a hot water bag or take a warm shower. One should not pop a painkiller but go to a doctor, if the pain turns nagging and troublesome. Visiting a neurosurgeon or a spine surgeon is inevitable, if one develops weakness or numbness of limbs, has difficulty in passing urine or motion, or if the pain immobilises the person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yoga-and-meditation-useful-in-keeping-spine-supple-says-surgeon/article37047690.ece
18 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Use welfare schemes being implemented by Centre, says Athawale||Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale has called upon members of SC/ST/BC communities to utilise the welfare schemes being implemented by the Union government for their progress. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Athawale said that Dr. Ambedkar Foundation was giving Rs. 2.5 lakh as assistance to eligible persons going for inter-caste marriages with the objective of achieving social integration. He said the Centre was also implementing various welfare schemes Mudra Yojana, Ujjwala Yojana, Aawas Yojana and Jan Dhan Yojana for the benefit of the weaker sections. He appreciated the schemes being implemented for the weaker sections by the State government. He recalled his association with former Chief Minister, Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy. Republican Party of India (RPI), A.P., executive president B. Anil Kumar and RPI A.P. and Telangana in-charge Brahmananda Reddy were present. Earlier, at a review meeting, Mr. Athawale called upon the officials to ensure that the SC/ST communities make use of the welfare schemes being implemented by the Centre. He enquired about the population of SC/ST/BC communities in the district, the number of beneficiaries utilising the welfare schemes, the functioning of social welfare schools and hostels, scholarships and assistance being provided to those going for inter-caste marriages. Joint Director of Social Welfare Ramana Murthy and Revenue Divisional Officer Penchala Kishore were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/use-welfare-schemes-being-implemented-by-centre/article37047639.ece
18 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RPF personnel return valuables to two owners||The Railway Protection Force (RPF), Visakhapatnam, has earned the appreciation of passengers and officials for their quick response in returning high-value belongings to their owners in two incidents on Saturday. In the first incident at Visakhapatnam Railway station, the RPF team retrieved one trolley bag containing gold ornaments, clothes and cash worth about Rs. 1,05,000, left behind by a passenger, from A1 coach of train no. 02644 Patna-Ernakulam Express, and handed it over to the passenger Salagrama Namani of Vizianagaram. In another instance, at Duvvada Railway station, the RPF team retrieved a shoulder bag, containing two laptops, worth around Rs. 1,30,000, from B-13 coach of train no. 02886 Krishnarajpuram–Bhubaneswar Humsafar Express and handed it over to the owner M. Sivadurya, a resident of Rajahmundry. Divisional Railway ManagerAnup Satpathy and Senior Divisional Security Commissioner/RPF Ch. Raghuveer appreciated the RPF personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rpf-personnel-return-valuables-to-two-owners/article37047691.ece
18 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 39 new COVID cases, 47 recoveries||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 39 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, ending Sunday morning, taking the cumulative tally of cases to 1,57,810. The toll stands at 1,093 as no death was recorded in the last 24 hours. As many as 47 persons recovered from the coronavirus in the last 24 hours. This takes the number of recoveries to 1,55,879. The number of active cases stands at 838.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-39-new-covid-cases-47-recoveries/article37047696.ece
18 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to former ACA manager||Tributes were paid to Ayyagari Subba Rao (80), a former employee of SBI and former Manager of Andhra Cricket Association (ACA), for over two decades, who passed away on October 16 in Vijayawada. A native of Machilipatnam, Subba Rao played a significant role in the development of the game in Machilipatnam. Subba Rao single-handedly organised the Col. C.K. Nayudu tournament annually it the seventies and eighties. The first cousin of Ayyagari Radhakrishna, the founder-secretary of Visakhapatnam District Cricket Association (VDCA), Subba Rao helped former Secretary of ACA N. Venkata Rao in managing the affairs of the ACA efficiently, says P.R. Narayanaswami, former vice-president of the ACA and the VDCA. Several members of the cricket fraternity recalled his valuable services rendered to the ACA. VDCA secretary K. Parthasaradhi, vice-president S.S.R.K. Prasad and office-bearers condoled Subba Rao’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-former-manager-of-andhra-cricket-association/article37047196.ece
18 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RHI Magnesita plans to expand Vizag plant||RHI Magnesita, a company with a global presence in refractory products and solutions, has announced expansion of its Visakhapatnam plant with an initial investment of Rs. 50 crore in the current year. Parmod Sagar, MD and CEO of RHI Magnesita India Ltd., said that the Vizag plant was important for the growth of the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rhi-magnesita-plans-to-expand-vizag-plant/article37047689.ece
18 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free training for youth in skill development courses||Skill Development Institute (SDI), Arilova, is offering free training in various skill development courses for the youth. The institute will offer CCE Relationship, Retail Sales Associate, Pipe Fitter and Plumbing courses for those in the 18 to 27 years age group, said course coordinator B. Vamsi Krishna. For more details, contact 9493450701, 8555929179.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-training-for-youth-in-skill-development-courses/article37047695.ece
18 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 city hockey players selected for national championship||Three young hockey players from Visakhapatnam, Bilkan Majhi, Paul Purthi and Rohan Baraala, have been selected to represent the Dhyan Chand Hockey Academy, Kadapa, in the Junior National Academy Championship to be held for selection of the best juniors in the nation, in Bhopal from October 18 to 27. This was announced by the Hockey Association of Vizag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-city-hockey-players-selected-for-national-championship/article37047697.ece
18 October 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘30 screens will be set up to live-stream Sirimanotsavam’||The ‘Sirimanotsavam’ of the Sri Pydithalli Ammavari temple here will be celebrated on Tuesday as per existing temple customs and traditions, according to district officials. This year too, the district administration will not be allowing devotees to take part in the temple festival and ‘Sirimanu’ procession with a view to checking the spread of COVID-19. The officials, however, have decided to allow darshan of the Goddess through queue lines. The administration has dispensed with the Rs. 200 ticket introduced earlier for darshan following protest by the TDP and other parties. District Collector A. Suryakumari and Superintendent of Police Deepika Patil have urged the residents not to encourage their friends and relatives residing elsewhere to arrive in the city for the festival. “We are arranging 30 screens at various localities to enable the devotees to watch the ‘Sirimanotsavam’ live. People need not come to the Three Lanterns junction to watch the proceedings,” she said. ‘Tholellu Utsavam’ Meanwhile, the temple authorities made arrangements for the ‘Tholellu Utsavam’ that would be celebrated on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-screens-will-be-set-up-to-live-stream-sirimanotsavam/article37047622.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dasara aftermath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dasara-aftermath/article37047628.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back to work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/back-to-work/article37047193.ece
18 October 2021||HYDEABAD,TELANGANA||Sunday Funday at Charminar a big hit||The first edition of ‘Ek Shaam Charminar ke Naam’ appeared to be a hit with the thousands converging at the heritage precinct of Charminar on Sunday. Many sauntered, families in tow, soaking in the sights of the historic Charminar, the imposing Mecca Masjid, and its sprawling courtyard, the quaint Jama Masjid and the Government Nizamia General Hospital, popularly known as the Unani Dawakhaana. As the evening progressed, visitors were seen snacking or shopping at the myriad stalls and small shops. The Charminar seemed majestic, resplendent in its stucco work, illuminated in virtual drapes of the tricolour, even as laser beams cut the ether casting impressive shapes. A police band rendered a performance later in the evening. In an attempt to encourage the public to go green, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation set up a stall handing over saplings free of charge. Parking spaces were earmarked for the visitors as well. The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation sought to ensure a smooth ride for those visiting the Sunday Funday edition at Charminar as it pressed into service dozens of trips from different locations. For instance, 75 trips were planned from Jahangir Pir Dargah to Charminar and Maheshwaram to Charminar and Secunderabad Station to Charminar with 36 and 60 trips each. Two depot managers were put in charge of operations to Charminar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sunday-funday-at-charminar-a-big-hit/article37047473.ece
18 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||13 women who recovered from mental illness get Aadhaar cards||Thirteen women who have recovered from mental health illnesses would be able to avail government benefit schemes as the Institute of Mental Health (IMH), Erragadda, administration has aided them in getting Aadhaar cards. They could get around Rs. 3,016 under Aasara scheme. This holds significance as the women either stay at the institute or at shelter homes managed by voluntary organisations as their families refuse to take them back after recovering, or they forgot their address, don’t have a living relative, or they don’t have a home. The administrative officials have started to put in the efforts from the beginning of this year. However, it had to be kept on hold after the second wave of COVID 19 pandemic broke out. "We handed over the Aadhaar cards to the women a few days ago. Efforts are on to get ID cards for some more women," said M Umashankar, superintendent of IMH. Around eight women received the ID cards earlier. Medico-social worker at IMH R Padma said that they have filed applications to get Aaasara pension. The administration has been coordinating with the Welfare of the Disabled and Senior Citizens section to get the benefits. Earlier in March-2021, members of leading voluntary organisations working for welfare of people with mental health illness have offered a few suggestions for availing the pension without hassles, and to integrate the women into society. Founder of Anjali-Mental Health Rights Organization in Kolkata, Ratnaboli Ray, said that filling out forms, travelling and dealing with multiple offices can become overwhelming and even difficult for the women who have recovered from mental illness, especially in the absence of any support. She said that customised supporting mechanisms have to be provided to access the benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/13-women-who-recovered-from-mental-illness-get-aadhaar-cards/article37047478.ece
18 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NSG car rally cruises into Hyderabad||Sixteen days since the car rally of Black Cat commandos of the National Security Guard (NSG) was flagged off from the Red Fort in New Delhi by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on October 2, the country’s elite force showed up here and was treated to cultural performances by local artistes at People’s Plaza in the presence of Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. They were witness to Oggu Dolu folk dance and rural martial arts karra samu and katti samu. Malvika Anand rendered a patriotic song. Forty seven NSG commandos, including 15 officers, are driving 15 Tata Harrier SUVs on a 29-day journey ‘Sudarshan Bharat Parikrama’ after leaving New Delhi. They will touch 18 cities across 12 States in their 7,500 km journey. The aim of the rally was to celebrate Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav to mark 75 years of independence. Events were planned at various places en route, particularly NSG hubs at Kolkata, Hyderabad, Chennai and Mumbai. Ms Soundararajan flagged off the onward journey of the team. City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar, Inspector General of NSG headquarters Shalin and senior officials of army and air force were present. The car rally will be flagged in at the National Police Memorial in New Delhi on October 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nsg-car-rally-cruises-into-hyderabad/article37047469.ece
18 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Alai Balai is a reflection of Telangana culture: V-P||Alai Balai, the traditional annual event promoted by Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya just after Dasara, saw leaders from different political parties sharing the same dais and exchanging greetings and pleasantries. Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu attended the event at Jal Vihar and asked people not to forget their culture and traditions. He appreciated Mr. Dattatreya for continuing the tradition wherein people from different backgrounds and ideologies meet and exchange greetings. Mr. Dattatreya described the event as a reflection of Telangana culture where people of all castes, creed and religion met to exchange greetings irrespective of their differences. His daughter Vijayalakshmi said the programme was also intended to highlight Telangana culture and pass it on to the next generations. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan inaugurated the event, which was organised by Ms. Vijayalakshmi this time as Mr. Dattatreya is holding a Constitutional post. The event served as a huge platform during the Telangana agitation days with leaders of both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh regions attending it despite the divisive atmosphere seen during the agitation. Union Minister for Tourism G. Kishan Reddy said it was unfortunate that leaders of all political parties were using harsh language to criticise their political opponents, forgetting that they were working for the same goal being in different organisations. Prime Minister Narendra Modi sent out greetings for the programme and said it fosters a spirit of unity and harmony in society. He hoped that it would contribute to the sublime ideals of inclusiveness and social harmony.  Himachal Pradesh Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, Jana Sena president Pawan Kalyan, Telangana Ministers Mahmood Ali and T. Srinivas Yadav, MLC K. Kavitha, former MP V. Hanmantha Rao of Telangana Congress, BJP OBC Morcha national president K. Laxman and Movie Artistes Association (MAA) president Manchu Vishnu were among those present. At a distance At the event, MAA politics played out with Mr. Pawan Kalyan ignoring Mr. Vishnu despite the latter’s efforts to start a conversation. The Jana Sena chief did not even make eye contact with the new MAA president fuelling speculation that the murky MAA elections were a fallout of one-upmanship between Chiranjeevi and Mohan Babu groups in the Telugu film industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/alai-balai-is-a-reflection-of-telangana-culture-v-p/article37047471.ece
18 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kacheguda to have dedicated freight terminal||Kacheguda will soon have the biggest independent freight railway loading covered line mainly for transporting agricultural goods and perishable commodities like fruits and vegetables in the South Central Railway (SCR). The new line, under construction with a cost of about Rs. 2.49 crore will be 600-ft long and will be able to handle 18-23 tonnes of 19 covered wagons with an approach road being readied from the Amberpet-Golnaka side providing wider circulation for vehicles moving in and out. “This will be the biggest freight loading line as Secunderabad station freight line can handle only eight such parcel wagons and just a couple in Hyderabad (Nampally) station. During the pandemic, the focus was on getting new customers and by allowing smaller parcels, we are able to move onions and other vegetables as far as Assam and Agartala in 50 hours for a 2,000 km journey as against 72 hours by road,” pointed out senior railway officials. Special concessional fares for the agriculture and perishable goods ensured new customers came in, necessitating the need for enhancing the freight handling capacity at Kacheguda which has five platforms. Eggs, fruits, fish and also electric goods are among the new goods being transported in these new parcel vans. Before the advent of the special time-tabled parcel trains, Kisan rails, Doodth Dorontos and the likes, a couple of luggage wagons used to be attached in the front and back of a passenger train to make for the maximum 24 coaches of eight tonne capacities including the guard box. The pandemic has forced the railway authorities to think afresh and allow smaller parcels of 10 kilos to one quintal to be transported, at an assured time and pace, making it convenient for the relatively smaller traders/farmers. “Kacheguda new freight line will also help reduce the load on the Secunderabad railway station allowing it to focus more on passenger trains traffic,” they explained. General Manager Gajanan Mallya had informed 470 Kisan Rails were run, including 120 in 2020-21 and 350 till September this year. Another 11 parcel trains moved towards Bangladesh, 11 crore litres milk was transported to Delhi from Renigunta in 486 special Doodh Dorontos and about 606 ‘time tabled’ parcel trains in 20-21 and 48 this year till date. About 30 goods sheds were improved with platforms and lighting and another 47 are to be remodelled to handle the increased parcel loads. “We have approached 1,300 new potential customers and had identified 22 new freight streams with a potential of 7.5 metric tonnes,” said CPRO Ch. Rakesh. Already, the freight has improved freight improved by 53.8% to 47.7 Metric Tonness when compared to 31 MT at the same time last year taking into consideration all kinds of commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kacheguda-to-have-dedicated-freight-terminal/article37047485.ece
18 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ideas travel faster than ideology, says BJP leader||India has been a land of philosophers and thinkers rather than ideologues, so much so that Gandhiji’s ideas of ‘Satyagraha’ and ‘Ahimsa’ spread rapidly and was picked up by many nations. In sharp contrast, the Communist ideology propagated by Karl Marx through ‘Das Kapital’ took 50 years to be adopted in its own way in the then Soviet Russia and another 50 years later in China in another form, said senior BJP leader Ram Madhav on Sunday. Addressing a gathering after the release of his latest book Hindutva Paradigm by former chairman of National Judicial Academy G. Raghuram, he claimed “ideas travel faster than ideology” and “Hindu thinking is never about finality or “offers any final solution”. “We have always been philosophers so I desist from using ideology word. Even the RSS doesn’t have any ideology but a great philosophical thinking and world view,” he said. The book explains the philosophy of Deendayal Upadhaya’s ‘Integral Humanism’ drawing from ancient wisdom of the country which Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s governance is deeply influenced by, he said. Hindutva philosophy is integral to ‘integral humanism’, the book also traces the differences between Indian and Western thoughts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ideas-travel-faster-than-ideology-says-bjp-leader/article37047459.ece
18 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS presents Dak Sewa awards||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has appreciated the efforts of the Postal department in reaching out to people, particularly those living in rural and tribal areas, for delivering benefits like Aasara pensions and pattadar passbooks at their doorstep. Employees of the postal department have always been at the forefront of service delivery and financial inclusion, he said. The Chief Secretary presented the Dak Sewa awards for 2021 at a function here on Sunday. The awards were given in eight categories to outstanding performers at the State-level to employees for their service, performance, leadership qualities, productivity and their contributions in improving the image of the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-presents-dak-sewa-awards/article37047462.ece
18 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Qadir Ali Baig theatre fest from Thursday||The 16th edition of ‘Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Festival 2021’ as a tribute to theatre legend Qadir Ali Baig will be inaugurated by IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao at the historic edifice of Moazzam Jahi market on Thursday. The festival will begin with Prince Moazzam Jah’s poetry, read by Padmashri awardee Mohammad Ali Baig, in the courtyard of the market. The imposing clock tower and stone buildings will form the backdrop to the poetry (nazms) written by Prince Moazzam Jah, the second son of last Nizam. He wrote poetry under the pen name of ‘Shahji’. His nazms will be sung by renowned ghazal and thumri singer Mala Bararia. After the inaugural programme, a historical play on the construction of another world-renowned monument Taj Mahal, will be staged. The play written by Indian-American playwright, Pulitzer Prize nominee Rajiv Joseph will be enacted by Heeba Shah’s group from Mumbai. Eminent names from the theatre fraternity including Begum Razia Baig, Ila Arun, K.K. Raina, Heeba Shah, Denzil Smith, Noor Baig, Mohammad Ali Baig, Shishir Singh Chauhan and others will be a part of the high-profile event. What to expect The line-up at the festival includes plays ‘Guards at the Taj’, ‘Yeh Raaste Hain Pyaar Ke’, ‘Out at Sea’, ‘Bombay Jazz’ and ‘Checkmate’ by Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University’s Dr. Kotla Hanumantha Rao. Master classes on ‘Playwriting’ by Ramu Ramanathan, ‘Physical Theatre’ by Heeba Shah, ‘Integrating Heritage with Theatre’ by Mohammad Ali Baig will also be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/qadir-ali-baig-theatre-fest-from-thursday/article37047466.ece
18 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Applications invited for posts in medical colleges||Telangana’s Director of Medical Education (DME) has invited applications from eligible candidates for appointment to the posts of professor, associate professor and assistant professor on contract basis (temporary) for a period of one year in the required specialities. They would work in eight new government medical colleges or general hospitals. The last date to submit the applications is before 5 p.m. of October 28. The new government medical colleges are at Wanaparthy, Nagarkurnool, Mahbubabad, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Jagtial, Sangareddy, Mancherial, and Ramagundam. The colleges would become functional from next academic year - 2022-23, said DME K. Ramesh Reddy. The State government has recently filed application with the Medical Council of India seeking permission to offer MBBS course at the colleges. The applications are sought to the departments of Anatomy, Physiology, Biochemistry, Pharmacology, Pathology, Microbiology, Forensic Medicine, Community Medicine, General Medicine, Psychiatry, Orthopaedics, Anaesthesiology, Radiodiagnosis, Emergency Medicine. The requirement of recruits varies with the departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/applications-invited-for-posts-in-medical-colleges/article37047480.ece
18 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||South Central Railway runs 3 long haul trains||The SCR on Sunday successfully operated four long haul trains in three different directions under the initiative Triveni, by Vijayawada division. Each long haul train was formed by clubbing two goods trains and these goods trains are twice longer than the normal composition of freight trains, providing a very effective solution to the problem of capacity constraints in critical sections. Two long haul trains each consisting of 118 open wagons were despatched to Talcher towards Visakhapatnam from Vijayawada, with an average lead of around 900 km and another long-haul train was despatched from Adani-Krishnapatnam Port by clubbing two open wagon trains passing through Obulavaripalli and destined to Kesoram Cement with a lead of 645 km. The third was from Vijayawada to Kondapalli by clubbing two covered wagon trains. Running of such long haul trains contributes in reducing the wagon turnaround time, enhancing freight loading, reduces the manpower need and saves the precious path for operating other trains on the busy and saturated sections, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-runs-3-long-haul-trains/article37047486.ece
18 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Army recruitment next month||An Army recruitment rally under Unit Headquarters Quota will be held at ABC Track, AOC Centre, Secunderabad from Nov.29 to Jan.30 for enrolment of Soldier Tech (AE), Soldier General Duty, Soldier Tradesmen, Outstanding Sportsmen (Open Category) & Soldier Clk/SKT (AOC wards only) categories. Outstanding sportsmen (Open category) are required to report at Thapar Stadium, AOC Centre, Secunderabad at 0800 hrs on Nov.26 November for sports trials. For details, visitwww.joinindianarmy. nic.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/army-recruitment-next-month/article37047652.ece
18 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Allu Arjun to be brand ambassador of Sri Chaitanya||Film star Allu Arjun will be the face of Sri Chaitanya’s print and electronic media campaigns and brand-related undertakings. Sri Chaitanya, a well-known educational institution, in pursuance of its efforts to enhance its brand image has picked up Allu Arjun to be its brand ambassador due to his commitment to excellence. Academic director of the group Sushma said, “We believe Allu Arjun is the right choice as the brand ambassador since he holds the commitment to excellence and his focus on achieving success echoes with our brand core ethos. Allu Arjun is a big hit among the young crowds and we are confident he will resonate positively with our brand.” Founder-chairman of Sri Chaitanya B.S. Rao said Allu Arjun has a massive star following and can be an excellent influencer. The actor, for his part, praised Sri Chaitanya for carrying a rich legacy of leadership in educational sphere and transforming students into doctors, engineers and other professionals. Meanwhile, Indian cricketer Rohit Sharma will lead the multi-channel marketing campaign and brand activities of Infinity Learn by Sri Chaitanya. He was selected to boost the robust market expansion plan of the entity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/allu-arjun-to-be-brand-ambassador-of-sri-chaitanya/article37047467.ece
18 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail - Hyderabad||I see ambulances struck in the middle of heavy traffic, honking for its free passage as it is caught up in jams due to non operative signals, unmanned crossroads, unhealthy roads and VIP movements. Other vehicles either in front or on the side cannot give space to it to slide out, despite their best intentions. I request GHMC and Traffic Police to develop a software to automatically turn signals green when the ambulances are near traffic posts. This could save the life of the patient in distress and minimise mortality rate. Vithal G. Deshpande, Warasiguda   It is a longstanding demand of residents of Srinagar Colony, Keshav Nagar Colony and nearby localities like Yellareddyguda to have a regular bus service towards Secunderabad. Citizens are forced to go to Ameerpet either on foot or by other buses/ shuttle autorickshaws for boarding buses now. May I therefore draw the kind attention of the TSRTC authorities to kindly consider running a regular service as buses can take a turn around Big Bazar and then take a U-turn near Ameerpet metro station towards Secunderabad? K. Durga Prasad Rao, Srinagar Colony   HMWSSB bill welfare scheme announced by the government is a cumbersome and complicated exercise when it comes to filling details on the website for availing the same for multi-storey buildings. The registration process itself is exhaustive, since it has so many steps to follow before one can get registered successfully. Linkage of each flat owner using Aadhaar, PTIN to CAN could have been done away with, and a simple declaration of number of flats along with their PTIN numbers would have sufficed to calculate the water usage among the number of dwelling units. Since the customer is already paying property tax, there would be 100% transparency that only genuine owners will get the same. Hence, I request the Water Board to look into this aspect. Kumar Shastri, Moula Ali   Fuel prices of petrol and diesel have crossed Rs. 100-mark whereas the LPG domestic cylinder is almost touching Rs. 950-a-cylinder. All these three are essential needs of citizens but both the Central and State governments are heavily taxing them as if they are some luxury items leading to rising costs of other commodities too. I appeal to the Supreme Court to come to the rescue of the common man and stop this irrational fuel price rise continuously by the governments. T. Kailash Ditya, Barkatpura  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu. co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail-hyderabad/article37047460.ece
18 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Two washed away during Bathukamma festivities||The body of a 24-year-old youth, who was washed away in an irrigation canal while trying to save a woman, who fell into the canal during Sarannavaratri celebrations at Raghunadha Banjara village in Kallur mandal on Friday midnight, was traced on Sunday morning. The body of the woman identified as Madhulatha, 25, was found floating in the canal on Saturday. Madhulatha accidentally slipped into the brimming NSP canal while engrossed in watching the immersion process, the final phase of the nine-day mega annual fete, late on Friday night, sources said. A few revellers narrowly escaped from being swept away in the canal while taking selfies at a makeshift ramp erected on the edge of the irrigation canal, sources added. Shiva, a local youth, jumped into the canal to rescue Madhulatha. Both were swept away by the swirling waters in the canal the same night. The NSP officials concerned were apprised of the incident by the Kallur police following which the water flow into the canal was reduced to facilitate the search operation. The body of Shiva was retrieved in the canal about half a kilometre from Raghunadha Banjara village on Sunday morning, nearly 36 hours after the incident. Madhulatha came to her native village along with her two-year-old son from Tiruvuru in Andhra Pradesh over a week ago to participate in Bathukamma and Dasara festivities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-washed-away-during-bathukamma-festivities/article37047483.ece
18 October 2021||MAMIDYALA (SIDDIPET DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Project oustees at nature’s mercy||Dacharam Sruthi, Dacharam Aradhya and Pochimadla Binnu play in rain water in front of a house in Mamidyala village relocated in Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony at Tunkibollaram. The rain water reached the low-lying area in front of the houses that were constructed for the oustees of 22 families who are fighting a case against the government. All of them were allotted single bedroom houses with rooftop covered with thick plastic sheets. On the night of October 9, heavy rain with high velocity gales resulted in rooftop sheets blowing away and falling on the houses in the next street. Even a cement power pole fell on a house, forcing the inmates to run for safety. “We were forcibly brought here on April 30, 2020, with a promise that we will be accommodated at Kamalabad under Kshirasagar panchayat limits. Heavy police force was mobilised with dozens of transport vehicles. We were told that after having food we will be shifted. But what happened was our belongings were thrown into these houses and we were asked to stay here. No one heard us. We do not know what will be our fate. We fear for our lives whenever it rains. All our houses are constructed in low-lying areas. What to do and whom to question and how long?” asks D. Nagarani adding that poisonous snakes move around the area. “We are living in worst conditions. This is the result for fighting for compensation to our lands under Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act- 2013 (LA Act- 2013) in Telangana State,” says Rajkumar, one of the oustees from this village. "No one has visited us so far despite the fact that one week passed by since heavy rain and gales hit us hard. What is left of us and whom should we meet?" asks D. Mallesh, another oustee from the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/project-oustees-at-natures-mercy/article37047651.ece
18 October 2021||Mysuru,TELANGANA||Thousands of devotees witness Cauvery Theertodhbhava||Thousands of devotees witnessed the Cauvery Theerthodbhava at Talacauvery in Kodagu on Sunday. Theerthodbhava is an annual event during which water gushes out from the spring signalling the birth of the river and is marked with traditional gaiety. Devotees from across the region, besides Kodagu participate in it and take a dip in the holy kalyani or pond at Talacauvery at the foothills of Brahamgiri Hills. While priests sprinkle the gushing water on the gathering, many collect it and preserve it in pots for use on auspicious occasions. Earlier, devotees dressed in traditional Kodava attire carried lamps and marched to the venue. This year the Theerthodbhava occurred between 1.11 p.m. and 1.12 p.m. and the crowd was higher than in the recent past as the event was taking place a little after noon. Besides, the district administration had eased certain norms that were in place due to the pandemic last year and this enabled more number of people to participate and witness the theertodhbhava. The religious rituals associated with the event was carried out at Talacauvery and Bhagamandala. The ‘Nandadeepa’, traditional oil lamp at Bhagandeshwara temple was lit last week and it will burn for a month during which the devotees are expected to visit the temple in large numbers. The Akshaya Patra at the Bhagandeshwara temple had also been filled with rice harvested from across the district and different parts of the State in the run-up the event. The same will be received by devotees as prasada. Also called Tula Sankramana, the event which marks the birth of the river holds special significance to the people of Kodagu and the devout who worship Cauvery. The devout who witness the event believe that the appearance of the Goddess is evident in the sudden gush of water at Brahama Kundike during Tula Sankramana. In the run-up to the event, the district administration had taken up a slew of measures, including a cleanliness drive at Bhagamandala and Talacauvery besides the area around the temple. The road connecting Madikeri and Talacauvery was also repaired and security was also beefed up for the occasion. Last year, the event was restricted to a small number of people in view of COVID-19. Elected representatives from Kodagu, including Appachu Ranjan, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, Mandya district in-charge Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda and others also took part in the event.  Theerthodbhava is an annual event during which water gushes out from the spring signalling the birth of the river and is marked with traditional gaiety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/thousands-of-devotees-witness-cauvery-theerthodbhava/article37047242.ece
18 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Two drown while taking selfies||Two people met a watery grave in Dindi project on Sunday while attempting to take selfies. Dindi police identified the victims as Budaram Praveen, 23, hailing from Zaheerabad, working as private employee in Hyderabad, and Mohammed Sagar, 21, a plumber, also working in Hyderabad. According to the police, a group of six friends, all in their early 20s, went to Srisailam temple for darshan and were returning. At about 12.50 p.m., they stopped near Dindi project. Attempting to take a group picture, police said, six of them descended to the project’s water level, and while taking the picture, one of them, Mohammed Sagar, accidentally fell into the water body. Soon, Praveen jumped in to rescue Sagar but he too drowned. Police along with the help of fishermen and locals retrieved them. However, when they were rushed to the hospital, they were declared dead. Dindi police opened a probe into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-drown-while-taking-selfies/article37047475.ece
18 October 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Loan mela in Suryapet||Lead District Manager of the block level bankers’ committee Jagadish Chandra Bose said that a loan mela will be organised in the town on Thursday. Focussed on promoting schemes of the Centre and State governments, besides offering loans on house, vehicle, agriculture and educational requirements, all the banks in the town would be participating. The mela will be organised at G.V.V. Gardens in the town from 10 a.m. till 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/loan-mela-in-suryapet/article37047476.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Parties plan mobilisation of people||The strict norms of the Election Commission on the size of gatherings during the campaign for Huzurabad by-election has not deterred political parties to plan mobilisation of huge crowds. The parties have now eyed areas falling outside the two districts - Karimnagar and Hanamkonda -- which together hold the entire Huzurabad constituency for holding the meetings. The closest centre which is sort of big for conduct of major meetings is Husnabad, which falls in Siddipet district, and where the parties are focussed now. The TRS is no exception. The norms stipulate that not more than 1,000 people for outdoor meetings addressed by star campaigners and 500 for others will be permitted in Karimnagar and Hanamkonda. The size cannot exceed 200 in indoor meetings. The numbers were fixed as safeguards against COVID-19 and will be strictly monitored by police by barricading venues for outdoor meetings. In case of indoor meetings, registers will be maintained for headcount.   The yet to be improved civic infrastructure in some areas is getting exposed every time the city is witnessing heavy rainfall and the issue naturally took a political turn with parties blaming one another for the sorry state of affairs. The latest in the series is BJP MLA T. Raja Singh who challenged Minister K.T. Rama Rao to go on a bike ride on the city roads. The MLA accused the Minister of telling blatant lies on the significant improvement in the infrastructure ever since the TRS government took over the reins. Lamenting over the state of the roads which are turning cess pools whenever it rains, the MLA criticised Mr. Rama Rao for his claims on infrastructure development.   Administration of vaccine against Coronavirus has gathered pace with over 2.8 crore people covered under the special drive launched a few months ago. But several districts are yet to achieve the targeted rate of vaccination in spite of the intensive campaign by the State government. Vaccination of people is said to be particularly slow in Warangal, Asifabad, Nagarkurnool and Gadwal districts. The Collectors of the concerned areas are reported to have taken the issue to the notice of the government during the recent review meetings explaining that a section of people are reluctant to take the vaccine owing to the reaction the vaccination entails. N. Rahul and M. Rajeev||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parties-plan-mobilisation-of-people/article37047482.ece
18 October 2021||Bhopal,||3 injured as car rams crowd in Bhopal||Three persons were injured when a speeding car allegedly ran on a group of persons in Bhopal’s Bajaraia locality on Saturday night. “The injured are residents of different localities under the Bajaraia police station. One of them has been discharged, while two others are undergoing treatment at a hospital,” Kamlesh Yadav of Bajaraia police station told The Hindu . The police has seized the vehicle and the driver arrested. “The driver’s interrogation is underway,” Deputy Inspector General of Police Irshad Wali told reporters on Sunday afternoon. Earlier in the day, a disturbing video of the incident was circulated on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-injured-as-car-rams-crowd-in-bhopal/article37047354.ece
18 October 2021||Ghaziabad,||AMU brings positive stories of diversity and inclusion: ex-CJI||Former Chief Justice of India Tirath Singh Thakur said on Sunday that Sir Syed’s message of peaceful co-existence was more relevant today than ever before. Delivering the commemoration address in Aligarh Muslim University to mark the 204th birth anniversary of its founder, Mr. Thakur said Sir Syed was a great champion of Hindu-Muslim unity and his ideas of secularism and inclusiveness are reflective in the way AMU works. “Some of the very rare translations of Ramayan, Geeta and other scriptures are preserved at AMU and the university attracts students from all religious communities,” said the chief guest. He emphasised the fact that AMU brings positive stories of diversity and inclusion to the forefront was also acknowledged by PM Narendra Modi who called AMU a ‘mini India’. Mr. Thakur added, “Sir Syed’s vision of a civil society, his efforts for creating pragmatic awareness about what ailed Indians, his secular vocabulary and his well thought out model of indigenous modernism in contrast to colonial modernism make him relevant in the post-modern world.” He honoured British historian Dr. Francis Robinson and acclaimed Indian theorist and former Sahitya Akademi president Prof. Gopi Chand Narang with the Sir Syed Excellence Awards in the international and the national categories respectively. AMU V-C Prof. Tariq Mansoor said, “It is a matter of pride that the university is today ranked among the top Indian educational institutions by various ranking agencies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amu-brings-positive-stories-of-diversity-and-inclusion-ex-cji/article37047541.ece
18 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Metro offers Wi-Fi on Yellow Line||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Sunday said that it has introduced free high-speed Wi-Fi service for commuters at all 37 stations on its Yellow Line, which connects HUDA City Centre to Samaypur Badli. “More than 330 access points have been installed at these 37 stations,” the DMRC said in a release, adding that the free Wi-Fi will be particularly helpful for students travelling to and from north Delhi campus of Delhi University. Passengers will now be able to use standard internet applications like email, Facebook, Google, WhatsApp, and video and audio calls. They need to select OUI DMRC FREE Wi-Fi on their phones, following which they will have to enter mobile numbers and email ID to get an OTP by SMS. Thereafter, one has to enter the OTP and accept the terms and conditions and tap the connect button to access the Wi-Fi. The free Wi-Fi service is already available at all stations on the Blue Line and the Airport Express Line. “With the launch of Wi-Fi at all stations on the Yellow Line, OUI DMRC FREE Wi-Fi is now available at 94 stations of the Delhi Metro network. This free Wi-Fi is being provided by a consortium led by M/s Techno Sat Comm.,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-metro-offers-wi-fi-on-yellow-line/article37047350.ece
18 October 2021||New Delhi,||Kingpin of gang involved in theft of 110 luxury cars held||The Delhi police on Sunday said that they have arrested the kingpin of an inter-State auto-lifting gang, who was involved in the theft of more than 110 luxury cars in Delhi-NCR. The accused, Niraj Sharma alias Vinay, was part of Sarkar Gang and was also in possession of a stolen car. The police said that after they received a tip-off, a team laid a trap near Jasola Park near Sarita Vihar. He was spotted arriving in a car and was told to stop but he tried to drive away. After a brief chase, he was nabbed. On being asked about the ownership of the car, he couldn’t provide any document. On interrogation, the accused allegedly said that he used to steal cars and sell them in north-eastern States. He also disclosed that he was the kingpin of Sarkar Gang, which had been operating in Delhi and NCR since 2015. He used to work with two associates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kingpin-of-gang-involved-in-theft-of-110-luxury-cars-held/article37047349.ece
18 October 2021||PUNE,||Misuse of probe agencies like ‘contract killing’: Raut||Launching a broadside against the BJP-ruled Centre, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said the Centre’s unbridled misuse of probe agencies to finish off the existence of non-BJP parties resembled the “contract killing” that was once rampant in Mumbai city. In his weekly column Rokhthok in the Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana , Mr. Raut said the “contract killing” has now been replaced by the Centre’s “government killing” wherein probe agencies had taken a ‘contract’ from the BJP government to destroy the leadership of other parties. “Given the series of raids being conducted by the Central probe agencies in Maharashtra, one is tempted to ask whether there is a rule of law or a rule of raids in the State?” he asked. The Sena leader mounted a strong defence of the Nationalist Congress Party leaders who had recently been ‘targeted’ by the agencies. ‘Defaming leaders’ “Nawab Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested by the NCB and put in jail for eight months. Now the court has granted him bail observing that herbal tobacco and not drugs was found in Mr. Khan’s possession. These Central agencies have been wantonly indulging in defaming the State leadership,” Mr. Raut said. He censured the raids carried out by the Income-Tax department authorities against Deputy CM Ajit Pawar’s sisters. “Despite his sisters not being active in politics, I-T authorities acted as if they were criminals…This ploy to frame the leaders on false corruption charges is to defame Maharashtra…but the State will never bow before such tactics,” Mr. Raut said. He said the CBI was repeatedly raiding the homes of former State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh instead of finding Param Bir Singh. Mr. Raut also asked why details of the PM Cares Fund were not made public as it was not a government fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/misuse-of-probe-agencies-like-contract-killing-raut/article37047346.ece
18 October 2021||Pune,||‘People with single dose may be permitted to travel on local trains’||With Maharashtra’s active COVID-19 cases seeing a steady fall, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said that even citizens who had taken only a single dose of the vaccine could be granted access to local trains, malls and other commercial utilities which had opened up if cases continued to remain in check. Mr. Tope, however, said that a decision in this regard would only be taken by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in consultation with the State COVID-19 task force only after the conclusion of the Diwali festivities next month. “Dussehra has just ended and Diwali will soon follow…the festivities will see large gatherings. We will be closely monitoring the situation for any case surge and reviewing the pandemic scenario once Diwali is over. In the event the cases remain under control, then after due discussions with State task force authorities, we may take a decision,” he said. The Health Minister said that a ‘safe’ status on the Aarogya Setu app could be considered a possibility for permitting those who had received only a single dose access to all the re-opened establishments. “Given that the current time between the first and second dose is as long as 84 days, many people cannot access services like local trains…so, if the government does take this decision [about granting access to people with a single dose], then it would come as a relief to many citizens,” he said. While temples and malls have already re-opened, cinemas, auditoriums and theatres are set to open on October 22. On Sunday, Maharashtra saw a further dip in cases with 2,680 new recoveries reported as against 1,715 new cases as the State’s active case tally reached 28,631. With 29 deaths today, the State’s fatalities have reached 1,39,789. Mumbai reported 366 new cases, while Pune district clocked less than 400 cases. Kolhapur and Sangli in western Maharashtra reported just five and 35 cases respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/people-with-single-dose-may-be-permitted-to-travel-on-local-trains/article37047339.ece
18 October 2021||Pune,||Former Nanded MP returns to Congress||In a major setback to the Bharatiya Janata Party ahead of the Deglur Assembly bypoll in Maharashtra’s Nanded district, former Nanded MP Bhaskar Patil Khatgaonkar, a relative of senior Congressman and Maharashtra Minister Ashok Chavan, on Sunday quit the BJP to rejoin the Congress. Mr. Khatgaonkar, a former three-time MP, returned back to the Congress, which he had exited seven years ago along with former MLA Omprakash Pokarna. The development comes as a jolt to the BJP before the Deglur Assembly by-election slated for October 30. The bypoll, which is expected to be fiercely contested, had been necessitated following the death of Congress MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar due to COVID-19-related complications in April this year. The ruling ‘Maha Vikas Aghadi’ coalition of the Shiv Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has fielded the deceased MLA’s son, Jitesh Antapurkar, while the BJP has named Subhash Sabne, a former Shiv Sainik. The Congress, particularly Ashok Chavan, is leaving no stone unturned to retain his party’s supremacy over the Deglur Assembly seat. Mr. Khatgaonkar had quit the Congress in 2014 after being disgruntled with Mr. Chavan following the latter’s decision to field his wife Ameeta Chavan from the Bhokar Assembly constituency in Nanded ahead of the State Assembly election that year. Mr. Khatgaonkar had to relinquish the seat before the 2014 parliamentary election to make way for Mr. Chavan, who eventually won the election. No quid pro quo He had hoped Mr. Chavan would field him from the Bhokar seat in the Assembly elections held later that year as a quid pro quo – something which never transpired much to Mr. Khatgaonkar chagrin, who then defected to the BJP. Commenting on his ‘homecoming’, Mr. Khatgaonkar said that he had buried the hatchet with Mr. Chavan and said that he was re-joining the Congress as he thought his followers were not getting justice in the BJP. Welcoming Mr. Khatgaonkar, Mr. Chavan said that his presence would strengthen the Congress not just in Nanded district but in the Marathwada region as well. Mr. Chavan, a former Maharashtra Chief Minister, had been defeated in his bastion Nanded by the BJP’s Prataprao Patil Chikhalikar during the 2019 Lok Sabha election. The presence of Prakash Ambedkar’s votes-splitting Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi in the contest, which wooed some of the Dalit-Muslim votes away from the Congress, as well as Mr. Patil-Khatgaonkar’s defection to the BJP are said to have contributed to Mr. Chavan’s defeat at the time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/former-nanded-mp-khatgaonkar-returns-to-congress/article37047337.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||China tested ‘nuclear capable hypersonic missile’, says report||China’s military has carried out its first-ever test of a “nuclear capable hypersonic missile”, according to a report on October 17. The missile in August “circled the globe before speeding towards its target, demonstrating an advanced space capability that caught U.S. intelligence by surprise,” the Financial Times reported. The newspaper quoted five people familiar with the test as saying the Chinese military launched a rocket that carried a hypersonic glide vehicle “which flew through low-orbit space before cruising down towards its target.” The missile “missed its target by about two-dozen miles”, three people told the newspaper, but two others added that it “showed that China had made astounding progress on hypersonic weapons and was far more advanced than U.S. officials realised.” The Financial Times noted that only the U.S., Russia and China were developing hypersonic glide vehicles, that are launched on rockets and then orbit the earth on their own speed. They are difficult to track because unlike ballistic missiles, they “do not follow the fixed parabolic trajectory”. The newspaper said the test would post a big challenge to U.S. missile defence systems because “the weapon could, in theory, fly over the South Pole.” “That would pose a big challenge for the U.S. military because its missiles defence systems are focused on the northern polar route,” the report said. The newspaper quoted security experts as saying the test was conducted in August. It noted that the China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology, which carries out launches, had in July announced its 77th launch of a Long March rocket, and in end-August said it had carried out a 79th flight, sparking speculation about a secretive 78th launch that had not been reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-tested-nuclear-capable-hypersonic-missile-says-report/article37046959.ece
18 October 2021||Riyadh,||‘165 Yemen rebels killed near Marib’||The Saudi-led military coalition supporting Yemen’s government said on Sunday it had killed at least 165 Huothi rebels in strikes south of Marib, as the battle for the strategic city rages. The strikes “destroyed 10 military vehicles and killed more than 165” rebels in the past 24 hours in the Abdiya district, the coalition said in a statement cited by the official Saudi Press Agency. The coalition has said it has killed around 1,000 Iran-backed rebels in strikes in the area in the past week, making daily announcements of at least dozens of rebel deaths. The Houthis rarely comment on losses and the tolls could not be independently verified by AFP. The Houthis began a major push to seize Marib, the internationally recognised government’s last bastion in oil-rich northern Yemen, in February, and have renewed their offensive in recent weeks after a lull. The Houthis said on Twitter on Sunday that they had taken control of several fronts around Marib, including Abdiya, which lies about 100 km south of the city. The Yemeni civil war began in 2014 when the Houthis seized the capital Sanaa, 120 km west of Marib, prompting Saudi-led forces to intervene to prop up the government the following year. Tens of thousands of people have died and millions have been displaced in what the UN calls the world’s worst humanitarian crisis. The UN this week called for a halt to fighting in Abdiya, where it said the movement of aid to tens of thousands of people had been “extremely restricted”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/165-yemen-rebels-killed-near-marib/article37046954.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Group of 17 U.S. missionaries, their kin kidnapped in Haiti||A gang blamed for kidnapping five priests and two nuns earlier this year in Haiti is now accused of kidnapping a group of 17 missionaries and their family members, including a 2-year-old, near Port-au-Prince, police said on Sunday. The 400 Mawozo gang kidnapped the group — which also included some elderly people — in Ganthier, a commune that lies east of the capital of Port-au-Prince, Haitian police inspector Frantz Champagne said. The gang, whose name roughly translates to 400 “inexperienced men,” controls the Croix-des-Bouquets area that includes Ganthier, where they carry out kidnappings and carjackings and extort business owners, according to authorities. Haiti is once again struggling with a spike in gang-related kidnappings that had diminished in recent months, after President Jovenel Moïse was fatally shot at his private residence on July 7 and a 7.2 magnitude earthquake killed more than 2,200 people in August. The missionaries were on their way home on Saturday from building an orphanage, according to a message from Ohio-based Christian Aid Ministries sent to various religious missions. “This is a special prayer alert,” the one-minute message said. “Pray that the gang members would come to repentance.” The message said the mission’s field director is working with the U.S. Embassy, and that the field director’s family and one other unidentified man stayed at the ministry’s base while everyone else visited the orphanage. A U.S. government spokesperson said officials were aware of the reports on the kidnapping. “The welfare and safety of U.S. citizens abroad is one of the highest priorities of the Department of State,” the spokesperson said, declining to comment further. At least 328 kidnappings were reported to Haiti’s National Police in the first eight months of 2021, compared to 234 for all of 2020, according to a report issued last month by the United Nations Integrated Office in Haiti, known as BINUH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/group-of-17-us-missionaries-their-kin-kidnapped-in-haiti/article37046949.ece
18 October 2021||Dhaka,||Minorities call for hunger strike in Bangladesh||A Hindu temple has been vandalised in Bangladesh in a fresh case of communal unrest amid days of violence and protests over alleged blasphemy, prompting a minority group to announce a countrywide hunger strike, media reports said on Sunday. Hindu-owned temples and shops in Feni, about 157 km from the country’s capital, have been vandalised and robbed during fresh clashes on Saturday, which broke out after an attack on demonstrators who were protesting against the attacks on Durga Puja venues in several places in Bangladesh, the Dhaka Tribune newspaper reported. The clashes left at least 40 people, including the officer in-charge Nizamuddin of Feni Model Police Station, injured, it said. On Saturday night, authorities deployed additional police forces and the paramilitary force — Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB), after several temples and businesses were vandalised and robbed, the report said. Meanwhile in Chittagong, the Bangladesh Hindu Buddhist Christian Unity Council announced a sit-in and hunger strike from October 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/minorities-call-for-hunger-strike-in-bangladesh/article37046950.ece
18 October 2021||Moscow,||Russians land after first movie shoot in space||A Russian actress and a film director returned to Earth on Sunday after spending 12 days on the International Space Station (ISS) shooting scenes for the first movie in orbit. Yulia Peresild, 37, and Klim Shipenko, 38, landed as scheduled on Kazakhstan’s steppe at 0436 GMT, according to footage broadcast live by Russia’s Roscosmos space agency. Mr. Shipenko appeared distressed but smiling as he exited the capsule, waving his hand to cameras before being carried off by medical workers for examination. Ms. Peresild, who plays the film’s starring role and was selected from 3,000 applicants, was extracted from the capsule to applause and a bouquet of flowers. The actress said she is “sad” to have left the ISS. “It seemed that 12 days was a lot, but when it was all over, I didn’t want to leave,” she told Russian television. “This is a one-time experience.” The team was ferried back to terra firma by cosmonaut Oleg Novitsky, who had been on the space station for the past six months. The filmmakers had blasted off from the Russia-leased Baikonur Cosmodrome in ex-Soviet Kazakhstan earlier this month, travelling to the ISS with veteran cosmonaut Anton Shkaplerov to film scenes for The Challenge . If the project stays on track, the Russian crew will beat a Hollywood project announced last year by Mission Impossible actor Tom Cruise, together with NASA and businessman Elon Musk’s SpaceX. The Russian movie’s plot centres around a surgeon who is dispatched to the ISS to save a cosmonaut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russians-land-after-first-movie-shoot-in-space/article37046958.ece
18 October 2021||Athens,||Tibetans protest in Greece over Beijing Olympics, held||Tibet activists on Sunday staged a protest at the Acropolis in Athens against the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics, ahead of the lighting ceremony in Ancient Olympia on Monday. Three activists were arrested, according to the Greek police. The activists waved the Tibetan flag, chanting ‘Boycott Beijing 2022’ and ‘Free Tibet’, “just 48 hours before the Olympic Torch will be handed to Beijing in the very same place”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tibetans-protest-in-greece-over-beijing-olympics-held/article37046960.ece
18 October 2021||Tehran,||Iran to resume nuclear talks, says MP||Iran is to resume nuclear negotiations with world powers on October 21 that were suspended in June, an Iranian lawmaker said on Sunday after a meeting with Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian. The Minister said that “talks with the 4+1 Group will restart on Thursday in Brussels”, Ahmad Alirezabeigui told the conservative news agency Fars after a closed-door session with Amir-Abdollahian. The lawmaker was referring to four UN Security Council permanent members — Britain, China, France and Russia — along with Germany. Indirect negotiations Iran and these five nations opened talks in Vienna in April with the European Union (EU) also attending while the U.S. has taken part in indirect negotiations. The U.S., China, Russia, Germany, France and Britain struck an accord in Vienna with Iran on its nuclear programme in 2015. But then-U.S. president Donald Trump pulled America out of the deal in 2018 and reimposed biting sanctions. Since then, Tehran — which insists its nuclear program is for civilian purposes only — has also retreated from many of its commitments under the accord. Mr. Trump’s successor Joe Biden has said he is ready to return to the agreement if the Islamic republic re-adheres to its nuclear commitments. The Vienna talks aimed at reviving the deal were suspended in June, when Iran elected Ebrahim Raisi as President.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-to-resume-nuclear-talks-says-mp/article37046955.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||U.K. says it will beef up MPs’ security||Britain’s Interior Minister on Sunday said MPs’ security would be beefed up, after a lawmaker was stabbed to death as he held a public meeting with constituents, in the second such attack in five years. Veteran Conservative MP David Amess, 69, was talking with voters at a church in the small town of Leigh-on-Sea, east of London, when he was killed on Friday. The attack has spread fear among MPs, coming just over five years after the similar killing of Labour MP Jo Cox in the febrile run-up to the Brexit referendum. Police have said they are investigating “a potential motivation linked to Islamist extremism”. The investigation is being led by Scotland Yard’s Counter Terrorism Command. Home Secretary Priti Patel ordered a review of security measures for lawmakers and said that “we need to close any gaps” in security provision for MPs, whose work includes regular meetings with constituents, called “surgeries”. She said that police and parliamentary authorities were implementing “immediate changes and measures that are actively being put in place, and discussed with MPs”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-says-it-will-beef-up-mps-security/article37046961.ece
18 October 2021||Miami,||Maduro govt. halts talks with rivals||Venezuela’s government said on Saturday it would halt negotiations with its opponents in retaliation for the extradition to the U.S. of a close ally of President Nicolás Maduro who prosecutors believe could be the most significant witness ever about corruption in the South American country. Jorge Rodríguez, who has been heading the government’s delegation, said his team wouldn’t travel to Mexico City for the next scheduled round of negotiations. The announcement capped a tumultuous day that saw businessman Alex Saab placed on a U.S.-bound plane in Cape Verde after a 16-month fight by Mr. Maduro and his allies, including Russia, who consider the Colombian-born businessman a Venezuelan diplomat. A few hours after news of Mr. Saab’s extradition broke on social media, six American oil executives held on house arrest were taken back to jail — a sign that relations between Washington and Caracas could be upended after months of quiet diplomacy since Joe Biden entered the White House. Families of the executives expressed frustration with both governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/maduro-govt-halts-talks-with-rivals/article37046962.ece
18 October 2021||ORANGE,||US--Bill Clinton-Hospitalized||Former U.S. President Bill Clinton Clinton was released from a California hospital on Sunday after spending five nights in treatment for an infection unrelated to COVID-19.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-bill-clinton-hospitalized/article37046952.ece
18 October 2021||TOKYO,||AS--Japan-Fukushima||Japan's PM Fumio Kishida on Sunday said the planned mass disposal of wastewater stored at the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cannot be delayed, despite concerns from locals and neighbouring countries.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-japan-fukushima/article37046956.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Alarming hunger or statistical artefact?||This year’s Global Hunger Index (GHI) did not go down well with the government. This was expected given that it ranks India 101 out of 116 countries for which reliable and comparable data exist. To add insult to injury, the GHI puts India far below some of its neighbouring countries. Barring last year’s rank of 94 out of 107 countries, India’s rank has been between 100 and 103 since 2017. This year’s slide in the rank assumes significance especially in the context of COVID-19. Is India’s performance on hunger as dismal as denoted by the index or is it partly a statistical artefact? This question assumes immediacy, especially since the government has questioned the methodology and claimed that the ranking does not represent the ground reality. This calls for careful scrutiny of the methodology, especially of the GHI’s components. The GHI has four components. The first — insufficient calorie intake — is applicable for all age groups, whereas the remaining three — wasting (low weight for height), stunting (low height for age) and mortality — are confined to children under five years. The data on deficiency in calorie intake, accorded 33% weight, is sourced from the Food and Agriculture Organization’s Suite of Food Security Indicators (2021). Had the GHI been estimated using the latest data on calorie intake, usually provided by the National Sample Survey Office, things might have looked even worse given that the leaked report of 2019 indicated that consumption expenditure in India declined between 2011-12 and 2017-18 by 4%. In rural India, it was worse at about 10% per annum. The data on child wasting and stunting (2016-2020), each accounting for 16.6% of weight, are from the World Health Organization, UNICEF and World Bank, complemented with the latest data from the Demographic and Health Surveys. Under-five mortality data are for 2019 from the UN Inter-Agency Group for Child Mortality Estimation. Contrary to what is being claimed by the government, the assessment of the situation of hunger is not based on the results of a ‘four question’ opinion poll, conducted telephonically by Gallup. However, this does not mean that the GHI is free from inadequacies. A problematic component Conceptually, the GHI is largely children-oriented with a higher emphasis on undernutrition than on hunger and its hidden forms, including micronutrient deficiencies. The first component — calorie insufficiency — is problematic for many reasons. The lower calorie intake, which does not necessarily mean deficiency, may also stem from reduced physical activity, better social infrastructure (road, transport and healthcare) and access to energy-saving appliances at home, among others. Recent analysis establishes that ‘physical disease environment’ at the State level also significantly influences the calorie intake. For a vast and diverse country like India, using a uniform calorie norm to arrive at deficiency prevalence means failing to recognise the huge regional imbalances in factors that may lead to differentiated calorie requirements at the State level. From this vantage point, a large proportion of the population in Kerala and Tamil Nadu may get counted as calorie deficient despite them being better in nutritional outcome indicators. So, prevalence of calorie deficiency in these States may be overestimated. Conversely, there are States that have a higher average level of calorie intake, such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, but their needs may even be higher than the earmarked level of required calories for India as a whole because these States have high prevalence of communicable diseases and low level of mechanisation in the economy. Thus, it is likely that the existing methodology might underestimate the prevalence of calorie deficiency in these States. All this raises questions on the appropriateness of the calorie component of the index. India’s own official estimates of prevalence of calorie deficiency are not free from this anomaly. Tackling wasting and stunting The GHI highlights India’s dismal record in a domain that it can hardly defend, which is child undernutrition. India’s wasting prevalence (17.3%) is one among the highest in the world. Its performance in stunting, when compared to wasting, is not that dismal, though. Child stunting in India declined from 54.2% in 1998–2002 to 34.7% in 2016-2020, whereas child wasting remains around 17% throughout the two decades of the 21st century. Stunting is a chronic, long-term measure of undernutrition, while wasting is an acute, short-term measure. Child wasting can manifest as a result of an immediate lack of nutritional intake and sudden exposure to an infectious atmosphere. Quite possibly, several episodes of wasting without much time to recoup can translate into stunting. However, a higher order of priority was accorded to stunting, both in research and policy, for the right reasons as it is a stable indicator and does not oscillate with minor changes in circumstances, while wasting does. Sporadic emergent circumstances in different regions may increase wasting prevalence. Effectively countering episodes of wasting resulting from such sporadic adversities is key to making sustained and quick progress in child nutrition. Thus, variations in wasting prevalence across the region should guide the relative emphasis of policy attention. If India can tackle wasting by effectively monitoring regions that are more vulnerable to socioeconomic and environmental crises, it can possibly improve wasting and stunting simultaneously. There seems to be no short-cut way of improving stunting without addressing wasting. Additionally, studies say that COVID-19 is likely to exacerbate child undernutrition in general and child wasting in particular. Such insights should have driven social policy to counter the adverse impacts of COVID-19 on food and nutrition insecurity. Unfortunately, India lost this opportunity as Integrated Child Development Scheme services were either non-functional or severely disrupted — partly because the staff and services were utilised to attend to the COVID-19 emergency. An exception India’s relatively better performance in the other component of GHI — child mortality — merits a mention. Studies suggest that child undernutrition and mortality are usually closely related, as child undernutrition plays an important facilitating role in child mortality. However, India appears to be an exception in this regard. India’s child mortality rate has been lower compared to Sub-Saharan African countries despite it having higher levels of stunting. This implies that though India was not able to ensure better nutritional security for all children under five years, it was able to save many lives due to the availability of and access to better health facilities. The low ranking does not mean that India fares uniformly poor in every aspect. Should we then dismiss the GHI as it shows India in a bad light and relegate it to political white noise because it does not suit us? Or should we gracefully accept its insights informing us that our performance in some aspects might actually be dismal and requires urgent attention and course correction? This ranking should prompt us to look at our policy focus and interventions and ensure that they can effectively address the concerns raised by the GHI, especially against pandemic-induced nutrition insecurity. Sunny Jose is RBI Chair Professor at Council for Social Development, Hyderabad and Md Zakaria Siddiqui is Associate Professor at Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation, Thiruvananthapuram. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/alarming-hunger-or-statistical-artefact/article37046948.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The founder of a ‘mini-India’||Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, an iconic social reformer and founder of the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), which has completed 100 years, was born on October 17, 1817. That was a long time ago, but his thought process is as relevant today as ever before. Integration through education With the new National Education Policy, the role of education in national integration has been rekindled. National integration is a reality today. During colonialism, it was an ideal for Sir Syed. His distinctiveness lay in the way he used education as a tool for national integration. He said in 1883: “It is the... verdict of all the nations and great seers of the world that national progress depends on education and training (of the people). If, therefore, we desire the prosperity and development of our nation, we should strive for a national system of education to educate our people in science and technology.” Some scholars on colonial history have criticised some of Sir Syed’s statements on social order and his perceived closeness with the colonial government. However, to draw a generalised conclusion on Sir Syed’s convictions merely through the lens of some quotes without understanding their context would not be a fair way to assess his legacy. A person’s text should be judged in the context of the time in which they lived. The period of Sir Syed’s life was characterised by rapid transition — Mughal rule yielding to British imperialism. We must not underestimate the challenges posed by the new order for someone brought up in the old order. Sir Syed embraced change against all the odds. When Sir Syed started his project of educational renaissance, he invited all Indians to come together to join hands in the struggle against illiteracy. This arose from his wish to unshackle Hindus and Muslims from medieval thinking towards broad-mindedness, reason and progress. It is critical to understand that while his approach always remained inclusive, he gave special attention to Muslims as Hindus had embarked to the path to scientific education much earlier than Muslims. It is a known fact that the debate on the tension between religion and science had settled earlier among Hindus than Muslims. Sir Syed laid out his vision for Hindu-Muslim unity in a speech in January 1883 where he said, “India is like a bride which has got two beautiful and captivating eyes — Hindus and Muslims. Within the ranks of the Hindus or Muslims themselves, or even between brothers as also between fathers and sons, mothers and daughters, there is dissension. But to make it perennial is a symptom of the decay of the family, the country, and of the nation.” Inter-faith understanding The bonhomie between the two communities has always existed since the inception of the Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental (MAO) College, the precursor of AMU. This was not a small task. During colonial rule, a narrative of hatred had been engineered by the British. Sir Syed led by example. During the Bismillah ceremony of his grandson Ross Masood, Sir Syed placed him in the lap of his friend Raja Jai Kishan Das. When Sir Syed established a madarsa in Ghazipur, he elected Raja Dev Narayan Singh as patron of the school. Sanskrit was one of the five languages taught at this school. The managing committee of MAO College comprised 22 members of whom nine were Hindus. Sir Syed laid the foundation of comparative religious studies and revived the spirit of Dara Shikoh’s philosophy — to bring major communities of India together by finding commonalities in their religions and assimilate them as a one mighty stream. This is why AMU established the Dara Shikoh Centre for Interfaith Understanding. Section 5 (2)(b) of the AMU Act empowers the university to promote the study of religions, civilisation and culture of India. In AMU’s 100 years, it has not only contributed to nation-building but also played a role in India’s quest for building friendly ties with the Muslim world. For this, AMU is recognised as an institution of national importance under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. During the course of history, AMU has passed through many challenges but never has it abandoned its inclusive character. Apart from drawing students from 26 other countries, it has students from 31 States and Union Territories and thus represents India’s multi-religious, multi-racial and multi-lingual character. This is why Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during the centenary celebrations of AMU in 2020, called the institution a “mini-India”. Mr. Modi underscored the principles of ‘nation first’ and ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’, while emphasising that Sir Syed established AMU with a rational, progressive and scientific mindset. It is appreciable that the Prime Minister invoked the contribution of a 19th century reformer in the making of 21st century India. This is a testament to the vision of a man who was far ahead of his times. Tariq Mansoor is Vice-Chancellor, AMU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-founder-of-a-mini-india/article37046943.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Powering the energy sector||In an energy-dependent country like India, the availability of energy supplies at affordable rates is pivotal for fulfilling developmental priorities. But the energy sector is beset with problems. The distribution sector has for long been the bane of the power sector, consistently making huge losses owing to problems such as expensive long-term power purchase agreements, poor infrastructure, inefficient operations, and leakages and weaknesses in State-level tariff policies. Most discoms are deep into the red as high aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses are chipping into their revenues. Dismantling state monopoly Against this backdrop, the Electricity (Amendment) Bill of 2020 is a game-changing reform. The wide-ranging provisions of the Bill will set the process of de-licensing power distribution after the monopoly of the state is dismantled. This will provide the consumers with an option of choosing the service provider, switch their power supplier and enable the entry of private companies in distribution, thereby resulting in increased competition. In fact, privatisation of discoms in Delhi has reduced AT&C losses significantly from 55% in 2002 to 9% in 2020. Open access for purchasing power from the open market should be implemented across States and barriers in the form of cross subsidy surcharge, additional surcharge and electricity duty being applied by States should be reviewed. Discoms and regulators should be brought on board for proper implementation of open access, which will provide more options to consumers to choose their discom just as they are able to choose telecom providers. The question of tariffs needs to be revisited if the power sector is to be strengthened. Tariffs ought to be reflective of average cost of supply to begin with and eventually move to customer category-wise cost of supply in a defined time frame. This will facilitate reduction in cross subsidies. All this will happen when discoms are made autonomous and are allowed by regulatory authorities to revise tariffs without interference from the States. Electrical energy should be covered under GST, with a lower rate of GST, as this will make it possible for power generator/transmission/distribution utilities to get a refund of input credit, which in turn will reduce the cost of power. Other antidotes to the problem include use of technology solutions such as installation of smart meters and smart grids which will reduce AT&C losses and restore financial viability of the sector. Push for renewal energy The impetus to renewal energy, which will help us mitigate the impact of climate change, is much needed. One option is to encourage roof-top solar plants. Despite its inherent benefits, the segment has shown relatively slow progress with an estimated installed capacity of 5-6 GW as on date, well short of the 2022 target. Another welcome feature of the Bill is the strengthening of the regulatory architecture of the sector. This will be done by appointing a member with a legal background in every electricity regulatory commission and strengthening the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity. This will ensure faster resolution of long-pending issues and reduce legal hassles. The Bill also underpins the importance of green energy by proposing a penalty for non-compliance with the renewable energy purchase obligations which mandate States and power distribution companies to purchase a specified quantity of electricity from renewable and hydro sources. This will ensure that India gradually moves towards non-fossil fuels thereby helping it meet its global climate change commitments. Some other significant features of the Bill such as the creation of an Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority to supervise the fulfillment of contractual obligations under power purchase agreement, cost reflective tariffs and provision of subsidy through DBT are commendable. Early passage of the Bill is critical as it will help unleash a path-breaking reform for bringing efficiency and profitability to the distribution sector. T.V. Narendran is President, CII||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/powering-the-energy-sector/article37046944.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A murder most foul||The brutal murder of a Dalit Sikh man by a group of Nihangs — a religious sect that has also participated in the protests against the farm laws — at the site of the farm protests at the Singhu border in Haryana has brought the farmers’ agitation into the spotlight for all the wrong reasons. The Nihang activists who are responsible for the murder must be apprehended immediately and tried for the horrific crime. Their blatant disregard for the rule of law is evident in the manner in which they have justified their crime and in their nonchalance in accepting responsibility for it citing their religious sect’s traditional practices. The Haryana government must spare no effort in bringing the culprits to justice, should appeal for the strictest punishment and a message must be sent that the claims of religious sanction for violence are illegal and are punishable. While the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which includes various farmer groups and has led the protests, has rightly distanced itself from the Nihangs and their actions and asked that the perpetrators be brought to book, it remains a question as to why groups which base themselves on religious traditions have been allowed to be a part of protests that are based on economic demands in the first place. In its loose nature of agglomeration, the SKM has sought to articulate the concerns by subsuming the interests of several sections of those involved in the farm sector. But it is clear that the nature of the protests — as demonstrations and protests by non-political party groups — has allowed it to be utilised by sectarian outfits for their ends. The SKM has been a non-political party movement in order to articulate demands related solely to the farm laws and to direct the protests at the Union government. But in doing so, it has unwittingly allowed sectarian groups, whose motives are suspect, to share space with them. By and large, the farm agitations have been peaceful, even if their leaders have refused to give up on their position of repealing the laws passed in Parliament, but the incidence of violence such as those seen on Republic Day featuring a set of the agitators, besides the murder at Singhu suggest that the loose nature of the campaign is allowing such incidents to recur. Detractors of the farmers’ movement have sought to denigrate it by reducing it to Sikh separatist and sectarian movements. A political attempt is being made to drive a wedge between the different communities that are a part of the protests, as seen in the reactions in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh as well. The farm protests cannot be wished away with such a reductive approach. Even as strict actions are taken against violent activists, the atmosphere of distrust that persists between the Government and the farm unions can only be reversed with further talks to address the latter’s concerns with the laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-murder-most-foul/article37046939.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||“Stress on degrees should go”||Ahmedabad, Oct. 17: Dr. Atma Ram, former Director-General of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, has called for a drastic change in the present educational system to make it more job-oriented. The present system laid stress only on the student’s acquiring a degree and not on skill and capacity. Punjab, Haryana, and Gujarat had made economic strides by the skill of its workers and not by the degrees of the universities, he added while delivering the convocation address of the Gujarat Vidyapith here on October 15. While engineering degree-holders were not getting a job, there was acute shortage of skilled technicians in the industrial field. This paradox should be removed, he said. To make education more purposeful, it was essential that no “undue importance” was attached to degrees. In a developing country like India, importance should be given to small, industrial workers who could build huge projects. The university degree-holders, who were simply capable of criticising “the works of Kalidas and Shakespeare”, had no use for the country, he remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/stress-on-degrees-should-go/article37046941.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping the policy alive and kicking||Some time ago, the Madras High Court ordered all vehicles in the State of Tamil Nadu to be sold only with a ‘five-year, bumper-to-bumper’ cover. That order is now on hold as insurers have asked for time to design such policies and get the required regulatory permissions. The court’s idea was for a multi-year policy with a bundle of covers. We had explained in Cover Note in the edition dated September 6, how such bundled, or package, policies can serve us better and can offer more efficient pricing. Multi-year policies have the added advantage of protecting us from our own forgetfulness to keep our insurance renewed! Let us look at a few package and multi-year policies. A basic motor-vehicles policy from the point of view of what is mandated is the Third-party (TP) Liability policy. This is packaged with an own-damage cover to make a comprehensive policy and can be further bundled with a menu of other optional covers like personal accident for the occupants, no-depreciation cover, road-side assistance, a cover ensuring a service vehicle while yours is being repaired and so on. The bells and whistles come at an additional cost but have their utility. Multi-year motor-vehicle policies have also been available. A 10-year TP policy for two-wheelers was introduced in 2014, but hasn’t caught on much. A multi-year cover for cars was introduced in July 2018 and made compulsory for new vehicles including two-wheelers, from June 2020. However, this was withdrawn in August that year. Health insurance policies have been offered for two and three-year terms for quite some time now. This is attractive because of the premium discount as well as the fact that one is protected against the premium increases that have become significant. Home-insurance policies have been package policies for the longest time. The Householders’ Comprehensive, policy dating back to the nationalised era of general insurance, had ten different covers packaged as one, including even personal-accident cover for household staff and continues to be on offer and many further options are now available, including some multi-year policies. Package policies and multi-year policies lend a dimension of convenience and practicality to buying and maintaining our portfolio of insurance. Linking to dates One more convenient insurance hack that will save our skins when we forget to renew is to fix convenient renewal dates. Life policies are often linked to birthdays or wedding anniversaries which makes it easy for people to remember. If your policy is linked to a tax benefit, more the reason you should meet the March 31 deadline and hence, its renewal date should give you enough breathing room. Premium timing You can ask your insurance firm to align all your policies to the same renewal date. They can do this by extending some policies/ cutting short others as a one-time exercise and bringing them all to the target date. If a single renewal date for all policies is too much of a financial outgo all at once, then spread them out to some on the first date of each quarter or a conveniently remembered trigger date. It could be timed for your Deepavali bonus date or the date of interest on a fixed deposit. And if you are like a significant number of people who misplace policies, ensure you have registered on your insurance company’s website so that you can access policy details online for reference at the time of renewal, for checking details while filing your I-T returns or indeed, when you are filing a claim. You can pool all your policies from various insurers, life, health, motor and so on into an e-insurance account and have them all in one place at the click of a mouse. This demat account, available through any insurer and even other financial service entities, will also come in handy for any policy updates such as address change or registered mobile number will be updated across policies and across insurers with one piece of communication. If you have moved home often, and are missing policy renewal notices, you will know what a blessing that can be!  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/keeping-the-policy-alive-and-kicking/article37046933.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Credit score myths that can harm financial health||A strong credit score is key to your financial health as it can provide you with access to the best offers on loans and credit cards. However, building or maintaining a high credit score through responsible behaviour is a continuous process. One needs to be aware of ‘good and desirable’ actions that impact your credit score positively and stay away from the bad ones. Here are some common myths around credit scores: Myth 1  Checking my credit score frequently will lower the score  When you apply for any kind of loan or a credit card, the lender fetches your credit report from a credit bureau to gauge your creditworthiness. This is commonly known as a ‘hard enquiry.’ Too many hard enquiries from lenders within a short span can reduce your score as it indicates credit hungriness. However, when you check your credit score on your own, it is known as a ‘soft enquiry.’ Soft enquiries have no impact on your score. In fact, it is advised to check your credit report every 2 or 3 months, to track your credit score and take action to build it. Regularly checking your credit score can also help detect errors that may emerge in your credit report. Myth 2  My score will improve with increase in income  Your credit score is determined by your behaviour with credit and is not related to income. Missing EMI repayments, high credit-utilisation ratio, frequent and multiple applications for loans and cards can severely damage your credit score, irrespective of your income. However, higher income does impact your overall loan eligibility, as it reflects higher repayment capacity. Despite a strong credit score, those with lower income may not be eligible for select credit cards or high-ticket loans. Myth 3  Settling a credit account helps in improving credit score  Settling your loan or credit card account is different from closing your loan or card account. Closure of an account means deactivating a loan or credit card after full repayment of outstanding dues as per schedule, with no outstanding amount remaining. When one is unable to pay the outstanding amount for some time, the lender may choose to extend the option to settle the account through a one-time payment option, where a certain amount of the debt may also be written off. When you decide to settle your credit account, the credit bureaus are informed; this starts reflecting in your credit report as a ‘settled’ account. You need to know this ‘settled’ account remains in your credit report for a long time, and all your future loan or credit card applications are likely to be adversely impacted. Since you missed repaying as per the schedule and settled the account, lenders will consider you as a ‘risky’ borrower in future and may be hesitant to approve your loan or credit card applications. Myth 4  Banks will lend to me because I have never taken any credit in the past  Many people assume that having no loans or credit cards can makes it easy for them to avail credit as they do not have any existing credit obligations to fulfil. This is not correct. Having active credit accounts and displaying good repayment behaviour against them is a positive sign for lenders. If you have fared well with your credit obligations in the past and continue to do so, your risk of defaulting in future is relatively less and you can get credit approval with better offers and at preferential rates. On the other hand, indiscipline in handling credit in the past makes you a risky customer and bureaus give you a low credit score making it difficult to avail loans and cards. But, if you have never taken any loan or credit card in your life, you do not have any credit history. Having no credit history leaves providers with no data to analyse the risk of credit provided to new to credit applicants. Many large lenders refrain from approving credit applications of such applicants. If you are new to credit, you also miss out on pre-approved loans and card offers from various lenders, apart from several benefits such as preferential rates. Myth 5  Closing old credit cards is good for my credit score  We often tend to close old credit cards to save annual fees or just because we don’t use them any more. However, this may not be advisable if you do not have a long credit history, haven’t availed many credit products, or have a low credit score. Before closing an old credit card, do consider a couple of aspects. First, it’s always good to have a good mix of credit products in your portfolio because it shows your ability to manage different types of credit. So, before closing an old credit card, do take a close look at the total account in your credit report. If you have not taken too many credit products, you may want to continue with the card for a stronger product mix. Second, lenders look at the length of your credit history when you apply for any kind of loan or a credit card and, having a credit card here with a long history and good repayment record may help. So, if your credit history with other credit products is not very long, continuing with an older credit card is recommended. Also, remember that when you close a credit card, your credit limit would reduce, which may lead to a higher credit utilisation ratio that would negatively impact your score.  (The writer is Chief Product Officer, Paisabazaar.com)   One needs to be aware of ‘good and desirable’ actions that impact credit score positively and stay away from the bad ones||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/credit-score-myths-that-can-harm-financial-health/article37046935.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Ask Us||Q.I am a 39-year-old single mother with a 14-year-old daughter. I am employed with a leading NBFC. My monthly gross earnings come to Rs. 72,000 and net take home is Rs. 51,000 (after deduction of VPF of Rs. 10,000 over and above my regular deductions). I have nil liabilities. I used to invest Rs. 17,000 per month (now stopped as I didn't want to put all eggs in one basket) in various SIPs, a monthly LIC premium of Rs. 6,000 (continuing), Rs. 5,000 monthly for NPS and Rs. 10,000 as monthly RD for 12 months. Kindly advise as to how I can further build my wealth. Do I need to restart my SIPs or continue with my savings habit? Jayalakshmi A.Your VPF, recurring deposit and NPS alone make up Rs. 25,000 per month of savings and investment. We are not counting your LIC premium as investment unless you are invested in any market-linked plans there. Your current savings ae commendable. Please keep it up! Investing in mutual fund SIPs does not mean you are putting all eggs in one basket as long as you are investing in a good mix of equity and debt funds. Without equity, even the best of savings and investment habits may not fetch you inflation-beating returns in the long term. You will have some equities through your NPS but that is unlikely to be sufficient. Yes, a wrong mutual fund product that is mis-sold can lead to trouble. To avoid this, ask for simple Nifty, Nifty 500 and Nifty Next 50 index equity funds. These are low-commission products and few will offer you the option unless you ask. These will reduce the need to maintain your portfolio as they are passive funds, mimicking the market. With this, mix some simple ultra-short, short-duration and banking and PSU funds and restart your SIP. Do not worry if the market falls, as long as you are investing for a minimum of 7 years. For any short-term goals, use safe avenues such as bank deposits. Q.I am 26 years old; I work in a private IT firm. My net monthly income is Rs. 57,000 and I have investments of Rs. 6,200 per month as LIC premium and spend Rs. 8,000 per month on room rent. But still, tax is getting deducted from my salary. Could you please recommend some long-term investment plans that could save me from paying tax in future and which I could start on soon? Aditya Rai A.The easiest you can do is to ask your employer to deduct a higher provident fund — called voluntary provident fund. This will provide you with a higher tax deduction since it is unlikely your current PF is large enough to get full deduction under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act. Other than this, you can consider opening a PPF account. If you are a risk taker, tax-saving funds (ELSS) also work. Q.I recently retired from a manager’s post at a government undertaking; I received about Rs. 1 crore as superannuation benefits. Now, I have about Rs. 2 crore, including my life-long savings . About 90% of the amount has been deposited in multiple banks as fixed deposits. Kindly guide me on investing the sum to get better returns on investments to beat inflation. Tariq Khan A.Our first suggestion to manage your corpus is to go for a fee-based financial planner and do a cash flow to ensure that the corpus lasts through your retired years. Avoid using agents and distributors for this purpose. If not, considering the following: keep an emergency corpus that is 3-6 months of your expenses in large public or private banks that are systemically important. This would be SBI, ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank. For regular income, invest up to Rs. 15 lakh in the Senior Citizens’ scheme if you have turned 60. If you are less than 60, then you will have to stick to FDs and RBI Floating Rate Bonds we have mentioned further down. Similarly at 60, use LIC’s Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandhana Yojana — a safe pension plan. This also has a limit of Rs. 15 lakh. Post these two, consider RBI’s Floating Rate Savings Bond, available with select large banks, including SBI, and select brokerages. This has no limit and is sovereign guaranteed. Interest is floating but will always be 35 basis points above the NSC rate. Stick to fixed deposits across large private and public sector banks and perhaps use a couple of small finance banks for FDs (for slightly higher interest) up to Rs. 5 lakh each. Rs. 5 lakh is the amount up to which there will be insurance cover for your bank FD. Avoid going to risky banks beyond this amount. Q.I am due for retirement from government service in a few months. I would be getting a significant amount at the time of retirement. I have a home loan worth a few tens of lakhs. Is it wise to pay back the home loan? What are the best options for investments? Suresh A.It is best to start your retired life without any liabilities. To this extent, if you have a large corpus and you will also earn a pension, you must consider closing your loan, even if it fetches you tax benefits. On investments, you can go for a mix of Senior Citizens’ Savings Scheme, RBI Floating Rate Savings Bond, LIC’s Vaya Vandhana Yojana and some 10-15% in equity index mutual funds. Add the equity index funds only if you do not need this part of your corpus for the next 5-10 years.  (The adviser is Co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article37046937.ece
18 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Dravid likely to be head coach||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has initiated procedure to appoint coaching staff for the Indian men’s team, including that of the head coach. Rahul Dravid, the former India captain, has emerged a front-runner to take over the reins from Ravi Shastri after the T20 World Cup. The BCCI, on Sunday, invited applications for five posts — head coach, batting coach, bowling coach, fielding coach for the men’s senior team and the Head - Sports Science and Medicine at the National Cricket Academy. Criteria The head coach applicants — who have played at least 30 Tests or 50 ODIs or have two years experience at international level or three years a rung below it — have been set a deadline of Oct. 26 to email their application. Aspirants for the other posts have been asked to formally apply by Nov. 3. With Dravid having been involved in informal discussions with the BCCI hierarchy over the last week about his elevation from the Head of Cricket at the NCA position to the head coach’s role, it will be interesting to see if any other candidate throws his hat into the ring. In case of multiple applications, the BCCI will have to first reconstitute the Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC) and then conduct interviews of shortlisted candidates to adhere to its rulebook. Once the head coach’s appointment is formalised, he will be consulted by the national selection panel that will finalise the coaching staff. It is understood that Paras Mhambrey, who has been Dravid’s trusted ally in developmental coaching structure for four years, will be handed over the bowling coach’s role while Vikram Rathour is set to be retained as the batting coach. Abhay Sharma, who has been the India-A and Under-19 fielding coach and has had a short stint with the senior team, may be considered for the fielding coach’s role. The tenure of each of the coaching roles will be two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dravid-likely-to-be-head-coach/article37047147.ece
18 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sharath will look to break the jinx||The presence of A. Sharath Kamal at the top of the heap of the country’s leading players taking part in the UTT National-ranking table tennis championship (North Zone) is in keeping with the importance of the domestic season-opener. Eight months after the National championship, Panchkula’s Tau Devi Lal Stadium is once again set to host the men, women and newly-introduced under-19 sections over the next five days. Quality competition Over 250 entries in men and in excess of 160 in women are testimony of how keen the players are to get the feel of quality competition in these days of the pandemic. Sharath, the Indian spearhead in the World championship late next month, will be around to test his preparedness in Tunisia before heading to two events in Slovenia. Though favourite to win the top prize of Rs. 84,000, Sharath will be keen to break the title-jinx at this sprawling venue. In his two previous visits here, Sharath lost to the young Fidel Snehit in the 2018 edition of this championship and to G. Sathiyan in the National final in February. With Sathiyan giving the tournament a miss, Manav Thakkar is seeded second, followed by two former National champions — Soumyajit Ghosh and Sanil Shetty. Depth in field The depth of the field is such that Commonwealth champion Harmeet Desai, defending champion A. Amalraj, Ronit Bhanja and Sushmit Sriram are more than capable of going beyond the quarterfinals. In the women’s section, where Manika Batra has expectedly stayed away after engaging the Table Tennis Federation of India in a legal battle, defending champion Sreeja Akula heads the field. Interestingly, the top half of the draw features National runner-up Reeth Rishya and two semifinalists Sreeja and Takeme Sarkar. The lower half includes Olympian and second seed Sutirtha Mukherjee, third seed Ayhika Mukherjee, Anusha Kutumbe and Krittwika Sinha Roy among those expected to be in the quarterfinals.  The seedings:   Men: 1. Sharath Kamal, 2. Manav Thakkar, 3. Soumyajit Ghosh, 4. Sanil Shetty, 5. Harmeet Desai, 6. Anthony Amalraj, 7. Ronit Bhanja, 8. Sushmit Sriram.   Women: 1. Sreeja Akula, 2. Sutirtha Mukherjee, 3. Ayhika Mukherjee, 4. Reeth Rishya, 5. Takeme Sarkar, 6. Anusha Kutumbale, 7. Krittwika Sinha Roy, 8. Prapti Sen .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-will-look-to-break-the-jinx/article37047206.ece
18 October 2021||Chennai,||CSK bullish on retaining Dhoni||“According to me M.S. Dhoni will play for Chennai Super Kings in the IPL next season. But I have not spoken to him on the subject yet,” said Chennai Super Kings CEO K.S. Viswanathan after a triumphant campaign. Speaking to The Hindu from Dubai on Sunday, Viswanathan spoke about Dhoni’s leadership qualities and big match temperament. “Our team meetings were very brief. They did not last more than two minutes; you would not believe this. Yet Dhoni managed to convey to every player what his role was,” revealed Viswanathan. And it was Dhoni’s idea to start the CSK camp in Dubai early. “This really helped the team,” observed Viswanathan. About Dhoni, despite lack of runs, arriving before Ravindra Jadeja and conjuring a match-winning cameo against Delhi Capitals in Qualifier 1, Viswanathan said, “He has this big match temperament. He backs himself to deliver.” Viswanathan said, “Remember we have reached nine finals and won four of them. Our victory in 2018 was special because we were coming back.” He added, “We lost narrowly in the final in 2019. 2020 was a bad year, the law of averages caught up with us. To bounce back from that and lift the Trophy in 2021 is hugely satisfying.” “Age was only a number,” Viswanathan said and spoke about criticism from some quarters after CSK bought Robin Uthappa. He said, “They said Uthappa was 35 and we are again signing an older player. But we knew Uthappa had experience and was a match-winner. His knocks in Qualifier-1 and final were crucial.” Asked whether CSK would rebuild from the next auction, Viswanathan did not commit himself. “Only after we receive the rules for the auction that we will decide on our strategy.” Viswanathan had words of praise for the net bowlers. “Bowlers like Tushar Deshpande, Tanvir-ul-Haq, Mukesh Chaudhary, Rakshan Reddy, and bowlers from the MRF Pace Foundation, really helped our batsmen prepare.” On the opening combination of Ruturaj Gaikwad and Faf du Plessis, Viswanathan said, “We always knew Ruturaj was a special player. And Faf is a proven customer, who performs when the chips are down.” He appreciated the effort from the bowlers. “If you do not pick wickets, you are not in the game. Josh Hazlewood is a very good red ball bowler. We picked him because we felt if someone is such a capable red ball bowler, he should be good with the white ball too. Hazlewood proved us right. “Ravindra Jadeja is a match-winner with the bat, ball and on the field. Shardul Thakur was a bit expensive but picked vital wickets. Moeen Ali hit the ball a long way and chipped in with the ball when the conditions were right. “We will be going for title No. 5 in the next edition,” concluded Viswanathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-bullish-on-retaining-dhoni/article37047150.ece
18 October 2021||Muscat,||Scotland stuns Bangladesh||Chris Greaves starred with bat and ball as Scotland shocked Bangladesh with a six-run win in the Twenty20 World Cup on Sunday. Greaves’ 28-ball 45 guided Scotland to 140 for nine and he then took two key wickets with his leg-spin to restrict Bangladesh to 134 for seven in the second first-round match of the day. Greaves, who had earlier rescued Scotland from a precarious 53 for six, sent back Shakib Al Hasan (20) and Mushfiqur Rahim (38) to dent Bangladesh’s chase. Bangladesh spinners Mahedi Hasan and Shakib picked up wickets regularly, but Greaves gave Scotland crucial runs with his late cameo. Shakib’s wicket of Michael Leask for nought took him past Sri Lanka’s Lasith Malinga as the leading wicket-taker in T20Is.  The scores: Scotland 140/9 in 20 overs (George Munsey 29, Chris Greaves 45, Mustafizur 2/32, Shakib 2/17, Mahedi 3/19) bt Bangladesh 134/7 in 20 overs (Mushfiqur 38, Brad Wheal 3/24, Chris Greaves 2/19).   Toss: Bangladesh.   Scotland won by six runs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/scotland-stuns-bangladesh/article37047170.ece
18 October 2021||Dubai,||India takes on England today||All-rounder Hardik Pandya’s form and a few batting slots will be foremost on captain Virat Kohli’s mind as India looks to make the most of two T20 World Cup warm-up matches starting with a game against England on Monday. With all the Indian players coming straight from the recently-concluded IPL, match practice isn’t a problem, but getting the perfect combination on the park before the high-profile opening game against Pakistan on October 24 is a priority. Against England and Wednesday’s game versus Australia, the Indian team management would look to give the players who are still not automatic choices in the playing XI, more overs to bat or bowl to gauge their current form. Rohit Sharma’s opening partner would be a tough choice between Ishan Kishan and K.L. Rahul. Rahul will be the favourite considering his experience and IPL form. Kishan was brilliant as Rohit’s opening partner in the last two games as he nearly took Mumbai Indians into the play-off. If Rahul is preferred, Kishan might force Hardik into the No. 6 slot, which is ideal for a finisher. But the question that needs to be addressed is, what would be the best slot for him: above Rishabh Pant at No. 5, or No. 6. Similarly, in the spin department, Ravindra Jadeja may have two spinners playing with him and Varun Chakravarthy is all but confirmed if he remains fit. The third spinner could be either Rahul Chahar and R. Ashwin. Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Jasprit Bumrah are expected to be the two pacers. For England, a rejuvenated Jos Buttler with his pyrotechnics will hold the key along with the flamboyant Jason Roy and Jonny Bairstow. If the IPL is any indicator, some of the English players like Liam Livingstone and Dawid Malan seemed to struggle when the ball didn’t come on to the bat. Skipper Eoin Morgan was brilliant as a leader at KKR but he would also like to score a few runs going into the tournament.  Rohit’s opening partner would be a tough choice between Ishan Kishan and K.L. Rahul Bhuvneshwar and Bumrah are expected to be the two pacers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-takes-on-england-today/article37047154.ece
18 October 2021||Male,||Chhetri credits youngsters for triumph||Talismanic skipper Sunil Chhetri played a pivotal role in India’s eighth SAFF Championships title triumph by striking five goals but he credited the young brigade for the team’s victory. The 37-year-old Chhetri went past the legendary Pele and equalled Lionel Messi when he scored the team’s opener — and his 80th goal — against Nepal in the summit clash on Saturday. “Look at the youngsters — it feels good for all of them. It’s all due to their hard work. We were here for 20 days till the final, staying on an island, riding the waves every day for practice sessions, and matches,” Chhetri said in a release from All India Football Federation. “We made it special as we were not so good in the first two games. It was tough from there to come up and play the way we did,” added Chhetri after his third triumph in the SAFF Championship as a player. Chhetri has won the regional tournament in 2011 and 2015 also. “Didn’t start like we should have, but ended exactly how we wanted to. Proud of this bunch and the way we got things on track,” he later said in a tweet. Chhetri was all praise for the other two Indian goal getters on Saturday -- Suresh Singh and Sahal Abdul Samad. “I enjoyed watching that, Sahal. Suresh, of all the things you copy from me, this is up there. Make it a habit,” said the captain. Sahal, on his part, said it was an “unbelievable” moment and “a miracle”. “I don’t know what happened inside the box. I came in for the last 4-5 minutes. My teammates have been working hard — it all goes to them,” he said. “But I just don’t remember what happened inside the box. I got it and went in. This is an amazing feeling.” Head coach Igor Stimac, who was banned from the dugout in the summit clash after being red carded in the earlier league match against Maldives, let the players take centrestage. “The boys have done it,” he quipped. The Blue Tigers dedicated the trophy to their two injured teammates -- Farukh Choudhary, and Brandon Fernandes, who weren’t able to travel to the ground. While Mandar Rao Dessai and Glan Martins carried Brandon’s jersey with them, Rahul Bheke preferred to wear Farukh’s jersey even at the victory podium. “Farukh and Brandon are very much here, and a part of this triumph. Their contribution in this Championship will never go unnoticed,” Bheke said. “I wore Farukh’s jersey as I wanted him to be with us during the trophy celebrations.” With the title win, India extended their domination in the regional tournament. Saturday’s final was the 12th for India in 13 editions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chhetri-credits-youngsters-for-triumph/article37047157.ece
18 October 2021||Newcastle,||Chelsea staves off a spirited Brentford||Newcastle’s new dawn under the ownership of the Saudi sovereign wealth fund got off to a disappointing start as Tottenham silenced St James’ Park with a 3-2 win on Sunday. The defeat leaves Newcastle still in the Premier League relegation zone. Earlier on Saturday, Ben Chilwell sent Chelsea back to the top of the Premier League as his blistering strike and a superb display from Edouard Mendy sealed a hard-fought 1-0 win at Brentford. Reigning champion Inter Milan suffered its first Serie A defeat of the season as it lost a bad-tempered game 3-1 to Lazio, while AC Milan fought back from two goals down against Verona to go top of the table.  The results: Premier League: Everton 0 lost to West Ham 1 (Ogbonna 74); Newcastle 2 (Wilson 2, Dier 89-og) lost to Tottenham 3 (Ndombele 17, Kane 22, Son 45+4).   Bundesliga: Bayer Leverkusen 1 (Schick 55) lost to Bayern Munich 5 (Lewandowski 4, 30, Muller 34, Gnabry 35, 37).   Serie A: Empoli 1 (Di Francesco 30) lost to Atalanta 4 (Ilicic 10, 26, Viti 49-o.g., Zapata 89); Cagliari 3 (Joao Pedro 4, 90+4, Caceres 74) bt Sampdoria 1 (Thorsby 82); Udinese 1 (Beto 82) drew with Bologna 1 (Barrow 67); Genoa 2 (Destro 27, Vazquez 90) drew with Sassuolo 2 (Scamacca 18, 21).   La Liga: Rayo Vallecano 2 (Hernandez 26, Nteka 66) bt Elche 1 (Boye 14); Celta Vigo 0 lost to Sevilla 1 (Mir 54).   Saturday: Premier League: Brentford 0 lost to Chelsea 1 (Chilwell 45+1).   Serie A: Lazio 3 (Immobile 64-pen, Anderson 81, Milinkovic-Savic 90+1) bt Inter Milan 1 (Perisic 12-pen); AC Milan 3 (Giroud 59, Kessie 76-pen, Gunter-78-og) bt Hellas Verona 2 (Caprari 7, Barak 24-pen).   La Liga : Levante 0 drew with Getafe 0; Real Sociedad 1 (Lobete 90) bt Real Mallorca 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chelsea-staves-off-a-spirited-brentford/article37047161.ece
18 October 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Sri Lanka looks for winning start||Still undergoing a difficult transition phase, former champion Sri Lanka will seek a perfect start to its T20 World Cup campaign when it clashes with Namibia, which is returning to the big stage after 18 years, in the Qualifiers here on Monday. Sri Lanka won the 2014 edition of the tournament and from next year onwards its champion players retired one after another, leaving the side with a challenging job of finding replacements. Its rankings plummeted and as a result, it found itself in the first round of the showpiece instead of getting a direct berth. As if losing its legends was not enough, Sri Lanka is also dealing with year-long suspensions handed to performers like Niroshan Dickwella, Kusal Mendis and Danushka Gunathilaka for breaching the bio-secure bubble in England.   Monday’s matches Ireland vs The Netherlands, 3.30 p.m. (IST) Sri Lanka vs Namibia, 7.30 p.m. (IST)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sri-lanka-look-for-winning-start/article37047160.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,||A remarkable turnaround against odds||Prime Sports Academy took the honours in the State senior athletics meet here on Sunday without its head coach P. Nagarajan, who was arrested in May on charges of sexual harassment of his wards. Without a sponsor for nearly six months and with the senior meet looming large, the going looked tough for Prime, one of the most successful private academies in Tamil Nadu. Pooling in resources But some of the former athletes, who trained under Nagarajan, and a few parents at the academy pooled in resources to ensure the athletes faced no hassle in taking part in the meet. They are planning to do the same for the junior State meet tentatively scheduled next month. “There has been a decrease in the number of athletes registering with our academy — from around 150 earlier to 80 now — but that is not due to the “incident” but because of the fact that we don’t have a place of our own now to train. “The athletes used to train at Pachaiyappa’s HSS in Broadway. “In fact, none of the senior National women medallists have moved away from our academy,” the former athletes claimed on condition of anonymity. Finding ways They added that the academy would continue to find ways to run and insisted that Nagarajan would be freed eventually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-remarkable-turnaround-against-odds/article37047259.ece
18 October 2021||Abu Dhabi,||We want nothing less than title: Starc||Australia fast bowler Mitchell Starc on Sunday asserted that they can defy their recent slide in the shortest format and win the T20 World Cup since they are going into the tournament full-strength. Australia has just six wins from its last 21 games in T20 cricket and has lost five consecutive series — against England, India, New Zealand, the West Indies and Bangladesh. “We had some really young, inexperienced players and some young guys playing their first games of cricket for Australia come into some really foreign conditions and thrown in the deep end really quickly,” Starc told reporters. “We have had to navigate a few difficulties, being back home for the guys that have been in lockdown in Sydney or Melbourne or playing very little amount of cricket for their states.” Misleading picture Starc said Australia’s slide from being at the top in May last year to seventh in the T20 rankings is misleading and irrelevant to the T20 World Cup. “It’s a huge positive that we have got our full-strength team here available to us for the World Cup. Obviously we didn’t have that through the West Indies and Bangladesh,” Starc said. “It’s no secret that we haven’t won a T20 World Cup so I’m looking forward to hopefully being a part of our first one,” Starc said. Australia begins its campaign against South Africa here on October 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-want-nothing-less-than-title-starc/article37047214.ece
18 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Prime Sports Academy bags overall title||Prime Sports Academy bagged the overall championship (men and women) in the Tamil Nadu State senior athletics meet, which concluded here on Sunday. Tamil Nadu Police won the men’s team championships while PSA clinched the women’s team title. Elakiadasan and C. Kanimozhi, both of Southern Railway, were given the best athlete award in the men’s and women’s sections. The three-day event witnessed eight new meet records.  The results:   Men, 10km walk: 1. S. Ajith Kumar (Gobi Arts SA) 47:20.10, 2. M. Ramprakash (Gobi Arts SA) 47:51.60, 3. G. Sarathy (Sakthi MR ADMY I) 48:59.90; 5km walk: 1. V. Krishnamurthy (Police) 30:29.20, S. Srinivasan 43:10.00, 3. Thangavel 45:35.30; Discus: 1. M. Naveen (Prime SA) 45.68m, 2. T. Vijay (Armed Police) 42.99, 3. P. Surya Prakash (Prime SA) 42.85; 1,500m: 1. C. Loganathan (Armed Police) 4:00.90, 2. R. Manickavel (Genesis SF) 4:01.07, 3. M. Arun Prabhu (TN Police) 4:01.29; 3,000m steeplechase: S. Kirubakaran (Genesis SF) 9:30.44, 2. C. Loganathan (Armed Police) 9:52.08, 3. P.C.Venugopal (TN Police) 10:02.50; 400mh: 1. S. Surendar (Prime SA) 52.37, 2. P. Pravin Kumar (Agsar SE) 54.04, 3. M. Jayaragul (SDAT) 54.60.   Women, 5km walk: 1. M. Mokavai (Prime SA) 25:41.40s, 2. I. Pavithra (Genesis SF), 3. S. Krishnaveni (Genesis SF) 28:49.60; High jump: 1. M.S. Krishna Rekha (Kaniyakumari) 1.48m, 2. Sangeetha Mohen (Royal AC) 1.45, 3. Jemma Joseph 0.95; 1,500m: 1. Akancha Kerketta (Nilgiris DAA) 4:46.03, 2. K. Soundarya (SDAT) 4:50.11, 3. S. Yogashri (TN Police) 4:52.4; High jump: 1. Gracena G. Merly (Athletic Foundation) 1.71m, 2. A. Kevinaa Ashwine (SDAT) 1.71, 3. G. Giji (SDAT) 1.65; Javelin: 1. Saraswathi (S. Rly.) 43.64, 2. N. Hemamalini (PR SF) 42.13, 3. Rosy Meena (Prime SA) 41.57; Triple jump: 1. Nandhini (Achievers AA, Cbe) 13.13, 2. P. Babisha (Prime SA) 12.60, 3. R. Aishwarya (Prime SA) 12.37; 3,000m steeplechase: 1. Geethanjali (SDAT Tiruchi) 12:22.78 (NMR) (OR: S. Lakshmi Seenu, St. Joseph’s, 12:43.36), 2. I. Pavithra (Genesis SF) 12:48.71, 3. K. Vaijathi Mala (SDAT Chennai) 13:32.28; 400mh: 1. J. Dhivya (Agsar Sports Enterprises) 1:01.44, 2. Aarthi (IB) 1:03.34, 3. C. Vishrutha (Genesis SF) 1:03.88.   Overall championship: 1. Prime SA, 2. TN Police, 3. SDAT & S. Rly.   Team championship: Men: 1. TN Police, 2. Prime SA, 3. Rockfort SA (Tiruchi); Women: 1. Prime SA, 2. S. Rly., 3. SDAT .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prime-sports-academy-bags-overall-title/article37047261.ece
18 October 2021||Dubai,||Getting the balance right is important: Fleming||Former New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming, who will be assisting head coach Gary Stead during the Black Caps’ T20 World Cup campaign, feels their players’ skill levels are very high and the team only needs to get the balance right. Fleming has joined the New Zealand team after guiding Chennai Super Kings to their fourth IPL title on Friday. “It’s a good squad. We’ve never had as much talent as this within New Zealand Cricket, so getting the right balance and the way you want to play the game is very important. “The skill set and what these guys put out, and entertain us with, is very high,” Fleming told stuff.co.nz on Sunday. Key to success Fleming said that acclimatising to the conditions would be the key to success in the tournament. “Coming to grips with these conditions will be the challenge in warm-up games... is going to be very important, and there’s a couple of key games first up so dealing with pressure and starting the tournament well is a priority. “There’s a little bit of time before my MIQ (Managed Isolation and Quarantine) spot and it’s just a great opportunity. We’ve talked for a while about sharing ideas and coming into the camp and watching these players who I’m a big fan of,” Fleming added. New Zealand has two warm-up games lined up, against England and Australia, before it plays Pakistan in the tournament proper. “I’m doing five days now pre-World Cup and talk about the conditions in Dubai and Abu Dhabi which we’ve been playing in, and also cast an eye over and get some ideas back from him (Stead). I’m very proud to get the Black Caps kit back on as well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/getting-the-balance-right-is-important-fleming/article37047213.ece
18 October 2021||London,||Broad feels relentless pressure will be the key||England fast bowler Stuart Broad says it won’t be express pace but creating relentless pressure that will hold the key for his side in the Ashes tour in Australia later this year. Broad, who was included in coach Chris Silverwood’s 17-member squad for the Ashes due to begin in Brisbane on December 8 after recovering from a calf injury, said England has a Plan-B and it should work for it against Australia. “I’ve been doing quite a bit of research and looking at every right-arm over wicket to right-handers and every right-arm round wicket to left-handers that’s fallen in Australia in the last six years,” Broad was quoted as saying by The Telegraph . “We often, in England, talk about express pace, but that’s not what I’m seeing. It’s relentlessness with the ball. It’s (Glenn) McGrath-like that you do for a long period of time. Brilliant record “Kyle Abbott and (Vernon) Philander have got brilliant records there. It’s bringing the stumps into play and, as a whole bowling unit, repeating it, repeating it and repeating it for long periods of time. That’s how you get success in Australia. So I’m not too worried.” He said it would be great to have Archer in Australia and have that express pace, but his side’s bowlers would need to move the ball and to be relentless. “That’s what we’ve got to aim to do.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/broad-feels-relentless-pressure-will-be-the-key/article37047610.ece
18 October 2021||Geneva,||IOC voices concern at FIFA’s biennial WC plan||The International Olympic Committee said it has “concerns” about FIFA’s push for football World Cups every two years. Though IOC president Thomas Bach said last month “we will not interfere in this discussion,” his organisation stepped in on Saturday after meeting in Athens to detail objections it shared with soccer stakeholders. Clashes in the schedule with other sports, the men’s World Cup overshadowing women’s editions of the tournament, and “a further massive strain” on athlete welfare were all cited in an IOC statement after an executive board meeting. The IOC did not refer to potential future World Cup-Olympics clashes — potentially as soon as 2028 when the Summer Games are hosted by Los Angeles — in its statement. The IOC did criticise FIFA’s tactics in promoting the biennial World Cup project by noting a wider consultation across football “has obviously not taken place.” FIFA revealed its detailed plan last month, after meeting with retired players, to redraft the calendar of international soccer competitions with biennial World Cups for men and women at the heart. The proposal strongly backed by FIFA president Gianni Infantino was announced before formally consulting member federations in the World Cup strongholds of Europe and South America. Those regions’ governing bodies, UEFA and CONMEBOL, have warned of a World Cup boycott if FIFA pushes ahead with a plan that would undermine their continental championships, which are organised on the same four-year cycle as the IOC’s Summer Games. All are next due in 2024. The IOC cited “tennis, cycling, golf, gymnastics, swimming, athletics, Formula One and many others” as sports which would be affected by more World Cups. “This would undermine the diversity and development of sports other than football,” the Olympic body said. FIFA, whose next scheduled World Cups are in 2022 and 2026, has not specified wanting to stay on even-numbered years for a biennial men’s World Cup. A switch to odd-numbered years, possibly starting in 2029, could be proposed. At an Olympic briefing after an executive board meeting, spokesman Mark Adams was asked if Infantino, who is an IOC member, had talked with Bach about the biennial World Cup plan before going public with it. Adams said he could not give details though the IOC kept in touch with sports governing bodies. When asked last month about FIFA’s plans at an IOC news conference, Bach suggested “contributions of the continental associations” — such as UEFA and CONMEBOL — were making the issues clear. FIFA has not set a formal date for a decision on its World Cup proposal, though has suggested a meeting of its 211 national members could be held in December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ioc-voices-concern-at-fifas-biennial-wc-plan/article37047587.ece
18 October 2021||Hyderabad:,||Francis Bacon should score an encore||Francis Bacon, who won well in his last start, may score an encore in the G. Sudhakar Reddy Memorial Cup, the chief event of Monday’s (Oct. 18) races.  NEARCO PLATE (Div.I) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only — 1.00 p.m.: 1. Briar Ridge (10) Kiran Naidu 56, 2. Cosmico (5) Akshay Kumar 56, 3. My Master (4) B.R. Kumar 56, 4. Salisbury (11) Neeraj 56, 5. Sea of Class (6) Mukesh Kumar 56, 6. Star Cruise (8) R. Ajinkya 56, 7. Garnet (7) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5, 8. Hot Seat (3) Md. Ismail 54.5, 9. Sally (1) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 10. Thanks (9) Nakhat Singh 54.5 and 11. Wild Card (2) Aneel 54.5.  1. THANKS, 2. COSMICO,   3. SEA OF CLASS   BELOVED PRINCE PLATE (Div.II) (1,600m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III) — 1.30: 1. Solo Winner (10) B.R. Kumar 61, 2. N R I City (8) Rohit Kumar 59.5, 3. That’s My Way (1) Aneel 59.5, 4. Gurbaaz (2) Kuldeep Singh 58.5, 5. Southern Lady (4) Ajit Singh 58.5, 6. Bravo (5) Khurshad Alam 57, 7. Lightning Fairy (9) Ajeeth Kumar 57, 8. Shelly Anne (7) Santosh Raj 56.5, 9. Royal Girl (3) Gaurav Singh 55.5 and 10. Lightning Pearl (6) Surya Prakash 50.5.  1. SOLO WINNER, 2. N R I CITY, 3. GURBAAZ   NEARCO PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat.II) — 2.05: 1. Bruno (11) R. Ajinkya 56, 2. Flying Rudolf (9) Kiran Naidu 56, 3. Quality Warrior (6) Akshay Kumar 56, 4. Unsung Hero (3) Mukesh Kumar 56, 5. Gray Hawk (1) Aneel 54.5, 6. Inside Story (2) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 7. Morior Invictus (5) Rafique Sk. 54.5, 8. Rivadavia (4) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 9. Spectacular Cruise (10) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 10. Total Darc (7) Afroz Khan 54.5 and 11. Visionary (8) Neeraj 54.5.  1. VISIONARY, 2. QUALITY WARRIOR, 3. UNSUNG HERO   LOYAL MANZAR PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 2.40: 1. Cheltenham (2) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 2. N R I Sun (5) Mukesh Kumar 59.5, 3. Zamazenta (8) Neeraj 59, 4. Advance Guard (3) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 5. Icicle (11) Ashad Asbar 57, 6. Show Me Your Walk (7) Akshay Kumar 57, 7. Horse O’ War (9) B. Nikhil 55.5, 8. Lightning Power (10) R. Ajinkya 55.5, 9. Sweet Melody (1) Kuldeep Singh 55.5, 10. Greek’s Ace (6) Gaurav Singh 54.5 and 11. Grand Finale (4) Md. Ismail 54. 1. N R I SUN, 2. SHOW ME YOUR WALK, 3. CHELTENHAM   ALIJAH PLATE (Div.I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3.15: 1. N R I Magic (7) Mukesh Kumar 60.5, 2. Mind Reader (5) R.S. Jodha 58, 3. Blissful (3) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 4. Pedro Planet (4) Neeraj 56, 5. Whiskey Martini (9) Gaurav Singh 54, 6. Alluri’s Pride (11) B. Nikhil 53.5, 7. Angelita (8) Kuldeep Singh 53.5, 8. Soul Empress (6) Aneel 53.5, 9. Artemis Arrow (2) Rafique Sk. 52, 10. Secret Circle (1) G. Naresh 51.5 and 11. Armani Candy (10) Surya Prakash 50.  1. N R I MAGIC, 2. BLISSFUL,   3. PEDRO PLANET   G. SUDHAKAR REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (2,000m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 3.50: 1. Saffron Art (3) Ajit Singh 60, 2. Francis Bacon (4) Ashad Asbar 59.5, 3. Mark My Word (1) Nakhat Singh 59, 4. Lamha (6) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 5. King Maker (5) Surya Prakash 55.5, 6. Sublime (2) S.S. Tanwar 55.5 and 7. Just Incredible (7) Aneel 54.5.  1. FRANCIS BACON, 2. LAMHA, 3. SAFFRON ART   ALIJAH PLATE (Div.II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 4.25: 1. Brilliant View (5) Santosh Raj 60, 2. Stunning Force (10) Akshay Kumar 60, 3. Proud (1) Nakhat Singh 59, 4. Curcumin (7) R. Ajinkya 56.5, 5. Blazing Jupiter (2) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 6. Sacred Lamp (4) Ajit Singh 55.5, 7. Aibak (6) Aneel 54.5, 8. Art In Motion (9) N.B. Kuldeep 54, 9. Look Of Love (8) Rafique Sk. 53.5 and 10. Classy Dame (3) C.P. Bopanna 53.  1. BRILLIANT VIEW, 2. STUNNING FORCE, 3. ART IN MOTION   BELOVED PRINCE PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III) — 5.00: 1. Smart Money (7) G. Naresh 61, 2. Tenth Attraction (8) Rafique Sk. 61, 3. Hip Hop (9) C.P. Bopanna 59, 4. Serendip (3) Santosh Raj 59, 5. Red River (6) R.S. Jodha 58.5, 6. Sputnic (2) Md. Ismail 57.5, 7. Wot’s Up Jay (4) Abhay Singh 57, 8. Astronaut (10) Khurshad Alam 56.5, 9. Jo Malone (11) Afroz Khan 56, 10. Proud Legacy (5) Kuldeep Singh 51.5 and 11. Cephalonia (1) B. Nikhil 50.  1. SERENDIP, 2. SPUTNIC,   3. PROUD LEGACY  Day’s Best: FRANCIS BACON  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 3, 4 & 5. (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/francis-bacon-should-score-an-encore/article37047202.ece
18 October 2021||Hyderabad:,||Xfinity bags feature event||Mr. Akshay Karan’s Xfinity ridden by Akshay Kumar won the S. Malakonda Reddy Memorial Cup, the feature event of Sunday’s (Oct. 17) races. The winner is trained by Anant Vatsalya.  1. GOODWOOD PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): ARCHANGELS (A.A.Vikrant) 1, Siri (B.R. Kumar) 2, Sye Ra (Ajeeth Kumar) 3 and Amalfitana (Nakhat Singh) 4. 1/2, 3 and Nk. 1m 28.71s. Rs. 54 (w), 15, 11 and 75 (p). SHP: 37, THP: 107, SHW: 31 and 29 (p). FP: 304, Q: 122, Tanala: 4,522. Favourite: N R I Sugar. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: D. Netto.  2. INDIAN NAVY ROLLING CHALLENGE TROPHY (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): CITY OF WISDOM (Mukesh Kumar) 1, N R I Elegance (Gaurav Singh) 2, Strategist (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Angel Tesoro (G. Naresh) 4. 2, 2 and 1-1/4. 1m 26.43s. Rs. 176 (w), 29, 24 and 31 (p). SHP: 55, THP: 69, SHW: 37 and 35 (p). FP: 1,164, Q: 958, Tanala: 8,955. Favourite: Dandy Man. Owner: Mr. K Thribhuvan Reddy. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  3. HALLMARK PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): GOOD CONNECTION (Gaurav Singh) 1, Top Diamond (Akshay Kumar) 2, Moonlight Ruby (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and N R I Sport (Mukesh Kumar) 4. 3-1/2, 2 and Sh. 1m 26.68s. Rs. 24 (w), 12, 12 and 23 (p). SHP: 25, THP: 46, SHW: 17 and 11, FP: 80, Q: 40, Tanala: 386. Favourite: Top Diamond. Owners: Mr. Vijay Kumar Gupta & Mr. Susheel Kumar Gupta rep. Vijay Racing & Farms Private Limited, Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Simone Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Private Limited & Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey. Trainer: L V R Deshmukh.  4. BLUE MAX PLATE (1,600m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): NIGHTMARE (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Star Dancer (Kiran Naidu) 2, Special Effort (Nakhat Singh) 3 and N R I Touch (Akshay Kumar) 4. Not run: Paladino. 3/4, Nk and 3/4. 1m 42.19s. Rs. 50 (w), 14, 12 and 18 (p). SHP: 39, THP: 47, SHW: 48, FP: 595, Q: 306, Tanala: 1,554. Favourite: N R I Touch. Owner: Mr. Maddali Sai Kumar. Trainer: G. Shashikanth.  5. FLORINA PLATE (1,600m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): MISS MARVELLOUS (Akshay Kumar) 1, Story Teller (R.S. Jodha) 2, Sun Dancer (N.B. Kuldeep) 3 and Call Of The Blue (Gaurav Singh) 4. 2, 1 and 1. 1m 40.59s. Rs. 13 (w), 10, 31 and 24 (p). SHP: 86, THP: 68, SHW: 10 and 44, FP: 137, Q: 118, Tanala: 791. Favourite: Miss Marvellous. Owners: Mr. Srinivas Pangam & Mrs. Nirupama Chodagam. Trainer: L. D’Silva.  6. S. MALAKONDA REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): XFINITY (Akshay Kumar) 1, Amyra (Ashad Asbar) 2, Kingston (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Mystery (G. Naresh) 4. 1-1/2, Hd and 6-1/2. 1m 13.53s. Rs. 25 (w), 13, 16 and 16 (p). SHP: 62, THP: 37, SHW: 13 and 45. FP: 202, Q: 121, Tanala: 854. Favourite: Xfinity. Owner: Mr. Akshay Karan. Trainer: Anant Vatsalya.  7. GOODWOOD PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): KIMBERLEY (S.S. Tanwar) 1, Pacific Command (Akshay Kumar) 2, Silk (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Cash Register (Ashad Asbar) 4. 3-3/4, 3/4 and 2. 1m 28.23s. Rs. 15 (w), 11, 14 and 16 (p). SHP: 43, THP: 50, SHW: 11 and 37. FP: 84, Q: 56, Tanala: 322. Favourite: Kimberley. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: Laxman Singh. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 2,725 (76 tkts.), 30%: 366 (242 tkts.). Mini Jackpot: (i) 16,826 (2 tkts.), (ii) 2,084 (23 tkts.). Treble: (i) 2,604 (9 tkts.), (ii) 209 (253 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/xfinity-bags-feature-event/article37047210.ece
18 October 2021||Al Amerat (Oman),||Shakib becomes top wicket-taker in T20Is||Bangladesh all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan on Sunday became the highest wicket-taker in T20Is when he pipped Lasith Malinga’s tally of 107 wickets during the team’s T20 World Cup game against Scotland here. Shakib finished with figures of 2/17 in four overs and, in the process, surpassed the Sri Lankan great’s tally of T20I wickets.   Bangladesh 104/4 Bangladesh had made 104/4 in 17 overs in reply to Scotland’s 140/9 in 20 overs in the second match||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shakib-becomes-top-wicket-taker-in-t20is/article37047152.ece
18 October 2021||Pune:,||Sultan Suleiman claims main event||Trainer Altaf Hussain’s Sultan Suleiman (N.S. Parmar up) claimed the Delhi Race Club Trophy, the main event of the opening day’s races of Pune racing season here on Sunday (Oct.17). The winner is owned by M/s. Dinsha P. Shroff, Munchi P. Shroff, Mrs. Aban N. Chotia & Mr. Saleem Fazelbhoy.  1. GOODNESS GRACIOUS PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: DILBAR (Shubham) 1, On Va Danser (Aniket) 2, Blazing Bay (Bhawani) 3 and Timeless Deeds (Dashrath) 4. 2-1/4, Lnk and 3/4. 1m 9.83s. Owners: Mr. R. Rashid, Ms. Roohi Oomerbhoy Jaikishan & Mr. Nikhil Nayar. Trainer: H.J. Antia.  2. ELOISE PLATE (1,200m) (Terms), 3-y-o only: RED MERLOT (Dashrath) 1, Marvellous (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Nothing To Worry (Akshay) 3 and Fortune Cookie (Neeraj) 4. Not run: Commandment. 1-1/2, 5 and 3/4. 1m 9.28s. Owner: Mr. Laxmikumar Goculdas rep. B.S & Services Pvt Ltd. Trainer: Narendra Lagad.  3. NAUVKHAL TROPHY (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: SANDRA’S SECRET (Ayyar) 1, Sufiyah (Parmar) 2, La Peregrina (Aniket) 3 and Kardashian (Rupesh) 4. Snk, 3/4 and 3-1/4. 58.67s. (Note: In this race Saddle The Wind (Shubham up) broke down and dislodged her rider. Shubham was taken to the hospital). Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Hoosain S. Nensey & Mr. Saif H. Nensey. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  4. ALLEY CAT PLATE (1,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: JOAQUIN (Zervan) 1, Endeavour (C.S. Jodha) 2, Aegon (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Wild Fire (Peter) 4. 2-1/2, 3/4 and Sh. 58.86s. Owners: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt Ltd & Mr. Ashish Kiran Kapadia. Trainer: Shazaan Shah.  5. STRATEGIC MOVE PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: MINX (Kirtish) 1, Medora (Chouhan) 2, Petronia (Zervan) 3 and Chancellor (Yash Narredu) 4. 1/2, 1-1/2 and 3/4. 1m 25.07s. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke & Mr. Jay V. Shirke. Trainer: P. Shroff.  6. DELHI RACE CLUB TROPHY (1,400m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: SULTAN SULEIMAN (Parmar) 1, Grand Accord (Bhawani) 2, St. Andrews (P. Shinde) 3 and Mystic Bay (Yash Narredu) 4. 1-3/4, Nk and Sh. 1m 26.31s. Owners: M/s. Dinsha P. Shroff, Munchi P. Shroff, Mrs. Aban N. Chotia & Mr. Saleem Fazelbhoy. Trainer: Altaf Hussain.  7. CLASSIC TALK PLATE (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: FLAMING FIRE (Yash Narredu) 1, Kokomo (Sandesh) 2, Regal Command (Bhawani) 3 and Rasputin (C.S. Jodha) 4. Snk, 1/2 and 1-3/4. 1m 26.60s.  Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt Ltd, Mrs. B.E. Saldhana & Mr. Mark Saldhana. Trainer: M. Narredu.  8. NAUVKHAL TROPHY (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: PEPPOLI (P. Dhebe) 1, Grand Architect (P. Shinde) 2, Lambretta (Bhawani) 3 and Anoushka (C.S. Jodha) 4. 3/4, 1-1/4 and Lnk. 59.20s. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Jay V. Shirke & Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co Pvt Ltd. Trainer: M.K. Jadhav.  9. GOODNESS GRACIOUS PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: CELLINI (T.S. Jodha) 1, Beemer (Yash Narredu) 2, Goshawk (Parmar) 3 and Jetfire (P. Dhebe) 4. 3-1/2, 3/4 and Lnk. 1m 9.46s. Owners: Mrs. Bakhtawar B. Chenoy, Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. G. Shewakramani & J.H. Damania. Trainer: Bezan Chenoy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sultan-suleiman-claims-main-event/article37047588.ece
18 October 2021||Kochi,||Kozhikode, Ernakulam enter semifinals||Kozhikode, the top seed, and second-seeded Ernakulam entered the semifinal of the Kerala State senior inter-district badminton championship at the Rajiv Gandhi indoor stadium here on Sunday evening. Also making the last-four grade were Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad.  The results (senior mixed team inter-district championships): Quarterfinals: Kozhikode bt Pathanamthitta 3-1 (K. Govind lost Jacob Thomas 15-21, 16-21; Nayana S. Oasis bt T.R. Gowri Krishna 21-14, 21-18; Aravind V. Suresh & N.G. Balasubramannian bt Bazil Navas & Jacob Thomas 21-11, 21-18; Gayathri Nambiar & Zainaba Reem Siraj bt Hannah Ann Jiju & Shreya Sreenish 21-4, 21-8).   Thiruvananthapuram bt Kannur 3-2 (S.D. Aadithyan S.D. lost to N.P. Udith 20-22, 16-21; B.M. Neeraja lost to C.H. Keerthika 13-21, 20-22; Shyam Prasad & Vishnu Rajendran bt Shehil Muhammed & Thejas Shivakumar 21-18, 21-23, 21-10; Meenakshi Vinu & Nanda Ghosh bt M.K. Eliza Drona & C.H. Keerthika 21-16, 21-18; Arryan Aji & Manjari Roy bt Keerthika & Udith 21-19, 23-21).   Palakkad bt Thrissur 3-1 (Athul John Mathew bt Fazim Abdu Anzar 14-21, 21-7, 21-17; Varsha Venkitesh bt Aadhya Shine 21-16, 21-17; P.A. Shanavas & L. Varun lost to Roshan Sojan & E.J. Shivasankar 10-21, 9-21; V. Rosenitha & Varsha bt K.S. Anjana & Aparna Sajeev 21-15, 21-17).   Ernakulam bt Kottayam 3-1 (Saket Prakash bt Akash Lovejan 21-16, 21-18; Andrea Sarah Kurien lost to Ann George 21-8, 1-2 (retd); Akshay Anand & Jaison John bt Abdul Hakeem Sha & Akash Lovejan 21-16, 22-20; Archana Varghese & Diya Arun bt Anju Thomas & Ann George 21-13, 21-18) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kozhikode-ernakulam-enter-semifinals/article37047506.ece
18 October 2021||Al Amerat (Oman),||Jatinder, Maqsood star in Oman’s facile win||Ludhiana-born Jatinder Singh smashed an unbeaten 73 as co-hosts Oman thrashed Papua New Guinea (PNG) by 10 wickets in the opening Group-B first round match of the T20 World Cup here on Sunday. Oman chased down a modest 130-run target in only 13.2 overs, courtesy Jatinder’s 42-ball-knock and his opening partner Aqib Ilyas’ unbeaten 50 off 43 balls,. None of the PNG bowlers could trouble Jatinder and Aqib as they went about their business confidently from the word go. Jatinder’s knock had seven fours and four sixes in his knock. Earlier, skipper Assad Vala struck a fine half-century before rival captain Zeeshan Maqsood (4/20) restricted PNG to 129/9 with his slow left-arm orthodox bowling. Oman will play Bangladesh in its next match on Tuesday and PNG will take on Scotland the same day.  The scores: Papua New Guinea 129/9 in 20 overs (Assad Vala 56, Charles Amini 37, Bilal Khan 2/16, Kaleemullah 2/19, Zeeshan Maqsood 4/20) lost to Oman 131/0 (Aqib Ilyas 50 n.o., Jatinder Singh 73 n.o.) Toss: Oman. MoM: Zeeshan Maqsood.   Oman beat Papua New Guinea by 10 wickets .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jatinder-guides-oman-to-easy-win/article37047148.ece
18 October 2021||Aarhus,||Uber for China, Thomas for Indonesia||China beat defending champion Japan in the Uber Cup final with a 3-1 victory. Japan fought all the way, missing some key players, but China was superior across the four contested matches on Saturday. This is the 15th time China has won the competition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/china-claims-uber-cup/article37047155.ece
18 October 2021||Al Amerat (Oman),||A vital match for Ireland and the Netherlands||Ireland will begin its T20 World Cup first round campaign against a rising Netherlands here on Monday. The Group-A match will be vital to the hopes of both teams progressing to the Super-12 stage. The Netherlands has reasons to be confident, having won seven of its 12 T20Is against Ireland. It also came out on top in its recent ODI series. Ireland surprised many by reaching the second round of T20 World Cup in 2009 — its debut tournament. It hasn't made it further than the first round in its four tournaments since, missing out on net-run rate in 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-vital-match-for-ireland-and-the-netherlands/article37047158.ece
18 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Praggnanandhaa marches into final||Continuing his irrepressible form, R. Praggnanandhaa destroyed second-seeded German Vincent Keymer 2.5-0.5 to march into the final of the $40,000 Challengers Chess Tour Finals on Saturday. In the final of this online rapid chess event, the third-seeded Indian will take on Christopher Yoo, who blanked his higher-rated American compatriot Awonder Liang 3-0. Praggnanandhaa, winner of his best-of-four-game quarterfinal 3-0, won the first two games against Keymer to stretch his winning sequence to five. In the first game, playing black, Praggnanandhaa came up with a brilliant finish gaining a bishop for an advanced pawn. Keymer resigned on the 56th move when he saw no way of stopping another pawn from becoming a queen. Even in the second game, Praggnanandhaa emerged with an extra knight and threatened to throw the knockout punch after advancing a pawn to the seventh rank. Keymer resigned on his 53rd move. In the third game, Praggnanandhaa gained a winning position after a desperate Keymer erred on the 38th move. In a position that involved rook pairs and pawns, Praggnanandhaa chose to draw by perpetual checks to gain the half a point to advance.    The semifinals (best of four rapid games): R. Praggnanandhaa bt Vincent Keymer (Ger) 2.5-0.5; Christopher Yoo (USA) bt Awonder Liang (USA) 3-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/praggnanandhaa-marches-into-final/article37047199.ece
18 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,||Harsha Vardhan shines||M. Harsha Vardhan cracked an unbeaten 102 (121b, 11x4, 2x6) to help North score a five-wicket win over South in the ACA inter-zonal (under-25) one-day cricket tournament on Sunday.  The scores: South 204/9 in 50 overs (S. Dhruva Kumar 34, U.M.S. Girinath 31, P. Girinath 33, K. Sai Teja 3/41) lost to North 205/5 in 39.3 overs (M. Harsha Vardhan 102 n.o., P. Avinash 42) .    The Andhra Pradesh senior women’s team to take part in the fifth elite national boxing at Hissar from Oct. 21 was named on Sunday.  The team: G. Jyothi, G. Ramya, A. Sowmya Devi, V. Jyothi T. Rohini Kumari, Rifauth Asra, J. Revathi, B. Mounika, G. Pravallika, A. Manisha and S. Siri Chandana. Coaches: N. Narsing Rao, G. Mallikarjuna, P. Hema Latha. Manager: M. Srinivas .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harsha-vardhan-shines/article37047612.ece
18 October 2021||HOBART,||Shafali, Radha shine in Sydney Sixers win in WBBL||Shafali Verma struck 57 off 50 balls with six fours and Radha Yadav claimed two for 31 in Sydney Sixers’ five-wicket win over Hobart Hurricanes in the Women’s Big Bash League here on Sunday. Hurricanes made 125 for nine in 20 overs and Sixers replied with 129 for five in 19.3 overs. In another match, Poonam Yadav’s spell of two for 25 was not enough as as Brisbane Heat lost to Perth Scorchers in one-over eliminator after both teams finished on 137.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shafali-radha-shine-in-sydney-sixers-win-in-wbbl/article37047209.ece
18 October 2021||Dubai,||Neeraj records KO win in Amir Khan supported fight night in Dubai||Indian professional Neeraj Goyat notched up a technical knockout win in the third round over Congo’s Bebe Rico Tshibangu in the Amir Khan-supported Super Boxing League’s Crypto Fight Night here on Saturday. The victory in the welterweight bout continued Goyat’s three-year unbeaten streak in the circuit.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neeraj-records-ko-win-in-amir-khan-supported-fight-night-in-dubai/article37047211.ece
18 October 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Chennai wins trophy||Chennai scored a 3-0 win over Care Football Academy (Nizamabad) in the final of the inaugural Waheeb memorial all-India invitation football league-cum-knock-out tournament organised by Telangana Football Association and the CFA in Nizamabad on Sunday.  The result: Chennai bt CFA Nizamabad 3-0 .    K. Tarun Reddy of India finished runner-up in the Cyprus international future series badminton tournament in Nicosia (Cyprus). The 20-year-old Hyderabadi defeated Mateusz Danielak of Poland 21-16, 17-21, 21-12 in the quarterfinals and then got the better of Joel Konig of Switzerland 21-14, 21-15 in the semifinal. In the final, Tarun lost to Dimitriy Panarin of Kazakhstan 22-20, 9-21, 21-11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennai-wins-trophy/article37047455.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 07:10 IST,||Sudoku — October 18, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-18-2021/article37047743.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Encourage a creative curriculum||A student’s brain is not a blank slate on which we inscribe knowledge. It is not a flash drive onto which we download information. And it is not a processor that executes Python instructions to be obeyed. Learning occurs when the brain’s intricate neural networks adapt to the world, driven by an interaction between genes and the environment. Whether during early childhood or adolescence, traditional curricula and pedagogies do scant justice to the extraordinary dynamism and complexity of the developing brain. As a professor and a parent, I am just as guilty as most adults in believing we can mould children in our image, on our schedule, our methods. If only they would listen instead of doing their own thing, making mistakes we told them to avoid, they would grow up to fulfil our dreams. Whose dreams? For whom should the curriculum be designed? The time has come to shift the balance from elders’ dreams to students’ dreams. I am led to this conclusion not by a Utopian fantasy that children should be free, but by the science of learning. As a cognitive neuroscientist, I know that this is not how the child’s brain works. Evolution of learning agenda The brain evolved to have a learning agenda more relentless, adaptive, and meaningful than any curriculum imposed by adults. From birth, children observe, probe, manipulate. The bustling world captivates their senses and rivets their attention. They vocalise, gesticulate, emote and register how people react. They question incessantly, ideate extravagantly, and process feedback on their own terms. They prod, perturb, and play with everything to see how the world responds — first the toys at home and then the apps on their devices. As the child grows, the specifics of the learning equation change, but the biological basic holds sway: the brain is wired to explore its physical, social and information environments and it learns from the feedback it receives. Physical and social feedback to behaviour that originates with the child is more effective than recitations of do’s and don’ts. Treating the child’s spontaneous utterances and behaviour with respect for its natural learning mechanisms works better than talking down to a child. The key is not to fight what motivates students but to harness it. Motivation is the most precious and least understood aspect of schooling. Without the motivation to learn and excel, formal education is futile. It cannot be commanded. Forcing a student to study something — when every fibre in his or her body resists it — is counterproductive. Professional success, personal fulfilment, and societal advancement arise when the full power of what drives students is understood and unleashed. Does this mean that students should be entirely free to design their curriculum, without any role for the educator? No. It means that the educator’s role should shift from didact to coach, from instructor to mentor, from commander to catalyst. Instead of transmitting information, we should encourage, shape, and nurture the students’ own expressive energy. Focus on creating a stimulating and responsive learning environment. Expose students to a rich spectrum of experiences and activities. Instead of trying to manufacture graduates according to a top-down blueprint, listen to students, note what inspires them and what they resonate to, then focus on enriching, sharpening, refining, and fine tuning their natural tendencies.  Shift the balance Another urgent reform is to shift the curricular balance away from rote subject knowledge and toward fundamental cognitive skills — most important among them being critical thinking and lucid communication. Instead of teaching subject knowledge and fundamental cognitive skills as separate courses, they should be integrated as far as possible. This can be done by having the students learn subject knowledge by engaging with it critically and then communicating their understanding. Critical thinking is a basket of sub-skills, including analysis, logic, synthesis, objectivity, evaluation of evidence, constructive critique, intellectual risk-taking, being aware of confirmation bias, pondering alternative hypotheses, doing justice to contrary views, questioning one’s own preconceptions, evaluating the credibility of sources, challenging orthodoxy, vigorous but civil debate, and seeing mistakes as learning opportunities. Focus more on cultivating fundamental cognitive skills that can be applied across subjects and less on accumulation of subject information — most of which is forgotten. Let the student influence the destination of the ship of learning and let the educator coach the student on seamanship. A captain who has mastered the art and science of leading a crew and navigating the roughest oceans can travel to any destination. So it is with education. Having acquired critical thinking and communication skills, a student can succeed if these skills are pointed in the direction of his or her interests. Talent, in all its magnificent but chaotic diversity, should not be squeezed into boxes. Let talent speak, and let us find ways to develop that talent so that each child can become the best version of his or her innate self. The writer is Founding Vice Chancellor, Sai University  ... listen to students, note what inspires them and what they resonate to, then focus on enriching, sharpening, refining, and fine tuning their natural tendencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/encourage-a-creative-curriculum/article37047108.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Sir Syed unfailingly stood for all Indians’||A Raj loyalist or a social reformist, the conundrum has shrouded the legacy of Syed Ahmad Khan (1817-1898) for more than a century. In Sir Syed Ahmad Khan: Reason, Religion And Nation (Routledge India), Professor Shafey Kidwai has penned an objective analysis of the man who was undoubtedly more than the founder of the Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental College that grew into Aligarh Muslim University more than two decades after his death. With a foreword by Professor Irfan Habib, the book deals with Sir Syed’s attitude towards Congress leaders, his shifting concepts of watan (nation) and qaum (community) and his views on girl education. A seasoned professor of journalism at AMU, Prof. Kidwai has written extensively on Sir Syed. In 2019, Sawaneh-e-Sir Syed: Ek Bazadeed , a biography of Sir Syed in Urdu, fetched him the prestigious Sahitya Akademi award. Ahead of Sir Syed’s birth anniversary this Sunday, Prof. Kidwai says despite his Anglophile streak, he refused to accept the prevalent culture of genuflecting. “His scientific outlook requires a thoughtful exploration that a simplistic, historiographical work could not produce.”   Edited excerpts:   Isn’t it difficult to write about a personality who espoused conflicting ideas and took a long time to evolve?   He was not a mere reconciler, and he made no effort to wrap the conflicting ideas into a single narrative. I have tried to put a premium on showcasing how he employed reason even in dealing with emotive issues related to faith and how rationalism never deserted him. On the thorny issue of blasphemy that frequently surfaced duringSir Syed’s time, he made it clear that the Koran does not prescribe corporal punishment for the offender. The deplorable act of desecration amounts to sedition and Muslim caliphs impose corporal punishment, but it cannot be implemented in a non-Islamic state. Sir Syed said that in India, the issue is to be settled according to the country’s laws. It requires to be opposed with a logical rebuttal, and noisy protest will serve no purpose.  How does the book add to the existing work on Sir Syed?   Not much has been written about how he strove for mitigating the sufferings of the beleaguered while being a member of several apex bodies under the British rule. Notwithstanding his occasional emotional outbursts bordering on communalism, he unfailingly stood for all Indians as he was the first citizen who demanded that the entry age of ICS aspirants be raised to 23 instead of 21 as Indians started education quite late. He also demanded that the coveted examination be held in India. Later, the Congress made these two demands its central plank. Similarly, he was the first Indian member who introduced the compulsory smallpox eradication vaccination Bill and vehemently supported Ilbert Bill that empowered Indian judges to hear the criminal cases filed against the British. Curiously, other Indian members sided with the Anglo-Indian community, which fiercely opposed the Bill.  Do you find a dichotomy in Sir Syed’s usage of qaum and watan, which, decades later, led a section of Pakistani thinkers to consider him the Father of the Nation?   Sir Syed attempted to locate the concept ofnation in terms of faith, language and geographical framework simultaneously and separately at regular intervals. It is a topic that still provides ammunition to his admirers and opponents in almost equal terms. It is pertinent to point out that Sir Syed was not swayed by the pan Islamism propagated by Jamaluddin Afghani (1838-1897) and Sheikh Muhammad Abduh (1849-1905), and he vehemently opposed it by writing several editorials in his multilingual newspaper — Aligarh Institute Gazette . Significantly, he never used the term ummah (Muslims all over the world are one) in his writings. For him the concept of Khilafat had very little relevance in the Indian context hence sowing the seeds of separatism among Muslims cannot be attributed to him. Sir Syed asserted that all the religious communities living in India form one unified nation. He did make a difference between patriotism, nationalism and citizenship. He did repudiate the territorial or race-based concept of nationalism and candidly talked about a Muslim identity that is both Indian and Islamic.  How do you make sense of Sir Syed’s shifting views on girl education?   Sir Syed’s concept of women education seemed skewed and unpalatable as he suggested tutor-based home education for girls. Taking a cue from Edward H. Clarke’s book, Sex In Education, or, A Fair Chance For Girls (1873) that favoured single (male) education, Sir Syed did plead for setting up government schools exclusively for boys and home-based tutor education for girls. He was not an opponent of female education, however, he tried to offer them a faulty model. Though later on he relented, his call for women’s education seems too irresolute and too late.  From the existing material, can we infer how would Sir Syed have negotiated a Hindutva-led India?   It is a tricky question to answer how Sir Syed would have responded to the tremendous emotive appeal of ethnicity or religion-based nationalism that get at us but a closer look into his voluminous writings prompts me to say that Sir Syed would have pushed for an alternative model of nationalism, resembling his indigenous model of modernism that he produced as an antidote to colonial modernism. He would have emphasised constitutional nationalism or in the terms of Hannah Arendt, “civic nationalism” that drew sustenance from tolerance, pluralism and respect for diversity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sir-syed-unfailingly-stood-for-all-indians/article37047342.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Bakari the baboon returns to the big screen||Real-life animal drama unfolds in Sony BBC Earth’s Serengeti 2 as the series returns to capture stories of iconic African savannah animals. Bakari the baboon struggles with family life. Kali the lioness makes a difficult decision. A family of leopards arrive — and the cubs test their mother’s patience as they get used to their new home. The series is produced and directed by John Downer, a passionate zoologist who has been making groundbreaking Nature documentaries for the BBC for over 30 years. He is known for shows like Serengeti (2019), Polar Bears : Spy on the Ice (2011), Spy in the Snow (2020). In an interview over Zoom, the Emmy Award winner talks about lessons learned from his interactions with animals. In Serengeti1 , we meet a lonely lioness, a passionate baboon and many other animals. What happens in Serengeti2 ?     Serengeti 2 continues where series 1 left off with a host of new storylines and a cast of old favourites as well as some endearing new animal characters. The wonderful thing about Serengeti is that it keeps delivering new stories. All the animals continually surprise us. There are disasters, triumphs and other things that make drama. There are baby animals that have to learn to live in this very tricky world... Like humans, animals have different personalities and make different decisions. When there are so many different species crammed together and having to interact with each other, you get all the drama. Nothing is predictable and that’s why it’s so refreshing, and keeps those stories coming, evolving, and changing. Can you share a story that surprised you? Bakari the baboon and his troupe were trapped up a roosting tree surrounded by water. I had expected him to climb down the tree or try swimming in the water, but he decided go up the very top and leap to get somewhere near the land. A whole lot just followed. That was something you couldn’t write, expect or anticipate. That’s what I love aboutSerengeti,to show those animals thinking for themselves and making decisions. I am sure another baboon would have made a different decision. There is surprise after surprise. How dramatised is the story-telling?  We shot it over two years. The stories are based on their real behaviour, but the dramatised bit is how we mix the stories together and fill in the narrative. In normal natural history, you miss so much. But in a drama, you have to fill in those gaps. We follow the story of the cheetah and cubs from beginning to end. We got some adorable little leopard cubs, the hardest animals to film because they are so secretive. They let us into their lives and we used all techniques to get closer to them. Stories developed from those encounters. Though dramatisation gives licence to change or shift time, the heart of it lies in real behaviour. What are the challenges you faced while filming Serengeti 2 ?  Flooding is one. I remember going across a little stream and an hour later filmed some great sequences with a new zebra foal (which features in the first programme). Then, the rain started and the stream became a river and un-crossable. We had to travel four hours to find a place that we could cross. Since we filmed during COVID-19, getting the teams out there was a real problem. One of our team members, stayed there for an entire year knowing that if he left, he’s never going to get back. What is the biggest takeaway for audiences?     Our films tell the stories of many animals. You can never expect where the stories would twist and turn. The important incident that happened is the biggest floods I have ever seen in Africa. This is the result of climate change. We started to see the impact on this ecosystem where it continuously rained. How do the animals cope with the land becoming a lake? I am hoping that people understand how interconnected our lives are. The whole point is to empathise, love those animals, and try and understand their problems.  Serengeti 2premieres on October 18 at 9 p.m. on Sony BBC Earth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bakari-the-baboon-returns-to-the-big-screen/article37047533.ece
18 October 2021||Jodhpur,||Key accused in Bhanwari Devi murder case dies||Former Rajasthan Minister Mahipal Maderna, a key accused in the 2011 Bhanwari Devi abduction and murder case, died here on Sunday, a family friend said. He had been diagnosed with cancer. According to family friend Ram Prakash, Maderna was undergoing therapy at his residence in Jodhpur after returning from Chennai following treatment. “He breathed his last around 6.30 am on Sunday. His funeral will be conducted at his ancestral village Chadi in the Osian subdivision of Jodhpur,” Mr. Prakash said. A Public Health Engineering Minister in the 2008-2013 Ashok Gehlot government, Maderna was a key accused in Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) Bhanwari Devi's murder that took place in September 2011. After the furore hit the headlines, Maderna was sacked on October 16 the same year. He was granted interim bail on health grounds on September 18 last year after he was diagnosed with malignancy. “He was out on bail since then. He moved a fresh application for permanent bail in August, admitting which, the high court allowed his bail plea and was granted bail like all the 16 accused in the case in August,” said his counsel Pradeep Choudhary. During the recently held Panchayat election in Rajasthan, Maderna returned to Jodhpur to oversee the election preparations with his wife Leela Maderna as a contestant for the post of Zila Pramukh in Jodhpur. The CBI had filed its first charge sheet in the Bhanwari Devi case in December 2011. The trial in the case is currently underway in the lower court with the recording of statements of defence witnesses under progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/key-accused-in-bhanwari-devi-murder-case-dies/article37047335.ece
18 October 2021||New Delhi,||Notice to Centre, CRPF over denial of allowances to officers||The Delhi High Court has issued notice to the Centre and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) on a petition filed by over 40 Assistant Commandants seeking payment of their Transfer Travelling Allowance (TFR/TA) along with other consequential benefits such as Joining Time Pay. A bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Navin Chawla has directed the Centre and the CRPF, India’s largest Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), to respond to the petition within four weeks. The petition has sought directions to pay TFR/TA as per the statutory rule on transfer of petitioners, who are officers of the rank of Assistant Commandants, from CRPF academy to their Battalions after completion of their Basic Training as per Central Civil Services Rule. ‘Not as per law’ Advocate Abhinav Garg, representing the officers, contended that the denial of transfer travelling allowance to the officers is “intentional and deliberately and not as per rule or law”. He argued that the Centre is paying Transfer Travelling Allowance to other CAPF such as the Sahastra Seema Bal (SSB) on joining of new duties, after the completion of their basic training from the academy, to new unit. The plea highlighted that the petitioners are Assistant Commandant officers of CRPF who joined the force after successfully qualifying the examination conducted by Union Public Service Commission. The High Court will hear the case on March 2, next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/notice-to-centre-crpf-over-denial-of-allowances-to-officers/article37047336.ece
18 October 2021||Mumbai,||Bilateral hand transplant on quadruple amputee||Almost 18 months of being without limbs, 22-year-old Jagdev Singh has now a ray of hope to have functional hands post his hand transplant. Global Hospital, Mumbai, claims to have performed India's first bilateral hand transplant on a quadruple amputee. While this is the third case of hand transplant in Mumbai, it’s the first on a quadruple amputee,says the hospital. Mr. Singh, a resident of Ajmer was a second year bachelor of Art student in January 2020, when he lost both his upper limbs and lower limbs after suffering from severe electrical burns while working on a farm. He had come in contact with high tension wires. A Kabbadi player, who had hoped to get a government job in the future, Mr. Singh was in hospital for two months in Jaipur. Later, he was brought to Global Hospital after his family learnt about Monika More, the first to be operated for hand transplant at the hospital. Mr. Singh was registered for the transplant and on Thursday evening, the family received call from the hospital about a 52-year-old man who was declared brain dead at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital and whose hand could be used for transplantation. On Friday, Mr. Singh underwent a 13-hour-long surgery which concluded on Saturday, and is now said to be in stable condition. This was the second such procedure to be carried out at the Global Hospital after Ms. More bilateral hand transplant in August, 2020. “In this case, upper arm and forearm got transplanted. This surgery was on a Quadruple patient which means the one with no hands and no feet,” Dr. Nilesh Satbhai, Senior Consultant said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bilateral-hand-transplant-on-quadruple-amputee/article37047333.ece
18 October 2021||New Delhi,||Kingpin of gang involved in theft of 110 luxury cars held||The Delhi police on Sunday said that they have arrested the kingpin of an interstate auto-lifting gang, who was involved in the theft of more than 110 luxury cars in Delhi-NCR. The accused, Niraj Sharma alias Vinay, was part of Sarkar Gang and was also in possession of a stolen car. The police said that after they received a tip-off, a team laid a trap near Jasola Park near Sarita Vihar. He was spotted arriving in a car and was told to stop but he tried to drive away. After a brief chase, he was nabbed. On being asked about the ownership of the car, he couldn’t provide any document. On interrogation, the accused allegedly said that he used to steal cars and sell them in north-eastern States. He also disclosed that he was the kingpin of Sarkar Gang, which had been operating in Delhi and NCR since 2015. He used to work with two associates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kingpin-of-gang-involved-in-theft-of-110-luxury-cars-held/article37047332.ece
18 October 2021||Chandigarh,||3 killed in Punjab accident||Three university students were killed while one person was injured when the car in which they were travelling collided with a truck near Rajpura town in Punjab on Sunday, a senior police officer said. The deceased, all men, were in their mid 20s, Rajpura Deputy Superintendent of Police Gurbans Singh said over the phone. The condition of the injured is critical, the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3-killed-in-punjab-accident/article37047334.ece
18 October 2021||Seoni,||Leopard mauls girl to death in M.P.||A 16-year-old girl was mauled to death by a leopard in the forest in Madhya Pradesh’s Seoni district, an official said on Sunday. The incident occurred under the Kanhiwada forest area near Pandiwada village on Saturday afternoon, Forest Ranger Yogesh Patel said. The girl, Ravina Yadav, and her father had entered the deep forest, nearly 3-km from the mainland, for grazing the cattle when the big cat attacked the teenager from behind and grabbed her neck, he said. Ravina’s father tried to rescue his daughter by hitting the leopard with sticks but the animal also attacked him, Mr.Patel said. As people gathered at the spot, the leopard fled into the forest leaving behind the body of the girl, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/leopard-mauls-girl-to-death-in-mp/article37047331.ece
18 October 2021||October 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/religious-fervour/article37047341.ece
