19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Recent attacks in J&K reveal terror outfits’ new strategy: NIA||The latest spate of attacks in Jammu and Kashmir is a part of the terror outfits’ new strategy to derail the measures being taken by the Government to promote industrial development and extend domicile status to various categories of people, making them eligible for jobs and other benefits, according to the National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) findings. A blog post uploaded in the last week of September spelt out the strategy to be adopted by terrorists in view of several measures taken by the Government after the dilution of J&K’s special status in August 2019 and its subsequent bifurcation into Union Territories (UTs). Access blocked The blog has now been blocked on the orders of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. “The blog’s content was circulated among the terror outfits, following which 11 civilians have been murdered in J&K so far. The victims include migrant workers,” said an official. On Sunday, the terrorists entered a rented accommodation and gunned down two migrant workers in Kulgam. Another labourer was injured in the attack. In counter-terror operations, the security forces eliminated 13 terrorists in the past 10 days. The NIA also arrested nine persons having alleged links with various banned outfits. It is learnt that the blog post exhorted terror outfits to target non-local employees and individuals who had been issued domicile certificates, and to ensure that no land was given to non-locals under the new J&K Development Act, particularly entrepreneurs from outside the Union Territory who were planning to set up businesses with locals. On its proposed targets were also NIA and police officials and those assisting them. The blog post went on to suggest that terror strikes could also be carried out in other parts of the country from where Indian Police Service and Indian Administrative Service officials serving in Kashmir had come. It also directed the outfits to counter the induction of non-local students and staff from outside Kashmir in educational institutions. Investigations are on to determine the identity and location of the person who opened the blog account. Its contents are being examined by experts to assess the threat perceptions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recent-attacks-in-jk-reveal-terror-outfits-new-strategy-nia/article37064030.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Tracked, attacked Army patrol: new terror outfit||A new terrorist group on Monday released an eight-minute video about the ongoing encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch region along the Line of Control (LoC), in which nine soldiers have been killed so far. In the video, the group calling itself the PAFF (People’s Anti Fascists Front) claimed responsibility for the attack. Shared on multiple channels on Telegram App, the video features a man narrating the events around October 11, the day the encounter started, in a Kashmiri dialect. The video claims that two unidentified terrorists tracked an Army patrol party for around 10 hours before ambushing their tent around dawn the next day (October 11). The narrator in the video, who is identified as the leader of the strike team, says that they crossed “Chamrer Gali” around 4.30 p.m. The terrorists claim they took away a bag belonging to a sepoy identified as Harjeet Singh, which carried a hand-written identity card, packet of instant noodles, wafers and a personal grooming kit. An Army source, however, termed the video as an “immature attempt at propaganda.” The source added that sepoy Harjeet Singh was alive and also in possession of his identity card. “The video has no merit. Not notwithstanding that, we are getting things verified on the ground,” said the source. The Army has launched a massive search operation in the forest areas of Poonch and Rajouri to track down the terrorists involved in the killing of nine soldiers. On Monday, the Army tweeted that “General MM Naravane #COAS is on a two day visit to Jammu Region wherein GOC White Knight Corps will give an update on security situation .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tracked-attacked-army-patrol-new-terror-outfit/article37064035.ece
19 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Five men arrested in murder case, search on for another||The Kankanady Police have arrested five persons said to be involved in the murder of a 20-year-old youth in a lodge near Pumpwell Junction here on Saturday last. The names of the arrested persons were given as Joyson, Praneet, Karthik, Prajwal and Durgesh. The police said that the five arrested persons were among the six who had booked a room in Sai Palace Lodge on Friday. These six had called the 20-year-old Dhanush to the room to counsel the latter not to use foul language against the former in public places. All the seven partied till around 2.30 a.m. on Saturday, when there was a heated exchange of words between Dhanush and the six other members. Joyson reportedly used a sharp knife to stab Dhanush twice on the chest. Dhanush came out of the room and collapsed as he was getting down the stairs. He was immediately taken to a hospital where he was declared dead, the police said. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters on Monday that the police have gathered evidence that showed the accused persons had called Dhanush to the room in order to murder him. Three of the accused persons, Joyson, Praneet and Karthik, are involved in criminal cases. Joyson is an accused in a rioting and Narcotic and Psychotropic Substances Act case registered in Mangaluru South and Mangaluru East police stations in 2016 and 2017. Praneet is accused in nine criminal cases, while Karthik is accused in two criminal cases. The police have so far not found any criminal cases pending against Prajwal and Durgesh. All the five were subjected to medical test to know whether they had consumed cannabis, he said. A search is on to trace the sixth accused person, Mr. Kumar added. Assistant Commissioner of Police (South) Ranjith Kumar Bandaru was present.  The arrested men were among the six who booked a room in Sai Palace Lodge on Friday last They called the victim and all of them partied till 2.30 a.m. the next day when there was a heated exchange of words followed by murder||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-men-arrested-in-murder-case-search-on-for-another/article37064519.ece
19 October 2021||IDUKKI,||Cheruthoni shutters to be up at 11 a.m.||With the water in the Idukki reservoir approaching the red alert level and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting heavy rainfall from Wednesday, authorities have decided to open two shutters of the Cheruthoni dam of the reservoir at 11 a.m. on Tuesday. At a high-level meeting addressed by Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine at the Collectorate on Monday, it was decided to open the two shutters by 50 cm to release 100 cumecs of water. Water level The water level at 5 p.m. on Monday was 2,397.44 ft whereas the red alert level is 2,397.86 ft. The full reserve level of the Idukki dam is 2,403 ft. Though power generation was raised to 13.61 million units (mu), the water level of the reservoir kept rising despite less rainfall on Monday.  Two shutters of the Edamalayar dam will also be raised by 80 cm at 6 a.m. on Tuesday to release 100 cumecs. The present water level at the dam is 165.45 metres. The maximum level is 169 metres and red alert is issued when the level goes above 166.80 metres. It was decided to open the Edamalayar dam shutters, in the downstream of the Idukki dam, earlier to avoid a surge in the water level in the Periyar river, according to Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) sources. Evacuation plans The district administration has started preparations for evacuating 64 families in five villages living close to the Periyar. Schools and other buildings scheduled to function as rehabilitation centres have been taken over. The District Collector has issued directives to the police and revenue officials to inform the public and attach notices on houses likely to be affected by floodwaters. People should not bathe in the river or fish there when the dam shutters are opened. A meeting at the Aluva guest house led by Industries Minister P. Rajeeve discussed the steps to be taken in the event of water reaching the low-lying areas of Ernakulam district. He directed the Irrigation Department to remove blocks to the smooth flow of water. He also sought the support of fishermen and NGOs in damage-control measures.  The Idukki dam shutters were last opened in 2018, resulting in large-scale destruction in Idukki and Ernakulam districts. There were allegations that the shutters were opened without proper preparation and the Central Water Commission fixed a new rule curve level to avoid sudden releasing of a high volume of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cheruthoni-shutters-to-be-opened-at-11-am/article37064246.ece
19 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Kannada not a must for all UG students under NEP||Opting for Kannada as one of the language papers is not mandatory for all undergraduate students of Mangalore University under the National Education Policy – 2020 which is going to be introduced in the academic year 2021-22. However, those who studied Kannada as a language paper in the pre-university level will have to compulsorily select Kannada as one of the language papers in the first two years (four semesters) of their under-graduation course. Sources in the university told The Hindu that those who did not study Kannada as a language paper in the pre-university level will have to select Functional Kannada paper either in the first or second semester during their under-graduation. In the remaining three semesters of the two-year study, they can select any other language of their choice. All undergraduate students do not study any language paper in the third year (fifth semester onwards) and later. The sources said that with regard to the introduction of language papers, the draft of the regulations prepared by the university has not drifted away from the model of regulations sent by the State Government to all universities. The draft prepared by the university is not final. It will have to be approved by the respective faculty, the Academic Council, the Syndicate and finally, by the Chancellor who is the Governor. If required, modifications can be made during the meetings of the respective faculty and the Academic Council, they said. However, some teachers said that there are still some grey areas that needed to be clarified. They related to choice of other language papers by those students who did not study Kannada during the pre-university level. There are contradictions in the language policy adopted by the government. For example, a student who did not study Kannada in the pre-university level can opt for Sanskrit in the first semester and Functional Kannada in the second semester. The same student can opt for French in the third semester and German in the fourth semester. If the same student again opts for Sanskrit in the third semester, will he able to grasp the advanced level of Sanskrit lessons introduced in the third semester or any other language, ask teachers. Usually advanced level lessons are introduced in the third and fourth semesters. Switching languages in the second year might come in the way of grasping, they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kannada-not-a-must-for-all-ug-students-under-nep/article37064515.ece
19 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Yellow alert in districts from Wednesday||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put most of the districts on yellow alert for three days starting Wednesday for heavy rainfall. Isolated very heavy rainfall (11 cm to 20 cm in 24 hours) is likely in the State on Thursday and Friday, the weather agency said on Monday. Kerala can expect widespread rainfall on these days due to the likelihood of a fresh spell of easterly wave affecting the south peninsular India from Wednesday. All districts except Alappuzha, Kannur and Kasaragod are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall (7 cm to 11 cm) on Wednesday. All districts except Kannur and Kasaragod are on yellow alert for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall on Thursday. Except Kasaragod, all districts are on alert for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall on Friday as well. Excess rainfall The northeast monsoon is yet to officially commence over Kerala, but the first 18 days of October were extraordinarily active for the State in terms of rainfall. In the India Meteorological Department (IMD) calendar, the northeast monsoon season officially lasts from October 1 to December 31. During this period, Kerala is expected to receive 491.6 mm of rainfall. During the first 18 days of the month, Kerala recorded 444.9 mm, show IMD data. The State recorded 142% excess rainfall during the 18-day period. This, in IMD terms, is a 'large excess' as the percentage departure is above 60%. The State received 444.9 mm of rainfall against 183.5 mm, which is normal for the 18-day period. All 14 districts have recorded a 'large excess,' with some districts recording above 200% excess rainfall. The State had experienced an intense spell of rainfall activity which peaked on October 16 under the influence of a low pressure area over the southeast Arabian Sea. A fresh spell is likely to begin on Wednesday, with isolated very heavy rainfall likely on Thursday and Friday. Last year, the northeast monsoon rainfall had been deficient for Kerala by 26%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yellow-alert-in-kerala-districts-from-wednesday/article37064302.ece
19 October 2021||Vijayawada,||Explore feasibility of transporting coal by ships, Jagan tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday directed the officials of the Energy Department to explore the feasibility of transporting coal through the sea route to make up for disruptions caused in moving the ‘black gold’ to power plants by trains. The cost of transportation of coal by ocean freight carriers would be economical, he said and suggested that steps be taken for establishing a 6,300 MW reverse pumping hydroelectric project and focus laid on the construction of a similar 1,350 MW project at Sileru. At a review meeting on the power crisis, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered that the utilities should coordinate with Coal India Limited and Singareni Collieries Company Limited for procuring coal required by the AP-Genco’s thermal plants, and concentrate on long-term power generation strategies. Officials told the Chief Minister that there were no interruptions in power supply and the situation was being watched to deal with any contingency. They said an additional two rakes of coal per day were being procured from Mahanadi Coalfields and the AP-Genco increased generation from 50 Million Units (MU) to 69 MU. Besides, 170 MW was being purchased from the Power Trading Corporation. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to expedite the pending projects so that adequate power availability could be ensured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-explore-feasibility-of-transporting-coal-by-ships/article37064020.ece
19 October 2021||TIRUPATI,||Backward Classes commision begins enumeration exercise||Justice A. Sankara Narayana, Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh Commission for Backward Classes, has said that the enumeration and enlistment programme has been undertaken to enroll the deserving castes and remove inequity. Speaking at the maiden meeting after its formation here on Monday he said that every deserving backward community will get its due.. Representations were received from Piramalai Kallar Devar, Elava communities for inclusion as BC, while Chattada Srivaishnava, Poosala, Rajaka, Nayee Brahmana, Matsyakara, Kummara, Medari, Viswabrahmana, Perika, Telikula, Batraju, Dhobi Muslim, Dudekula, Atharu Sayibu, Valmiki, Vaddera, Sagara, Pala Ekari, Ekila, Bavasara Kshatriya, Kuraba, Pondara, Keviti and Pamula communities sought recognition as Most Backward Classes (MBC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bc-panel-begins-enumeration-exercise/article37064351.ece
19 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||With Kerala dams brimming, panel to regulate water release||Amid havoc caused by the torrential rain over the past week leading to floods and landslips, the Kerala Government has constituted an expert committee to regulate the release of water from 81 dams across swollen rivers. Officials said water level in the Pampa, Manimala, and Achencoil rivers remained well over the danger level. While floodwaters have begun to slowly recede from Mallappally, the run-off water from Achencoil river flooded areas such as Thumpamon, Kadakkad, and Cherikkal. Several parts of Thiruvalla taluk, particularly the Upper Kuttanad villages, continued to remain under water, causing traffic disruptions along the Main Central Road and the Thiruvalla-Ambalappuzha road. With hydroelectric, irrigation and drinking water dams in the State constructed several decades ago, the Government panel includes climatologists, structural engineers, and hydrologists to help the administration manage water systems during extreme weather. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the committee would gauge the quantum of water in dams and formulate long-term management plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-kerala-dams-brimming-panel-to-regulate-water-release/article37064024.ece
19 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Panel to regulate water release||The Kerala Government has constituted an expert committee to regulate the release of water from 81 dams straddling swollen rivers. The hydroelectric, irrigation and drinking water dams in the State are decades old and designed in a pre-climate-change era. Climatologists, structural engineers, and hydrologists are on the committee to help the administration manage dams during extreme weather. The committee will primarily regulate the opening and closing of spillways. Its principal task is to ensure that the heavy inflow from catchment areas during heavy rain does not strain the structural integrity of the levees. Moreover, the committee will regulate the discharge of dam water to ensure that the outflow does not inundate villages, towns, homes, roads, population centres and farmlands downstream. Long -term plans Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the committee will gauge the quantum of water in dams and formulate long-term management plans. It will modulate the discharge of excess inflow to prevent downstream flooding. The committee will warn District Collectors about the opening of spillways well in advance. The district administration will alert people and evacuate them to higher grounds or relief camps as required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-forms-panel-to-regulate-water-release/article37064250.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Defer Dalit Bandhu in Huzurabad: ECI||Election Commission of India has on Monday instructed the Chief Electoral Officer of Telangana to defer implementation of Dalit Bandh Scheme in all its forms in Huzurabad assembly constituency, which is witnessing by-poll on October 30. Implementation of the scheme should be deferred till completion of the by-election, the ECI said in a letter to the CEO. Dalit Bandhu scheme, offering Rs. 10 lakh aid to one in every Dalit family in the State to help them become financially reliant, was launched by Telangana government a few weeks ago. A brain child of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, the scheme was started on a trial basis in Huzurabad assembly constituency. KCR’s political rivals described the scheme as a bait to lure dalits to vote for TRS in the bypoll. However, TRS leaders countered the allegations maintaining that it was aimed at uplifting dalits. Already, the State government has released . Rs. 2,000 crore for Dalit Bandhu in Huzurabad constituency. Retired government official Padmanabha Reddy of Forum For Good Governance, which represented to the ECI, described the ECI order on deferment of the scheme as “big joke”. According to him, the government had already identified beneficiaries of the scheme in Huzurabad assembly constituency which was witnessing by-poll. “Even Rs. 10 lakh to each beneficiary had been sent to the banks concerned. Disbursal of money is complete by now and there is no point in passing order seeking its deferment now,” he told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eci-orders-deferment-of-dalit-bandhu-in-huzurabad/article37064410.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army trains officers on LAC in Tibetology||With a view to orienting its officers and men posted along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Tibetan culture and also preparing them to better understand the information warfare, the Army has begun a course in Tibetology in a tie-up with the Central Institute of Himalayan Cultural Studies in Arunachal Pradesh. The first batch of 15 participants was trained from March to May this year. Better idea “Understanding Tibetan traditions, cultural peculiarities, democracy and political influence and so on empowers our men and officers to understand where we are going and where we are operating,” said a senior Army officer at the 5 Mountain Division at Tenga in Arunachal Pradesh. Officers posted in the area would be considered for the course. The Army’s Training Command, ARTRAC, has identified seven institutes for Tibetology across the country, two of which are in the northeast. The other one is the Namgyal Institute of Tibetology in Sikkim. Such training was happening earlier too but now it has been formalised. On a trial basis, the first batch with 15 officers was held from March to May, and the Army has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the institute. The second course is scheduled to begin next month. Currently, two courses a year are planned with about 15-20 participants in each course. Around 150 officers have been trained so far across the country at various centres, the officer stated. A longer course was being planned and a proposal for a three-month course had been sent to ARTRAC, another officer noted. Broad range of topics “The officers who are trained will function as trainers in their battalions and in a few years, we will have a sizable number of personnel with understanding of Tibetan issues,” the officer explained. During the 42 days of the preliminary course, Tibetan history, geopolitics and current political dynamics were covered in the form of lectures and case studies, the officer added. Lamas who were proficient in Tibetan issues were hired from the Bomdila Monastery to teach the course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-trains-officers-on-lac-in-tibetology/article37064007.ece
19 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||College reopening deferred to Oct. 25||The State Government has decided to further defer the reopening of higher educational institutions for junior batches to October 25. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Monday. Under normal circumstances, offline classes would have resumed after a long hiatus on Monday. However, the scheduled restart had been put off until Wednesday (October 20) two days ago in view of the incessant rain and floods that have affected many parts of the State.The further deferment comes amid an India Meteorological Department (IMD) alert of intensified rainfall for a few more days starting Wednesday. The Higher Education Department, which had overseen the resumption of offline classes for final-year UG and postgraduate batches on October 4, recently issued the guidelines for the reopening of classes for the lower semesters. Vaccination drive College managements had also been directed to expedite vaccination drive for students and employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/college-reopening-deferred-to-oct-25/article37064300.ece
19 October 2021||Vijayawada,||Jagan visits Avadhoota Datta Peetham||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had darshan of Goddess Sri Marakata Rajeswari and other deities at the Avadhoota Datta Peetham at Patamata here and met Ganapathi Sachchidananda Swami on Monday. Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas, MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, Ministers Perni Venkataramaiah and Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao, TTD Trust Board Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and MLAs Malladi Vishnu and Kolusu Parthasarathy, Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi, Principal Secretary (Endowments) Vani Mohan and Kanaka Durga temple trust board Chairman Paila Sominaidu were among those present. Temple lands Speaking to media persons later, Ganapathi Sachchidananda Swami said he had requested the Chief Minister to take steps for the protection of lands belonging to Hindu temples and not to disturb the hereditary archaka system which had been in vogue for a long time, and received a positive response. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was committed to protecting the Hindu dharma and the development of temples but he was apparently pained with the propaganda unleashed by some that he was anti-Hindu, the seer said. He asserted that a person’s right to follow a particular religion could not be questioned, and attempts to drive a wedge among the people on religious lines were undesirable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-visits-avadhoota-datta-peetham/article37063977.ece
19 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Dera chief, 4 others get life term for murder||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and four others were sentenced to life imprisonment by a special CBI court on Monday for the murder of sect manager Ranjit Singh in 2002. Ram Rahim Singh, who was in 2017 sentenced to 20 years’ imprisonment for raping two disciples, is now in a Rohtak jail. Ranjit Singh was shot dead on July 10, 2002, in Haryana’s Kurukshetra. According to the CBI chargesheet, the Dera chief believed that Ranjit was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter that spoke of how women were allegedly being sexually exploited by the sect head at the Dera headquarters. Hence, he hatched a conspiracy to kill Ranjit. The Special Court in Haryana’s Panchkula convicted Ram Rahim Singh and four others — Krishan Lal, Jasbir Singh, Avtar Singh and Sabdil — in the murder case on October 8. The CBI had sought capital punishment for them, CBI special prosecutor H.P.S. Verma said. Mr. Verma said the Dera chief was also fined Rs. 31 lakh, half of which would go to the victim’s family as compensation. Reacting to the verdict, Jagseer Singh, son of Ranjit Singh, said it was a big day for the family as they got justice after a long wait. The Dera chief, who enjoyed a large following, had frequently courted controversies. After his conviction in the rape case in 2017, violence had broken out in Panchkula and Sirsa leaving over 40 dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dera-chief-4-others-get-life-for-murder/article37064031.ece
19 October 2021||Vijayawada,||Jobs for kin of govt. staff who died of COVID||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday instructed officials to provide jobs on compassionate grounds to the kin of the government employees who died of COVID-19, by November 30. He wanted focus to be laid on the construction of 176 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in order to take the health-care services to the people’s doorstep, and all government hospitals to have sufficient staff as per the national standards. At a review meeting on COVID-19, vaccination, health hubs and recruitment of staff in government hospitals and health centres, on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said emphasis had also to be laid on implementing the job calendar in the Medical and Health Department. Officials told the Chief Minister that the PHC works would begin by January 2022 and completed within nine months. Notifications for filling vacancies under the purview of the Director of Public Health would be issued on October 20 and the selection process completed by December 10. Similarly, the posts notified by the Director of Medical Education would be filled by December 5. Notifications related to the AP Vaidya Vidhana Parishad would be issued between October 20 and 23 and the process would be over by December 25. Cases decline Officials told Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that there were 6,034 active cases in the State and the recovery rate was 99.01%. The positivity rate was 1.36%. There were zero active cases in the purview of 12,833 ward and village secretariats. So far, 3,00,38,454 people have been administered the COVID vaccine. Of them, 1,33,80,259 received a single dose while 1,66,58,195 took both doses. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma and other top officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-kin-of-deceased-govt-staff-to-get-jobs/article37064347.ece
19 October 2021||Vijayawada,||Kin of government staff who died of COVID to get jobs||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday instructed officials to provide jobs on compassionate grounds to the kin of the government employees who died of COVID-19, by November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kin-of-government-staff-who-died-of-covid-to-get-jobs/article37064019.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,||SHRC notice on encounter killings||The State Human Rights Commission has called for a report from the Principal Secretary of the Tamil Nadu Home Department taking suo moto cognisance of a report in The Hindu on October 17 on encounter killings in the State. The SHRC said it considered the report titled ‘Human rights bodies condemn encounter killings’ in which human rights organisations had demanded that ‘encounter’ culture must stop in the State and there should be zero tolerance for such killings. They had also urged the SHRC to intervene and hold inquiry into such killings. The SHRC ordered notice and directed the Principal Secretary to file a report within six weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shrc-notice-on-encounter-killings/article37064124.ece
19 October 2021||KALABURAGI,||Nine tonnes of animal hide seized||Kalaburagi Police seized nine tonnes of skin removed from cows, buffaloes and sheep near Kadaganchi Cross in Aland taluk of Kalaburagi district on Monday. Based on information provided by Hunachiraya Motgi, a member of the Animal Welfare Board, a truck carrying the consignment of hide removed from nearly 1,800 animals was impounded in the afternoon. A case has been registered at the Narona Police Station. Last week, the Kalaburagi Police seized a lorry carrying 32 tonnes of animal skin from Kalaburagi district to Kolkata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-tonnes-of-animal-hide-seized/article37064229.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports this year’s first dengue death||The Capital reported 243 new dengue cases and one death — the first this year — over the past week. The deceased was a 35-year-old woman from south Delhi’s Sarita Vihar, who succumbed to dengue in late September at a private hospital, stated a civic report on Monday. The caseload for the current month stands at 382, including 139 cases reported till October 9. A total of 723 cases have been recorded this season (until October 16), the highest for the same period since 2018, which saw 1,020 cases. In September, the city reported 217 cases, which was also the highest case count for the month since 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-this-years-first-dengue-death/article37064461.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A breathtaking view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-breathtaking-view/article37064521.ece
19 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘NEP gives priority to regional languages’||Governor Thawarchand Gehlot on Monday said that under the National Education Policy-2020 being implemented by the Union Government, learning of regional languages has been given priority. Speaking at an interaction with law students during his visit to Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) at Navanagar in Hubballi, he said that the Constitution and legal system are the best in the world. Terming KSLU as the best among legal institutions in the country, he said that several of the alumni of the university have made name in the Supreme Court and High Court of Karnataka. The Governor said that the government is ready to further improve facilities available in the university and asked the Syndicate and faculty members and students to either submit their suggestions on improvements to be made in written form or orally. The suggestions will be considered and acted upon on priority, he promised. Mr. Gehlot, who earlier inspected various facilities at the university, including library, administrative complex and moot court halls, said that after his appointment as Governor, he is trying to learn Kannada. KSLU students Prabhayan Chakraborthy, Siddhi Nagvekari expressed their views on the occasion. Vice-Chancellor of KSLU P. Eshwar Bhat, Registrars Mohammed Zubair, Ratna Bharamagoudar and G.B. Patil and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-says-nep-2020-gives-priority-to-regional-languages/article37064237.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Frame of mind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/frame-of-mind/article37064028.ece
19 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pilgrims not allowed in Sabarimala||The Kerala Government has disallowed pilgrims to Sabarimala for puja during the Malayalam month of Thulam due to the rising water levels in the Pampa. The India Meteorological Department recorded 20 cm of rainfall at the Nilackal base camp and adjacent Poonthenaruvi on Sunday alone. The water level in the Pampa has risen and geologists have warned of the possibility of mud slips and flash floods in Sabarimala and adjoining forests. The Government has asked the district administration to turn back Sabarimala pilgrims currently camping at Nilackal. The police would disallow traffic on roads swamped by fast-flowing storm waters. People should defer inessential travel and avoid hilly and forested tracts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pilgrims-not-allowed-in-sabarimala/article37064249.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Flying high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flying-high/article37064252.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Cleanliness drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cleanliness-drive/article37064555.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Shah reviews security threats||Union Home Minister Amit Shah chaired a conference on Monday that “deliberated on various internal security challenges and discussed ways to tackle them firmly”. The National Security Strategies Conference, held at the Intelligence Bureau headquarters, was attended by the Directors General of Police of all States and the Directors General of the Central Armed Police Forces. “Deliberations were detailed and expansive,” the Home Ministry tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shah-reviews-security-threats/article37064033.ece
19 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘NEP gives priority to regional languages’||Governor Thawarchand Gehlot on Monday said that under the NEP being implemented by the Centre, learning of regional languages has been given priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nep-gives-priority-to-regional-languages/article37064231.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||L&T lowest bidder for new CCS project||Larsen and Toubro Ltd. emerged as the lowest bidder for the contract for the construction and maintenance of the first three buildings of the proposed new Common Central Secretariat (CCS), according to the financial bids opened on Monday. L&T’s bid of Rs. 3,141.99 crore was 3.47% less than the Central Public Works Department’s estimate of Rs. 3,254 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lt-lowest-bidder-for-new-ccs-project/article37064334.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||L&T lowest bidder for new CCS project||Larsen and Toubro Ltd. emerged as the lowest bidder for the contract for the construction and maintenance of the first three buildings of the proposed new Common Central Secretariat (CCS), according to the financial bids opened on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lt-lowest-bidder-for-new-ccs-project/article37064269.ece
19 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||SP rebel MLA elected Deputy Speaker in U.P.||Nitin Agarwal, a rebel MLA of the Samajwadi Party backed by the ruling BJP, was elected the Deputy Speaker of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly on Monday. With 304 votes, Mr. Agarwal, a former Minister in the Akhilesh Yadav government and a three-time MLA from Hardoi, defeated Narendra Singh Verma of the SP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sp-rebel-mla-elected-deputy-speaker-in-up/article37064270.ece
19 October 2021||Pune,||‘Safety checks a must before theatres open’||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday directed that theatres and cinema halls across the State, which are to reopen from October 22, should carry out proper fire and structural safety checks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/safety-checks-a-must-before-theatres-open/article37064271.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers’ protest hits coal trains||At least 10 goods trains carrying coal to power plants were stuck, and nearly 25 passenger trains cancelled, as farm unions under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha held a nationwide rail roko agitation on Monday. Protesters squatted on railway tracks and hindered train movement to demand the immediate dismissal and arrest of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra for his alleged involvement in the deaths of four farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh this month. “About 10 rakes were affected due to untimely rain and rail roko ,” Power Ministry officials told The Hindu . They noted that despite the blockage, 290 coal rakes were loaded on Monday in comparison to 279 on the previous day. This comes at a time when the country is on the verge of a power crisis, with some power plants holding critically low reserve stocks of coal and some States already experiencing partial load-shedding. Northern Zone worst hit Most rail disruptions were experienced in the Northern Zone, which saw about 150 locations affected by protests during the day. According to a Northern Railway spokesperson, the operations of 60 trains were affected and 25 short-haul passenger trains were cancelled. By 5 p.m., train services were resumed. In other parts of the country, protesters blocked train movement for less than an hour or were prevented from squatting on tracks and held their protests on platforms or in front of stations instead. According to the Press Trust of India, an Eastern Railway spokesperson said four trains in West Bengal were delayed for about an hour, while 12 trains were delayed for about half an hour in Odisha. According to farm unions, protesters blocked tracks at locations in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Bihar, West Bengal, Karnataka and Telangana. Protesters were detained at multiple locations in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, an SKM statement said. There was heavy deployment of armed police personnel at a number of railway stations in Uttar Pradesh and several farmer leaders were also put under preventive house arrest, according to the All India Kisan Sabha.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-protest-hits-coal-trains/article37063943.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||J&K killings touch a raw nerve in Bihar||The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Monday blamed Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar for the death of migrant workers from the State in Jammu and Kashmir. Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav said people were forced to migrate as there were no jobs in the State. Daily wage workers Raja Reshi Dev and Joginder Reshi Dev were killed by terrorists in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, while another migrant, Chunchun Reshi Dev, was seriously injured. A total of 11 civilians have been killed in targeted shooting in the Union Territory. Mr. Kumar has spoken to Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha and announced a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh each to the families of the victims. “Double engine government’s double whammy, won’t provide employment in Bihar and if you go out to earn a living you will be killed,” Mr. Yadav tweeted. The cost of a Bihari’s life, he alleged, was pegged at a mere Rs. 2 lakh. “Nitish Kumar and his incompetent government are also equally guilty of the brutal murder of Biharis. If the NDA government had really done anything seriously on employment generation as per their claim of ‘good governance’ in the last 16 years, then crores of Biharis would not have been forced to migrate and die every year,” he said. Bring them back: RJD The RJD demanded that all the migrant workers from Bihar who are living under distress in J&K should be brought back. They should also be paid Rs. 10,000 a month as compensation for the loss of livelihood. RJD spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Manoj K. Jha observed, “The Chief Minister’s silence speaks volumes. What stops him from speaking out against the union government.” Lok Janshakti Party (Ramvilas) president Chirag Paswan too sought to corner Mr. Kumar on the issue. He remarked, “My question to Nitish ji is that if there were ample job opportunities in Bihar, would the sons of Bihar be forced to face terrorists’ bullets in Kashmir?” The Janata Dal(U) shot back, saying J&K was not under the jurisdiction of Mr. Kumar. Party secretary general K.C. Tyagi accused the RJD of politicising a sensitive issue to divert the attention from its own family feud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-killings-touch-a-raw-nerve-in-bihar/article37063959.ece
19 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala government plans to woo tourists with caravan parks||The caravan parks coming up across the State as part of the Keravan Kerala project will be located in natural settings, giving top priority to hygiene and the safety and security of tourists, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. “What makes Kerala’s caravan tourism policy different is that it is more responsible and committed to local communities. The policy lays emphasis on the safety and security of tourists and sustainable use of local resources in creating caravan parks,” Mr. Riyas says. The Minister has said tourist caravans will offer comfortable and fully regulation-compliant and safe stay. The caravan parks will also be secure places that will not upset the natural and cultural settings of the locale, he notes. “There will not be any garish constructions, leaving the place as natural as possible. Each caravan park will have a sewage treatment plant. The basic theme of the project is to club the luxury of caravan with the natural look of the park,” a press note quoting him says on Monday. The Keravan Kerala policy provides attractive incentives, including investment subsidy for purchase of caravan vehicles. Leading tour operators says they have received positive feedback on caravan tourism from their counterparts from within the country and outside. Hybrid packages Abraham George, Managing Director of Intersight Tours and Travels, says his company will design hybrid packages by including caravan tourism, which will attract visitors to lesser-known destinations. “We believe there will be a good demand for caravans as the recent trend shows that most of the tourists are coming as couples or families and they want to go to less-crowded places. It will be a big hit with honeymooners because of the privacy and security offered by caravans,” he says, adding “Kerala is already a favourite destination for newly married couples.” Riyaz U.C., managing director, Spiceland Holidays, says caravan tourism will be packaged as a standalone product as well as a hybrid package. “In the hybrid model, caravan tourism will be included as a two-day activity. Eventually, we will explore the possibilities of introducing a hop-on and hop-off model to cut cost.” The policy has laid down guidelines for setting up caravan parks, which can be developed in the private, public or joint sector. The configuration will vary from location to location, though the fundamental attributes remain the same. They will be operational 24x7 during the tourist season, or on demand, and connected with fair-weather roads from the main road. They will be provided trading licences for fire and pollution compliance, electricity, water and sewage connections and public liability insurance. The parks in hilly and ecologically fragile areas will have to incorporate creative architecture in conformity with local heritage. Caravan parks can also be set up in plantations, properties of the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) and local self-government institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-govt-plans-to-woo-tourists-with-caravan-parks/article37063983.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nadda holds meeting with BJP office-bearers||Organisational programmes with regard to the completion of 100 crore vaccinations against COVID-19 and the coming Assembly elections were the main items on the agenda as BJP president J.P. Nadda sat down with the party’s national office-bearers for a day-long huddle. The party intends to celebrate the completion of 100 crore vaccinations in a big way. “Hitting 100 crore vaccinations is a big achievement for any country, and it has been done by the Modi Government,” said a senior office-bearer. The meeting began with Mr. Nadda telling the team that they had worked for the nation keeping in mind not only “political indicators” but also “social indicators” “despite hurdles placed in their way by the Opposition”. He cited welfare measures during the COVID-19 pandemic coupled with pro-poor programmes such as free grains, and asserted that the party had worked to change the definition of politics, official sources said. Briefing reporters, party vice-president and former Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh said the meeting of the office-bearers would put in place the party’s agenda for the next few months. He noted that it came against the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi engaging in extensive deliberations with the party’s organisational leaders over the past few months. Voter outreach in U.P The party has already laid out an elaborate voter outreach programme in the politically significant Uttar Pradesh. A community specific outreach programme was launched on Sunday in Lucknow. Outreach sammelans with the Pasi community (October 19), the Rajbhar community (October 20), the Nai, Saini , Savita, Halwai, Kasaudhan, Shivhare communities (October 21), and the Nonia, Chauhan and Yadav communities (October 22) have been lined up by the party. Specific responsibilities have been chalked out for election work in various States, and these will begin with holding the BJP’s shakti kendras and panna pramukh meetings and also setting up call centres to reach out to beneficiaries of the various government schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nadda-holds-meeting-with-bjp-office-bearers/article37063953.ece
19 October 2021||COLOMBO,||Kushinagar connect to Sri Lanka||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi declares open the Kushinagar International Airport in Uttar Pradesh on October 20, a sizeable Sri Lankan contingent, led by a member of the first family, will be present. Sports Minister Namal Rajapaksa, nephew of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and son of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, will travel to Uttar Pradesh, along with ministerial colleagues and a group of 100 Buddhist monks to attend the event, according to officials in Colombo. Buddhist circuit The airport is expected to provide seamless connectivity to tourists from Sri Lanka, Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, China, Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore and so on. Kushinagar is the centre of the Buddhist circuit, which consists of pilgrimage sites at Lumbini, Sarnath and Gaya. Buddhist pilgrims consider Kushinagar a sacred site where, they believe, Gautama Buddha delivered his last sermon and attained ‘Mahaparinirvana’ or salvation. The inaugural flight on Wednesday will land at the airport from Colombo, Sri Lanka, carrying the 125-member delegation of dignitaries and Buddhist monks. To mark the occasion, Sri Lanka will present to India photographs of two murals painted by renowned Sri Lankan artist Solias Mendis at the Kelaniya Rajamaha Vihara, a popular Buddhist temple near Colombo, officials at the Sri Lankan High Commission in New Delhi told The Hindu . One of the murals depicts ‘Arahat Bhikkhu’ Mahinda, son of Emperor Ashoka delivering the message of the Buddha to King Devanampiyatissa of Sri Lanka. The other shows the arrival of ‘Theri Bhikkhuni’ Sanghamitta, the daughter of the Emperor, in Sri Lanka, bearing a sapling of the ‘sacred Bodhi tree’ under which Siddhārtha Gautama is believed to have obtained enlightenment. The gesture comes at a time when Sri Lanka and India have agreed to strengthen ties through their shared Buddhist heritage. Despite India’s known support to the Mahinda Rajapaksa administration in defeating the LTTE, sections among Sri Lanka’s southern population remain India-sceptics, wary of the big neighbour who “interfered” in Sri Lanka’s ethnic conflict, “sided with Tamils”. Cultural diplomacy In the decade after the civil war, which coincides with China’s growing influence, New Delhi seems keen on recasting its image as a friend, using religious and cultural diplomacy. When India sent the first consignment of 5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine to Sri Lanka in January this year, the Indian High Commission in Colombo in a tweet linked its arrival to a “blessed Poya Day”, or full moon day considered holy by Buddhists. Sri Lanka, too, considers promoting shared Buddhist ties a matter of “paramount importance”, as was outlined in the Integrated Country Strategy prepared by Sri Lanka’s High Commissioner to India. On the growing emphasis on shared Buddhist ties, senior political scientist Jayadeva Uyangoda said: “A cynic might say this marks the beginning of a soft saffronisation [of bilateral ties], but it signals that India is going to have a more assertive foreign policy stance towards Sri Lanka.”  (With inputs from Jagriti Chandra in New Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kushinagar-connect-to-sri-lanka/article37063970.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE issues date sheet for exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education will hold its first term Board examination for major subjects for Class XII students from December 1 to 22. For Class X students, the major subject examinations will begin on November 30 and run till December 11. In a format change spurred by the uncertainty of the COVID-19 situation, the CBSE had divided the 2021-22 academic year into two terms with 50% of the syllabus to be covered in each term and Board exams to be held at the end of each term. This first term examination will be a 90-minute paper with multiple choice questions only. Comfort priority Keeping in mind the comfort of students during the pandemic and in order to reduce their travel distances, a large number of schools will be fixed as self-centres, meaning that students will write their examinations in their own schools, CBSE Controller of Examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj told presspersons after the date sheet was released. For other students, the CBSE will ensure that they are not forced to travel too far from their home schools. External observers will be assigned to all centres to ensure that the examination is conducted “safely, fairly and without any untoward incidents”, he added. These are the arrangements being made for 19 major subjects in Class XII and nine major subjects in Class X which are offered by a majority of schools. For the 95 minor subjects offered in Class XII and 66 minor subjects offered in Class X, exams will be conducted by schools themselves, although question papers will be provided by the board. Date sheets will be sent directly to schools, and minor subject exams will begin from November 16 for Class XII and November 17 for Class X. First exam post-COVID This is the first Board examinations being conducted by the CBSE since March 2020, when schools were shut due to the initial onset of COVID-19, and exams cancelled midway through the schedule. The 2020-21 exams were entirely cancelled due to the second wave of the pandemic, and results declared on the basis of previous exams and internal assessments. This year, if there are no further interruptions caused by the pandemic, a second term Board examination will be held in March-April 2022, with a three-hour long subjective and objective type question paper. Final scores will be based on marks from both exams. Internal assessment marks are also being uploaded in real time onto each student’s profile being maintained by the CBSE so that they can also be used if needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-issues-date-sheet-for-exams/article37063972.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Trade talks between India, Israel to resume||India and Israel agreed to resume long-pending negotiations on a free trade agreement, as External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar met his Israeli counterpart Yair Lapid in Jerusalem on Monday. Both also joined a virtual quadrilateral meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and UAE Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed . The quadrilateral meeting, seen as an outcome of last year’s Abraham Accords brokered by the U.S. that saw the UAE and Israel establish diplomatic relations, also underlines India’s close relationships with both the West Asian countries and Washington. Welcoming Mr. Jaishankar, Mr. Lapid said in a tweet, “In the last year, India and Israel have dealt with the COVID-19 pandemic, and have helped one another amidst this crisis. This is how friends and partners behave.” During the bilateral talks, Mr. Jaishankar, who was meeting the recently installed Israeli Government for the first time, said he was confident that the India-Israel relationship, which would enter its 30th year, would “shift gears into a new phase”. He stated, “I am therefore, particularly pleased that just as we came to this visit, our officials have agreed on the resumption of the India-Israel Free Trade negotiations.” The FTA talks would begin in November and concluded by June 2022, he added. The push for an FTA between the two countries is the latest in a series of attempts to negotiate a trade agreement over the past 14 years. Lapsed talks Both in 2007, then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, and in 2017, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that an FTA would be completed, but talks have lapsed over a number of issues. During the last round of talks, both sides explored the possibility of a limited trade deal or a Preferential Trade Agreement for about 200 goods, which had also not been concluded. The latest effort for an FTA with Israel comes on the back of the government’s recent drive to resume a number of trade negotiations, and the government has thus far committed to resumed talks with the U.K., Australia and the European Union, expressing the hope they would also be concluded in 2022. During the talks, India and Israel also agreed to mutually recognise each other’s vaccination process “in principle”, although for the moment Israel will only allow Indians vaccinated with Covishield to travel there, but not those vaccinated with Covaxin, which is still awaiting an Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the World Health Organisation. Mr. Jaishankar said it was a “great pleasure” that Israel also announced it would join the India-France led International Solar Alliance (ISA), ahead of the next U.N. Climate Change COP26 summit in Glasgow this November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-israel-fta-talks-back-on-track/article37063939.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar on asset allocation, wealth||A webinar on “Creating wealth by asset allocation” will be jointly organised by the LIC Mutual Fund and The Hindu BusinessLine on Friday at 4 p.m. Lav Kumar, zonal head - West (Retail Sales), LIC Mutual Fund Asset Management, and Dhirendra Kumar, founder and chief executive officer, Value Research, will be the panellists. The discussion will be moderated by C. Parvatha Vardhini, head, research bureau, The Hindu BusinessLine . The discussion will touch upon risk-based investing, asset allocation, the difference between investment return and investors return and the importance of patience in wealth creation. Those interested in attending the webinar can register athttps://bit.ly/3FUD8Lvor scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-asset-allocation-wealth/article37063936.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panel to study Indian culture did not submit report: ASI||A committee formed in 2016 to “study evolution of Indian culture from 12,000 years ago” did not submit any report to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the government body said in a Right to Information (RTI) reply recently. Asked about the formation of the committee and its findings, the ASI said on October 11 in response to a RTI query by The Hindu : “Yes, a committee has been formed to study evolution of Indian culture from 12,000 years ago which was approved on 31.10.2016 for a period of one year. The committee had not submitted any report to the ASI.” ‘Lack of diversity’ Asked about the committee in the Lok Sabha on September 14, 2020, the then Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel confirmed that an expert panel had been set up for the “holistic study of origin and evolution of Indian culture since 12,000 years ago”. At the time, DMK MP Tiruchi Siva and the then Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had raised the lack of diversity on the panel, calling for scholars from southern States to be included. Sources in the Culture Ministry said in September last year that the first committee’s tenure had lapsed without a report, so the committee would be re-constituted with a wider selection of experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-to-study-indian-culture-did-not-submit-report-asi/article37063967.ece
19 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||SP rebel MLA Nitin Agarwal elected Deputy Speaker in U.P.||Nitin Agarwal, a rebel MLA of the Samajwadi Party backed by the ruling BJP, was elected Deputy Speaker of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly on Monday. With 304 votes, Mr. Agarwal, a former Minister of State in the Akhilesh Yadav government and a three-time MLA from Hardoi, defeated Narendra Singh Verma of the SP. Mr. Agarwal had quit the SP along with his father Naresh Agarwal, a former Minister, and joined the BJP ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election. However, the MLA is technically still regarded as an SP legislator and the party’s petition seeking his disqualification had reportedly been rejected. This technicality allowed Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to justify the decision to field Mr. Agarwal, a Vaishya community member, for the post traditionally reserved in recent years for the largest Opposition party, which is currently the SP. Mr. Verma, a six-time MLA from Sitapur belonging to the Kurmi (OBC) caste, received only 60 votes, which was however more than the number of MLAs currently with the SP. The Opposition BSP and the Congress boycotted the election, which were held using ballot paper during a special session of the Assembly. Yogi’s charge Speaking in the Assembly following Mr. Agarwal’s election, Mr. Adityanath accused the SP of being “anti-youth” for fielding a senior MLA, Mr. Verma, 57, against the 40-year-old Mr. Agarwal. Mr. Adityanath mocked the SP and said the party had drowned in its internal contradictions. “It cannot even keep its own members,” Mr. Adityanath said, accusing it of “betraying” Mr. Verma. Mr. Adityanath said the Deputy Speaker’s election was a signal that a similar result was expected in the upcoming Assembly polls. “The picture of 2022 polls has come out before us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-rebel-mla-nitin-agarwal-elected-deputy-speaker-in-up/article37063956.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Part-time employees not entitled to regularisation: SC||The Supreme Court has held that part-time employees are not entitled to seek regularisation as they are not working against any sanctioned post in the Government. A Bench of Justices M.R. Shah and A.S. Bopanna clarified in a recent judgment that there cannot be any permanent continuance of part-time temporary employees. “The status of permanency cannot be granted when there is no post. It is further observed that mere continuance every year of seasonal work during the period when work was available does not constitute a permanent status,” Justice Shah noted. The judgment came on a plea concerning the regularisation of part-time sweepers at a post office in Chandigarh. The court said it was a settled proposition of law, that regularisation could be only as per the policy declared by the State/Government and “nobody can claim the regularisation as a matter of right”. The court ruled in favour of the Government which had appealed against the Punjab and Haryana High Court decision to regularise the part-time employees. “There are no sanctioned posts in the post office in which the respondents were working, therefore, the directions issued by the High Court in the judgment and order are not permissible,” the Court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/part-time-employees-not-entitled-to-regularisation-sc/article37063968.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Judiciary should not act as a super-legislature, says Centre||A “distressed” government has taken a leaf from former United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt's speech to indicate that the judiciary ought not to act as a “super-legislature” by entertaining a challenge to the Tribunal Reforms Act by Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh. The Union Government, in an affidavit in the Supreme Court, said it was “confused” why the judiciary thinks that the law made by Parliament and implemented by the executive is an attack on judicial independence. Some of the provisions of the Act under challenge include the reduction of the tenure of chairpersons and members of key tribunals from five years to four. The Act mandates their minimum age for appointment be 50 years. The new law said the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC), headed by the Prime Minister, may “preferably” make the appointment within three months of the recommendation by the Search-cum-Selection Committee (SCSC). The law said that the recommendations of SCSC to the ACC should be of only one single name per vacant post with waitlist available. The affidavit said each one of these issues is purely one of policy. ‘Exclusive right’ The government said it was the “exclusive right” of Parliament and the executive to frame policy and execute it. The affidavit said it is significant that the separation of powers entrusts to Parliament and the executive the exclusive jurisdiction to decide as to what would be the best policy. How can duration of tenure of a chairperson or members affect the independence of judiciary, the government asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/judiciary-should-not-act-as-a-super-legislature-says-centre/article37064009.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP alleges ‘vilification’ of Patel at CWC meet||The BJP on Monday accused the Congress of having “sinned” after news reports surfaced that a leader, at the recent Congress Working Committee meeting, made critical remarks about Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on the issue of Jammu and Kashmir. At a press conference at the BJP headquarters in New Delhi, party spokesperson Sambit Patra cited reports that Tariq Hameed Karra, a Kashmiri leader and a permanent invitee to the CWC, had credited Jawaharlal Nehru for Jammu and Kashmir’s integration with India and alleged that Patel wanted to keep the Valley out. Mr. Patra asked whether Congress president Sonia Gandhi or its former chief Rahul Gandhi objected when Mr. Karra “vilified” Patel and presented India’s first Home Minister as a “villain” while praising Nehru. “Was Karra reprimanded? Will he be axed from the CWC?” Mr. Patra said, accusing the Congress of constantly insulting leaders such as Subhas Chandra Bose, Patel and Veer Savarkar. The Congress, he alleged, had been reduced to being a party of a family and worked to advance the family’s rule. “What sort of mindset is this that one family has done everything and others have done nothing. What the CWC has done is a sin,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-alleges-vilification-of-patel-at-cwc-meet/article37063954.ece
19 October 2021||KOCHI,||Restore spirit of People’s Plan Campaign: Gadgil||Ecologist Madhav Gadgil has urged Kerala to renew the spirit of the People's Plan Campaign in its development process and to listen to the voices of the people while undertaking development projects. Speaking to The Hindu in the wake of the fresh round of ecological disasters that have struck the State, Prof. Gadgil said ecologically disastrous projects such as illegal quarrying and rock blasting could be curbed if the State listened to the voices of its people. illegal activities Kerala had the most advanced level of democratic decentralisation process and the State was the pioneer in the process. If that spirit is restored, it will curb illegal and unjustifiable activities such as illegal quarries, he said. The State was in favour of reducing the distance between quarries and houses and human habitations to 50 metres, though people were against it. Evidence is now available that most of the quarries and stone crushers functioning in many parts of the State are illegal. Yet, they are promoted. It is unjustifiable and unacceptable. People and grama sabhas are against them, he said. “Its unfortunate that Kerala needs a disaster for good sense to prevail,” said Prof. Gadgil, who led the team of ecologists to come up with the Western Ghats ecology panel report. Its high time that the State took a relook at its land use pattern. The panel report had classified the State into three zones of high, moderate and low ecological sensitivity and suggested the activities that could be carried out in each category, he said. Quarrying, construction of roads and high-rise buildings on hill slopes and other activities that destroy natural vegetation should not be permitted in the high-sensitivity areas. The recommendations of the panel were based on sound scientific evidence and within the framework of the Constitution and various Acts. The State should wake up to these realities and reconsider the improper actions and land use, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restore-spirit-of-peoples-plan-campaign-gadgil/article37064286.ece
19 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Man convicted in Sydney attacks on Sikhs returns||Vishal Jood, 24, who was arrested in Sydney in April for his alleged involvement in a series of targeted attacks on the Sikh community, was accorded a hero’s welcome by the Ror community on his return to Kurukshetra in Haryana on Sunday. Jood was released earlier this month on completion of a six-month sentence after the New South Wales police dropped eight charges against him, including of racial hatred. Nearly 200 youth from the Ror community assembled at Panipat to receive him before marching to a dharamshala in Kurushetra. “On his way to Kurushetra dharamshala for a felicitation programme, he was also welcomed by the Rajput community at Gharaunda. Our community had organised programmes at Panipat dharamshala and Umri village as well,” Naseeb Singh, president, Akhil Bharatiya Ror Mahasabha, said. On allegations of his involvement in attacks in Australia on a religious community, Mr. Singh said Jood had been framed. “Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal, Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh met the Union Government Ministers to facilitate his release,” said Mr. Singh. Australia’s Immigration and Citizenship Minister Alex Hawke, in a tweet on Jood’s return to India, said, “Attempts to undermine Australia’s social cohesion will not be tolerated”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-convicted-in-sydney-attacks-on-sikhs-returns/article37063932.ece
19 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Four more arrested for Lakhimpur Kheri killings||A BJP worker who was seen escaping from a jeep moments after it mowed down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri was among four persons arrested on Monday. With this, the total number of persons accused in the murder of four farmers has gone up to 10. On Monday, a SWAT team of the Lakhimpur Kheri Crime Branch and district police arrested Sumit Jaiswal, Sishu Pal, Nandan Singh Bisht and Satya Prakash Tripathi, alias Satyam. Sumit Jaiswal was the complainant in the second FIR lodged in the case in connection with the lynching of three BJP workers, including a driver, following the mowing down of the farmers by the three cars in the convoy of Union Minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, alias Monu, on October 3 in Tikonia. Ashish Mishra was subsequently arrested. After the incident, a short clip showing Jaiswal getting out of the front left door of the jeep owned by the Mishras, which incidentally led the carnage, was widely shared on social media. A licensed pistol and three cartridges were recovered from Satyam. Interrogation on The police said the arrested persons were being questioned by the Special Investigation Team probing the incident. Ashish Mishra and 15-20 unidentified others were booked for murder, criminal conspiracy, rioting and death by negligence, following the first FIR lodged by the farmers. The FIR alleged that Ashish Mishra was sitting in the jeep which ran over the farmers, a charge he denied in media interviews. In the second FIR lodged against unidentified persons for murder and other charges, Sumit Jaiswal alleged that the farmers pelted the vehicle with stones and attacked it with sticks. Apart from the four farmers, a local scribe Raman Kashyap, two BJP workers Shubham Mishra and Shyam, and driver of the jeep Hari Om Mishra were killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-more-arrested-for-lakhimpur-kheri-killings/article37063933.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. panel to regulate outflow in Kerala dams||The committee will primarily regulate the opening and closing of spillways and modulate the discharge of excess inflow to prevent downstream flooding and warn District Collectors about the opening of spillways well in advance. The district administrations will alert people and evacuate them to higher grounds or relief camps as required. The principal task of the panel is to ensure that the heavy inflow from catchment areas does not strain the structural integrity of the levees. Moreover, the committee will also regulate the discharge of dam water to ensure that the outflow does not inundate villages, towns, homes, roads, population centres and farmlands downstream. Opening of all the the brimming dams recalls the devastating floods of 2018 when water released from the dams without adequate preparation led to widespread flooding and landslides, loss of life and property across the State. Kakki-Anathodu Authorities on Monday opened the gates of the Kakki-Anathodu twin reservoirs, triggering panic across the region. With the storage in the Kakki-Anathodu reservoir touching 94%, the authorities raised two shutters around 11 a.m. The resultant discharge is expected to push up the water level in the Pampa river by 15 cm. While the swollen Manimala river had begun to retreat to its original course, Pathanamthitta district continues to be on the edge. Two shutters of the Pampa dam will be also opened after 5 a.m on Tuesday. With water to be released at 50 cumecs, this could further raise the water level by another 10 cm. The water released from the dam is expected to reach the Pampa-Triveni, the base camp of Sabarimala temple, about six hours later In view of the forecast of further heavy rain, the existing ban on entry of pilgrims to Sabarimala has been extended to all five days of the ongoing monthly pujas. The decision triggered protests among the pilgrims, who had been camping at Nilackal, owing to the ban, on the first three days of the season. Release from Idukki With the water in the Idukki reservoir approaching the red alert level and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting heavy rainfall from Wednesday, the authorities have decided to open two shutters of the Cheruthoni dam of the reservoir at 11 a.m. on Tuesday. At a high-level meeting addressed by Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine at the Collectorate on Monday, it was decided to open the two shutters by 50 cm to release 100 cumecs of water. The water level at 5 p.m. on Monday stood at 2,397.44 ft whereas the red alert level is 2,397.86 ft. The full reserve level of Idukki dam is 2,403 ft. Though power generation was raised to 13.61 mu, the water level of the reservoir kept rising despite less rainfall on Monday. Edamalayar at 6 a.m. Two shutters of the Edamalayar dam will also be raised by 80 cm at 6 a.m. on Tuesday to release 100 cumecs. The present water level at the dam is 165.45 metres. The maximum level is 169 metre and red alert is issued when the level goes above 166.80 metres. It was decided to open the Edamalayar dam shutters, on the downstream of Idukki dam, earlier to avoid a surge in the water level on the Periyar river, according to Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) sources. Evacuation plans The district administration has started preparations for evacuating 64 families in five villages living close to the Periyar river. Schools and other buildings scheduled to function as rehabilitation centres have been taken over. The District Collector has issued directives to the police and revenue officials to inform the public and attach notices on houses likely to be affected by floodwaters. People should not bathe in the river or fish there when the dam shutters are opened.  (with inputs from Hiran Unnikrishnan in Pathanamthitta and Giji K. Raman in Idukki)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-panel-to-regulate-outflow-in-kerala-dams/article37063937.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Recent attacks in J&K reveal new strategy: NIA||“While a hunt has been launched for the suspects involved in the recent attacks, there is an urgent need to expedite the process of setting up secure residential and official infrastructure facilities for the probe agencies and vulnerable communities in J&K,” said another official. Till July last, the government had issued domicile certificates to more than 41 lakh people, including about 56,000 West Pakistan Refugees, close to 2,800 Valmikis and about 800 Gorkhas. Large tracts of land have also been transferred to the Industries and Commerce Department in the UT for establishing industries and attracting investments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/recent-attacks-in-jk-reveal-new-strategy-nia/article37063941.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Tracked, attacked Army patrol: new terror outfit||The narrator in the video, who is identified as the leader of the strike team, says that they crossed “Chamrer Gali” around 4.30 p.m. The terrorists claim they took away a bag belonging to a sepoy identified as Harjeet Singh, which carried a hand-written identity card, packet of instant noodles, wafers and a personal grooming kit. An Army source, however, termed the video as an “immature attempt at propaganda.” The source added that sepoy Harjeet Singh was alive and also in possession of his identity card. The Army has launched a massive search operation in the forest areas of Poonch and Rajouri to track down the terrorists involved in the killing of nine soldiers. Those killed in the October 11 incident were identified as Jaswinder Singh, Mandeep Singh, Gajjan Singh, Saraj Singh and Vaisakh H. On October 14, the Army said the bodies of Subedar Ajay Singh and Naik Harendra Singh were recovered while Riflemen Vikram Singh Negi and Yogambar Singh were killed in another encounter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tracked-attacked-army-patrol-new-terror-outfit/article37064008.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Dera chief, 4 others get life term in murder case||The Special Court in Haryana’s Panchkula convicted Ram Rahim Singh and four others — Krishan Lal, Jasbir Singh, Avtar Singh and Sabdil — in the murder case on October 8. They were convicted under relevant Sections, including 302 (murder), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. The CBI had sought capital punishment for them. “The court has given the life sentence to five,” CBI special prosecutor H.P.S. Verma said after the hearing was held amid tight security. Mr. Verma said the Dera chief was also fined Rs. 31 lakh, half of which would go to the victim’s family as compensation. Reacting to the verdict, Jagseer Singh, son of Ranjit Singh, said it was a big day for the family as they got justice after a long wait. Mr. Jagseer, who was eight years old when his father was murdered, said he was satisfied with the verdict, though his family had been seeking death sentence for Ram Rahim Singh. Security beefed up The Dera chief, who enjoyed a large following, had frequently courted controversies. After his conviction in the rape case in 2017, violence had broken out in Panchkula and Sirsa leaving over 40 dead. The police had tightened security in Panchkula and Sirsa, where the sect is headquartered, ahead of the hearing. In Panchkula, prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC were clamped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dera-chief-4-others-get-life-term-in-murder-case/article37063946.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||L&T is lowest bidder for Secretariat project||Larsen and Toubro Ltd. emerged as the lowest bidder for the contract for the construction and maintenance of the first three buildings of the proposed new Common Central Secretariat (CCS), according to the financial bids opened on Monday. L&T’s bid of Rs. 3,141.99 crore was 3.47% less than the Central Public Works Department’s estimate of Rs. 3,254 crore. A part of the Central Vista redevelopment, the project is the third of the major segments of the plan, after the new Parliament and the Central Vista Avenue. The other two bidders in the fray, Tata Projects Ltd. and NCC Ltd., quoted 8.96% and 1.94% over the estimate, respectively. A CPWD official said the Central Works Board would take a decision based on the lowest offer or what is called L1 and its reasonability. The board would decide whether to approve or reject the offer, the official said. The CPWD had on September 28 received four bids in the first stage of the tender from Tata Projects, L&T, NCC Ltd. and Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam, a Uttar Pradesh Government undertaking, which was disqualified from bidding. According to the CPWD’s tender, the company selected would be responsible for the construction of the buildings as well as maintenance for five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lt-lowest-bidder-for-common-central-secretariat-project/article37063951.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Defer Dalit Bandhu: ECI||However, TRS leaders countered the allegations maintaining that it was aimed at uplifting dalits. Already, the State government has released Rs. 2,000 crore for Dalit Bandhu in Huzurabad constituency. Padmanabha Reddy of Forum For Good Governance, which represented to the ECI, described the ECI order as “big joke”. “Either the Commissioner should have said it treated the scheme as an ongoing one or stopped it much before,” he said. “Even Rs. 10 lakh to each beneficiary had been sent to the banks concerned. Disbursal of money is complete by now and there is no point in passing order seeking its deferment now,” he told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/defer-dalit-bandhu-eci/article37064479.ece
19 October 2021||Pune,||Situation in J&K going out of hand: Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday said the situation in Jammu and Kashmir was getting out of hand with the surge in civilian killings and demanded a clarification from Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on the matter. Mr. Raut said mere threatening rhetoric or surgical strikes against Pakistan would not resolve the tangled situation in Kashmir. “It is high time the Centre spoke on what was happening in Kashmir rather than giving us a load of hot air,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/situation-in-jk-going-out-of-hand-raut/article37063948.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||President to attend Bihar House event||President Ram Nath Kovind will be on a three-day visit to Patna from October 20 to participate in the celebration marking the centenary of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building. All present and former MPs, MLAs, MLCs and ministers from the State in the Union Cabinet have been invited to the function. During his visit, the President is likely to visit the Patna Gurdwara, Buddha Smriti Park, Mahavir temple near the Patna railway station and Khadi Mall situated on the eastern flank of Gandhi Maidan. A cultural programme has been organised at the Speaker’s residence, in which about 400 people have been invited. “Through the centenary celebration, the new generation will come to know about the glorious past of the Assembly, which has been a witness to the changes in Bihar”, said Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-to-attend-bihar-house-event/article37063964.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Navy gets intergrated road map||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday launched the Integrated Unmanned Road Map for Indian Navy at the second edition of the Naval Commanders’ Conference that commenced on Monday. This will outline all the unmanned aerial and underwater platforms and efforts of the Navy as part of its force modernisation. “The geographical location of our country is something that makes it unique in many ways. Surrounded by the vast expanse of ocean from three sides, our country is very important from the point of view of strategic, trade and resources,” Mr. Singh said at the conference. There was a greater need to maintain peace and stability within the Indian maritime zones in order to boost the trade and economic activities. “Only those nations have been successful in gaining dominance across the world, whose Navies have been strong and I am happy to say that our Navy is playing an important role in our maritime and national security,” he said. The Navy also received its 11th P-8I long-range maritime patrol aircraft from Boeing. The Navy has contracted 12 P-8Is from the aircraft manufacturer in two batches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/integrated-unmanned-road-map-for-navy/article37063940.ece
19 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Lawyer shot dead by another in U.P.||A lawyer was shot dead allegedly by another on the premises of the Shahjahanpur district court in Uttar Pradesh on Monday, the police said. The victim, Bhupendra Singh, was allegedly shot dead by Suresh Kumar Gupta, with whom he had a property dispute, the police said. Singh had gone to the second floor of the ACJM-1 office in the district courts when a gunshot was heard and he was found dead. Quoting a statement given by a clerk, Shahjahanpur Superintendent of Police S. Anand said a .315 bore katta (country-made pistol) was recovered next to the body. The clerk told the police that there was nobody else on the scene when he heard the gunshot. Assistant Director-General of Police (Law and Order) Anand Kumar said Singh and Gupta had lodged several cases against each other. The case had been cracked on the basis of CCTV footage and Gupta was arrested, Mr. Kumar said. He added that the latter had “accepted the crime”. A panel of three doctors would conduct the post-mortem examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lawyer-shot-dead-by-another-in-up-court/article37063947.ece
19 October 2021||Mumbai,||Raj Thackeray advised to join hands with BJP||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Monday met Guru Maa Kanchan Giri and Jagadguru Suryacharya who suggested that he should join hands with the BJP. “If ideologies match on the issue of Hindutva then MNS should tie up with the BJP,” said Giri after her meeting with Mr. Thackeray at the latter’s residence. She said they had a discussion about the formation of a Hindu rashtra as well as about his opinions about north Indians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raj-thackeray-advised-to-join-hands-with-bjp/article37063949.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||CWC meet saw spat between two leaders||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) meet on October 16 witnessed a spat between Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury over their performance in the monsoon session of Parliament. A source on Monday said when Mr. Kharge gave an assessment of what the LoP’s office did in terms of mobilising like-minded parties , Mr. Chowdhury interrupted to point out that he should “factor in the opposition in the Lok Sabha as well”. Mr. Kharge pointed out that Mr. Chowdhury was not perhaps attentive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cwc-meet-saw-spat-between-two-leaders/article37063957.ece
19 October 2021||United Nations/ Geneva,||Cannot rush nod for Covaxin: WHO||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday said it was expecting additional information from India’s Bharat Biotech regarding its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, asserting that it “cannot cut corners” before recommending a vaccine for emergency use. The global health agency also emphasised that it must evaluate a vaccine thoroughly to make sure it is “safe and effective”. Bharat Biotech had submitted an Expression of Interest to the WHO on April 19 for the vaccine’s Emergency Use Listing. In a series of tweets, WHO said, “We are aware that many people are waiting for WHO’s recommendation for Covaxin in the #COVID-19 Emergency Use Listing, but we cannot cut corners...” It also said Bharat Biotech has been submitting data to WHO on a rolling basis and WHO experts have reviewed these data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cannot-rush-nod-for-covaxin-who/article37064010.ece
19 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Actor Yuvika held under SC/ST Act||Actor Yuvika Chaudhary was arrested by the Haryana police on Monday in a case pertaining to alleged offensive remarks against Scheduled Castes on a social media platform. She was later released on interim bail following an order from the Punjab and Haryana High Court order.  Ms. Chaudhary’s arrest comes two days after the arrest of cricketer Yuvraj Singh in a separate case with similar charges. An FIR was registered against Ms. Chaudhary on May 28 at Hansi’s City Police Station for allegedly making offensive remarks against the Scheduled Castes on a social media platform while filming a video of her husband Prince Narula. The case was registered under Section 3 of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on the complaint of Rajat Kansal, a Dalit rights’ activist. Ms. Chaudhary had later apologised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/actor-yuvika-held-under-scst-act/article37063966.ece
19 October 2021||new Delhi,||Centre steps in as vegetable prices soar||Amid a rise in prices of three key vegetables, the Centre has said onion prices are being stabilised with the release of buffer stock, while efforts are on to soften the rates of tomato and potato. Onion stocks are being released in the market on a first in, first out basis from the last week of August to moderate prices and ensure minimum storage loss, it said. “Till October 12, a total of 67,357 tonnes have been released in major markets such as Delhi, Kolkata, Lucknow, Patna, Ranchi, Guwahati, Bhubaneshwar, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai, Chandigarh, Kochi and Raipur,” the Consumer Affairs Ministry said on Sunday. In addition, Grade-B onions (stocks which are below the fair average quality) are disposed of in local markets in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, it said. The Ministry further said the onion stocks are also available for supply to central and State agencies involved in retail marketing either at an ex-storage rate of Rs. 21 a kg or landed price after including transportation costs. In retail markets, onion was ruling at Rs. 42 per kg in Chennai, Rs. 44 per kg in Delhi, at Rs. 45 per kg in Mumbai and Rs. 57 per kg in Kolkata on October 14. The retail price of tomatoes meanwhile soared to Rs. 93 per kg in some cities on sluggish arrival in mandis amid reports of crop damage, owing to unseasonal rains, according to the government data. Among metro cities, tomatoes were costliest at Rs. 93 per kg in Kolkata, followed by Rs. 60 per kg in Chennai, Rs. 59 per kg in Delhi and Rs. 53 per kg in Mumbai. Even in the wholesale markets, tomatoes were sold at Rs. 84 per kg in Kolkata, at Rs. 52 per kg in Chennai, Rs. 30 per kg in Mumbai and Rs. 29.50 per kg in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-steps-in-as-vegetable-prices-soar/article37063945.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Contractors penalised for poor maintenance of parks||The Greater Chennai Corporation has penalised park contractors, collecting a fine of Rs. 4.96 lakh in the past 10 weeks and has requested residents to report any instance of poor maintenance of any of the 704 parks in their neighbourhood to the civic officials. According to a release, the residents can call 1913 to complain about poor maintenance of parks. Alternatively, they can complain to the zonal officers or regional officers. Of the 704 parks maintained by the Corporation in the 15 zones of the city, private contractors have been allotted upkeep of 540 parks. Contractors have been asked to focus on maintenance of lawn, plants and trees. A complaint book should be kept at the entrance. A board should be installed displaying the timings when the park would be open to public. Details about the number of persons at work in the park for maintenance should be displayed at the entrance. The contractors would be paid based on the score on key aspects of maintenance, including mowing of lawn, pruning of trees, cleaning of walkway, cleaning of toilets, keeping the play area for children clean and safe, rainwater harvesting, taking care of fountain, benches and lights. Once the residents complain about poor maintenance of parks with a photo or video of the damaged infrastructure, the Corporation would deduct the fine amount from the contractor’s payment. Any delay in restoration of patches of dry grass in the park may be reported to the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contractors-penalised-for-poor-maintenance-of-parks/article37064117.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to ensure fishing rights of inland fishermen||Various organisations working for the cause of fishermen have urged the State government to ensure that inland fishermen do not lose their traditional fishing rights at dams, lakes and tanks. There are over one lakh inland fishermen in the State, who depend on waterbodies maintained by the Fisheries Department and the Public Works Department, for their livelihood. “They can fish for a maximum of eight months in a year. Rest of the time, the waterbodies run dry. A government order in the 1990s mandated that priority should be given to inland fishermen over others when it comes to fishing rights. That should continue to be implemented. The government must not look to make profit in these cases since the livelihood of thousands of families is involved,” said K. Bharathi, South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association. Kabaddi Maran of the Tamil Nadu Meenavar Munnetra Sangam said there was a move to allow others to fish in these lakes and tanks with profit being the motive. “The practice all these years has been to allow fishermen’s cooperative societies to pay a nominal amount towards lease for the year and allow them to let fingerlings in the waters, rear them and then catch and sell them. They just about manage to survive with the income.” P. Narayanasamy of Andhiyur Besthavar Meenavar Cooperative Society said that a couple of years ago, the PWD had called for tenders for their Varattu Pallam dam but after great difficulty, which involved going to court, it was cancelled. “We are hoping that the government would respect our rights. We want tourism projects to take off on lakes so that we can sell fish to visitors, which would mean more income,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-fishing-rights-of-inland-fishermen-govt-urged/article37064100.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases fall below 1,200 in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported 1,192 fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday, after testing 1,26,312 persons. The overall case tally has gone up to 26,88,284. The death of 13 persons took the toll to 35,912. Currently, 14,570 persons are under treatment, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health. The number of recovered patients has gone up to 26,37,802 with the discharge of 1,423 persons. In Chennai, 150 fresh infections were identified and 166 persons were discharged. As many as 1,774 patients are under treatment. Coimbatore reported 130 fresh cases. The district has 1,528 active cases. As many as 23 districts reported 20 cases or fewer. All the deceased had pre-existing health conditions. Tiruchi reported the most number of deaths — three. Two persons died in Thanjavur. Chennai, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Kanniyakumari, Ranipet, Tirupattur, Tiruvallur and Vellore reported one death each. Four persons died at private hospitals and nine at government hospitals. A 21-year-old woman of Tiruvallur tested positive for COVID-19 on October 13. She was admitted to Southern Railway Headquarters Hospital, Perambur, Chennai, with complaints of fever for three days. She had suffered from chronic kidney disease, hypothyroidism and systemic lupus erythematosus, an auto-immune disease. She died of COVID-19 pneumonia on October 17, hospital authorities said. Over 3 lakh get jabs The State vaccinated 3,18,571 persons at 2,773 sessions. Among them were 73 healthcare workers; 384 frontline workers; 1,84,507 persons aged 18-44; 97,024 persons aged 45-59 years; and 36,583 senior citizens. So far, 5,10,80,004 persons have been vaccinated at government facilities and 26,05,369 doses have been administered at private centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-fall-below-1200-in-tn/article37064129.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Manner in which eviction was done in Egmore condemned||The manner in which the homeless families residing on the pavements in Egmore were evicted has been condemned by them and activists. They questioned the hurry in which the eviction was done without prior notice or allocation of permanent housing. Vanessa Peter, founder, Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities (IRCDUC), said the eviction went against the spirit of the proposed Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy. The draft version of the policy released last week stressed on community consultation and proper dissemination of information, apart from ensuring a number of entitlements for the people who are involuntarily resettled. She said that while many court orders had reiterated the need for issuance of prior notice, it was not done in this case. “The police and officials from Greater Chennai Corporation shift them by coercion to a transit accommodation without even giving ample time for the families to pack up their belongings,” she said. S. Selva, secretary of the Chennai Central district committee of Communist Party of India (Marxist), issued a statement questioning the need for the forceful eviction of the families without making alternative arrangements for their housing. GCC had argued that it was necessary to evict the families from the pavements to safeguard them from the monsoon rains. S. Ajith, one of the residents, said that while the families were not averse to vacating the place provided permanent housing was allotted, they were taken aback by the suddenness of the eviction. “We have been living here for decades. I was born here. We have braved monsoons and cyclones before. Officials have collected our documents and taken photographs several times in the past to provide us housing, but nothing happened,” he said. “Why could the government not decide on the allocation of houses first and then shift us?” he asked. Lack of facilities Alleging that the Shelter for Urban Homeless in Kannapar Thidal, where they have now been moved, did not have adequate toilets for all the families, Mr. Ajith said that arrangements were made to ensure toilet facilities only after Egmore MLA I. Paranthamen visited them on Tuesday. Speaking to The Hindu, Mr. Paranthamen said that the families, which had no roof over their heads earlier, had now been shifted to a proper building with better facilities during the rains. He said that the enumeration of the families for allocation of houses was proving difficult while they were on the pavements. “It can be done efficiently now as they are all in one building,” he said. “I understand their apprehensions as false promises were made by the previous government. However, our government is committed to the cause. I am personally determined to ensure housing for all homeless people in my constituency,” he added. He said that while he had asked the families to wait for a maximum of two months in the shelter for the allocation of houses, officials had informed him that it could be done even earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manner-in-which-eviction-was-done-in-egmore-condemned/article37064115.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ launched to plug gaps in learning||To fill the gaps in learning among students of Classes I to VIII owing to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on education, the School Education Department on Monday launched ‘lllam Thedi Kalvi’. A web portal for the enrolment of volunteers for the initiative, https://illamthedikalvi.tnschools.gov.in, was launched by School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi. He appealed to volunteers to come forward and register themselves. Under the initiative, volunteers will engage with students one hour every evening in spaces that will be identified and opened in the community. “While registration is open to volunteers from across the State, the initiative will first begin in 12 districts. We expect to learn a lot from the pilot project and implement the feedback. Students of government as well as private schools can attend these classes, which will be activity-based and will give them an opportunity to enjoy and learn. These classes will be structured around their syllabus,” Mr. Mahesh Poyyamozhi said. The pilot will be implemented in Cuddalore, Dindigul, Erode, Kancheepuram, Kanniyakumari, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Nagapattinam, the Nilgiris, Thanjavur, Tiruchi and Villupuram. The Minister said the volunteer-student ratio would be 1:20 and over one lakh volunteers were expected to join the initiative. “Persons who have studied up to Class XII can teach students of Classes I to V and degree-holders can teach middle school students. We hope parents, especially, are forthcoming and register themselves as volunteers, apart from members of local NGOs,” he said. Around six hours of classes will be held through the week for every cohort of students. Monitoring committees He said a State-level committee would oversee the implementation of the initiative. District-level and block-level committees would also be formed, and the school management committees would be roped in. “The school management committees will vet the volunteers and send their names to the district-level committees for approval.” R. Sudhan, Project Director, Samagra Shiksha, said cycle rallies, cultural performances by folk artistes, puppet shows and storytelling would be organised across villages to explain to the residents how they could register themselves as volunteers and how the initiative would benefit children. “Through this people-driven initiative, we aim to address learning gaps among children over the next six months.” With schools set to reopen for Classes I to VIII from November 1, the School Education Department will carry out this initiative in parallel with the in-person learning at schools. A handbook on the initiative was released and vehicles for awareness activities flagged off by the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illam-thedi-kalvi-launched-to-plug-gaps-in-learning/article37064126.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro plans more kiosks in 15 stations||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. plans to put up more kiosks in phase I and phase I extension stations to attract more commuters and boost the numbers to the pre-COVID levels. Although far less than the projected numbers, in early 2020, the CMRL had an average of 1.25 lakh passengers a day before the lockdown was announced and in the last one-and-a-half years, the patronage had been dismal as commuters desisted from taking the tube trains. In the last few months, as the number of cases dipped, more and more commuters returned to Metro Rail, with the number touching one lakh passengers on weekdays. To boost these numbers and to offset the losses caused by the lockdown and raise revenue, the CMRL has invited firms to put up retail outlets in 15 underground and elevated stations, including Alandur, Little Mount, New Washermenpet, Tondiarpet, Wimco Nagar, St. Thomas Mount, Kilpauk, Pachaiyappa's College, Shenoy Nagar, Nehru Park, Thirumangalam, Anna Nagar East, Anna Nagar Tower, Ekkatuthangal and Nanganallur Road. According to officials, the chosen bidders would be given spaces in concourse (where tickets are issued) and street levels. Depending on the size of the station and space available, 10 to 20 sq m will be provided for the kiosks. Although there are kiosks, a lot of area is yet to be taken in many stations. But firms are keen on having outlets at the street level because Metro Rail’s patronage is still poor and not enough to sustain the business. For the underground stations, spaces are preferred at the street level wherever available. Jahabar Sadiq of Chai Kings says they have six outlets and were interested in putting up more kiosks too. “But it makes sense to have the kiosks at the street level because only then we can cater to general public and Metro commuters. Street food and beverages are bestsellers for such systems and get more visibility at the street level,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-plans-more-kiosks-in-15-stations/article37064110.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Finding a way forward together during tough times||Last March, like thousands of others, when 34-year-old Charles Edward Xavier, an IT professional in a leading firm, lost his job, he felt crushed and lost. Around the same time, his childhood friend Dinesh Kumar, who worked as a human resources professional in a leading five-star hotel in the city, also lost his job. “Our minds seemed shrouded with uncertainty, and we did not know the way forward. That’s when six of us, who did not have jobs, decided to turn into reality one of our casual discussions about running a restaurant. Subsequently, I used a part of my savings and bought a vehicle, customised it and obtained the necessary permissions, and by October, we had started a food truck in Tiruvallur,” Mr. Dinesh says. Today, a year later, the food truck named ‘Thaayin Koodu Jigiri Dosth’ has been running fairly well, with no one regretting the decision. In a few weeks, they plan to put one more truck on the road. “Initially, it seemed tough. Used to working in an air-conditioned room, it was tough standing under a tin roof in the scorching heat. I’m also earning only half of what I used to. Yet, I continue to do this because it is immensely satisfying to work with friends. From Rs. 5 to Rs. 50, anyone can afford our food. A part of our earnings goes to an old age home that Mr. Dinesh runs. It feels satisfying in more ways than one,” Mr. Xavier says. Idli, pongal, poori and vadai  for breakfast, a variety of rice items for lunch and biryani, chilli chicken, noodles and kothu parotta for dinner, the food truck draws a good crowd everyday, says S. Jeyamaan, the chef. “ Parotta and Madurai salna and muttai kalaki are popular items. I consider cooking and serving food sacred, and the work I have done in the past year has been immensely satisfying,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/finding-a-way-forward-together-during-tough-times/article37064386.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai property market shows signs of revival||After a prolonged lull, the demand and supply metrics for Chennai real estate has shown some signs of improvement during the third quarter of 2021. According to a quarterly report, Real Insight (Residential) – July-September (Q3)2021 by REA India-owned online real estate company PropTiger.com, which analyses eight prime residential markets in India, 2,332 units were launched in Chennai in the July-September quarter of 2021 as against 490 units in second quarter of 2021 and 947 units in the same quarter in 2020. To the national supply numbers during the quarter, Chennai contributed only 3% — a total of 65,211 units were launched across India’s eight cities during the quarter that ended in September. During the third quarter of this year, builders in Chennai sold 4,665 dwelling units when compared to 2,317 during the same period in 2020. During the second quarter of 2021, the sales numbers stood at 709 units. To the national sales numbers during the quarter, Chennai contributed only 8%, a total of 55,907 units were sold across India’s eight cities. When compared to the April-June quarter this year, unsold stock declined marginally by 1% in Chennai in Q3 of 2021, and stood at 35,145 units.  The report pointed out that when it comes to property prices, Chennai has seen an annual growth of 3%. Average price range of property in Chennai stood around Rs. 5,300 – Rs. 5,500 a sq ft. This uptick in value is primarily owning to an appreciation in the cost of building material after the coronavirus pandemic.  Rajan Sood, Business Head, PropTiger.com, said: “Considering housing affordability is at a record high this festive season on the back of 10-year low, home loan interest rates and sops offered by some State governments in the form of reduced stamp duties and circle rates, we expect housing markets in top 8 cities to show solid stability in the ongoing quarter.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/property-market-shows-signs-of-revival/article37064114.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police seize two antique idols||The Idol Wing Police seized idols of Meenakshi Amman and Rishabadevar and arrested seven persons, including Karthik of Chennai, the mastermind behind idol smuggling. A special team headed by Superintendent of Police Rajaram went to Melmaruvathur in Kancheepuram district based on a tip-off that some idols could be smuggled out of Sithaamur village early morning on Sunday. The police team, disguised as buyers, gained the confidence of the idol smugglers and the gang brought the Meenakshmi Amman idol on a two- wheeler. The special police team, after ascertaining the antique value of the idol, arrested D. Karthik and B. Moorthy of Chennai. Based on the investigation, the Idol Wing police arrested five more persons — S. Sundaramurthy, V. Kumaran, M. Ashok, R. Arivarasu and M. Abdul Rahman. House searched The police team recovered the statue of Rishabadevar from a house in Vellore district. All the arrested persons have been booked under the Idol Theft Prevention Act and were produced before a judicial magistrate along with the two idols. The Idol Wing police are looking into the gang’s past and its idol smuggling network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-seize-two-antique-idols/article37064109.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CII keen on collaborating with govt. to make T.N. a $1 trillion economy by 2030||A high-level delegation of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday and discussed the areas where the CII can collaborate with the State Government towards making Tamil Nadu a $1 trillion economy by 2030. C.K. Ranganathan, chairman of the CII, Southern Region, led the delegation. He said the government should focus on defence and aerospace, future technology companies, start-ups and fintech that would drive investment and create jobs. The delegation suggested that the government create a focused agenda for future start-ups and tech companies. It also urged the Chief Minister to evolve a dedicated policy for creating the environment that would help to attract investment in emerging technologies, start-ups and fintech. Mr. Ranganathan underscored the need to promote the Defence Industrial Corridor that would benefit micro, small and medium enterprises in the State. More investment in defence manufacturing would help to develop the competitiveness of these units. The CII, he said, was working on a report on the opportunities available for defence industries in the State. S. Chandrakumar, chairman, CII, Tamil Nadu, highlighted the initiatives of the CII in the State and appreciated the Chief Minister for his steps to foster industrial development such as creation of industrial parks in Tier II and Tier III cities and information technology parks and development of roads and highways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cii-keen-on-collaborating-with-govt-to-make-tn-a-1-trillion-economy-by-2030/article37064136.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Queensland amusement park can’t squat on public property without paying a penny’||A tussle between the Revenue department and a temple over the ownership of a valuable property spread over 19 acres on Chennai-Bengaluru highway cannot be a reason for the management of Queensland amusement park to squat on the land and exploit it commercially for decades together, the Madras High Court has held. Justice M. Sundar observed that a private institution could not be permitted to squat on a public property without paying a penny either to the State government or the temple since 1997. It was the duty of the courts to protect and safeguard properties of religious and charitable institutions from wrongful claims, he wrote. The judge directed the Kasi Viswanathaswamy temple management to kickstart proceedings under Section 78 of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Act of 1959 by reporting about the alleged encroachment to the officials concerned who were empowered to initiate eviction proceedings in accordance with law. The direction was issued while dismissing a writ petition filed in 2013 by Chennai-based Rajam Hotels Private Limited which runs a hotel as well as the theme park on the disputed land. The petition was filed against a notice issued to it by Sriperumbudur Tahsildar on August 1, 2013, demanding a lease amount of Rs. 1.08 crore for the land. On November 18, 2013, a single judge of the High Court had stayed the operation of the notice and the interim order was in operation since then. When Justice Sundar took the case for final hearing now, the petitioner’s counsel said that the disputed land was part of a much larger extent of 254 acres endowed to the temple in 1883. Concluding that the petitioner was liable to pay money to the State, be it the Revenue department or the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department, the judge ordered that the company must first settle the revenue and pay the balance to the temple which had demanded more money than the Tahsildar. He left it open for the two government departments to sort out their tussle as per law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-queensland-amusement-park-cannot-squat-on-public-property/article37064123.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TTDC hotels to offer rooms on dynamic pricing||Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan on Monday said that hotels managed by Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation (TTDC) will soon offer their rooms to customers at dynamic rates. This would be based on the demand, like how it is being done in the case of private hotels. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the two-day India International Travel Mart (IITM) Tourism Fair that he inaugurated in the city, the Minister said that TTDC had recently launched the facility to book hotel rooms through online aggregators. Revamp “We are in the process of tying up with more. All the hotels are being revamped. Similarly, customers would be able to order food from our restaurants, including the one in Island Grounds through online food aggregators,” he added. TTDC runs a chain of 53 hotels and operates boat houses and telescope houses. At least half of these properties have been leased out to private parties. Tourism Secretary B. Chandra Mohan said the department was giving a major push for adventure tourism and development of dam sites as tourist destinations. Rohit Hangal, director, Sphere Travel Media and Exhibitions, which is organising the B2B fair, said governments and hotels had begun showcasing their destinations, properties and offers like never before. “This industry was the last to recover and is on its way. Other than city hotels, which have been impacted since corporate travel has been hit, hill stations and beach resorts are doing well,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ttdc-hotels-to-offer-rooms-under-dynamic-pricing-soon/article37064122.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mega vaccination camp on Saturday||Tamil Nadu will hold a mega COVID-19 vaccination camp at 50,000 centres on Saturday, and over 30 lakh people are expected to be inoculated, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Monday. Unlike the mega camps in the past that were held on Sundays, the sixth camp would be held on Saturday, he said after opening a mobile service at the Government Dental Hospital and College. The aim, he said, was to ensure better public response. People tended to avoid vaccination on Sundays under the misconception that getting inoculated after consuming alcohol and non-vegetarian food would affect their health. As on date, Tamil Nadu had 53,64,679 doses, which would be administered from Tuesday to Friday. Mr. Subramanian said that at the fifth camp, 11 lakh persons received their second dose and at the fourth, 10 lakh persons got their second dose. At the sixth camp, 30,42,509 persons were expected to be vaccinated. So far, 67% eligible persons had received their first dose and 25% their second dose, he said. Mr. Subramanian commissioned the mobile dental service, which he said was in continuation of a scheme launched by the DMK government of 2006-2011. The mobile unit would carry two doctors and two nurses across the city to provide treatment. The scheme, under which school students were offered free dental treatment and dental aids, was revived with the DMK’s return to power, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-vaccination-camp-on-saturday/article37064130.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Revenue officials demand immediate release of honorarium for poll duty||Tamil Nadu Revenue Officials’ Association (TNROA) has sought swift disbursal of the honorarium to officials of all ranks who carried out election duty during the Assembly election. Arguing that it was unfair not to release the honorarium even six months after the polling took place, the association said it would be boycotting the special camps planned for four days in November for electoral roll revision. In its resolution passed after the State office-bearers’ meeting on Sunday, the association said all government employees toiled despite the second wave of COVID-19 to ensure that the elections were held smoothly. “Many even lost their lives due to COVID-19. Their families have not been compensated yet,” the association alleged. In a letter released to the media on Monday, TNROA’s general secretary M.P. Murugaiyan and president K. Kumaresan said that right from the level of District Collectors to Village Assistants, no one had been paid the honorarium yet. While it was the norm earlier to release the honorarium soon after the election, the association alleged that it had been inordinately delayed this time due to the lethargy of senior administration. Alleging that election expenditure had also not been cleared yet, it said that money owed for engaging vehicles for election work and making other arrangements in polling stations had not been settled in many districts because of this. The association reiterated its long-pending demand for the creation of the post of Personal Assistant to the Collector (Elections) in all districts with at least six Assembly constituencies as election-related work were now happening throughout the year with continuous revision of electoral rolls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-officials-demand-immediate-release-of-honorarium-for-poll-duty/article37064127.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for cheating landowner||The Central Crime Branch police (CCB) arrested a 48-year-old person, who was reported to be absconding all these days, on charges of cheating a landowner of Rs. 2.50 crore. The accused was identified as H. Ramakrishnan. A complaint was registered in the Entrustment Document Fraud of CCB by Sucharitha that the accused, who got general power of attorney, sold four plots owned by her near Velachery without informing her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-cheating-landowner/article37064105.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur police seize 4,000 kg of PDS rice||The Tiruvallur police on Sunday caught a 27-year-old man from Sathyavedu attempting to smuggle rice meant to be distributed through the Public Distribution System (PDS). A senior police official said a special team posted at Tiruttani-Kanakamachathiram check-post on Andhra Pradesh border was engaged in the border check point to prevent rice and gutkha smuggling when a mini-truck was stopped for routine checking operations and was found to be loaded with several packed rice bags. Upon checking the “branded” rice bags, the police team identified the rice meant for PDS. The accused, A. Dinesh, said that over 4,000 kg of PDS rice was planned to be taken to Andhra Pradesh for processing. Big racket suspected The police official said the PDS rice smuggling was a big racket across the border whereby the PDS rice was polished and then brought back to Tamil Nadu to be sold at a higher price. The Tiruvallur police, along with officials of the Civil Supplies department, had been conducting regular raids and special checks, and the seizure of 4,000 kg of rice is a huge catch, said the police official. The police official are conducting further investigation as they believe that a big gang was involved in this particular consignment. The police team seized the mini truck in which the smuggled rice was transported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvallur-police-seize-pds-rice/article37064112.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NTK seeks to highlight sidelined Tamil icons||In a bid to shed light on Tamil icons supposedly ignored by Dravidian parties, Naam Tamilar Katchi has been organising panel discussions and commemorating personalities such as Kannadasan, Sankaralinganar, ‘Sandalwood smuggler’ Veerappan and Sangam poet Ilaveni. On October 18, NTK chief coordinator Seeman said a ‘mani mandapam’ should be built in Madurai to commemorate the life and contribution of Sangam era female poet Ilaveni. “When foreigners are recognised for their contributions to Tamil, it is unfortunate that a poet belonging to tribal lineage has been ignored. Dravidian leaders have has been systematically trying to cover up and ignore such icons and their contributions to Tamil,” said Mr. Seeman. Packiarajan Se, spokesperson, NTK, said that these efforts taken by the party were to highlight the contributions of Tamil icons who fell outside the Dravidian political boundaries. “We often find that the Tamil icons who do not agree with Dravidian movement or with its leaders are sidelined,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ntk-seeks-to-highlight-sidelined-tamil-icons/article37064131.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M invention in LEDs wins tech award||IIT researchers have developed a white light emitter for use in LEDs. Conventional LED materials cannot emit white light. Techniques such as coating blue LED with yellow phosphor and combining blue, green, and red LEDs were used to produce white light. But such indirect methods could reduce efficiency of LEDs. The IIT researchers have patented their innovation and were awarded the Science and Engineering Research -Technology Translation Award. The research team plans to use the grant of Rs. 30 lakh to produce LEDs using their distorted perovskite material. Aravind Kumar Chandiran, assistant professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, and B. Ranjit Kumar Nanda from the Department of Physics led the research team. Their research was published in the international journal Communications Materials .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-invention-in-leds-wins-tech-award/article37064149.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Open varsity launches two courses on COVID-19||Tamil Nadu Open University, along with The Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University, has launched two courses on COVID-19. The duration of the courses will be one month and three months. Anyone with a degree, students of nursing who have completed their degree and nursing tutors and faculty can apply. An agreement was signed by the registrars of the respective universities — M.B. Aswath Kumar of the medical university and K. Ratnakumar of the Open University — last week. Vice-Chancellor Sudha Seshayyan and her counterpart in Open University K. Parthasarathy participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-varsity-launches-two-courses-on-covid-19/article37064101.ece
19 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to take steps to prevent floods||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Monday urged the State Government to ensure that there are no floods due to the northeast monsoon, which is expected to begin soon in Tamil Nadu. In a statement, he said that while Chief Minister M.K. Stalin recently reviewed the precautionary measures being put in place, these efforts had not been completed in Chennai and a few other districts. “In many districts, stormwater drains have not been desilted. In Chennai and other districts, the precautionary measures should be implemented in the next few days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-urged-to-take-steps-to-prevent-floods/article37064111.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five officers promoted as DGPs||Greater Chennai Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal has been promoted as Director General of Police (DGP). Mr. Jiwal would be the DGP of Greater Chennai Police which has been created by upgrading the ADGP rank. According to a release from Additional Chief Secretary S.K. Prabhakar, five police officers have been promoted to DGP rank. Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation CMD and former Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan has been promoted as DGP. Three senior police officials, ADGP T.V. Ravichandran who is on deputation to New Delhi in the Ministry of Home Affairs, Abhash Kumar, ADGP of Civil Supplies CID, and Seema Agrawal, Member, Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board, have been promoted as DGPs. K. Shankar holding the post of ADGP Headquarters has been posted in the vacant ADGP Administration, while G. Venkataraman has been posted as ADGP Headquarters. Amaraesh Pujari, ADGP Technical Services, will take over as ADGP Cyber Crime Wing held by Mr. Venkataraman. Vinit Dev Wankhede has been posted as ADGP Technical Services and Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal holding the post of ADGP Crime would hold additional charge of ADGP Enforcement. Kapil Kumar C. Saratkar is posted Inspector General of Police Enforcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-officers-promoted-as-dgps/article37064134.ece
19 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister launches slew of projects||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday inaugurated various projects of the Department of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries implemented at a cost of Rs. 19.05 crore. One of the projects is a country chicken breeding complex in Hosur. Established at a cost of Rs. 6.74 crore, the complex can produce 20,000 chicks a week and 10 lakh chicks a year. The aim is to encourage country chicken breeding among people in rural areas. Another project is the Institute of Paraprofessional Aquaculture Technology at Muttukadu. It has been established with the aim of producing second-level technical/skilled paraprofessionals for aquaculture and fishery. 3-year programme The institute offers a three-year degree programme, Bvoc (Industrial Aquaculture), with multiple entries and exit. If a student wants to discontinue the course after completing one year, he/she will be awarded a Diploma in Industrial Aquaculture. A student leaving the course after two years will get an Advanced Diploma in Industrial Aquaculture. If the same person is willing to rejoin the course after working in the sector, he/she will be given preference in the admission to the third year. The Chief Minister also inaugurated a freshwater ornamental fish brood bank at Jeeyapuram in Tiruchi at a cost of Rs. 3.50 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-launches-slew-of-projects/article37064137.ece
19 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Release of life term convicts who served 10 years under consideration’||Minister for Law, Courts, Prisons and Prevention of Corruption S. Regupathy said here on Monday that his Department was considering pleas from prisoners and others for the release of life term convicts who have spent 10 years in prisons. Mr. Regupathy said that the Department was in the efforts of modernising prisons and establishment of more open prions in the State. Modernisation of prisons will include efforts to improve the rehabilitation of prisoners. The government will make policy decisions for such improvements, said Mr. Regupathy after visiting Coimbatore Central Prison. He paid respects to the portrait and the oil press which V.O. Chidambaram Pillai was forced to pull while lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison during the freedom struggle. Mr. Regupathy said that various measures are being taken for the rehabilitation of prisoners. According to him, the Prisons Department was giving skills training to prisoners including weaving and handloom. The prisoners are making the cloth for the uniforms of the police force and prisons department in Tamil Nadu. The Department was providing opportunities for prisoners to learn new skills, spend their time in the cells productively and to become self-reliant after being released from prison, he said. District Collector G.S. Sameeran; Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara; G. Shanmuga Sundaram, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Prisons, (Coimbatore range); G.B. Senthamaraikannan, Superintendent of Coimbatore Central Prison; former MLA N. Karthik were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-of-life-term-convicts-who-served-10-years-under-consideration/article37064161.ece
19 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Dist. administration steps in to repair FCI Godown Road||After failing to get the Food Corporation of India to repair FCI Godown Road that branches off Sathyamangalam Road near Ganapathy and leads to airport, the district administration has stepped in to make the road motorable. Sources said the district administration took it up for discussion at the latest Road Safety Committee meeting as many residents complained about the quality of road. The Corporation said FCI Godown Road was a part of a 6.60-km stretch of roads that the civic body had planned to develop to provide an alternative road to the airport through Vilankurichi Road and Cheran Maanagar. The plan was to develop the road right from the Codissia Trade Fair Complex, off Avinashi Road, the Corporation said and added that it had passed a resolution to handover the entire stretch excluding FCI Godown Road to the State Highways Department. Former Councillor of the area C. Nataraj said the Coimbatore Corporation and FCI were at logger heads a few years ago as the civic body wanted the latter to repair the road. Coimbatore North MLA Amman K. Arjunan said he was taking steps to reach out to the Central Government to have the FCI either repair the road or give a no-objection to the Coimbatore Corporation to develop it. If the FCI did not respond at the earliest, he would have to resort to protest. Consumer activist and Road Safety Committee member K. Kathirmathiyon said in public interest the FCI should take a decision. Not repairing the road was not an option. Collector G.S. Sameeran, who chaired the Road Safety Committee meeting, said he had asked Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara to talk to the FCI officials to work out a solution. The priority was to repair the road to not only make it motorable, but also safe for motorist. And, the long term objective was to ask the State Highways Department to build a pucca road to provide an alternative to reach the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dist-administration-steps-in-to-repair-fci-godown-road/article37064155.ece
19 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Establish coconut development board’||Members of the Tamil Nadu Vivasayeegal Sangam, a farmers’ association affiliated to the All India Kisan Sabha, staged a protest in front of the Coimbatore South taluk office on Monday to highlight a set of demands that included establishment of coconut development board. Led by president S. Palanisamy, the farmers said more than two lakh hectare was under coconut in Coimbatore, spread over Kinathukadavu, Pollachi, Negamam, Sulthanpet, Perur, Thondamuthur, Mettupalayam, Sirumugai and also in neighbouring Tirupur district. Hundreds of farmers cultivating coconut had to brave white fly and other pest attacks and diseases. They also had to protect the crop from natural calamities and wild animals. Dependent on those farmers were micro and small units that had various parts of the coconut tree as raw material. While the farmers had their own set of challenges, the micro and small unit entrepreneurs now faced a challenge – an order of the National Green Tribunal, citing which the units faced closure. To protect coconut cultivation and revive coconut-based units, the State government would do well to establish a coconut development board and also a copra procurement centre in Pollachi. The government should also adequately compensate the coconut farmers for loses they suffered on account of attack from pest and wild animals, Mr. Palanisamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/establish-coconut-development-board/article37064148.ece
19 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Siruvani Reservoir receives good rainfall||Good rain in the last few days saw the water level inch up to the 44-feet mark in the Siruvani Reservoir. Data available with the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board showed that in the last week, rainfall received in the Reservoir had crossed the 100 mm mark. On October 12, the Reservoir recorded 120 mm rainfall and on October 17, 163 mm. Since October 1, there were only two days without rainfall in the Reservoir, the Board sources said and added that the impact of the good rain was that the water level had touched the 44-feet mark in the Reservoir where the full reservoir level was 49.50 feet. The Kerala Irrigation Department allowed the water level to touch only the 45 feet mark and thereafter opened sluices to ensure that the water did not surpass the level to prevent flooding, a decision it took after floods a few years ago. The sources said the Board drew more than 100 million litres a day from Siruvani of which supplied 98 million litres a day to the Coimbatore Corporation for distribution to around 30 wards. Water level in other reservoirs was as follows – Sholayar 161.09 against the full reservoir level of 165 feet, Parambikulam 71.30 feet against 72 feet, Aliyar 119.60 feet against 120 feet and Pilloor 86 feet against 100 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siruvani-reservoir-receives-good-rainfall/article37064152.ece
19 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Monkey Falls closed to visitors||The Forest Department has closed Monkey Falls near Aliyar to visitors after its inflow increased. The Department said the catchment areas of the waterfall received heavy rain in the past few days. It said the tourism spot was closed to visitors considering their safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monkey-falls-closed-to-visitors/article37064151.ece
19 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Release Muslim prisoners’||Members of the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) on Monday petitioned Law Minister S. Regupathy demanding release of Muslim prisoners. In its petition, the organisation said the State government’s announcement to release prisoners on former Chief Minister Annadurai birth anniversary had raised expectation among the families of those in prison. There were several Muslim convicts in prisons across the State who the government had not released in the past 10 years though several courts had said that they were eligible for release. The TMMK said of those 20 prisoners had fit-for-release certificates based on their good conduct||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-muslim-prisoners/article37064153.ece
19 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman’s body recovered||The Fire and Rescue Services personnel on Monday retrieved the body of a 50-year-old woman who was washed away in a stream at Mathipalayam in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The team found the body of M. Vijaya of Ambedkar Street at Mathipalayam from Sennanur Kuttai. Fire brigades said the woman was washed away while trying to cross Mathipalayam stream on Saturday afternoon. The stream flows into the tank where the body surfaced on Monday. The body was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womans-body-recovered/article37064145.ece
19 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 130 COVID-19 cases||A total of 130 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Monday. The Health Department said that 154 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,528 active cases of the disease. A 79-year-old man from Coimbatore died of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the district’s death toll to 2,383. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.4 % on Sunday when 9,175 swab samples were subjected to tests and 132 persons tested positive. Tiruppur district reported 72 fresh cases on Monday, taking the tally to 94,455 cases. The overall toll remained as 968 as no new deaths were reported.The district had 823 active cases and 74 persons recovered from COVID-19. The positivity rate of Tiruppur district based on Sunday’s data was 1.5%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-130-covid-19-cases/article37064162.ece
19 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shut down on Wednesday||In view of the maintenance works to be undertaken at the K V Kathirnaickenpalayam sub-station on October 20 (Wednesday) there will be no power supply in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.: Rakkipalayam, Kumarapuram, Narashimanaickenpalayam, Bombay Nagar, Teachers Colony, Ganesh Nagar, Sri Ram Nagar, Kathirnaickenpalayam and Thoppampatti.  Kovipalayam sub-station on October 20 (Wednesday) from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.: Sircarsamakulam, Kovilpalayam, Kurumbapalayam, Manickempalayam, Agrahara Samakulam, Kottaipalayam, Kondayampalayam, Kunnathur, Kalipalayam and Mondikalipalayam.  Race Course sub-station on October 21 (Thursday)- 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.: Thomas Park, Kamarajar Road, Race Course, Avanashi Road (from Anna Statue to Collectorate), Tiruchy Road (from Kannan Departmental Store to Alvernia school), Puliakulam Road (from Sungam to Vinaykar Temple), Ramanathapuram 80 ft road, Sripathy Nagar, Susila Nagar, Rukmani Nagar, Bharathi Nagar 1 to 6, Pappammal Layout, Park Town, Karunanidhi Nagar, Angannan Street, Krishnasamy Nagar, Thiruvalluvar Nagar, Pankaja Mill Road, Balaji Nagar and Kongu Nagar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shut-down-on-wednesday/article37064159.ece
19 October 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||69% of people vaccinated in Dindigul: Health Secretary||Appreciating the team effort of the staff from various departments and Collector S Visakan for their efforts in disseminating the merits of inoculating the COVID-19 vaccine, Principal Secretary (Health) to Government J. Radhakrishnan said that Dindigul district had 69 % of vaccination, which was 2 % above the State average of 67 % here on Monday. After inspecting the buildings at the upcoming government medical college and hospital, accompanied by engineers from the PWD, the Health department officials, Dean and others, he told reporters that the Medical Council of India had given its nod for admitting students into the newly built campuses. “So, to ensure that things are in place, I am visiting all the locations,” he said. Responding to queries on the dengue cases in the State, he said that till January next, the rainy season might be around. Hence, people had to bear this in mind and keep the surroundings clean and dry. Any small space of pure water was enough for the mosquitoes to breed. Hence, any unused containers should be put into trash. At present, 384 dengue cases were in treatment at various hospitals in the State, he replied to a query and added that the health and Corporation/Municipal staff members had been sounded to be on the move and check door-to-door for any complaints. On the pandemic, Mr. Radhakrishnan said the government had through the special mega campaigns inoculated over 1.3 crore doses. In all, 67% had taken the first dose of vaccine in the State. The possible third wave could be averted with the cooperation of the people. When more number of people came forward voluntarily and took the vaccine shots and ensured that there were no crowding, the virus could be prevented from further spread. In Dindigul district, the team work had paid, he lauded. Many panchayats and town panchayats, a few municipalities and tribal habitations, the vaccination had reached over 80% of the eligible people and some hamlets it had 100%. inoculation done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/69-of-people-vaccinated-in-dindigul-health-secretary/article37064208.ece
19 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Park to be set up in Erode||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Swaminathan visited areas under Chennimalai town panchayat and received petitions from the public. The Minister visited various areas under the town panchayat and received petitions from the public regarding various issues. Mr. Swaminathan said in a press release that works for constructing a park at a cost of Rs. 20 lakh in Kamraj Nagar would begin soon. Mr. Swaminathan added that various development works were proposed at Chennimalai, including developing of mud roads to tar roads at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/park-to-be-set-up-in-erode/article37064221.ece
19 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will be disrupted in the following areas under Thingalur sub-station from 9 a.m to 5 p.m on Oct. 21: Thingalur, Keeray nagar, Kallakulam, Vettaiyankindru, Pappampalayam, Manthripalayam, Nallampatti, Subbayanpalayam, Thandakoundanpalayam, Mettur, Sungakaranpalayam, Sinapuram West, Dasampudur, Chellapampalayam, Virachipalayam, Veeranampalayam, Karandipalayam, Thalayampalayam, Ponmudi, Naduvalasu, Ayikoundanpalayam, Nettasellapapalayam, Kizheri Palayam, Pattakaranpalayam, Weavers Colony, Madathupalayam, Komaiyanvalasu. Velangadu, Manurkadu and Mammoty Thopu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37064222.ece
19 October 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies at Karaikudi GH, kin demand probe||A 33-year-old woman, Tamilselvi, wife of Selvakumar of Puduvayal near here, died at Karaikudi Government Hospital on Monday. According to relatives, she was admitted to Puduvayal PHC for hysterectomy. Even as the surgery was to begin, it is said that she was given anaesthesia. However, within a few minutes, she became unconscious. As the staff at the PHC took steps to shift her to Karaikudi GH, the ambulance had technical snag. When the relatives shifted Tamilselvi, the doctors at the Karaikudi GH declared her dead. The family members squatted on the road and demanded inquiry. DSP Vinoji and revenue authorities held talks with them and promised action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-dies-at-karaikudi-gh-kin-demand-probe/article37064197.ece
19 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Destitute man seeks help to exchange Rs. 65,000 invalid notes||Five years after the old currency notes were rendered void, a blind destitute man in his 70s carrying wads of demonetised notes was led into the Collectorate by a good Samaritan. Chinnakannu, the man, who led a life on the streets was on the throes of desperation as he held out wads of cash of what would be his life’s earnings long rendered invalid. Mr. Chinnakannu had never heard of demonetisation until Sunday, when he discovered the currency notes totalling Rs. 65,000 that he had stacked away at some point and either forgot about them or could not find them in time for use. That money was his earnings from a life on the streets, seeking alms in and around his Chinnagoundanur village, in Pavakkal panchayat in Krishnagiri. In a petition to the District Collector, bearing his thumb impression, Mr. Chinnakannu narrated his plight -- of having lost his life’s earnings because he did not know of the demonetisation as nobody told him about it. He wanted the Collector to compensate him with new currency. With only Rs. 300 as the last of his savings, Mr. Chinnakannu was worried about how he would find food once he ran out of cash, said Kannayyan, the cobbler who chanced upon the old man. Moved by his plight Mr. Kannayyan brought him to the Collectorate. While the petition was forwarded by the District Revenue Officer to the District Lead Bank Manager to be referred to the Reserve Bank of India, an official source said, the currency exchange was unlikely. “There is no possibility of exchange of currency since as per the RBI guidelines, the last date was March 31, 2017. It is no more a legal tender as per the Government of India,” he said. The District Lead Bank will forward the case to the RBI and wait for their response, said a bank official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/destitute-man-seeks-help-to-exchange-demonetised-notes/article37064119.ece
19 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Man urges administration to take care of his son||A farmer has petitioned the district administration to take over the care of his 35-year-son, whose condition was unclear. The farmer Paramasivam of Naikonda Agraharam near Perandapalli arrived at the Collectorate requesting the administration to take “custody of his son” Krishnan, who was allegedly violent owing to his “mental health”. According to Mr. Paramasivam, his son had psychological and mental complications and that treatment was unaffordable. “I had taken him to NIMHANS, but in vain,” said Mr. Paramasivam. He urged the administration to intervene and take “custody of his son”. The officials assured the farmer that his son would be picked up and given necessary treatment after diagnosis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-urges-administration-to-take-care-of-his-son/article37064218.ece
19 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Villagers seek house site pattas||Around 60 members of Scheduled Castes staged a demonstration in front of the Madurai Collectorate on Monday demanding house site pattas for 100 families in Kulasekaran Kottai village at T. Vadipatti in Madurai district. They submitted a representation to Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar. Madurai unit president of Poorvika Makkal Viduthalai Katchi S. Chellakannu said that it was a long pending demand of the villagers. In 2013, they made a representation to the authorities concerned to grant house site pattas to people belonging to Scheduled Castes. In 2014, the authorities conducted an inspection and assured the villagers that the house pattas would be issued. Subsequently an order was issued in favour of the villagers. However, the house pattas have not been issued to the villagers, he said. He said that they made several representations. But not much progress was achieved. Therefore, the villagers staged a demonstration at the Collectorate demanding that the issue be looked into, Mr. Chellakannu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-seek-house-site-pattas/article37064507.ece
19 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court sets aside dismissal order||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has quashed the dismissal order imposed on a government servant, now retired from service, and directed the State government to restore all monetary benefits to him. The court took into account the fact that the departmental inquiry was initiated against him based on a circular issued after the said incident. The court was hearing the petition filed by M. Chelliah. A charge memo was issued to him in 2007 when he was working as Sub Registrar in Palayamkottai Sub-Registrar office. During a surprise inspection in the office in 2005, he was found with a bag containing Rs. 83,000. The second charge against him was that he was constructing a building without prior permission. An inquiry was conducted by the Commissioner of Disciplinary Proceedings, Tirunelveli and the charges against the petitioner were proved. Based on the inquiry, the Inspector General of Registration imposed the punishment of removal from service. On appeal, the Registration Department confirmed the order. He filed the petition before the High Court in 2014 challenging the order. He said that both he and his wife were government servants. He brought the money in a bag to the office to purchase jewellery for his wife. He also said that he had obtained prior permission to construct the building. Justice S. S. Sundar took note of a government circular issued in 2009 that said that officials should not bring such large amounts of cash to office and if they did so, they should hand over the money in a sealed cover to the officer concerned. It should be recorded in a register maintained for the purpose . In the absence of a circular at the time of the incident, it was not known how the petition could be proceeded with. The inspection in the office was long before the circular came into force and the whole inquiry appeared to be based on the circular. There was no justification to presume that the money was ill-gotten, the judge said. At the time of the incident there was no specific rule or instruction given to the petitioner not to bring money to the office. He had given an explanation that he had brought the money to purchase jewellery and that his wife was to join him after office hours. Merely because money was found from the petitioner, there cannot be a presumption, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-sets-aside-dismissal-order/article37064510.ece
19 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||South zone IGP receives 643 petitions from police personnel||South zone Inspector General of Police T. S. Anbu received 643 petitions at the grievance redress meeting for police personnel here on Monday. Director General of Police Sylendra Babu had recently directed senior officers to conduct grievance redress meeting for police personnel at periodic intervals. He had also suggested more measures in the department, focusing on the welfare aspects of the men and women in khakis. Apart from giving a day’s off in a week, the DGP had also mooted the idea of greeting the policemen and women on their birthdays. In continuation of these initiatives, the grievance mechanism was initiated at the zonal level in the State, wherein the personnel could represent to their superior officers for transfers within the zone, for shifting from sensitive posts due to medical grounds and other issues pertaining to salary and disciplinary action. Utising the opportunity, a large number of subordinate officers and personnel from various southern districts submitted petitions at the meeting held at AR Police Grounds. The IGP forwarded the petitions to the district SPs/DIGs for further action, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/south-zone-igp-receives-643-petitions-from-police-personnel/article37064210.ece
19 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court imposes cost on ‘court bird’||Terming a litigant ‘court bird’ for frequently approaching the court seeking the same relief, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court dismissed the third such petition that was filed by the litigant and imposed a cost of Rs. 1,000. Justice S. S. Sundar dismissed the petition filed by Bharanikumar of Thanjavur district. The petitioner had sought a direction to the authorities to provide him a suitable government job under the ex-serviceman category. He had studied upto Class IX and registered with the District Employment Office in Thanjavur. He was the son of an ex-serviceman and sought employment under the said category. The court was informed that he had filed three petitions before the court seeking the same relief. The judge took note of the fact that the second petition was dismissed. But he had still filed the third petition seeking a similar relief. The judge observed that the petitioner appeared to be a ‘court bird’ having a tendency to approach the court whenever he feels like. The petitioner exhibited an attitude which should be deprecated. Such frivolous petitions were filed to consume the precious time of the court, the judge said and directed him to pay a cost of Rs. 1,000 to the District Legal Services Authority. The court dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-imposes-cost-on-court-bird/article37064172.ece
19 October 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Nagai 30 Festival begins||Planting of 1,200 saplings for creation of a green patch on a 12,000 sq ft area through miyawaki method and a photo exhibition featuring the district’s milestones so far after it was carved out of the composite Thanjavur district three decades ago marked the start of Nagai 30 Festival, on Tuesday. District Collector A. Arun Thanburaj; special representative of Tamil Nadu Government in New Delhi A. K. S. Vijayan; Nagapattinam MP Selvarasu, and MLAs Aloor Shanavas and Nagai Mali joined many others in planting the saplingson the Collectorate premises.   The five-day event will encompass a variety of rural art forms, painting competitions and essay-writing competitions. The district administration has coined the tagline ‘Muppathu Andil Muthalidam Nokki’ (Towards top position in 30 years).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nagai-30-festival-begins/article37064174.ece
19 October 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Migrant worker killed in boiler blast||A migrant labourer was killed and five others suffered serious burns in a blast in the boiler of a rubber latex refining unit near here on Monday. Police said the blast occurred at unit at Sembonvilai near Thuckalay around 1.30 a.m. on Monday in which B. Mahato, 29, of Bihar was killed on the spot while five others including three migrant labourers suffered burns. They were rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-worker-killed-in-boiler-blast/article37064200.ece
19 October 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Elephant calf washed away||A seven-month-old male elephant calf was washed away in the flood in the Gothaiyar. The recent downpour caused huge influx of water in the river, and the baby elephant was washed away into Gothaiyar dam. On noticing the corpse of the animal, Tangedco officials alerted District Forest Officer M. Ilaiyaraja. Though the forest personnel were rushed to the dam, they could not locate the corpse as the dam had been opened to discharge the surplus water. Finally, the corpse was retrieved at Gothai Mudangu, about eight km from the dam on Monday. The post-mortem showed that the death was due to drowning. “The baby elephant could be part of around 20 elephants camping near the dam,” forest personnel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-calf-washed-away-in-flood/article37064196.ece
19 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||More lockdown relaxations announced in Puducherry||Beaches, parks and gardens can be open daily, except during night curfew, according to the relaxations announced for the COVID-19 lockdown, which has been extended till midnight of October 31 in Puducherry. An order issued in this regard by Ashok Kumar, Member Secretary, State Executive Committee, stipulates that walkers/users must wear masks and maintain social distancing at all times. Religious institutions and places of worship will be open to the public for darshan only till 10 p.m. Marriages will be permitted in religious institutions, but only with a maximum of 25 members at any point of time. Essential pujas, prayers and rituals will be conducted only by the priests and employees of the respective religious places. Religious institutions must strictly abide by the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), prescribed by the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Marriage-related gatherings will be permitted, with guests not exceeding 100 at any point of time. Funeral and last rites will be permitted, with participants not exceeding 20 at any point of time. Tourist spots All tourist spots, like boat house etc., will be permitted to operate by complying with COVID-19 appropriate behaviour norms. Cinemas and multiplexes can remain open till 12.30 a.m. by strictly following SOPs issued in this regard. Regional administrators were directed to align local restrictions in areas under their jurisdiction with those in neighbouring States or districts for the sake of better COVID-19 management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-lockdown-relaxations-announced-in-puducherry/article37064384.ece
19 October 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry govt. to seek four months’ time for civic polls||The Puducherry government plans to approach the Madras High Court seeking at least four months’ time to hold the local body polls. “We will seek permission from the court on October 21, the day the government has been asked to file a counter. We want at least four months’ time to conduct the polls after providing reservation for Backward Classes and Scheduled Tribes,” a top government source told The Hindu . The government has appointed Senior Counsel Vijay Narayan to represent its case in the court, the source said, adding that the government wanted to intervene after the court gave two orders related to the local bodies elections. Once the court accords permission, the government would appoint a commission to decide on the quota for the Backward Classes and the Scheduled Tribes. The government thinks that conducting the polls without reservation for the two segments of society would be unconstitutional and against the principles of social justice, the source added. On October 11, the Madras High Court had issued a direction to the State Election Commission to keep all proceedings related to the conduct of the polls in abeyance. The court gave its direction on a petition filed by Opposition leader R. Siva challenging a government order issued on October 6 rescinding the previous notification which provided 33.5% reservation for the Backward Classes and 0.5% reservation for the Scheduled Castes in the local bodies polls. Upon rescinding the previous orders, the State Election Commission had announced the new dates for the polls on October 7. Model code Now, after the court order, legislators cutting across party lines have been demanding the withdrawal of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) so that the routine work of the government is not delayed. State Election Commissioner Roy P. Thomas had conveyed to the legislators his inability to withdraw the MCC as that would amount to contempt of court. According to government sources, the counsel would also make a plea on the MCC when it approaches the court on October 21.  We want at least four months’ time to conduct the polls after providing reservation for Backward Classes and Scheduled Tribes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-govt-to-seek-four-months-time-for-civic-polls/article37064378.ece
19 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||New COVID-19 cases in U.T. fall to 28, no deaths reported||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory in the last 24 hours as new cases dropped to 28, and the test positivity rate fell to under 1% on Monday. Puducherry logged 24 of the new cases, which were confirmed from 3,846 tests, followed by Karaikal (3) and Mahe (1). No case was reported from Yanam. The test positivity rate was 0.73%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.14%. With 90 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases aggregated to 523. Of this, 105 patients were in hospitals and 418 in home isolation. The cumulative toll remained at 1,850 — Puducherry (1,447), Karaikal (250), Yanam (107) and Mahe (46). The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,27,424 cases against 1,25,051 recoveries. Of an estimated 18.72 lakh tests done so far, over 15.88 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,486 persons took the vaccine against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has to date administered 10,76,582 doses of vaccine. Nil deaths in Cuddalore Cuddalore district recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Monday. As many as 19 persons tested positive for the infection, taking the district’s tally to 63,832. The district saw 62,696 recoveries, leaving 272 active cases. In Villupuram district, 10 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 45,711. Kallakurichi district reported 14 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 31,231.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-covid-19-cases-in-ut-fall-to-28-no-deaths-reported/article37064382.ece
19 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Will work together with CM for welfare of people: Lt. Governor||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday said she was committed to working with the elected government for the welfare of people in the Union Territory. Felicitating around 15 doctors from Puducherry for their work during the pandemic, she said: “The Lt. Governor and the Chief Minister will work together for the welfare of people in the Union Territory. People expect both of us to work together, and we will work together to implement welfare and development works.” The programme was organised by the Indian Medical Association and  Hindu Tamizh Thisai   .  The Lt. Governor hailed the tireless efforts of the medical fraternity, which had yielded results in controlling the spread of the virus in Union Territory. As many as 1,342 people belonging to the medical fraternity across India have succumbed to COVID-19. Ms. Soundararajan also recollected the service of doctors and paramedical staff on the treatment given to several patients from outside Puducherry. An estimated 35% of COVID-19 patients treated in various hospitals across the Union Territory are from Tamil Nadu, she added. Health system Chief Minister N. Rangasamy said the government was taking every step to strengthen the public health system in the Union Territory. More hospitals will be set up to provide health care to people of the Union Territory, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-work-together-with-cm-for-welfare-of-people-lt-governor/article37064388.ece
19 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘NIOT will take up restoration of coast on northern side of U.T.’||Union Minister of State for Science and Technology and Earth Sciences Jitendra Singh on Monday said the National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT) will take up the work on restoring the coast on the northern side of Puducherry in due course. Interacting virtually from the Ministry of Earth Sciences office in New Delhi with scientists of NIOT, stakeholders and representatives of PondyCan, a non-profit organisation, over the beach restoration project as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, Mr. Singh said NIOT was already seized of restoring the rest of the coast and this will happen in due course. If restoration of the Puducherry coast could be done, the rest could also be done. Mr. Singh said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken special interest in all these scientific endeavours including coastal issues. Efforts for restoring Puducherry’s lost beach began in 2009 and the task was accomplished in 2021. This itself showed the importance the government gave to the project, he added. Complimenting NIOT for the project, he said this was the first ever such venture and a successful experiment. “NIOT has successfully proved how the beach could be restored. This unique experiment will be taken note in other parts of the country and the services of NIOT will be utilised to a greater extent. NIOT will also get visibility due to this initiative and will no longer be known as a Chennai-based institute. It now has a pan-India presence,” he said. Dr. G.A. Ramadass, Director, NIOT, Chennai, said NIOT had the mandate to demonstrate technologies for ocean related issues. As a part of this mandate, environment and engineering groups studied the Indian coast for erosion due to man-made and anthropogenic reasons. “We came out with site-specific solutions and demonstrated this technology at two places — Periyakuppam in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Puducherry lost its sandy beach 30 years ago and NIOT restored the beach with its intervention. The beach was created and this has given a boost to tourism. NIOT started the project in 2017 and completed it in 2018,” he said. Probir Banerjee, Sunaina Mandeen and Aurofilio Schiavina, representatives from PondyCan thanked the Ministry for restoring the beach. Mr. Probir demanded that the entire coastal stretch towards the north of Puducherry’s coast be restored on the lines of the Puducherry beach. This would be a classic and true model for the rest of the country, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/niot-will-take-up-restoration-of-coast-on-northern-side-of-ut/article37064379.ece
19 October 2021||RAJAPALAYAM,TAMIL NADU||Library for women opened||Inaugurating a renovated library with internet facilities exclusively for women and children, Ministers K.K.S.S.R Ramachandran and Thangam Thennarasu on Monday said the State government was keen to promote dissemination to women as acquiring knowledge through education gave them real empowerment. Speaking on the occasion, they said they were immensely happy to learn about the efforts taken by the municipal authorities and well-wishers here who were instrumental in revamping the library and installing computers with internet facility. Late DMK president M Karunanidhi’s efforts gave birth to self-help-groups for women in the State. Only when women enjoyed economic independence, the family and the community as a whole would witness overall growth. Likewise, Chief Minister M. K. Stalin was also keen to encourage women to ensure that their wards, especially girls, were equipped with knowledge. The government, they said, would support every initiative that promoted education for women and children. They also appreciated all citizens in Rajapalayam Municipality who had given a new meaning to the premises. Vasagar Vattam (Readers’ Circle) president Manju Ranganathan, MP Dhanush M Kumar, MLAs S. Thangapandian and A.R.R. Raguraman participated .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/library-for-women-opened/article37064206.ece
19 October 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||New Collector for Ramanathapuram||Shankar Lal Kumawat, a 2010 batch IAS officer, assumed office as Collector of Ramanathapuram district on Monday. Prior to the new posting, Mr. Kumawat had served as Joint Commissioner (JC) in Commercial Taxes Department, and JC (Education) in Chennai Corporation. He had also served as Sub-Collector in Kanniyakumari district and as Assistant Collector (Training) in Tirunelveli district. He was on deputation to Rajasthan, his home state, for five years. In a brief interaction with media persons, the new Collector said he would be accessible to the public and accord top priority to implementing the welfare schemes of the State government. Praising the people of Ramanathapuram for working hard and being simple, Mr. Kumawat said he hailed from a middle class family and was well aware of the needs of the common man and the needy people. Later, he held discussions with senior officials from various departments, officials said. After the DMK government came to power in May, the then Collector, Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, was shifted to Thanjavur district as Collector and S. Gopala Sundara Raj was posted as Ramanathapuam Collector. However, within a few days, the State government, through a new order, posted Mr. Gopala Sundara Raj as Tenkasi Collector, and posted J. U. Chandrakala as Collector of Ramanathapuram district. After she went on leave about a fortnight ago, District Revenue Officer A.M. Kamatchi Ganesan was holding additional charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-collector-for-ramanathapuram/article37064202.ece
19 October 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Three RDCC Bank employees held for swindling loan amounts||Police have arrested three employees of Ramanathapuram District Central Cooperative (RDCC) Bank, including a Branch Manager, on charges of forgery, conspiracy and swindling money on Monday. Following a complaint from Deputy Registrar of Cooperative Societies (Ramanathapuram) K. Govindarajan, the police registered a case under Sections 409, 420, 465, 468, 471, 477 (A), read with 120 (b), of the IPC against Poorna Chanthiramathi, 48, Branch Manager, RDCC Bank, Nainarkoil, S. Sathiyamoorthi, 41, cashier, and M. Sundara Kaleeswari, Assistant Manager. According to the officials, the three accused were placed under suspension by the bank following registration of criminal cases against them. The complaint was that the three siphoned off loan amounts meant for several self-help groups by forging documents between 2012 and 2018. Investigations and their confessions revealed the volume of money swindled was around Rs. 1.45 crore. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Commercial Crime Investigation Wing) Pandiselvam said the police had recovered Rs. 22.57 lakh from the accused. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-rdcc-bank-employees-held-for-swindling-loan-amounts/article37064209.ece
19 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Include milk in mid-day meal scheme, govt. told||The Tamil Nadu Milk Producers Welfare Association has petitioned with the Chief Minister demanding measures to sell milk powder and milk byproducts through ration shops. In their petition, the association demanded that the State government should initiate measures to sell milk powder and byproducts like ghee through ration shops to protect milk producers from drop in prices. The petitioners said that there was a stock of 16,000 tonnes of milk powder and 5,000 tonnes of butter with the district milk unions and to prevent drop in milk powder prices, it should be sold through ration shops. They demanded that milk procurement centres must buy entire quantity of milk brought by farmers and procurement holidays should be avoided. The petitioners suggested that milk should be included in mid-day meal scheme to ensure full utilisation of procured milk. A State-level monitoring committee must be formed to oversee functioning of district unions and Aavin. They also demanded that the State government take immediate measures to protect cattle from foot-and-mouth disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/include-milk-in-mid-day-meal-scheme-govt-told/article37064219.ece
19 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Residents want civic officials to take steps to clear stagnant rainwater||The residents of Swami Nagar at Thadampatti here have demanded the district administration and the civic authorities to take steps to clear the stagnant rainwater in their area. There are over 100 families residing in scheme houses in the locality for more than 30 years and the area lacks basic amenities. In the absence of stormwater drains, the rainwater gets mixed with sewage and stagnates for weeks together. In spite of repeated complaints made to the Salem Corporation and the district administration, no steps were taken to clear the rainwater, they alleged. The residents wanted the authorities to clear the stagnant rainwater without delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-want-civic-officials-to-take-steps-to-clear-stagnant-rainwater/article37064224.ece
19 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Over 51,000 vaccine doses administered in mega drive||In a special vaccination drive conducted on Monday here, over 51,000 doses were administered to the public. According to health officials, 51,164 vaccine doses were administered, including 43,519 Covishield and 7,645 Covaxin doses. 26,009 vaccine doses were administered in Salem rural areas, 11,267 doses in Salem Corporation limits and 13,888 doses were administered in Attur health district. According to officials, the drive was conducted at 1,392 places in the district on Monday and the district had sufficient stock of Covishield and Covaxin vaccine doses. The vaccination drive was conducted between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-51000-vaccine-doses-administered-in-mega-drive/article37064227.ece
19 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Events conducted to mark trauma day||World Trauma Day was observed at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital (GMKMCH) on Monday. District Collector S. Karmegham administered the trauma day pledge to doctors and students. Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav; Dean, GMKMCH, Valli Sathyamoorthy; Medical Superintendent, P.V. Dhanapal, Resident Medical Officer S. Rani and department heads took part in the event organised at the hospital. The Collector later flagged off an awareness rally carried out by the students on the hospital premises to create awareness on trauma care. A drill on providing first aid to patients who sustain injuries due to road accidents, natural disasters and other calamities was conducted as part of the event to create awareness among the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/events-conducted-to-mark-trauma-day/article37064216.ece
19 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Clarify on guidelines regarding SC/ST status for inter-caste couples’||The Intercaste Couples Association of India has demanded that the Union government clarify on guidelines under which the SC/ST status of inter-caste couples and their wards need to be determined. The association representatives attended a hearing held by the Information Commissioner and reportedly said that the replies were unsatisfactory. K. Alagesan, president of the association, filed a petition under the RTI Act in July 2019 with the Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Tribal Affairs and Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment demanding clarification on the guidelines followed by the Centre in determining SC/ST status of inter-caste couples and their children. The association asked for details regarding the office which framed the guiding principles. The association complained that though various State governments were offering SC/ST certificates for children of inter-caste couple, such certificates were reportedly not being accepted by the Centre, hence they were not able to avail the benefits. Kolathur S. Mani, leader of Dravida Viduthalai Kazhagam, demanded that the MPs from Tamil Nadu, especially those who got elected from reserve constituencies, must raise the issue in the Lok Sabha and get it clarified by the Home Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clarify-on-guidelines-regarding-scst-status-for-inter-caste-couples/article37064215.ece
19 October 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal Collector tests positive||Namakkal District Collector Shreya P. Singh has tested positive for COVID-19 disease. She is under home isolation, health officials said. The Collector had complained of fever and tested positive on Sunday. Officials said that she is asymptomatic. In Erode, 90 COVID-19 positive cases were reported on Monday. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous and the district had 906 active cases. As per bulletin, one death was reported in Erode. In Salem, 56 cases were reported. Fifty-one indigenous cases were reported in Namakkal. Krishnagiri recorded 21 cases, and 30 cases discharged. Dharmapuri recorded 26 fresh cases, and 32 cases discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakkal-collector-tests-positive/article37064220.ece
19 October 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Belated compensation should be given with interest: farmers||While the commencement of disbursement of insurance compensation for the samba crop cultivated and insured in the year 2020-21 has brought some cheer to the Delta farmers, they expect the belated compensation to be given with interest. On Monday, Chief Minister M. K. Stalin handed over the crop insurance compensation orders to 10 farmers at Chennai to mark the commencement of the disbursement of compensation for the loss of samba crop suffered by the farmers during the last rabi season. While welcoming the efforts taken by the Tamil Nadu government to ensure that farmers who have insured their samba crop last season and subsequently got the same affected in the heavy rains that lashed the State during December 2020 and January 2021 period, get the insurance compensation without fail in spite of the ‘severe’ financial constraints the administration was facing, Delta farmers feel that mere disbursement of compensation would not be sufficient to bale them out of the present debt they were in. Stating that they had taken up ‘kuruvai’ crop cultivation this season without crop insurance backup facility, they pleaded that the disbursement of insurance compensation for the last samba crop which had been delayed by more than a quarter be paid to them with interest. Then only the financial burden being faced by them could be eased to some extent, they added. PIL filed Already, the Tamil Nadu Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers’ Protection Association had filed a Public Interest Litigation at the Madras High Court, Madurai Bench seeking a direction to the crop insurance companies and the governments to disburse the insurance compensation for the samba crop insured by the farmers in Tamil Nadu last season with interest since the compensation was not released and disbursed by May-June 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/belated-compensation-should-be-given-with-interest-farmers/article37064171.ece
19 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Take action against social media group’||Members of the Confederation of Democratic Forums submitted a petition to Collector K. Senthil Raj on Monday appealing to him to initiate stringent action against those asking Hindus through social media to become part of an ‘Hindu Army’ being formed in every district. They said appeals were being made through social media urging Hindus to join the ‘Hindu Army’. Since this attempt would disrupt social harmony and trigger enmity among the people following different faiths, stern action should be taken against those who made this appeal. Led by the office-bearers of Aathi Tamizhar Peravai, a group of people who lost their homes to fire accidents in Kovilpillai Nagar near Thermal Nagar and Idaiyarkadu Anna Nagar near Eral came to the Collectorate to submit petitions during the weekly grievance day meet. The petitioners spread mats in front of the main administrative building of the Collectorate. As they also tried to pitch tents, police asked them to stop. When the persuasion failed and they lay down on the mats, they were removed forcibly. In the petition they submitted to the Collector later, they said the Arunthathiyar community, who lost their homes to fire accidents “caused by unidentified persons” at Kovilpillai Nagar on January 1, 2014 and October 14 this year, had not been given any relief. Similarly, 10 houses were destroyed in a fire accident, also triggered by miscreants, at Idaiyarkaadu Anna Nagar near Eral on August 31. Besides provision of relief, permanent houses should be built for the affected families, they said. MDMK’s Thoothukudi city district secretary Muruga Bhoopathi submitted a plea seeking action against officials rejecting petitions submitted on Mondays without going through them. Since they were tarnishing the image of the administration, the “irresponsible officials” should be taken to task. M. Machendran of Congress submitted a plea appealing to officials to widen the road between Pudukottai and Srivaikundam via Sawyerpuram and Sivakalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-action-against-social-media-group/article37064452.ece
19 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Co-optex launches special Deepavali sale||A sales target of Rs. 3.50 crore has been set for the two Co-optex outlets in Tiruchi this year for the Deepavali festival season. Inaugurating the special 30 % discount sales on Monday at the Pothigai Co-optex outlet, Collector S. Sivarasu said that a varied variety of new designs and techniques have been implemented by the artisans to keep up with the changing trends. Handloom sarees made in Coimbatore, Kanchipuram, Arani, Thanjavur and blankets, bedsheets, shirts, nighties, bedspreads, pillows were on sale as per the discount offered. Last year, the two outlets had clocked sales of Rs. 1.74 crore, he said, helping out many artisans who had suffered during the COVID-19 lockdown. Co-optex has also introduced a savings scheme - ‘Kanavu Nanavu’ wherein the customer must pay a fixed EMI amount for 10 months, while Co-optex would complete the payment for the 11th and 12th month. After the scheme matures at the end of the year, customers would be able to purchase clothes and can also avail an additional 20% discount. In Karur, Collector T. Prabhushankar launched the special Deepavali sale at the showroom in the district. The sales target for this year was set at Rs. 1 crore. Speaking at the event, the Collector urged government employees and the general public to purchase handloom products to help improve the livelihood of the weavers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/co-optex-launches-special-deepavali-sale/article37064191.ece
19 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Will service lane project be left in limbo?||The recent suggestion of Minister for Public Works Department and Highways, E. V. Velu, to the Centre to build an elevated highway between Thuvakudi and Tiruchi has raised a question mark over the proposal to build service lanes along the 14.5 km stretch of the Tiruchi-Thanjavur National Highway. Land acquisition for the service lanes are supposed to be under way currently after a long struggle and a legal battle waged by residents living along the highway stretch. Residents lobbying for the cause had been contending that the accident rate has been very high in the absence of service lanes. However, property owners and traders who face displacement due to land acquisition, organised as Tiruchi-Thanjai NH67 Salai Virivakka Panikalal Bathikapaduvor Kootammaippu, had mooted the construction of an elevated corridor as an alternative so as to protect the livelihood of a large number of people who would be affected by the project. In October 2019, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to take expeditious steps to build service lanes along the stretch. It also ordered that the land acquisition process should proceed. District Collector S. Sivarasu had recently said that the land acquisition process will be completed by January. But Mr.Velu, during his recent meeting with Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari to present a memorandum seeking various road projects in the State, had suggested that an elevated highway be laid between Tiruchi and Thuvakudi to avoid traffic congestion. However, there is still no official word on the fate of the proposal to build service lanes. The suggestion has evoked reactions on expected lines from the rival groups. While the traders were happy that their demand has been echoed by the Minister, representatives of the residents associations are unhappy and insist that the DMK government should honour the High Court direction and its own pre-poll promise on the matter. “We are happy that the Minister has made the suggestion as it would avoid any displacement and deprivation of livelihood. If approved, there will be no need for land acquisition or cumbersome shifting of utility lines, including water supply lines,” observed S. Raghunathan, secretary of Tiruchi-Thanjai NH67 Salai Virivakka Panikalal Bathikapaduvor Kootammaippu. He contended that the expenditure for building service lanes and elevated highway would be more or less the same. For, the government has to pay compensation based on the guideline value from 2013 and there could be delay due to litigations. Saving a thriving local business/economy along the highway would be major benefit as it brings substantial revenue to the government. “If displaced, it will be very difficult the revive the businesses/economy,” he said. But S. Subramaniyan, organiser, the Federation for Retrieval of Tiruchi-Palpannai-Thuvakudi Service Roads, dismissed the contention and expressed shock over the Minister’s suggestion coming at a time when the land acquisition process is under way after a long struggle by residents. “We consider the service lanes to be essential and are planning to write to the Union Minister and the Chief Minister drawing their attention to the frequent fatalities due to accidents and also the court directions. The PWD Minister has voiced the traders demand, which is just a diversionary and delaying tactic. It may take another 10 years to implement the proposed Rs. 1500 crore elevated highway,” Mr.Subramanian alleged. “The present DMK Ministers K. N. Nehru and Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi had supported our demand when in Opposition. Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had also reportedly assured that the service lanes will be implemented”, he said. He claimed that the traders may not have to lose their properties fully and many would have to give up just the front elevation or a portion of the buildings. They are to be suitably compensated for this and the service lanes have to be built in the larger interest of the residents. The Federation, he said, would take to the streets again to press its demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-elevated-corridor-proposal-put-service-lane-project-in-limbo/article37064186.ece
19 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Funds sanctioned, but woes of guest lecturers continue||About two weeks after sanction of funds, guest lecturers in most of the government arts and science colleges are yet to receive their salary dues for five months. It was after repeated representations that the government sanctioned funds for guest lecturers in second shift initially and for those in first shift subsequently. However, barring a handful of colleges, guest lecturers in most of the 149 government arts and science colleges have not yet received their salaries, according to an affected teacher. Already in deep debts, the guest lecturers are now at the mercy of their respective principals who take their own time for disbursing the amounts, the lecturer rued. The problem could be rectified in the event of the Director of Collegiate Education instructing Regional Joint Directors to secure Action Taken Reports on salary disbursal from the principals of the government arts and science colleges, another teacher said. According to the teachers, the salary disbursal has not been carried out in more than 90 percent of the government arts and science colleges. The Bursar and Principal must be held responsible if the salary dues are not credited into the bank accounts of the guest lecturers in time such that the teachers can breathe free for the Deepavali festival, the affected teachers emphasised. Likewise, the government must also make sure that the monthly salaries are disbursed before fifth of the subsequent month, they added. “We are even prepared to wait for 10 days. But, things get worse when the salary payment is delayed by 20 days every month,” a representative of the guest lecturers in government arts and science colleges said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/funds-sanctioned-but-woes-of-guest-lecturers-continue/article37064552.ece
19 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report less than 200 fresh cases||The central region reported 194 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday. This is the lowest number of COVID-19 cases reported on a single day since the peak of the second wave in May. Five deaths due to the viral infection were registered in the region. Three patients succumbed to the illness in Tiruchi, while two more died in Thanjavur. Thanjavur district reported a dip in the number of cases compared to the previous days. On Monday, 61 patients tested positive. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported 47 fresh cases of COVID-19. The other seven districts reported less than 30 fresh cases. In Tiruvarur, 27 patients tested positive for the viral infection, and in Nagapattinam, 16. Karur district registered 12 cases, Mayiladuthurai, 12 and Pudukottai, nine. In Ariyalur six patients tested positive and in Perambalur three - the lowest in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-less-than-200-fresh-cases/article37064192.ece
19 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Civilian defence employees flay altering of service conditions by DPSUs||Civilian defence employees in ordnance factories have raised apprehensions that their service conditions have been affected after formation of seven defence public sector undertakings in the place of Ordnance Factory Board. The Department of Defence Production had given repeated assurances that the service conditions of the employees will be protected, but the DPSUs have brought about unilateral change in weekly working hours, C. Srikumar, General Secretary of All India Defence Employees Federation said. “Overtime wages/ overtime allowance is an inseparable part of the wages of ordnance factory employees,” he said, and also questioned the ‘arbitrary’ withdrawal of piece work profit ceiling limit by TCL and Yantra India Ltd. The employees were also affected by restrictions on availing the utility of medical facilities and patient care services, difficulties caused in General Provident Fund withdrawals, appointments on compassionate ground, and impediments caused to inter-factory/ inter-directorate transfers, Mr. Srikumar said. On Tuesday, the AIDEF, Bhartiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh, and Confederation of Defence Recognised Associations made a written representation to The Secretary - Defence Production, complaining about ‘unilateral decisions’ taken by the corporations, despite the matter being sub-judice before High Courts. “The Federations cannot be mute spectators when the service conditions of the employees are altered without any authority and in violation of commitments of government in the matter. All this can have far-reaching consequences in the industrial relations in the factories, affecting production and productivity. Necessary instructions may be given to all concerned to desist from such activities,” the representation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civilian-defence-employees-flay-altering-of-service-conditions-by-dpsus/article37064553.ece
19 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Entrepreneurship Awareness Camp on October 20||The Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries' Association has announced conduct of Entrepreneurship Awareness Camp in virtual mode for youths above the age of 18 years on October 20 from 10.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. Joining hands with Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute, Chennai, and the District Industries Centre, TIDITSSIA will also permit youths to take part in the camp in person at its office in SIDCO Industrial Estate, Ariyamangalam. Aspiring participants need to register for the programme that will be conducted free of cost for aspiring entrepreneurs intending to start their own ventures with hand-holding support, TIDITSSIA Secretary S. Gopalakrishnan said in a press release. Aspiring youths could register with the TIDITSSIA over phone: 0431- 2440119/ 114/ 9659558111, or online: https://forms.gle/ rWZjTUbdKbG4jUsZA, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entrepreneurship-awareness-camp-on-october-20/article37064173.ece
19 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘No need for panic as rain recedes in catchment areas’||Since influx of water into dams has subsided considerably after decrease in rainfall in catchment areas of reservoirs, there is no need for panic about flash floods in the Tamirabharani, Monitoring Officer for the district Apoorva has said. After the water level in Papanasam dam — the second largest reservoir in the district — rose to 136 feet in the 48 hours ending at 8 a.m. on Monday following heavy downpour in catchment areas, the Monitoring Officer and Collector V. Vishnu inspected the water body on Monday. Though areas close to the Western Ghats received significant rainfall, those away from the hills did not experience good rainfall. Areas such as Manjolai, Gothaiyar and the catchment areas of Manimuthar and Papanasam dams recorded heavy rainfall of up to 275 mm on Sunday. Consequently, the water level in Papanasam dam that stood at 94 feet on Monday last has now touched 136 feet against the maximum storage level of 143 feet. Ms. Apoorva, after inspecting the storage level in the dam along with Mr. Vishnu, said Papanasam and Servalar dams were getting huge influx of water, while Manimuthar, Vadakku Pachchaiyar, Kodumudiyar and Nambiyar dams were getting insignificant influx. As rainfall in the catchment areas of Papanasam dam had receded considerably, the inflow had also come down from 20,000 cusecs to 6,000 cusecs. “When 65,000 cusecs of water was discharged from Papanasam, Manimuthar and Gadana dams in mid-January, the river experienced heavy flooding. The situation is now totally under control and there is no fear of floods in the Tamirabharani since Papanasam alone is getting decent influx of water,” Ms. Apoorva said. Mr. Vishnu said precautionary measures had been taken in all 88 low-lying areas close to the Tamirabharani and 127 relief centres were ready to receive people within a short notice. State Disaster Rescue Force teams, which had been stationed at Vickramasingapuram, could be deployed in any part of the district. Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan, Cheranmahadevi Sub-Collector Siva Krishnamurthy and District Revenue Officer A. Perumal were present. Kanniyakuamri district In Kanniyakumari district that witnessed 33 cm rainfall on Sunday, Monitoring Officer Jothi Nirmala chaired a review meeting along with Collector M. Aravind and inspected rain-hit areas on Monday. She said paddy cultivated on 30 acres, plantain covering 125 acres and tapioca on 2.50 acres were submerged in flood waters. While plantain and tapioca could be salvaged by draining the water, paddy had suffered extensive damage. “Since storage level in the dams is constantly monitored, discharge of water is done based on the influx of water so that damage can be controlled. Crop damage assessment will be done soon to give appropriate compensation to farmers. Roads damaged in the rain will be repaired once the rain stops,” Ms. Jothi Nirmala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-need-for-panic-as-rain-recedes-in-catchment-areas/article37064456.ece
19 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Drinking water project for Radhapuram Assembly segment at Rs. 271 crore: Speaker||Eight town panchayats in Radhapuram Assembly segment in the district, including Valliyoor and Panagudi, will get a new combined drinking water project within a year on an outlay of Rs. 271 crore, according to Assembly Speaker M. Appavu. Valliyoor bus stand would be reconstructed at a cost of Rs. 12 crore and the nearby market would be constructed on an outlay of Rs. 4.80 crore. Shops in these places would be relocated to temporary outlets to be created nearby. TNSCB project After inspecting them on Monday, Mr. Appavu also visited the site where the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) proposed to construct 500 houses on five acres in Valliyoor. Later speaking to reporters, Mr. Appavu said the Panagudi drinking water project, which was implemented by the DMK government led by late Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi, remained neglected for the past 10 years and there was no periodic maintenance to ensure earmarked supply of drinking water to residents. Consequently, Valliyoor was getting only 15 lakh litres of water a day, which was insufficient. Besides invigorating this existing drinking water project, a new combined drinking water project would be executed for the benefit of eight town panchayats in Radhapuram Assembly segment, including Valliyoor and Panagudi town panchayats, to ensure supply of 65 lakh litres of drinking water every day. The 500 houses to be built by TNSCB would be given to beneficiaries to be identified after due scrutiny of applications. The applicant’s contribution would be Rs. 1.50 lakh, and the remaining Rs. 8.50 lakh would be grant to be borne by the government, the Speaker said. The daily market in Valliyoor would be modernised on 1.42 acres with new shops, which would be handed over to the beneficiaries within six months. The new modern bus stand would be reconstructed with better amenities, Mr. Appavu said, adding that all the projects would be completed within a year. Tirunelveli MP S. Gnanathiraviam accompanied the Speaker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drinking-water-project-for-radhapuram-assembly-segment-at-rs-271-crore-speaker/article37064454.ece
19 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||42 farmers get power connection orders in Tirunelveli Circle||Speaker M. Appavu on Monday handed orders for getting power connections to 42 farmers and appointment orders on compassionate ground to 14 persons, all in the Tirunelveli Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation’s Tirunelveli circle. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Appavu said appointment orders had been given to an office assistant, a technician, two assessors and ten field assistants as Chief Minister M.K. Stalin was keen on giving appointment to a family member of TANGEDCO personnel who died in harness. Since the Tamil Nadu Government had set the target of giving power connections to one lakh farmers during the current fiscal, 1,281 farmers in Tirunelveli circle would get benefited. Of the 1,281 farmers, 42 beneficiaries had received power connection orders on Monday.  90 Transformers Lauding the work of TANGEDCO’s Tirunelveli district unit, Mr. Appavu said the personnel had commissioned 90 transformers in the past 60 days in the district and 22 more new transformers would be installed in near future in the places where load was heavy. Collector V. Vishnu, Tirunelveli MP S. Gnanathiraviam, Tenkasi MP Dhanush M. Kumar, Tirunelveli MLA Nainar Nagenthran, Superintending Engineer P. Selvaraj and Executive Engineer Venkatesh Mani were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/42-farmers-get-power-connection-orders-in-tirunelveli-circle/article37064458.ece
19 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Ambulance pilot stabbed to death in Tiruppur||A pilot of a private ambulance service was stabbed to death near the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruppur late on Sunday. According to the police, K. Vignesh (25) and K. Ashok Kumar (23) were working for a private ambulance service for the last two years. At 9 p.m. on Sunday, the two engaged in a quarrel at the ambulance parking area near the hospital, during which Ashok Kumar allegedly stabbed Vignesh multiple times with a knife and killed him on the spot. Following the incident, the accused surrendered at the Tiruppur South police station. He was booked for murder and was remanded in judicial custody. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Vignesh allegedly demanded money from Ashok Kumar to purchase liquor, which resulted in the altercation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambulance-pilot-stabbed-to-death-in-tiruppur/article37064144.ece
19 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Residents demand action against attackers||A group of residents from Madathukulam in Tiruppur district staged a demonstration at the District Collectorate here on Monday demanding action against miscreants who allegedly attacked two Dalit men. In the petition submitted at the grievances redress meeting, M. Vijay alleged that he and his friend Dhandapani were travelling on a two-wheeler on October 1 when three men stopped the vehicle and attacked them with wooden sticks while hurling casteist slurs. Despite the Dhali police registering a case under provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on October 5, no arrests have been made so far, the petition said. The grievances redress meeting was presided over by Collector S. Vineeth, during which 1,497 petitions were received.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-demand-action-against-attackers/article37064156.ece
19 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||H. Raja alleges lack of transparency in temple jewellery monetisation scheme||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader H. Raja has accused the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department of lack of transparency in scheme to melt temple jewellery into gold bars. Quantity not revealed He told mediapersons in Tiruppur on Sunday that the State government had not revealed the quantity of jewellery taken from each temple and the HR&CE Department had not uploaded the relevant government order for this scheme. “Every temple is an independent institution,” Mr. Raja said, adding that the State government cannot utilise the jewellery offered by devotees as per law. HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekar Babu had clarified that only the jewellery that were unnecessary for temple use would be melted and the gold bars would be deposited in nationalised banks under the Gold Monetisation Scheme. Action sought Mr. Raja also alleged that several Joint Commissioners in the HR&CE Department, who were suspended due to irregularities and have FIRs registered against them, were being allowed to continue in the same department and demanded action against these officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/h-raja-alleges-lack-of-transparency-in-temple-jewellery-monetisation-scheme/article37064150.ece
19 October 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Collector promises help to differently abled||Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan on Monday accepted a petition submitted at the general grievance meeting by a differently abled person and promised action on it. The petitioner, Shanmugavelu of Pudukudi entered the hall with the cover containing his petition in his mouth as he had lost both hands in a mishap while he was serving in the Electricity Board. The Collector accepted his petition without any hesitation. In the petition, Shanmugavelu had pleaded that he be included as a beneficiary in any one of the housing schemes being implemented by the government. Satheeshwari of Neduvakkottai in Mannargudi taluk submitted a petition seeking financial assistance to apply for duplicate educational certificates lost in a fire accident. Gayathri Krishnan said that Satheeshwari’s request for Rs. 10,000 to meet the fees to be paid to get the duplicate certificates would be released from the Collectors’ personal fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-promises-help-to-differently-abled/article37064188.ece
19 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 18 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,676, with 18 new cases reported on October 18. While a total 48,338 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 209. The district’s death toll is 1,129.  In Ranipet district, 13 cases were reported positive, and the total stood at 43,304. In Tirupattur district, 12 new cases were reported on Monday, and the total number of cases stood at 29,205. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 22, taking the total number of cases to 54,728. Out of this, 53,849 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 212.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-18-fresh-cases/article37064380.ece
19 October 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Devotees trek to Sathuragiri hill temple||Virudhunagar district administration on Monday started permitting devotees to visit Sri Sundaramahalingam Swami temple on Sathuragiri hills after a long gap. The authorities ensured that the devotees strictly adhered to COVID-19 guidelines. With the spread of the pandemic in March 2020, the government announced the ban on trekking to the hill temple. As the number of positive cases started showing a declining trend now, the district administration accorded permission for devotees to visit the temple from 7 a.m. on Monday, officials said at Thaniparai in the foothills. Devotees usually visit the shrine during Pournami and Ammavasai every month. Since Pradosham fell on Monday and Pournami is falling on Wednesday, a good number of devotees had assembled in the foothills. “Only those wearing masks and carrying sanitiser were allowed. They were advised to return to the base by 4 p.m.,” the officials said. The devotees would be permitted to start their climb till 10 a.m., and night stay at the hill temple was not allowed as a precautionary measure. Many devotees thanked the officials and the government for relaxing the norms. Eighteen types of abishekams would be performed for the deity during Pournami and the devotees were excited to get a chance to witness the events after a long gap. Police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel, who were present at Thaniparai, said as there was widespread rain on the Western Ghats and in Kerala, they had intensified vigil and appealed to the devotees to cooperate with the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-allowed-to-trek-to-sathuragiri-hill-temple/article37064204.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DVAC files disproportionate assets case against Vijayabaskar||Various other premises of Dr. Vijayabaskar’s family members, relatives, aides and business partners in Tiruchi, Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore and Madurai were searched, the official said. The searches began in the early hours and went on till late in the evening. A sum of Rs. 23.85 lakh in cash, 4.87 kg of gold articles, registration certificates for 136 heavy vehicles, hard discs and documents relating to property transactions were seized, the DVAC said. FIR filed The searches were conducted by different teams after an FIR was filed by the DVACs’s Pudukottai unit based on information that Dr. Vijayabaskar had indulged in corrupt practices and enriched himself by acquiring assets in his and dependents’ names and in the name of the businesses in which he and his wife were proprietors/share-holders. While holding office, Dr. Vijayabaskar and his wife Ramya, also cited as an accused, were alleged to have been in possession of pecuniary resources and movable and immovable assets valued at about Rs. 27.22 crore, disproportionate to their known sources of income. The properties were allegedly in the form of bank deposits, jewels, motor vehicles, agriculture lands, house sites, insurance policies, investment in the partnership companies and buildings in his, wife’s and dependents’ names. Properties have allegedly been acquired in the name of business firms such as Rasi Blue Metals, Green land Hi-tech Promoters, Om Sri Vari Stones (P) Ltd, Rasi Enterprises, Anya Enterprises, V Infrastructure and Sai Hridham Infraa Private Ltd in which Dr. Vijayabaskar and his family members were proprietors/shareholders, which raised a reasonable suspicion that the assets were acquired by him. By holding properties by way of investment in partnership companies, bank balance, insurance policies and apartments, Ms. Ramya had intentionally abetted Dr. Vijayabaskar in acquiring the properties, the DVAC said. The trust created by the family was running 14 educational institutions, including engineering, arts and science, agriculture, education, nursing, pharmacy, polytechnic, catering and physical education colleges, besides a school at Illupur, raising a reasonable suspicion that they were established with the money acquired illicitly by Dr. Vijayabaskar. A case has been registered against Dr. Vijayabaskar and Ms. Ramya under Section 13(2), read with 13(1)(e), of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 109 of the Indian Penal Code, read with 13(2), 13(l)(c) and 13(l)(b) and 12 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Dr. Vijayabaskar is the fourth Minister — after M.R. Vijayabhaskar, S.P. Velumani and K.C. Veeramani — of the previous AIADMK government to face action from the DVAC since the DMK returned to power. ‘Vindictive action’ AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami condemned the DVAC searches on the premises of former Minister C. Vijayabaskar. They said the ruling DMK’s vindictive action would give it only temporary joy. In a joint statement, they said the DMK could not digest the start of the AIADMK’s golden jubilee celebrations and unleashed the DVAC against the former Minister. “The AIADMK is like a sea whose depth cannot be seen. This movement will never rest or fall because of the DMK’s designs. No matter how many cases are filed against its workers, the AIADMK will see massive victories,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-files-disproportionate-assets-case-against-vijayabaskar/article37064133.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Clarification||With reference to the report, “Of HR&CE Act and appointment of non-Hindus”, published on October 18, advocate S. Srinivasa Raghavan pointed out that the order of Justice Chandru in the case between the Department of Archaeology and K.P.A. Nallamohamed, which was cited in the report, was set aside by a Division Bench of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court in writ appeal (MD) no. 247 of 2012 dated 22.8.2017. Rules amended The State government, however, in 2019, amended the rules for the appointment of epigraphists in the Archaeology Department. As per the amendment, Sanskrit is not mandatory for the appointment, and non-Hindus can also be appointed as epigraphists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clarification/article37064120.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the report on Coimbatore Marathon from December 1 to 31 that appeared on page 3 of dated October 18, the headline should read as CCF to organise Coimbatore Marathon from December 1 to 31 and not as published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article37064157.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Black and white||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/black-and-white/article37063987.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||18October2021 Campus Connect||The second ‘Indian Wikisource virtual competition’ was held for 17 days in August. It was run by Wikipedia volunteers to test the reality on Wikisource, one of Wikinews’ affiliate programmes. Nearly 197 multilingual users from India, Sri Lanka, Australia and other countries participated in the competition. P. Meena Panchavarnam and M. Saranya of II M.A Tamil, students of the Research Centre of Tamil, Fatima College, Madurai, participated in the competition. Books written in Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, Sanskrit, Punjabi, Kannada, Malayalam and Tamil were recommended for the proof reading competition. Participants who scored more than 350 points will be selected as winners in the respective State language level, and those with more than 1,000 points in all India level. Ms. Saranya secured the second place at the national level and Tamil wiki source community level by scoring 7,797 points in proof-reading 2,800 pages from 101 books. Ms. Meena Panchavarnam scored 540 points and secured the 13th place. Both took part in Tamil Wiki Project Internal Training during May - June.   Community Science College and Research Institute in Madurai celebrated World Food Day by conducting various events on October 16. The events were conducted in Mathur village on this year’s theme of ‘Save food now for a healthy tomorrow,’ announced by Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO), Rome. An exhibition was conducted to highlight the importance of balanced diet, traditional food, value-added food from millets, etc. A food dress competition was organised for children. Rangoli using grains, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables and fruits and technical lectures formed the rest of the events. The Dean, in her address, said a healthy future generation could be ensured through consumption of a balanced diet of proteins, carbohydrates and minerals which were abundant in local farm produce.   The Entrepreneur Development Cell of The Madura College organised a guest lecture on ‘Government schemes for first generation entrepreneurs’ on October 11. S. Venkatesh, Assistant Professor of English, welcomed the gathering. Principal J. Suresh highlighted the importance of skills needed for entrepreneurship. Mayilmurugan, HoD of Commerce, elaborated on ways and means to become a successful entrepreneur. Chief guest Sharmila Devi spoke on various schemes available for entrepreneurs, challenges they will face and the possible solutions. Professors K. Hemamalini Vennila, Karthikeyan, Sahul Hameed, Vishnupriya and S. Vishnupriya were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18october2021-campus-connect/article37064513.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CAMPUS CONNECT||M.A.M. College of Engineering conducted its 19th Graduation Ceremony to confer degrees on graduands who had completed UG and PG programmes. School Education Minister Ambil Mahesh Poyyamozhi addressed the students and handed over degrees to 284 students- 215 UG and 69 PG graduands. College Principal Ravi Maran presented a report on the activities of the institution.   As a component of its Excellence Series, Department of Management Studies, Shrimati Indira Gandhi College, organised a Webinar on 'Converting Commodities to Brand'. S. Amos Rolston Delrukson, Professor and Dean, Aachi Institute of Management and Entrepreneurial Development, Chennai, elaborated on branding of commodities and services, building emotional connections with brands, brand positioning and brand identity. K. Meena, Secretary, Shrimati Indira Gandhi College, presided over the webinar. K. Chandrasekharan, M.S., Chief Executive Officer, and S.Vidhyalakshmi, Principal, offered felicitations. Fifty MBA students took part in the webinar.   M.A.M. College of Engineering and Technology conducted its ninth Graduation Day by inviting Ashok Jhunjhunwala, Professor, Indian Institute of Technology, Chennai, to award degrees. The 300 graduands who were conferred degrees included 55 class toppers. In his address, Prof. Jhunjhunwala urged students to go for multi-disciplinary learning and take to entrepreneurship. Learning becomes a continuous process once the students enter industries, he said. The chief guest was shown the innovative electric light bulbs and electronic vehicles made by students on the occasion by the Principal X. Susan Christina. The graduating students were felicitated by M. Abdul Majedu, Chairman, M.A.M. Group of Institutions; M.A. Maluk Mohamed, Director and Correspondent, MASTeR Group of Institutions, and Fathima Bathol Maluk, Secretary and CEO.   The activities of the Entrepreneurship Development Cell of Jamal Mohamed College for this year were inaugurated by N. Kanagasabapathy, formerly president, Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries' Association and Director of RK Group of Companies. Delivering a talk on 'Successful Entrepreneurs', Mr. Kanagasabapathy, encouraged students to start own ventures with a vision. The inaugural function of Women's Wing of EDC was addressed by Navajyothi, Centre In-Charge, ICICI Academy, Thillai Nagar. College Secretary and Correspondent A.K. Khaja Nazeemudeen, spoke. Principal S. Ismail Mohideen presided over. At a National Webinar on 'Employment Opportunities for Students of Literature', M. Rajaram of A.V. Muthiah Government Arts College for Women, Dindigul, explained how literature could be of benefit in all spheres of life and the need to integrate employability skills. About 227 students and 70 faculty from across the country took part in the virtual programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect/article37064551.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||American Oncology Institute, Southern Railways and Royal Care Hospital: Signature campaign on breast cancer awareness, Coimbatore Railway Station, 9 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Internal women caring cell: awareness programme on health and hygiene, 3 p.m.    Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College : “Written Contest” Pollachi – Palani Road, Thippampatti, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37064158.ece
19 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘BJP used BSY to get power and then removed him’||Siddaramaiah, Leader of Opposition, and other leaders held a road show and a public rally in Sindagi to campaign for Congress candidate Ashok Managuli on Monday. Mr. Siddaramaiah, M. Mallikarjun Kharge, and other Congress leaders addressed a campaign rally in Moratagi village later. Mr. Siddaramaiah claimed that M.C. Managuli, former MLA, approached him and other leaders to induct his son in the Congress. “Mr. M.C. Managuli passed away soon after that. As per his father’s wishes, Mr. Ashok Managuli has joined the Congress,” he said. He alleged that the BJP leadership had removed B.S. Yediyurappa from the Chief Minister’s post, after utilising him to bring the party to power in Karnataka. “Mr. Yediyurappa, who cannot live without power, used immoral means to come to power. He spent money to buy Opposition MLAs and shift the political equations in the Assembly,” he said. He criticised the BJP for “failing to manage the COVID-19 epidemic effectively and to protect the poor from the ill effects of the lockdown”. The Central and the State Governments failed to provide enough hospital beds, medicines, or oxygen to patients during the epidemic. It left people to die in the streets. This is nothing but systemic murder he said. “Will you vote for such mass murderers,” he asked the crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-used-bsy-to-get-power-and-then-removed-him/article37064240.ece
19 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Action sought||Athani-based lawyer and Congress leader Bheemanagouda Paragonda has sought action against the police who allegedly assaulted a young boy who had come to see the Chief Minister in Kundoor village in Davangere district on Sunday. Mr. Paragonda filed complaints against unidentified police personnel on duty who, he said, attacked Nitish. He has sent copies of the complaint to the Governor, State Human Rights Commission and the Director-General and Inspector-General of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-sought/article37064232.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC identifies six intercity routes to run AC electric buses||Six intercity routes have been identified by the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) to run electric buses (e-buses). Through a private operator, the KSRTC will run 50 air-conditioned e-buses under the Centre’s FAME 2 Scheme (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles in India). From a common point, the buses will be operated from Bengaluru to Mysuru, Chikkamagaluru, Virajpet, Shivamogga, Madikeri, and Davangere. The tender process has been completed to select an operator. An official of the KSRTC said that a Hyderabad-based company has quoted lower operational cost for running e-buses. KSRTC will pay Rs. 55 per kilometre to the private operator. When it comes to the fare, existing AC bus fares will be applicable to e-buses as well. A KSRTC official said that on the identified routes, AC multi-axle buses are already operating and some of them may be replaced with the new fleet of e-buses or additional buses will be operated. “We planned to operate e-buses on inter-state routes. However, FAME 2 guidelines state that e-buses inducted under the scheme should be operated on intercity routes. Six routes identified are popular routes. Depending on the demand, the e-buses will be operated during the day and night,” the official said. In 2019, the Central Government announced subsidies for operating e-buses through a private player. In 2020, KSRTC floated a tender, but it was scrapped after the bidders quoted exorbitant operational cost. In 2021, the tender was floated again as lockdown norms eased, and the KSRTC opened financial bidding. The tender process has now been completed and the KSRTC will approach the board seeking clearance. The official said that for each e-bus, the private player will get a subsidy of Rs. 55 lakh. “Earlier, we had sought extension for using the subsidy citing the pandemic and other reasons. Induction of e-buses depends on when the private operator will receive the subsidy amount. We are hoping that it will be done as early as possible.” The private player has to run each bus for 450 km every day. KSRTC will provide the conductor, while the private operator has to employ drivers, maintenance staff, and provide infrastructure for charging, among others. Among the four road transport corporations, the BMTC has received an e-bus under the smart city project. The BMTC plans to start non-AC e-buses from November 1 with six buses. Buses will be operated as metro feeder services. On the other hand, NWKRTC is expected to open financial bidding for 50 e-buses in a couple of days. The official said that Kalyana Karnataka Road Transport Corporation has decided not to avail subsidy under the Central scheme citing non feasibility of running e-buses in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-identifies-six-intercity-routes-to-run-ac-electric-buses/article37064064.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Classes to begin, but concerns remain||Physical classes for primary school students will begin next week, a decision welcomed by many. But, concerns over restarting schools and its modalities remain. Mullahalli Suri, president, Parents’ Association, said given the recent development that Covaxin vaccine is being cleared for children, it may have been prudent to wait, get the children vaccinated before restarting physical classes. “These are young children and it may be tough to make them comply with COVID-19 Appropriate Behaviour (CAB). Given that 20 months are already lost, waiting for a few more months would not have been an issue,” he said. Given that schools restarting is a reality now, he said government guidelines that only doubly vaccinated teachers will be allowed in classrooms was insufficient. “We prefer all teaching and non-teaching staff to be tested for COVID-19 and only those who report negative must be allowed to work,” he suggested. Schools welcome move However, school managements have welcomed the move to restart physical classes, arguing that it was the need of the hour. “Younger kids need to be back in school as they have been socially isolated since March 2020. The psychological impact of this has manifested in many kids and unfortunately will continue to do so over the next few years,” said Shweta Sastri, MD, Canadian International School. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools, welcomed the decision, but termed some of the guidelines issued by the government “impractical”. “The guidelines stipulate only 50% of students can be allowed in a classroom and the Minister has suggested a hybrid model of online and offline teaching, with two batches of students attending physical classes on alternate days. We tried this with higher classes and failed. Neither can teachers handle online and offline classes simultaneously, nor can we teach the same portion twice and cover the syllabus. Students will have to come to schools mandatorily,” he said. Not all school managements hold that opinion. Aloysius D’Mello, principal, Greenwood High International School, said: “The rotationary class days may help in pragmatically balancing online and offline learning while reducing infection risks”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/classes-to-begin-but-concerns-remain/article37064070.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Swimming pools allowed to reopen||Based on the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) recommendation, the Government on Monday announced further relaxation in COVID-19 restrictions, allowing swimming pools to reopen with certain conditions. Only those with two dose vaccination certificates would be allowed, said the order issued by Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar here on Monday. Screening of users Pools have been asked to restrict the numbers to 50% of the capacity and users should be screened for fever and respiratory symptoms. Pools have been asked to disinfect walkways, restrooms and other common areas used by swimmers after every batch. Further easing operations at the airports in Karnataka for international arrivals, SPO2 routine check (except in cases of fever, cough, cold and difficulty in breathing, etc.) has been discontinued. The RT-PCR test report checking on arrival, except for those from selected countries notified by the Union Government, has also been discontinued. Instead, there will be mandatory uploading of RT-PCR report on Air Suvidha portal by the passenger and checking of the same by the airlines concerned before the boarding of the passenger. Airports have been asked to reorganise the monitoring of passengers through automated thermal cameras. With respect to protocol of quarantine for arrivals from the United Kingdom, the prevailing guidelines issued by the Union Government would be followed. Clarification would be issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swimming-pools-allowed-to-reopen/article37064071.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State Govt. halts move to privatise Mysugar||The State Government on Monday announced that it would halt the move to privatise the loss-making Mysore Sugar Company Ltd. (Mysugar). While an earlier Cabinet decision to privatise the unit will be reviewed based on an expert committee’s recommendation, the factory is set to commence crushing from next season. The announcement came from Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai soon after he chaired a nearly three-hour high-level meeting with farmers’ representatives and elected representatives from Mandya district. Ministers J.C. Madhuswamy, Shankar Patil Munenakoppa, Narayana Gowda, and S.T. Somashekar were also present. The privatisation move of the only State-owned sugar factory in Karnataka, which is nearly a century old, had come under intense opposition from the Janata Dal (S) and Congress while farmers had been staging protests for weeks in Mandya. Last week, when Mr. Bommai met the farmers, he had assured them of an amicable solution. “An expert committee will be set up to study the condition of the machinery and other technical aspects, the finances needed to restart the factory, and the working capital needed to make payments to farmers for sugarcane,” the Chief Minister told reporters, adding that the expert committee report would be sought within three months. “To make the factory financially viable, the committee will also study the aspects of value addition of converting molasses. Whether the molasses will be used in distillery or for ethanol will be studied. Till then, an efficient officer will be posted as MD of the factory. Along with him, industrial experts will be appointed and the Auditor General’s help will be sought to audit accounts,” he said. Once the report is received, Mr. Bommai said the matter would be placed before the Cabinet to review the earlier decision to give factory on lease. “Meanwhile, the government will restart crushing of cane from next season. I have told the officials that whatever money is required for an overhaul of machinery to restart crushing will be provided,” the Chief Minister said. He said that discussions during the meeting revolved around the problems and ground realities, and the farmers expressed fear about trouble arising out of privatisation.  An expert committee will be set up to study the condition of the machinery and other technical aspects, the finances needed to restart the factory, and the working capital needed to make payments to farmers for sugarcane Basavaraj Bommai,Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-halts-move-to-privatise-mysugar/article37064083.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||138-year-old building deemed unsafe, razed by BBMP||A 138-year-old building on Ibrahim Sahib Street in Shivajinagar, which was deemed unsafe, was razed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Saturday. According to Iqbal Ahmed, who lived in the building that was constructed in 1883, there was a time when nearly 60 people lived in the heritage structure. “Over a period of time, many people moved out. There still were seven families living in the building, which also housed a total of six shops,” he said. Following heavy rains last week, a portion of the house collapsed. This prompted the BBMP to issue a notice, apart from putting up a poster outside the structure cautioning the public about the dangerous building that could collapse any time. “The day after the notice was issued, the BBMP officials came and demolished the building. We were neither able to retrieve or salvage any of the antique items that were inside,” Mr. Ahmed said and added that the structure is under litigation. The BBMP has now asked the building owners to pay Rs. 3.5 lakh as demolition charges. Heritage structures The razing of this old structure in the central business district raises questions about action against heritage structures that may be in a dilapidated condition. Meera Iyer, convener of INTACH, said that ideally, decisions on razing heritage structures should be taken by the Heritage Conservation Committee. For Bengaluru, there should be in place the Bengaluru Urban Arts Commission (BUAC), which should take a call on such issues, she said. “In July, in a case regarding a heritage building, the Karnataka High Court had directed that decisions regarding any heritage structure must be taken by a Heritage Conservation Committee. If there is no committee in place, it must be set up before such decisions can be taken, the court had noted,” she said. As per the draft Revised Master Plan drawn up by the Bangalore Development Authority, there were over 500 heritage structures in the city, which included government buildings, institutions, and private properties. However, Ms. Iyer pointed out that the list was not comprehensive. This is where the constitution of the BUAC becomes important, as the committee can not just identify heritage structures, but also draw up a plan for their conservation, she added. With a number of private properties also deemed heritage, the BUAC could, with approval from the government, come out with out-of-the-box plans for conservation of such structures. For instance, the heritage committee in one of the cities provides incentives to owners of heritage structures towards maintenance. Meanwhile, BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that as per the preliminary report of the new survey of old and dilapidated buildings in the city, there were over 300 such structures. “We are in the process of issuing notices to the owners of these buildings. Depending on the structural stability of the building, we will take action to demolish it or allow the owners to take corrective measures,” he said. He reiterated that irrespective of whether the building was government owned or private property, action would be taken if it is deemed unsafe. Asked if any compensation will be given to the owners of the buildings razed in Kamalanagar, Mr. Gupta said the zonal joint commissioner would decide based on the guidelines specified under Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/138-year-old-building-deemed-unsafe-razed-by-bbmp/article37064060.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘CM’s justification of moral policing will instigate more hooliganism’||Saying that Karnataka was witnessing rising instances of honour killing and communal politics, Naveddu Nilladidre, a collective fighting for human and women’s rights, said on Monday that it was extremely concerning that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was justifying such developments. Referring to the killing of a Muslim youth in Khanapur in Belagavi district, allegedly by members of Sri Ram Sene Hindustan, the collective said it was shocking that such ghastly killings were still taking place in India. The freedom to choose one’s partner has been bestowed upon citizens by the Constitution, said K.S. Vimala of the All India Democratic Women’s Association. To add to the problem, she said, “Mr. Bommai has justified that moral policing should be seen through the prism of action and reaction. This is a direct justification of such actions.” She said the Chief Minister was prioritising moral policing over harmony in society and such an attitude would instigate more hooliganism and destroy public health. We condemn the statement of the Chief Minister,” she said. While commending the role of the Belagavi police in arresting the 10 accused of murdering 24-year-old Arbaz Mulla in Khanapur, the collective said that the State should not derail the probe or put any political or communal pressure on it. The collective also urged the government to compensate the victim’s mother and provide her adequate security. “The government should protect the rights of individuals guaranteed by the Constitution,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cms-justification-of-moral-policing-will-instigate-more-hooliganism/article37064080.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM inspects rain-affected areas||Faulty drain network, sewage let into the drains, difference in levels impeding the flow of water in the drains and most importantly, lack of coordination between the different civic agencies and utilities — these were some of the reasons cited by the residents of HSR Layout for the chronic flooding issue. Early on Monday morning, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, accompanied by a posse of officials from BBMP and BWSSB, inspected HSR Layout and surrounding areas. During an interaction with Mr. Bommai, residents pointed to the need for a separate drain for the localities surrounding Agara lake. They also urged him to direct officials to take stringent action against a developer for allegedly blocking a portion of the main drain between HSR Layout and Bellandur. Many residents urged Mr. Bommai to ensure proper coordination between the civic agencies and utilities. Speaking to reporters later, the Chief Minister underscored the need for permanent solutions to the flooding issue. “This is a low-lying area and this is what happens when one interferes with flow of water. The town has been built without planning… the load on the drains has increased with the increase in the number of layouts and homes that have come up,” he said. He also pointed out that the underground drainage lines were lower than the main drains, which was one of the reasons for sewage not flowing properly. He directed officials concerned to not just increase the capacity of the existing drains, but also take up level correction apart from constructing a parallel drain specifically for the localities that are prone to flooding. The BBMP officials have been directed to complete this work within four to five months. Mr. Bommai noted that the sewage treatment plant at Agara lake was not working at its full capacity. Admitting to the lack of coordination between BBMP, BWSSB and other civic agencies and utilities, he said a structure for regular coordination meetings would be put in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-inspects-rain-affected-areas/article37064068.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Goudar case: Govt. call on CBI probe upheld||The High Court of Karnataka has upheld the State Government’s decision to ask the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to further investigate a murder case following a complaint that the State police had intentionally not probed the alleged involvement of the then Minister Vinay Kulkarni. The court held that there was no bar in law on the State Government to order “further investigation” by the CBI even after the High Court’s earlier rejection of a petition filed by the mother and the brother of the deceased person seeking a CBI probe. “The parameters for exercise of both the distinct powers of the government and the courts are naturally different. And it is always possible and permissible, that even after the constitutional court declines to exercise its extraordinary judicial power holding that the case does not involve circumstances which are rare or exceptional, the State Government can exercise its ordinary executive powers under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 in granting consent for the probe by the CBI, the court said A Division Bench, comprising Justice B. Veerappa and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda, passed the order while dismissing the petitions filed by Mr. Vinay Kulkarni and four others. The petitioners had questioned the legality of the September 6, 2019 Government Order entrusting “further investigation” into the case related to the murder of Yogishgouda Goudar, who was a zilla panchayat member in Dharwad representing the BJP. Yogishgouda Goudar was murdered in June 2016 and his family members had alleged that Mr. Kulkarni was behind the murder but he was protected by the police due to his political power. The CBI, which took up further investigation, filed additional charge sheets arraigning Mr. Kulkarni and a few others as accused in addition to the charge sheet filed against some of the accused by the local police. The CBI had also arraigned earlier investigating officer of the local police station and his superior police officer as accused on the charges of scuttling the probe by taking illegal gratification. Noticing that the brother of the deceased, during the trial, had deposed that the investigation officer had not conducted the probe in a fair manner causing injustice to the victim, the Bench said that materials produced before it “clearly depicts that the local investigating officers have not conducted the investigation in a fair and proper manner to both the victim as well as theaccused persons”. The petitioner-accused persons have not made out a case as to how they were prejudiced by facing trial, the Bench said while rejecting their petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/goudar-case-govt-call-on-cbi-probe-upheld/article37064077.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residential building catches fire, no one hurt||A three-storeyed independent house situated on Langford Road near Nanjappa circle in Shantinagar was gutted in an accidental fire which broke out in one of the rooms on Monday evening. Anu Kulkarni, one of the residents, noticed thick smoke billowing out from the house followed by fire, and alerted the fire control room. Four fire tenders rushed to the spot and contained the fire after one and a half hours. No one was injured and the inmates rushed out as soon as the fire was noticed. The team evacuated the neighbouring building to safety and contained the fire before it could spread, an fire officer said. The officials suspect that the fire broke out from a lamp in the prayer room. As the house had wood work, the fire spread fast to the other areas and the furniture and other goods were destroyed. The Ashoknagar police, along with the FSL and technical expert team, are probing the exact cause of the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residential-building-catches-fire-no-one-hurt/article37064062.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Actor Shankar Rao dead||Senior theatre personality and actor Shankar Rao passed away in Bengaluru city on Monday. He was 84 years old. Mr. Shankar Rao, who hailed from Tumakuru, had been active on the Kannada stage since the early 1960s and was associated with the theatre troupe ‘Nataranga’ all his life. He also essayed character roles infilms and in several serials, and was a popular face on the Kannada small screen. His comic timing, on display in serials such as Paapa Pandu , was critically acclaimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/actor-shankar-rao-dead/article37064079.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees spurt in dengue cases; over 1,300 cases reported last month||Even as the State is seeing a wane in COVID-19 cases, there has been a spurt in dengue cases with 1,303 cases being reported in the last one month alone. The State has reported a total of 4,398 cases from January till date (October 18). However, there have been no deaths so far. In 2020, the State had reported 3,685 cases from January to December. With 16% of the State’s total cases in 2021 being reported in Bengaluru, the city continued to record the highest number of positive cases. From 351 cases in July, Bengaluru’s dengue tally has doubled to touch 717 as on October 18. Hospitals in the city are getting over 20 patients with suspected dengue almost every day. Doctors said they are seeing 7-8 admissions every day. Doctors at the State-run Victoria and K.C. General Hospitals said they are seeing over 20 patients every day with viral fever and dengue-like symptoms. “Of these, on an average 10 test positive for dengue and 7-8 require admissions every day,” said a senior doctor from the Department of Medicine at Victoria Hospital. “We have admitted over 70 patients, especially paediatric cases, for viral fever and suspected dengue since the last two weeks,” said B.R. Venkateshaiah, medical superintendent of K.C. General Hospital. Attributing the spurt to the huge surge in density of mosquito population, Pramod V. Satya, consultant (internal medicine) and diabetologist at Vikram hospitals (a unit of Manipal Hospitals), said early symptoms of fever and body pain should not be ignored. Cases in districts According to data from the State Health and Family Welfare Department, Kalaburagi has recorded the highest number (369) among districts other than Bengaluru. Kalaburagi is followed by Shivamogga (322), Udupi (312), and Dakshina Kannada (221). Health officials said dengue in Karnataka has been following a pattern of spiking every alternate year. According to data, 6,083 cases and eight deaths were reported in 2016 while 17,844 cases and 10 deaths were reported in 2017 followed by 4,848 cases and four deaths in 2018. The next year, the State saw 18,183 cases and 17 deaths followed by 3,685 cases in 2020. “Although only 1,234 dengue cases were reported till July 2, the numbers have shot up to 4,398 now. Cases are likely to further go up after the rains,” said a senior health official from the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme. K.V. Trilok Chandra, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health), attributed the dengue spurt to intermittent rains and resultant water logging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-spurt-in-dengue-cases-over-1300-cases-reported-last-month/article37064073.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man has narrow escape after thief pulls him out of train||It was a narrow escape for a 40-year-old civil engineer, who was dragged out of a moving train by a thief while robbing his phone at Channasandra railway station on Friday. The victim, Prasanna Kumar Donkada, is a manager at a construction company presently supervising a hospital project in Kalaburagi. He had come to visit his friend in Kengeri Satellite town and after the meeting, he boarded KK Express from KSR station with a reserved ticket to return to Kalaburagi. It was around 6.45 p.m. when the train was about to reach Channasandra station and Mr. Donkada went to wash his face at the wash basin near the door. Suddenly, a man aged around 25, came running to him from the platform and before he could realise it, snatched his phone. Mr. Donkada held the phone tightly, and in the melee, he was pulled out of the moving train. He lost his balance and crashed on the footpath and fell unconscious, and the accused managed to flee with the phone worth Rs. 27,000. A few people on the platform rushed to his help and shifted him to a nearby hospital in an ambulance. On Saturday, Mr. Donkada gained consciousness and gave a statement to the Baiyappanahalli police, who have taken up a case of robbery and Section 153 (Endangering safety of persons travelling by railway by wilful act) of the Indian Railway Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-has-narrow-escape-after-thief-pulls-him-out-of-train/article37064065.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Will work to make Karnataka HC best judiciary: Awasthi||Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi, the new Chief Justice of Karnataka, on Monday said he would try to make the High Court of Karnataka the best judiciary in the country. “It will be my endeavour to make our courts accessible to all sections of society and to protect the interests of the marginalised and underprivileged communities,” he said while replying to the ceremonial welcome given to him by the court and the Karnataka State Bar Council. “I assure you that it will be my endeavour to make Karnataka the best judiciary in the country with the cooperation of all the stakeholders and continuing the good work of my predecessors,” he said, pointing out that the Karnataka judiciary was ahead in the use of modern technology. “My brother and sister judges of this court worked relentlessly and they received excellent cooperation from the members of the Bar. As a result, the case clearance ratio of the High Court has been exceeding the number of cases filed. It is a great privilege to have this opportunity to serve as the Chief Justice of this High Court,” he said. While assuring the members of the Bar that he would be ready to resolve their issues by holding discussions with them, the Chief Justice said he would try to ensure administrative decisions are taken after proper talks and with transparency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-work-to-make-karnataka-hc-best-judiciary-awasthi/article37064078.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BU starts two new courses||With the implementation of NEP, Bangalore University is starting four-year BA and B.Sc honours degree courses at its Jnanabharathi campus for the current academic year. In a release, V-C Venugopal said both courses are multi-disciplinary allowing students to select electives across disciplines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bu-starts-two-new-courses/article37064066.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 214 new cases, 12 deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 214 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,83,673. With 83 cases, Bengaluru Urban reported the least number of cases (in double digits) for the first time after months. With 12 deaths, including four from Bengaluru, the toll rose to 37,953. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 488 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 29,36,527. The State now has 9,164 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.27%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 5.61%. As many as 77,901 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 65,756 RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-registers-214-cases/article37064075.ece
19 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Krishi Mela from Nov. 11||This year’s edition of Krishi Mela of the University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru will be held from November 11 to 14 on the GKVK campus. According to a release from the university, the mela will be held both on physical and virtual platforms. As many as 10 new crop varieties and 28 new farm technologies will be released at the event, which is to be held as per COVID-19 protocols. The mela will also have an exhibition on farm machinery and technology in over 250 stalls. State, district, and taluk-level awards will be presented to innovative farmers on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krishi-mela-from-nov-11/article37064081.ece
19 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||DKS expresses regret||KPCC president D. K. Shivakumar has expressed regret over the tweet by his party that had ridiculed Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “I have always believed that civil and parliamentary language is a non-negotiable prerequisite for political discourse. An uncivil tweet made by a novice social media manager through the Karnataka Congress official Twitter handle is regretted and stands withdrawn,” he said, in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dks-expresses-regret/article37064084.ece
19 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Lack of safety protocol at tourist spots slammed||Environmentalists of Chikkamagaluru have criticized the district administration for not taking any measures to control people visiting tourist places of the district in huge numbers, beyond the carrying capacity. D.V. Girish of Bhadra Wild Conservation Trust, S. Girijashankar, a former member of State Wildlife Board, and Sridev Hulikere of WildCAT-C, in a press release issued here on Monday, said the district administration had remained mute spectator though a large number of people were visiting tourist places. During the Dasara holidays, hundreds visited Chandradrona Hill ranges, Devaramane, Kudremukh, Bhadra wildlife sanctuary and other places. There was a heavy movement of vehicles, causing traffic jams. But no measures were taken to control pollution in the tourist spots. Many environmentalists and civilians had urged the district administration to impose certain restrictions on the tourists. However, the it did not take any steps. “We are not opposed to tourists visiting. But they should not litter the places. The administration should take measures in the interest of sensitive areas around,” the environmentalists said. They also pointed out the recent increase in the number of homestays in the district. Many of them were not following rules set by the administration. The municipal waste generated by the homestays had not been treated scientifically. The administration should take action against such homestays, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/environmentalists-criticise-lack-of-safety-protocol-at-tourist-spots/article37064322.ece
19 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Liquor shop owner gets 30-day extension||The women residents of Anche Chomanahalli in Kadur taluk, who fought against the liquor shop at Bapuji Colony in the village in August this year and succeeded to get an order for its closure, are now disappointed. The owner of the shop has got one more month to relocate his shop from the Excise Department. The women from migrating communities - Sudagadu Sidda and Hakki Pikk - had staged a six-day protest in front of the shop demanding its closure. They were worried that their families would be ruined if the shop is opened close to their locality. Considering their protest, Deputy Commissioner of Excise K.K.Sumitha issued an order on August 17, for the closure of the shop within 60 days. The shop owner was asked to relocate it. The order was issued as per the Karnataka Excise Act, 1967, which prohibits the establishment of liquor shops within 100 metres of a religious place, school, hospital and SC-ST residential locality. The Hindu had carried a report on the issue on August 23. “We were all happy when we got the closure order. We were counting the days of closure and expecting that it would be closed on Sunday, the deadline,” said C.K. Manjunath, a farmer and activist of the village. Excise Department officials showed them an order that gave one more month to the shop owner to relocate. He had appealed to the Commissioner of Excise challenging the DC’s order. As his appeal is pending before the commissioner, he had appealed to the DC for more time to shift. “For the last 60 days, we have gone through hell. The shop opens early in the morning. Including my husband, most men in our colony go to the shop in the morning to get drunk. We work hard in the agriculture fields to earn and a major share of our income goes to the liquor shop. We pray to the administration to close it,” said Nethramma, in tears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/liquor-shop-owner-gets-30-day-extension/article37064319.ece
19 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 21 new cases, 2 deaths in Hassan||Hassan reported 21 fresh cases of COVID-19 and two deaths on Monday. With that, the total number of cases increased to 1,11,462 and death toll rose to 1,368. Among the fresh cases 17 were in Hassan taluk, and one each in Alur, Belur, Channarayapatna and Holenarasipur taluks. As many as 258 people are under treatment in the district. In Shivamogga Shivamogga district reported 11 fresh cases of COVID-19 on the day. Among them, two each were from Shivamogga, Bhadravati, Shikaripura taluks, three in Thirthahalli and one each in Sagar and Hosanagar taluks. So far 1,071 people have died due to the infection in Shivamogga district. As many as 57 people are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-21-new-cases-2-deaths-in-hassan/article37064317.ece
19 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Innovations must for making farming remunerative’||Magsaysay Award winner and founder-chairman of SELCO Harish Hande has said that at a time when climate change is affecting small and marginal farmers, there is a need for innovations to make small-holding farming attractive and remunerative. Delivering an address at the 34th convocation of the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Dharwad, on Monday, he said that there is also a need for designing financial products to cater to the needs of women engaged in farming and other marginal farmers. Mr. Hande said that as agriculture is the backbone of Indian economy, it needs revitalisation. And, decentralised sustainable energy will play a major role in achieving this, he added. He said that climate change has made rainfall unpredictable and the depleting groundwater table has brought more challenges before the farmers. “More than 69% of India is dry and arid. It is facing a severe risk of droughts. Nearly 85% of rural women are engaged in labour-intensive processes such as sowing, winnowing and harvesting with limited access to technology, finance, skills and policy-making,” he said. Mr. Hande said that there is a need for strengthening the market linkages. At the same time, ensuring environmentally sound and sustainable practices, along with and revitalisation, are a must. He told the fresh graduates and post-graduates of agricultural sciences that these are solvable challenges and they should address them. “Decentralised sustainable energy is a tool that can address many of these needs, not only in empowering them with better livelihood opportunities and healthcare services but also in enabling them with solutions that mitigate or help adapt to climate change. There is a wonderful link between development and sustainable energy. Sustainable energy interventions such as solar power can democratise the delivery of health, education and livelihood applications; all of which are critical for the poor to come out of extreme poverty,” he said. “The beauty of solar power is that it is also modular in nature. It need not be transported across hundreds of kilometres with transmission losses, challenges of reliability and extreme weather events. Being modular and decentralised, the poor can generate their own power as per their immediate and long-term requirements, thus making access affordable,” he explained. Mr. Hande called upon farm graduates to develop replicable models and processes that can help create a more inclusive world and also help transform society. Welcoming the gathering, Vice-Chancellor of UAS, Dharwad, Mahadev Chetti briefed about the achievements of the university. Degrees awarded Governor and Chancellor Thawarchand Gehlot conferred degrees on eligible candidates and presented gold medals and prizes to meritorious students. A total of 911 candidates were conferred graduate and post-graduates degrees in various disciplines, while 63 candidates received doctoral degrees. As many as 53 gold medals were presented to 25 candidates. Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil, deans and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/innovations-must-for-making-farming-remunerative/article37064239.ece
19 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||UAS-D teachers withdraw indefinite agitation after Governor’s assurance||Faculty members of the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Dharwad, who launched an indefinite agitation a fortnight ago, withdrew their protest on Monday following assurances from Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot. The Governor, who presided over the 34th convocation of UAS, Dharwad, on Monday, went to the site of the agitation by the teachers and assured them of making sincere efforts to fulfil their demands within the next 10-12 days. After a patient hearing of their grievances and demands, the Governor said that he had some experience in solving labour issues and promised to solve their issue in the next 10-12 days. He also pointed out that during his last visit to the university, a month ago, he did not receive any memorandum from them on their problems. “Had you put forward your demands then, by this time they would have been solved,” he told them. The Governor said that on his return to Bengaluru he would convene a meeting of board of management, representatives of the government, and also the teachers’ federation. “The meeting will resolve the issue. Please withdraw your protest and engage classes for the benefit of the students,” he said. President of the teachers’ association I.K. Kalappanavar and secretary Mahantesh Nayak informed the Governor of their demands. Then they announced that they were withdrawing their agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uas-d-teachers-withdraw-indefinite-agitation-after-governors-assurance/article37064242.ece
19 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Branding needed for regular market’||The former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar has said that there is a need for proper branding and good networking to ensure that indigenous products, especially those produced by micro woman entrepreneurs, have a regular market. He was inaugurating Authentic Karnataka outlet of Swavalambi Sakhi Producers Company Limited (SSPCL) at Shirur Park in Hubballi on Monday. Supported by NABARD and Deshpande Foundation, the SSPCL outlet showcases unique, handmade and home-made products from micro woman entrepreneurs. Referring to how branding helped in ensuring a regular market for consumer products, Mr. Shettar said that it is heartening to note that more than 250 micro woman entrepreneurs have come forward to form their own company and brand their products instead of restricting themselves to a small customer base. Mr. Shettar said that such success stories of women from their neighbourhood will motivate more women to take up self-employment and commended NABARD and Deshpande Foundation for the help they extended to micro entrepreneurs. General Manager of NABARD C.V. Reddy said that supporting artisans meant safeguarding the tradition and culture and also providing livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/branding-needed-for-regular-market/article37064236.ece
19 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Painting exhibition||Artists from Kalaburagi, Bidar and Yadgir districts will organise an Islamic calligraphy paintings exhibition to mark Milad-un-Nabi at Kalaburagi on Tuesday. Artists Mohammed Ayazuddin Patel, Rehman Patel, Shahed Pasha, Shaikh Ahsan, Syed Mustafa, Kahkashan Nazneen, Abdul Basha and Abdul Raheem will exhibit their artworks. Gulbarga University Vice-Chancellor Dayanand Agsar will inaugurate the exhibition. Secretary of Ideal Fine Art Society V.G Andani will preside over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/painting-exhibition/article37064234.ece
19 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Tourist footfall picks up in twin districts||The decrease in COVID-19 test positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, which has coincided with the festive season, has resulted in drastic increase in the footfall of tourists to beaches and temple towns in the twin districts, according to stakeholders. “Tourist visits to the region have increased significantly and it is more than what we have seen during the festival season during the pre-COVID-19 days,” said General Manager of The Ocean Pearl B.N. Girish. The former Chief Executive Officer of Panambur Beach Development Project Yatish Baikampady, who runs a home stay, said that the increase in tourists has far exceeded the accommodation facilities available in the city, which tourists make their base for their visits to places in and around the region. “With difficulty in getting rooms in hotels, tourists are moving to home stays,” he said. Ravilochan Achar, who runs Kuteera Home Stay in Hosabettu here, said that there is a preference for “stay vacation” through which families stay in home stays for more than a week. “Elders prefer to work from home stays, while the younger ones continue with their online studies,” he said. Mr. Achar said that a good number of families opting for stay vacation are those coming from Bengaluru. There are also tourists who are coming for a short three-day visit to go to temples and beaches. Tourists are holidaying in adherence to COVID-19 norms, he added. To promote tourism sector, Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath said, Mangaluru Smart City Limited has taken up a host of activities, including development of riverfront development where water sports, kayaking and floating restaurants have been planned. “We have also proposed to take up development of “Kudrus” (river islands),” he said. Activities in the region were unlocked over a month ago. Restrictions continue for those coming from Kerala and Mumbai, who are asked to produce RT-PCR negative certificate, not older than 72 hours of their visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourist-footfall-picks-up-in-twin-districts/article37064530.ece
19 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Beach cleaning yields plastic waste||People, including government employees, who cleaned Malpe Beach in Udupi, collected over 80 bags of plastic waste on Sunday. Various government departments organised the cleaning programme as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat, who launched the programme, said that cleaning should be a daily practice. It should not be restricted to any particular day, he said. All should understand that keeping the surroundings clean is the responsibility of everyone. It should be in the minds of all, he added. Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said that all tourist places should be kept clean. Tourists should bear in mind that they should not pollute the place they visit, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beach-cleaning-yields-plastic-waste/article37064525.ece
19 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Complaints filed with police against book||Activists of the Campus Front of India on Sunday filed complaints at five police stations in the city against a book by B.R. Ramachandraiah, Assistant Professor in a college in Tumakuru, stating that it has reference to Prophet Mohammed. In a statement, the CFI said that in the English book, The essence of value education”, there is a derogatory reference to Prophet Mohammed. This book has been prescribed as a reference book for the optional “Value Education” subject for B.Ed Third Semester by some universities in the State. The activists sought legal action against the author for hurting their religious sentiments and fuelling communal hatred. They filed complaints with the Mangaluru Rural, Bajpe, Mangaluru South, Mangaluru North and Kavoor police stations in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complaints-filed-with-police-against-book/article37064526.ece
19 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Minority Corporation employee arrested||The police have arrested Mohammed Farook, District Manager of the Minority Development Corporation, for alleged sexual harassment of an employee of the corporation. On a complaint from the victim, who was working on contract basis with the corporation, the Women Police arrested Farook on Wednesday last. He has been accused of offences under Sections 354 (a), 354 (d) and 506 of Indian Penal Code. Mr. Farook was produced before a jurisdictional court on Thursday when he was released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minority-corporation-employee-arrested/article37064527.ece
19 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||ONGC Chairman reviews desalination plant work||Chairman and Managing Director of ONGC Subhash Kumar visited MRPL and other group companies from October 16 to October 18. Mr. Kumar, who is also the Chairman of the MRPL board of directors, reviewed the progress of the desalination plant being set up by MRPL near Tannirbhavi and also the FGTU unit inside MRPL. He also paid a visit to the OMPL and the ISPRL units. The Chairman steered a strategy meet on October 17 to assess the current performance of MRPL and also to list out the areas and strategies to be adopted to help the company achieve greater efficiency in view of the challenging times ahead. He was joined by all the directors of the company through the online and the offline modes for the meet, a MPRL release said on Monday. The board of directors, Rohit Mathur, Joint Secretary (General), (Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas), and R.T. Agarwal, Independent Director, were also with the Chairman. M. Venkatesh, Managing Director, MRPL was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ongc-chairman-reviews-desalination-plant-work/article37064534.ece
19 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NSS unit of University College bags award||The NSS unit of the University College, Hampankatta, here and its programme officer have bagged State-level awards for 2018-19 from the State Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports. Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the college Bharathi Pilar has been honoured with the State-level Best NSS Program Officer. The NSS unit of the college too received the Best NSS unit State award. Principal of the college Anasuya Rai and Ms. Pilar received the award from the Minister of Youth Empowerment and Sports K.C. Narayana Gowda in Bengaluru recently, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nss-unit-of-university-college-bags-award/article37064523.ece
19 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Ugandan national traced to Bengaluru||One of the two women from Uganda, who escaped from the State Home for Women in Mysuru, has been traced to Bengaluru. The two women from Uganda, who had overstayed in the country after expiry of their visas, were due to be deported to their native country. However, on Saturday night they escaped from the State Home for Women in Vijayangar in Mysuru, where they had been detained till the formalities for their deportation were completed. While the search for the other woman continues, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) in Mysuru City Pradeep Gunti said the traced woman wouldbe produced before the Foreigners’ Regional Registration Office (FRRO) and shifted to a suitable location. The Ugandan women will be shifted to a place based on the FRRO’s directions, he said. A team of police officials from the Vijaynagar police station in Mysuru is in Bengaluru in this connection. Meanwhile, officials at the State Home for Women in Mysuru said they had already made it clear to the FRRO against sending foreigners, who had been detained for overstaying in the country, to their facility. The official said it was difficult to provide the detainees protection and prevent them from escaping from its premises. The State Home for Women in Vijayangar has not been built to keep such persons. The premises, which has a short compound, does not have a proper gate. Though the Superintendent of the Home had written to the authorities to carry out repairs, the proposal had been kept pending. “That is the reason why police security had been sought when the women from Uganda were sent here,” the official said. It may be mentioned here that the two women from Uganda were part of a group of 13 foreigners rounded up by the Bengaluru police more than two months ago for overstaying in the country. After five of them managed to escape from the State Home for Women in Siddapura in Bengaluru, the FRRO split the remaining in two batches of four each and send one batch to Mysuru. Out of the four sent to Mysuru, two had already been sent back to their country.   The two women, who had overstayed in India after the expiry of their visas, were due to be deported back home||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ugandan-national-traced-to-bengaluru/article37064326.ece
19 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MCC takes up survey of dilapidated buildings||After the reports of collapse of several dilapidated buildings in Bengaluru in the recent weeks, the Mysuru City Corporation, on the lines of the action taken by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, has begun identification of buildings in rundown and ramshackle conditions in its nine zones. Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy has asked assistant commissioners in all nine zones to identify dilapidated buildings and issue notices to their owners for appropriate action. The MCC action comes after a series of buildings collapsed in Bengaluru raising questions over the safety of inhabitants. No loss of life The order gained significance as a house at Ittigegud in Mysuru collapsed recently after heavy rains lashed the city. There were no reports of loss of life in the incident as three senior citizens residing there were rescued by the alert Abhaya team of the MCC. Mr. Reddy told The Hindu that the assistant commissioners and the engineers of all zones had been asked to take appropriate action in this regard by carrying out a survey of such structures. They have been told to make a list of dilapidated buildings and inform the owners of such buildings for suitable action – either repairs or demolition – based on their conditions and the assessment of the engineers. At owners’ cost If the building needs to be demolished, the residents must be shifted out. If the structures need repairs, the owners must do that immediately. If the owners fail to take proper action and delay demolition threatening the safety of the public, even after issuing three notices to them, then the MCC will take the steps, including demolition and the cost has to be borne by the owners. “The survey has commenced and the zones must have identified some buildings. The nature of buildings and their conditions are evaluated by the engineers. Both residential and commercial buildings are being identified and their safety reports are being prepared,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-takes-up-survey-of-dilapidated-buildings/article37064320.ece
19 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Revenue records of Vijayanagar 3rd Stage transferred to MCC from MUDA, says GTD||With the transfer of revenue records of Vijayanagar 3rd Stage in the city from Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) to Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), former Minister and MLA representing Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency G.T. Deve Gowda on Monday said the residents of the area can pay their property tax to MCC in future. Convening a meeting of senior officials of MUDA and MCC here, Mr. Gowda said the residents of the locality were complaining that officials of MUDA and MCC were passing the buck to each other whenever approached for khathas, licenses and other issues. Though it had already been decided by the MUDA and MCC to transfer all residential layouts developed by the MUDA and approved by the MUDA within the Outer Ring Road to the MCC, the citizens continued to face problems, he said. He told reporters that MUDA had transferred all the revenue records of Vijayangar 3rd Stage to MCC and the property owners can have their khatha records transferred to the MCC and begin payment of property tax henceforth to the civic body. Even licenses pertaining to the residential locality will be issued by MCC and citizens can approach MCC Zone 3 office for the same, he said. The government had already issued a notification regarding transfer of localities inside the Outer Ring Road to MCC and the civic body was supplying drinking water, maintaining underground drainage and roads in Vijayangar 3rd Stage. With regard to the drinking water problem faced by the new layouts, Mr. Gowda called upon MCC to ensure drinking water supply at least once or twice a week to all the new layouts. He appealed to MCC and MUDA to ensure that garbage was collected from the residential layouts situated along the ORR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revenue-records-of-vijayanagar-3rd-stage-transferred-to-mcc-from-muda-says-gtd/article37064325.ece
19 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hookah bars in Mysuru under scanner||The proliferation of hookah bars in the city has not only become a source of concern to health officials, but also brought the legality of running such bars under a scanner. While the police has received a letter from the Director General of Police, Bengaluru, to explore legal provisions prohibiting hookah bars after Vishal Rao U.S., a member of the High Level Committee on Tobacco Control for Government of Karnataka flagged the health hazards of using shisha, the Mysuru District Tobacco Control Cell wrote to the MCC Commissioner to issue notices to bars for violating Section 4 of COTPA that prohibits smoking in public places. Section 4 of Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003, provides for setting up a designated smoking area in hotels and restaurants that have a seating capacity of over 30. “Hookah is also a tobacco product and a separate area should be earmarked it. But, there is also a condition that no service of any kind can be provided in the designated area,” said Mr. Shivakumar, consultant, Mysuru District Tobacco Control Cell. The issue was also discussed at a meeting in the presence of the Mysuru DC, who has instructed the MCC to issue notices to owners of bars and close them if they do not follow rules. The Cell has asked the MCC to cancel trade licenses if owners that fail to abide by the law while pointing out that COTPA 2003 also makes display of no smoking signage to be put up. Even though the MCC has issued licenses to only 12 hookah bars in the city, officials said many were operating without license. A special drive against the hookah bars has been planned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hookah-bars-in-mysuru-under-scanner/article37064323.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Classes I to V to reopen on October 25||This is apart from classrooms and restrooms to be disinfected daily for Classes I to V. Furthermore, it said only teachers and staff who had got two shots of the vaccine would be allowed in classes and teachers above the age of 50 would wear a face shield. The Minister said attendance was not compulsory, and that school managements could continue online classes, “but parents are keen on physical classes”. The guidelines make parental consent letters for physical classes mandatory. Mr. Nagesh said the 50% limit was imposed to ensure no overcrowding in classrooms and it would probably not affect 80% of the schools. “But in cases where there are more students in classrooms, we may have to resort to alternate day classes making two batches. We will issue a detailed set of guidelines shortly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/classes-i-to-v-to-reopen-on-october-25/article37064076.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Spreading awareness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/spreading-awareness/article37064329.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cynosure of all eyes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cynosure-of-all-eyes/article37064087.ece
19 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Kuttanad witnesses hectic evacuation||Waterlogging continued unabated in Kuttanad and other low-lying areas in the district on Monday. Although the rain has subsided, the flow of floodwaters from the eastern side has inundated most of the Upper Kuttanad region. The water level in major rivers in the district remained high. Several people from Thalavady were shifted to relief camps after floodwaters entered houses there. The situation was not different in Kidangara, Neerattupuram, Edathua, and Veeyapuram with people moving to safer places. People from other parts of Kuttanad, including Kainakary, Pulinkunnu, and Mankombu, have moved to their relatives’ houses and other safer places in anticipation of a worsening situation. A number of bedridden patients in Kuttanad were shifted to a camp opened at the Alappuzha Town Hall. In view of the opening of the floodgates of the Kakki dam in Pathanamthitta, the district administration has urged the people living on the banks of rivers in Kuttanad, Chengannur, Mavelikara, and Karthikappally taluks to move to safer places. The water from the reservoir is expected to reach Chengannur early Tuesday and in Kuttanad later in the day. The administration has shifted several people from flood-prone areas and arrangements are in place to evacuate more. Bus services suspended On Monday, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation partially suspended bus services through the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road and the Ambalappuzha-Thiruvalla road due to waterlogging. The district administration has put a ban on houseboat and shikara boat operations in Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuttanad-witnesses-hectic-evacuation/article37064306.ece
19 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Emergency evacuation order for Kuttanad||District Collector A. Alexander on Monday issued a mandatory emergency evacuation order for people in Kuttanad and upper Kuttanad areas. The order was issued under various sections of the Disaster Management Act 2005. Officials said people would be shifted to centres in Ambalappuzha and Changanassery in the night itself. The decision to evacuate people was taken at a high-level meeting attended by Revenue Minister K. Rajan, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian and Agriculture Minister P. Prasad at the District Collectorate here. Officials said the evacuation was a precautionary measure. Mr. Alexander, who is also the chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority, said the water level in Kuttanad taluk was expected to rise further following the opening of the shutters of the Kakki dam in Pathanamthitta. He said there was the possibility of opening the sluice gates of the Pampa dam on Tuesday. Boats, vehicles deployed Officials said that passenger boats of the State Water Transport Department, buses of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation, fishing boats and private vehicles had been deployed for evacuating people. Police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel, 23 fishermen teams and two teams of the National Disaster Response Force have been put on standby to meet any exigency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/emergency-evacuation-order-for-kuttanad/article37064289.ece
19 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Body of child recovered||The body of four-year-old Muhammed Riswan, son of Puthuparambil Shahul, was recovered from the landslip-hit Makochi at Kokkayar on Monday. With this the number of bodies recovered rose to seven. Six bodies were recovered on Sunday. The search operations at the site hit by a landslip on Saturday evening was stopped as bodies of all the missing persons were recovered. Five of family Five members of a family, including Fousia and her children Ameen and Amna, who reached there to attend a marriage, and her brother’s children Afsana and Abhiyana were killed in the landslip. The body of Chirayil Shaji was recovered from Mundakkayam on Sunday after it was washed away by the waters of the Manimalayar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/body-of-child-recovered/article37064290.ece
19 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Tourism centres closed||Tourism centres under the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) in the district will remain closed until further orders, the District Collector who is also the chairperson of the DTPC has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-centres-closed/article37064297.ece
19 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||District breathes easy as rain relents; no emergency situation||The rain relented on Monday with bright sunshine covering most parts of Ernakulam district during the greater part of the day even though isolated heavy spells pounded Kochi city and some of the neighbouring areas. An employees of a public sector undertaking in Eloor, near Kalamassery, said there was a heavy spell of rain in the area between Kaloor and Edappally in the afternoon on Monday while a commuter said the rain was brief but intense between Vyttila and Chalikkavattam late in the afternoon. The city of Kochi, which is vulnerable to waterlogging following heavy rain, has not suffered much due to the rain during the last three days. No traffic jams were reported and waterlogging has been mostly brief and did not disrupt normal life. There has been no report of loss of human life in the district due to rain-related incidents. But houses have suffered some damage, especially in the eastern areas of the district. A coconut tree fell over a house in Piravom, completely destroying its roof in the early hours of Monday. But, no one was injured. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light to medium rain between October 18 and 19 while isolated heavy spells have been predicted for the following three days up to October 22. Chellanam safe The coastal panchayat of Chellanam, which usually witnesses large-scale sea incursion, remained protected from the rain and rough sea conditions. V.T. Sebastian, a resident of the village, said Chellanam had not witnessed any problem so far and expected the situation to continue as the sea conditions allowed proper water drainage from interior areas. Sources in the district administration said there was no emergency situation in Ernakulam. Three relief camps have been opened in Muvattupuzha, Kochi and Aluva taluks, and Revenue Department officials have been ordered to make arrangements to rehabilitate people as and when required. Camps for temporary rehabilitation had been arranged in all the taluks in keeping with the COVID-19 protocol, said an official. The arrangements have been made in the light of the possibility of shutters of the Idukki and Edamalayar dams being opened to let out excess water. One unit of the National Disaster Relief Force has been deployed in Ernakulam district. The unit had so far rescued 49 people in Ernakulam and Pathanamthitta districts, said an official communication. According to the district administration, there are 44 local government bodies, including panchayats and municipalities, that are directly vulnerable to dangerous rise in water level in River Periyar. Meanwhile, IMD data said that Kochi city area, covering the Naval airport, received up to 10.8 mm of rain till 8 a.m. on Monday while the Cochin International Airport area in Nedumbassery received up to 59.5 mm of rain until 8.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-breathes-easy-as-rain-relents-no-emergency-situation/article37064500.ece
19 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||LDF loses Corpn. town planning committee||The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) lost the chairperson post of the town planning standing committee of the Kochi Corporation after a United Democratic Front (UDF)-sponsored no-confidence motion against the chairperson was passed on Monday. The no-confidence motion against chairperson J. Sanilmon, who won the election as a UDF rebel candidate, was passed with the support of M.H.M. Ashraf, a CPI(M) councillor who later parted ways with the organisation. Mr. Ashraf distanced himself from the party and did not renew his membership in protest against the party decision to make Mr. Sanilmon the chairperson, overlooking his claim for the post. The LDF was reduced to four members in the nine-member committee following the death of K.K. Sivan, CPI(M) councillor. The no-confidence motion was passed with Mr. Ashraf joining hands with the four members of the UDF in the committee to vote against Mr. Sanilmon. The LDF members kept off the meeting convened to consider the no-confidence motion following a whip issued by the front. Though Mr. Ashraf was also issued the whip, he ignored it to vote against Mr. Sanilmon. Mr. Ashraf is likely to contest as the new chairperson of the town planning committee with the support of the UDF members. According to LDF leaders, Mr. Ashraf continued to be the parliamentary party member of the LDF though he had severed ties with the CPI(M). Hence, the whip issued by the LDF was binding on him. Violating the whip issued by the front would lead to the invoking of provisions of the anti-defection law against Mr. Ashraf, they said. If disqualified, he cannot contest elections for the next six years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-loses-corpn-town-planning-committee/article37064502.ece
19 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Suggestions that stayed put on paper||Most of the recommendations of an expert committee constituted in 2018 to examine the causes of repeated extreme heavy rainfall events and to recommend appropriate policy responses remain on paper even as the State is reeling under fresh rounds of flooding and landslips. The panel headed by K.P. Sudheer, executive vice president, Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment, submitted its report to the Kerala State Planning Board in December 2019. The committee, which had experts drawn from various scientific disciplines, had also submitted action plans to be implemented in six months, besides short-, medium- and long-term ones for various sectors. Human activities The panel had put the blame of the devastating landslips in the State during 2018 and 2019 on the instability of the slopes caused due to various anthropogenic activities, though it noted that the landslips were primarily initiated by the extreme rainfall events. Besides slope stabilisation, remedial measures like providing vegetation cover to the degraded slope by either promoting natural vegetation growth or by planting suitable species were suggested. In areas where clear felling of trees was done, the deep taproots should be removed and refilled with earth to avoid oversaturation and decay of the taproot system, which would lead to soil piping and landslips, it suggested. Use of machinery The panel was against the unscientific use of machinery for pit formation for farming as it feared that the ‘process might lead to increased disturbance of the land and cause additional water-holding, resulting in oversaturation.’ The cutting and levelling of ground for construction of houses on the toe region of slopes having more than 25% inclination and a slope length exceeding 100 m shall be avoided. It had also recommended against the blocking of stream channels in the upper slopes, especially above settlements. The panel suggested modification of unstable slopes by regrading, geotextile mats, vegetation, bioengineering and geotechnical measures such as soil nailing. Anthropogenic activities that cause saturation of the soil should be regulated in critical/prone areas, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suggestions-that-stayed-put-on-paper/article37064307.ece
19 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||District ready to meet any emergency: Rajeeve||The Ernakulam district administration is ready to meet any emergency in the wake of the heavy rain and possible flood-like conditions, said Industries Minister P. Rajeeve here on Monday. He said after a review meeting of the situation that there should be a vigilant eye on the areas that were vulnerable to flooding following the rise in the water level in the Periyar. He said that steps should be taken to control the water level in the Idamalayar dam. The steps were being taken to ensure that water from the Idukki and Idamalayar dams did not flow simultaneously into the Periyar. A communication from the district administration said that the Minister had instructed the Irrigation department to remove any blocks and impediments to the free flow of water. He also said that the cooperation and active participation of the fisheries department was needed to ensure the cooperation of the fishers in any emergency. The Minister said that the guest house in Kalamassery could be utilised to coordinate activities and that help from volunteers should be enlisted for the relief camps. The KSEB and Kerala Water Authority should work in tandem to take steps to mitigate any situation. District Collector Jaffar Malik, K. Karthik, Superintendent of Police, and Sub-Collector Vishnu Raj were among those who participated in the review meeting, the communication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-ready-to-meet-any-emergency-rajeeve/article37064498.ece
19 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kalamassery cracks down on those dumping waste||A concerted effort by the health wing of the Kalamassery municipality against those dumping waste seems to be yielding results. The civic body has slapped penalty to the tune of around Rs. 1 lakh after it launched a night drive against those dumping waste in various places under its jurisdiction from October 1 onwards. A sum of Rs. 48,500 was levied as fine from October 1 to 7. Twenty-six persons were caught dumping waste in the daily drive held from October 8 to 17. The authorities have collected a fine of Rs. 50,200 from the violators. The action is part of the steps being taken to impose fine on those dumping waste as per provisions under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. “A fine of around Rs. 500 was imposed on those who dumped a waste kit in public places. The rate for those who dumped waste in sacks was around Rs. 2,000. For those who brought waste in pick-up vans and trucks, the fine levied was around Rs. 10,000,” said A.K. Nishad, chairman of the civic body’s health standing committee. The municipality had faced flak for the delay in acting against those dumping waste in public places and waterbodies from the State Pollution Control Board and the State Level Monitoring Committee on solid waste management appointed by the National Green Tribunal. Many areas in the municipality had turned into dumping yards as waste was brought in trucks, especially during night hours. Mr. Nishad said initial estimates revealed that several persons from other local bodies were dumping waste in Kalalmassery. “Some of the violators who had dumped waste along the Seaport-Airpot Road were residing in Thrikkakara. It was surprising to see that even those who were aware of the rules had dumped waste thinking they would never be caught,” he said. The municipality lacks adequate CCTV facility to ensure that the waste dumpers are caught on a regular basis. However, it has initiated steps to set up such facilities in select locations. A mobile camera system having a battery backup of around 24 hours will be installed in such areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalamassery-cracks-down-on-those-dumping-waste/article37064501.ece
19 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,199 fresh COVID-19 cases||As many as 1,199 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. A total of 1,174 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection was not ascertained in 16 cases. The test positivity rate was 11.45%. The regions that reported positive cases above 30 included Thrikkakara (62), Puthenvelikkara (60), Pallipuram (59), Elankunnapuzha (43), and Pampakuda (42). Some of the places that had fewer than five cases were Kanjoor, Chalikavattam, Palarivattam, Maradu, Amballoor, Chottanikkara, Mulanthuruthy, Vengola, Aarakuzha, Elamkulam, Thammanam, Thoppumpady, Thevara,Vennala, and Mundamveli, according to an official release. The number of active cases in the district was 11,795 as on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1199-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37064497.ece
19 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man arrested on charge of robbery||The Binanipuram police have taken one person into custody on the charge of robbing an elderly woman of 12 sovereigns of gold in Panayikulam. The report said that the woman, who lived alone, was tied up and the gold was stolen. The arrested person has been identified as Afsal, 37, hailing from Chandiroor in Alappuzha district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-on-charge-of-robbery/article37064503.ece
19 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||BPCL flags off first load of butyl acrylate||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited’s Kochi refinery dispatched the first consignment of butyl acrylate from its Propylene Derivative Petrochemical complex here on Monday. A communication from the company said the first product truck was flagged off by Vetsa Ramakrishna Gupta, director (finance) in the presence of P.V. Ravitej, executive director (refineries), S. Jena, executive director (industrial and commercial), and Sanjay Khanna, executive director of the refinery, here. To mark the occasion Mr. Gupta handed over the first sale document and the certificate of quality to the vendors. Butyl acrylate finds application in paints, coatings, plastic sheets, textiles, adhesives, and sealants. The consignments were made to Asian Paints Ltd, Satara; Rossari Biotech Ltd, Bharuch; Chiripal Industries Ltd, Ahmedabad; Nikhil Adhesives Ltd, Bharuch; Visen Industries Ltd, Silvasa; and Jesons Industries Ltd, Tiruvallur; the communication said. With the launch of butyl acrylate, BPCL Kochi Refinery has become the Indian refinery to produce five derivatives of propylene on world scale capacity for the first time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bpcl-flags-off-first-load-of-butyl-acrylate/article37064504.ece
19 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||A grim picture of nature’s fury||Two days after a series of landslips struck the eastern high range areas of Kottayam district on Saturday, evidence of the worst disaster in the region’s history that claimed 13 lives lay bare everywhere. A preliminary assessment by the authorities showed that 62 houses had been destroyed while 161 were damaged in the landslips and floods. Kanjirappally taluk, where 62 houses had been destroyed, was the worst-affected region while 16 houses were damaged in Meenachil taluk. Two houses were damaged in Changanassery taluk. Along riverbanks Most of the houses, which were destroyed, were located on the banks of the Pullakayar and the Meenachil rivers. As these two rivers breached their banks and water level rose to unexpected levels, scores of houses were washed away in Koottickal, Mundakkayam and Manimala panchayats. It could take months before lives of the affected get back to normal. The impact of the deluge, according to local residents, could have been much graver had it happened in the night. The district Agriculture Department has assessed a preliminary loss of Rs. 18.02 crore to the farm sector in the district over the past three days. Agriculture crops in around 1,118.75 ha were destroyed in Erattupetta, Kaduthuruthy, Pala, Pampadi, Vaikom and Vazhoor blocks, creating loss to 3,969 farmers. Worst-hit Vaikom block was the worst-hit, where crops in about 1,054.66 ha belonging to 2,800 farmers were destroyed. While losses have been reported in 22.80 ha of land in Pampady, 21.24 ha in Erattupetta and 17.60 ha in Vazhoor, damage to crops was reported only in 1 ha in Kaduthuruthy and 1.45 ha in Pala. Details of damaged crops by area are — paddy - 1,070.800 ha, Cardamom - 100 ha, tapioca - 12 ha, vegetables - 5.340 ha, and pineapple - 0.04 ha. Apart from these, damage was reported to coconut (124), banana (17412), rubber trees (976), squash (30), cocoa (45), coffee (450), pepper (530), and cloves (60) as well. The rain and floods have also caused a loss of Rs. 18 lakh to the dairy sector in the district. Dairy sector According to Sylvie Mathew, Deputy Director, Dairy Development Department, the losses were primarily reported in Kanjirappally, Erattupetta and Ettumannur blocks. Nine cattle sheds were destroyed and 11 damaged. Apart from the death of two cows, 100 sacks of fodder and 1,000 kg of straw were destroyed in the floods. A four-and-a-half-acre fodder farm too was submerged.  Loss of Rs. 18.02 cr. to farm sector in Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-grim-picture-of-natures-fury/article37064292.ece
19 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Minister visits rain-hit regions||Minister for Registration and Cooperation V.N. Vasavan on Monday visited the disaster-struck regions in the Vagamon valley to review the damage sustained by the landslip and flash floods. A series of landslips reported in Kaippalli, Adukkam and Cholathadam in the valley three days ago had caused flash floods in the Meenachil river, inundating several houses and buildings in the downstream, including those in Erattupetta town, Poonjar and Pathampuzha. He also interacted with people affected by the rain and ensuing floods Mr. Vasavan said a report on the damage would be submitted in the upcoming meeting of the State Cabinet. Bridge to be repaired Immediate action will be taken to provide assistance to those who have lost their homes while steps would be initiated to repair the Elappungal-Vadikotta bridge, which connected Karaikad in Thikkoy panchayat and Elappungal area in Thalappulam panchayat. Direction will be issued to the Irrigation Department for removing the wastes accumulated at the confluence point of different waterbodies near the Angalamman Kovil. The Minister also met residents of a relief camp at the CMS UP School in Idamala Poonjar MLA, Sebastian Kulathungal, district panchayat president Nirmala Jimmy, Erattupetta municipal chairperson Suhara Abdul Khader, block panchayat member Rema Mohan and others accompanied the Minister.  Report on damage to be submitted in the upcoming meeting of State Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-visits-rain-hit-regions/article37064293.ece
19 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Hundreds pay homage to Koottickal landslip victims||Hundreds of people poured into the St. Mary’s church at Kavali on Monday to pay homage to the six members of the Ottalunkal family who were killed in a landslip that ravaged much of the village, nestled in the foothills of the Western Ghats, on Saturday. The pall of gloom that descended over the village deepened as loud wails of the victims’ relatives and friends rent the air. Xavier and Baby, parents of Sini Martin, one of the victims, remained inconsolable. The mortal remains, kept at a private hospital in Mundakkayam after post-mortem examination, were brought to the church by afternoon and kept there for some time for people to pay their homage. Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt and Auxiliary Bishop Mar Joseph Muriken led the funeral services. Minister for Cooperation V.N. Vasavan and Minister for Devaswom K. Radhakrishnan paid homage to the deceased on behalf of the State Government. All six members of the family — Ottalunkal Martin, 48; his mother, Claramma, 65; wife, Sini Martin, 45; and three daughters Sona, Sandra and Sneha were swept away by deadly torrents of mud, water and debris that had hit Kavali on Saturday. The bodies were recovered following a gruelling combing work through the debris. With the floodwaters receding, the impact of the devastation has begun to emerge in Koottickal grama panchayat, one of the worst-hit locations. Several houses and commercial establishments were destroyed in flash floods and vehicles lie scattered like toys amid the debris. Slush-filled buildings Almost all buildings in Kottickal and Yendayar towns remain filled with slush. Windows were smashed by gushing waters with their frames buckling. The back-to-back landslips that hit the region on Saturday claimed a total of 12 lives, while many had a providential escape from the surging water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hundreds-pay-homage-to-koottickal-landslip-victims/article37064311.ece
19 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two killed in accident||Two persons were killed and two others sustained injures in a collision between a car and a bus near Karukachal on Monday. The deceased are Purushothaman Nair, 64, and Sreejith, 40, both natives of Muttambalam. They were returning to Kottayam from Ranni when the accident took place around 4.30 p.m. The car, while attempting to overtake another vehicle, hit the bus head on, reports said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-killed-in-accident/article37064298.ece
19 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Village tourism destinations in Kozhikode lack basic amenities||Due to the shortage of funds and lackadaisical approach by the authorities, some of the emerging ecotourism destinations in the rural areas of Kozhikode district are badly missing even the basic amenities, causing huge disappointment to tourists. Poor waste treatment options, bad condition of roads and the yet-to-be completed comfort station facilities spoil the charm of these destinations, where local bodies are expecting the intervention of the Tourism Department. Office-bearers of local tourism societies point out that Kakkayam, Kariyathanpara and Thonikkadavu areas are lacking basic amenities even after the investment of huge funds by the Tourism Department in the name of innovative development projects. A close look at the condition of ecotourism spots in Koorachundu panchayat will give a clear picture of the situation, they say. One of the most neglected spots, according to them, is the Kakkayam ecotourism area where the maintenance of tourism properties is not up to the mark. They allege that a garden and a hanging bridge in the area, which used to attract many visitors, are on the verge of destruction. The delay in carrying out road renovation works gives a bumpy ride to tourists to this location. Adding to their woes, the road caves in often during monsoon. “Many domestic tourists who visit village destinations are forced to seek the help of their friends or distant relatives to meet their basic needs. At least, quality comfort station facilities should be introduced in every ecotourism spots,” says V.T. George, a tourism entrepreneur from Kakkayam. He points out that there should also be facilities for the safe stay of tourists with the support of approved homestay operators. Safety concerns Safety issues in some of the trekking and water tourism spots are also a concern. A former local body member from Koorachundu says not even a first-aid centre has been set up at Kariyathanpara, which is now notorious for accidental drowning. According to him, there is not even a good emergency transportation service available in the area in case of any accident. The situation is the same at Arippara, one of the prominent water tourism spots, he adds. Meanwhile, Tourism Department officials say the issues raised by local tourism societies will be resolved with the completion of the ongoing works in many locations. Some works are pending only because of the temporary issues faced by contractors, they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/village-tourism-destinations-in-kozhikode-lack-basic-amenities/article37064266.ece
19 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Prasad Krishna takes helm of National Institute of Technology||Aware that an uphill task awaits him, Prof. Prasad Krishna, who took charge as the Director of National Institute of Technology- Calicut (NIT-C), on Monday said that his top priority would be to improve on the parameters, especially research and perception, among academic peer for the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) of the Ministry of Education. For that, he said, interface between the alumni at foreign universities and research centres and the institute would be further networked in the coming months. “Our institute is the best in Kerala but we need to improve our visibility at the national level,” Prof. Krishna, who was earlier with the NIT- Surathkal, told The Hindu.  Besides, he said the focus would be given on improving faculty-student ratio and taking steps to upgrade research activities at each department. “The parameter — research and professional practice — that includes publications, citations and patents are important for ranking of an institute,” he said. Although the NIT-C retained the top position among the engineering colleges in the State, it slipped two slots to 25th rank in NIRF 2021. The post of Director was lying vacant for more than a year. Prof. Krishna has more than 37 years of professional experience in several fields including automobile manufacturing, precision machine tool design and development, metal casting, space research and teaching. He was the recipient of the prestigious Kirloskar Gold Medal and Sir M. Visvesvaraya Memorial prize from the University of Mysore for securing first rank in B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering (1983) from the NIT-Surathkal (formerly Karnataka Regional Engineering College). He received his postgraduate degree from IIT Madras winning two silver medals and Prof. Sen Gupto prize for the best academic performance in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. Later, he obtained his doctoral degree in manufacturing from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, the US. Prof. Krishna had served as scientist at the Gas Turbine Research Establishment (DRDO), Bengaluru, and Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (ISRO), Thiruvananthapuram, design engineer at HMT Ltd, Kochi, before joining as Professor at NIT-C in 1991. For more than a year, he was also a research assistant at the National University of Singapore. He was member secretary of the National Board of Accreditation during 2005-2008. He is also the recipient of several honours and awards for academic brilliance and has published more than 120 articles in various journals and conference proceedings in India and abroad and supervised 10 PhDs, and is currently guiding five research scholars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prasad-krishna-takes-helm-of-national-institute-of-technology/article37064256.ece
19 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Rights panel registers case against bank manager||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has registered a case against the manager of a public sector bank in the city for his alleged reluctance to release to the wife of a deceased man the money in the savings account of the man, citing unwanted formalities. The case was registered on the basis of a petition submitted by E.K. Geethabhai against the State Bank of India’s Kannur road branch manager. Commission member K. Baijunath, who considered the petition, found that the woman had been after the bank authorities with the required legal documents for over a year to get the balance amount released. The bank authorities were allegedly withholding it after asking her to produce two guarantors with a bank balance of Rs. 40 lakh each. According to Mr. Baijunath, the bank had no right to ask for such additional documents even after the verification of the other legally required documents. The woman, in her petition, accused the bank authorities of denying the service after the submission of the legal heir documents and the death certificate of her husband, who passed away on October 2, 2020. She also complained that the bank authorities had hurt her self-esteem with their insistence on unwanted documents and forcing her to roam around for claiming the savings fund in her husband’s account. After registering the case, the panel also asked the bank authorities to submit their explanation in two weeks. The SBI’s regional manager was also directed to tender his explanation to avoid further legal action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rights-panel-registers-case-against-bank-manager/article37064257.ece
19 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Yellow alert from tomorrow||It was a day of respite for the district as no major rain-related incidents were reported on Monday. The water level in all the major rivers maintained safe levels with moderate rainfall. Only green alerts would be in place on Tuesday based on the latest weather updates of the Indian Meteorological Department. Yellow alert At the same time, a yellow alert would be in place for three days from October 20. Officials said the fishermen would be disallowed from venturing into the sea on the specified days. Authorities said gusty wind could pose a threat along the Kerala and Lakshadweep coasts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-from-tomorrow/article37064263.ece
19 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two held on charge of snatching mobile phone||The Town Police on Monday arrested two youths who allegedly snatched a costly mobile phone from a Thamarassery native while he was passing through the CH overbridge. The arrested were Koyilandy native Abdulla Muhdar, 23, and Kannur native Mubarak, 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-on-charge-of-snatching-mobile-phone/article37064264.ece
19 October 2021||Malappuram,KERALA||Rally marks Milad-e-Sharif celebrations||The Kerala Muslim Jamat and the Madin Academy jointly took out a rally in celebration of the 1,496th birthday of Prophet Mohammed here on Monday. The rally, which began from Malabar Special Police headquarters premises and concluded at Kizhakkethala, turned out to be first the colourful procession in the town in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Sunni Management Association vice president Sayed Sharafuddin Jamalullaili kicked off the rally with a prayer. The participants sang panegyric songs and poems in different languages in praise of Prophet Mohammed. Sayed Shihabuddin Ahdal, Sayed Mohammed Farook Jamalullaili, Samastha Mushawara member Ponmala Moideenkutty Baqavi, Samastha district secretaries Alavi Saqafi and Ibrahim Baqavi, Kerala Muslim Jamat district general secretary P.M. Mustafa Kodur, Sunni Yuvajana Sangham district president Hasainar Saqafi and district secretary P.P. Mujeeb Rahman led the rally. Sadikali Falili, Rauf Azhari, and Naim Madani led a session titled Light of Madeena at Madin Grand Mosque. Sayed Ismail Bukhari led the prayer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rally-marks-milad-e-sharif-celebrations/article37064254.ece
19 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Downpour for over an hour triggers fears||A torrential downpour that lasted for over an hour on Monday afternoon sent fears among the people and the authorities. Although the rain flooded the low-lying areas in the town, it did not last long. Rain continued in Attappady, Nelliyampathy, Mannarkkad, and Parambikulam areas on Monday evening. A landslide caused traffic disruption between Parambikulam and Thoonakkadavu. Houses damaged The intensity of the rain reduced on Monday prompting the authorities to gradually lower the shutters of the dams in the district. A few houses were damaged in the rain in different parts of the district. However, no casualty was reported. When Chittur got 31 mm rain, Kollangode got 10.2 mm, Alathur 42.7 mm, Ottapalam 21 mm, Parambikulam 10 mm, Palakkad 17.2 mm, Mannarkkad 16.6 mm, Pattambi 17.4 mm, Adakkaputhur 16.5 mm, Erimayur 29.5 mm, and Kanhirapuzha 6.5 mm rain in 24 hours till Monday morning. A meeting of revenue officials held at Ottapalam decided to enhance vigil against potential landslides in the region. Those living in vulnerable areas would be shifted to safer places. K. Premkumar, MLA, P. Mammikutty, MLA, Sub Collector Sikha Surendran, Cherpulassery municipal chairperson K. Ramachandran, and Ottapalam municipal chairperson K. Janakidevi, were among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/downpour-for-over-an-hour-triggers-fears/article37064443.ece
19 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Flow from dams to be regulated: Krishnankutty||The release of water from the dams in the district will be regulated on the basis of the inflow into their respective reservoirs, Minister for Power K. Krishnankutty, who is in charge of Palakkad district, has said. A review meeting of Government officials held here on Monday decided to control the release of waters into the Bharathapuzha. Presiding over the meeting, Mr. Krishnankutty said that there was nothing to worry, as the rain had subsided in the district. “Controlling the water that flows into the Bharathapuzha will help us control the situation overall,” he said. Monitoring of the water inflow and outflow at the district’s dams had been strengthened. The Minister directed the officials to dredge the canals using earth movers if needed. A floating JCB would also be arranged in view of clogging that was likely in the Bharathapuzha. Mr. Krishnankutty said the Government would procure wet paddy to help the farmers in view of the rain in the last few days. Moisture  He said 17% moisture would be permitted in general circumstances. As a special case, moisture levels above 17% would be allowed, he said. District Collector Mrunmai Joshi said that trees posing a threat to human lives and properties would be cut down. People’s representatives of all Assembly constituencies would convene meetings with the officials and the situation would be communicated to the Minister. V.K. Sreekandan, MP, demanded immediate compensation for paddy farmers for the extensive crop loss they suffered. He said that those who did not have insurance should be given help by the Government, and those who could not afford harvesting machines should be helped with the support of the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme workers. MLAs Shafi Parambil, A. Prabhakaran, P. Mammikutty, K. Babu, K.D. Prasenan, Mohammed Muhsin, P.P. Sumod, K. Santhakumari and K. Premkumar, District Panchayat president K. Binumol, District Collector Mrunmai Joshi, and Additional District Magistrate K. Manikandan attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flow-from-dams-to-be-regulated-krishnankutty/article37064445.ece
19 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Hundreds climb Rayiranellur hill||Hundreds of people climbed the Rayiranellur hill near Koppam on Monday in anticipation of the blessings of Naranathu Bhranthan, a mythical character widely respected in Malayalam folklore. Climbing the Rayiranellur hill on the first day of the Malayalam month of Thulam is considered auspicious by sections of people. People believe that Naranathu Bhranthan was blessed by Goddess Devi on top of the hill. People made their offerings near the statue of Naranathu Bhranthan. They also circumambulated the statue several times. The ceremony had not been permitted because of COVID-19 last year. Although restrictions were imposed this time also, people did not give any heed. People started flowing from Palakkad, Malappuram and Thrissur districts from early morning in spite of the rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hundreds-climb-rayiranellur-hill/article37064446.ece
19 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pampa dam gates to be opened today, two districts wary||The swollen Manimala river has begun to retreat to its original course, but Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts continues to be on edge. Two shutters of the Pampa dam will be opened after 5 a.m on Tuesday. Authorities on Monday opened the gates of the Kakki-Anathodu dam, triggering panic across the region. With the water storage in the Kakki-Anathodu reservoir touching 94%, the authorities raised two shutters around 11 a.m. The resultant discharge is expected to push the water level in the Pampa river by 15 cm. When the Pampa dam shutters are opened, water will be released at 50 cumecs, which could further raise the water level by 10 cm. To Pampa-Triveni The water released from the dam is expected to reach the Pampa-Triveni, the base camp of Sabarimala temple, about six hours later. According to a Kochi report, two shutters of the Edamalayar dam will also be raised by 80 cm at 6 a.m. on Tuesday to release 100 cumecs. In view of the forecast of heavy rain, the existing ban on entry of pilgrims to Sabarimala has been extended to all five days of the ongoing monthly pujas. The decision triggered protests among the pilgrims who had been camping at Nilackal owing to the ban on the first three days of the season. Above danger level Officials said the water level in the Pampa, Manimala, and Achencoil rivers remained well over the danger level. While floodwaters have begun to recede, albeit slowly, from Mallappally, the run-off water from the Achencoil river flooded areas such as Thumpamon, Kadakkad, and Cherikkal. Several parts of Thiruvalla taluk, particularly Upper Kuttanad villages, continued to remain under water, also causing traffic disruptions along the Main Central (MC) Road and the Thiruvalla-Ambalappuzha road. With the floodwaters entering more areas, several people from Aranmula, Kidangannur, and Omallur villages, including those stranded on the terraces of houses, were shifted to relief camps by Saturday midnight. Heavy rain is forecast in the State from October 20 to 24 and Pathanamthitta is expected to receive intense showers on the first two days. Revenue Minister K. Rajan and Health Minister Veena George supervised the rescue and relief initiatives in the district and visited relief camps. Power supply affected Power supply to hundreds of houses in Mallappally and Thiruvalla taluks has been disrupted. Hundreds of people have shifted to relief centres or to relatives’ houses on higher ground. The approach road of the Komalam bridge at Puramattam was brought down by strong currents on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pampa-dam-gates-to-be-opened-today-two-districts-wary/article37064309.ece
19 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Smart street lighting to brighten key junctions||A smart street lighting system is proposed to be implemented in the core area of the city under the Corporation's Smart City project. The Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited had recently issued a call for tenders for the project, which is meant to automate the street lighting system in selected parts of the city. Energy efficiency The system will be an adaptive and intelligent one with predefined schedules for switching on and off as well as real-time monitoring of functioning from a centralised controller. The control centre will be in the Integrated Command Control Centre, which will come up in the Corporation premises. A group controller for all the lights will be available here. The brightness and functioning can be controlled automatically based on street occupancy or traffic. The system is expected to decrease the energy consumption and increase the lamp’s lifetime due to ‘smart dimming’. The system will be an intelligence-based self-evaluating one that would recommend maintenance and prevent failure due to abnormal functioning. The faults will be instantly signalled to pre-programmed mobile devices or computers at the Command Centre. The first of the smart roads in the capital under the Smart City project is expected to be completed by February next year. Currently, roadworks are being carried out at Manaveeyam Veedhi, the road connecting Government Women’s College to Panavila and another road inside the Fort area. Smart Road project The major component of the Smart Road project will be the 36.94 km of roads under the Public Works Department and the Kerala Road Fund Board in the core city area. The entire project is expected to be completed by February 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/smart-street-lighting-to-brighten-key-junctions/article37064550.ece
19 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||34-year-old man sentenced to RI for rape||A special fast-track court here, which tries cases involving atrocities against women and children, sentenced a man to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) on Monday for raping a woman on false pretext of marriage seven years ago. Thiruvananthapuram Fast Track Special Judge R. Jayakrishnan pronounced the judgement after finding Sareesh Madhu (34) of Valiyazheekkal guilty in the crime that occurred between October 2013 and March 2014. He was sentenced to 15 years’ imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 25,000 under Section 376(1) (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and five years’ imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 5,000 under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC. A default of the fines would lead to additional imprisonment of six months and three months respectively. Concurrent sentences While the sentences will run concurrently, the convict is entitled to a set-off for the period from April 20, 2014 (the date of arrest) and June 16, 2014 (when he had been released on bail). The fine amount will be given to the survivor as compensation. According to the prosecution led by special public prosecutor Vijay Mohan R.S., Sareesh had come into contact with the survivor after the latter had inadvertently sent him a message on his mobile phone. Despite realising her mistake, the convict contacted her repeatedly in a conscious attempt to gain her confidence. During their conversations, he introduced himself as Rahul. Soon, the survivor, who fell in love with Sareesh, began to visit him at his firm in Sreekaryam where he promised to marry her. Relenting to his demand, the survivor entered into a physical relationship with the convict. She was taken to two lodges under the Medical College police limits where she was subjected to rape. Dowry demanded While the survivor demanded that he fulfilled his promise of marrying her, Sareesh took his parents to her house under the pretext of proposing marriage. During the occasion, his family demanded a dowry of 101 sovereigns of gold. Notwithstanding their financial constraints, the survivor’s family offered to sell their properties and provide 71 sovereigns. However, the convict remained firm on his demand in an apparent attempt to wriggle out of the relation. In the verdict, the judge highlighted the rising tendency of attempts to trap women by promising marriage in order to satisfy their lust and later escape on the grounds of consent. The case was investigated by the Medical College police. The defendant was represented by advocate M. Jayaprasad.  Fines slapped on the convict will be given to the survivor as relief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/34-year-old-man-sentenced-to-ri-for-rape/article37064539.ece
19 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Opening of Idukki shutters a precautionary measure: KSEB||Water will be released from the Idukki and Edamalayar reservoirs from Tuesday morning as a ‘precautionary measure’ given the possibility of heavy rainfall from Wednesday in the State, according to the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). Addressing a press conference here on Monday, KSEB chairman and managing director B. Ashok said the controlled release of water will be to the tune of 100 cumecs per reservoir. The combined discharge planned is relatively low. “We are only preparing for a three-day intense rain,” he said. The recent intense spell had the heaviest impact on the Idukki reservoir, James Wilson, member, Expert Advisory Group, KSEB, said. The daily inflow levels which had averaged 13-14 million cubic metres (mcm) jumped to 75.96 mcm over October 16 and 17. “This can be termed a once-in-50-year occurrence,” Mr. Wilson said. While the storage in the Edamalayar dam does not call for release of water at present, the decision was taken in view of the rainfall forecasts. Also, the KSEB may have to go in for more spillage from Idukki if the inflow into the reservoir in October 20 and 21 is high. Ernakulam’s safety “We are creating some space in Edamalayar as an added precaution. It is also intended to ensure protection to Ernakulam,” Mr. Ashok said. As of Monday, water was being released from the Kakki, Sholayar, Madupetty, Poringalkuthu, Kundala, Lower Periyar, Kallarkutty, and Moozhiyar reservoirs managed by the KSEB. But many of these reservoirs are small. ‘Put off travel’ Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has warned people living downstream of dams to exercise extreme caution, against the backdrop of the dam management expert committee recommending the release of floodwaters from three dams. Mr. Vijayan requested the public to heed the instructions of government officials and the police. The public should postpone inessential travel and give hilly and forested tracts a wide berth, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opening-of-idukki-shutters-a-precautionary-measure-kseb/article37064315.ece
19 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Milma declares Rs. 1-crore relief for flood-hit dairy farmers||Milma’s Thiruvananthapuram Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union Ltd (TRCMPU), which operates in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta, has declared a flood relief aid of nearly Rs. 1 crore to assist dairy farmers in the flood-ravaged areas. The union, which convened an emergency meeting here on Monday, announced relief measures, including a solatium of Rs. 25,000 to the next of kin of dairy farmers killed in floods and landslips. Compensations of up to Rs. 25,000 have also been declared for farmers who lost their cattle in the inclement weather. Transportation charge Financial assistance will also be provided to dairy farmers affiliated to milk cooperatives where milk collection has been disrupted. Transportation charge will be given to those societies that have found it difficult to access flood-hit areas for milk collection. Cattle feed will be provided free of cost for cattle in affected areas. Free medical treatment has also been promised for animals in such places. Camps will be organised under the aegis of dairy cooperatives. Repair of sheds Assistance of up to Rs. 20,000 will be provided to repair cattle sheds. Cooperatives will also be given Rs. 10,000 for immediate repair works for their buildings. TRCMPU convener N. Bhasurangan said nearly Rs. 1 crore has been earmarked for emergency relief activities. Further measures will be announced after visiting the affected areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-declares-rs-1-crore-relief-for-flood-hit-dairy-farmers/article37064548.ece
19 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Alert sounded against leptospirosis outbreak||The Health Department has issued an alert against leptospirosis outbreaks as rain and related floods are likely to continue in the State in the days to come. Leptospirosis outbreaks are highly likely in flood-affected or waterlogged regions. People affected by floods, volunteers and rescue workers who come into contact with contaminated waters should compulsorily consume doxycycline tablets that will be distributed by health workers, Health Minister Veena George said on Monday. If not treated in the early stages, leptospirosis can be fatal. Doxycycline is made available free of cost through all Government hospitals, and 200 mg of the drug should be consumed once a week for six weeks as prophylaxis. The Health Department has also suggested that people and volunteers engaged in cleaning activities in the aftermath of floods wear protective footwear and gloves to prevent infections  Leptospirosis outbreaks are highly likely in flood-affected regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alert-against-leptospirosis-outbreak/article37064258.ece
19 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SI arrested after accident, drunk driving suspected||The Medical College police has recorded the arrest of a sub-inspector (SI) whose car rammed into two motorcycles when he was purportedly under the influence of alcohol. Traffic sub-inspector Anil Kumar was rounded up by local residents and motorists around 8.30 p.m. on Sunday when the car he drove hit two motorcycles and nearly injured some passers-by at Pottakuzhy near Pattom, a short distance away from the City Traffic Police station. The officer was apparently returning home after duty. Let off on bail Following the incident, an angry public demanded his arrest and handed him over to the Medical College police who arrested him and let him off on bail. While his blood examination report was awaited, the police was yet to ascertain if he had consumed alcohol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/si-arrested-after-accident-drunk-driving-suspected/article37064541.ece
19 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cong. wants rollback of order on local body funds||A convention of municipal councillors and panchayat members of the Congress party on Monday demanded the State Government to withdraw its order mandating the depositing of own funds of local bodies in the treasury account. For the past many years, the panchayats and other urban local bodies had the rights to deposit their own funds in co-operative institutions or nationalised banks. However, the Finance Department's order asking the local bodies to deposit these in the treasury accounts has affected their day-to-day functioning. The LDF Government should desist from attempts to take control of democratic institutions, said a resolution passed by the convention. United Democratic Front (UDF) convener M.M. Hassan inaugurated the convention, which was presided over by DCC president Palode Ravi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-wants-rollback-of-order-on-local-body-funds/article37064543.ece
19 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||6,676 more test positive||The State reported 6,676 new cases of COVID-19 when 68,668 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The active case pool declined to 83,184 patients on Monday, with 11,023 recovering. According to the Health Department, only 10.2% of the active cases are in hospitals or first-line/second-line treatment centres. Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 1,199, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 869, Kozhikode 761, Thrissur 732, Kollam 455, Kannur 436, Malappuram 356, Kottayam 350, Palakkad 327, Alappuzha 316, Idukki 268, Pathanamthitta 245, Wayanad 214, and Kasaragod 148.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6676-more-test-positive/article37064313.ece
19 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||240 relief camps in State||The Government currently operates 240 relief camps in the State in the wake of the torrential rain. As many as 9,081 persons from 2,541 families are accommodated in the camps. District administrations have ensured proper camping facilities and have implemented the COVID-19 protocol at the shelters. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan presided over a meeting on Monday. He asked officials to enlist the services of civil defence volunteers, neighbourhood self-help groups and civic-minded citizens for flood relief and rehabilitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/240-relief-camps-in-state/article37064314.ece
19 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Deadline for fellowships extended||The Kerala State Higher Education Council has extended the deadline to apply for the Chief Minister’s Navakerala Post-Doctoral Fellowships up to November 15. Candidates are required to submit the synopsis along with the application form. Those who have submitted their Ph.D. thesis can also apply for the fellowship. The government had announced its intention to provide fellowships ranging from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1 lakh per month for a period of two years in the State Budget. The scheme has been designed to fuel the state’s development plans promoting research in the domains of Eco diversity, Agriculture, Digital Technology, Genetics, Climate Change and the indigenous culture of Kerala. Further details can be obtained from the website of the council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/deadline-for-fellowships-extended/article37064450.ece
19 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Active COVID caseload continues to slump||The active COVID-19 caseload in the capital district continued its downward trend to touch 10,523 on Monday when 1,174 people recovered from the illness. As many as 869 new cases were reported during the last 24 hours. TPR at 12.6% The test positivity rate (TPR) in the district stood at 12.6%. The district administration has currently placed 45,338 people in quarantine. The pandemic has claimed 4,150 lives in the district thus far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-covid-caseload-continues-to-slump/article37064540.ece
19 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Carcass of elephant calf found||The carcass of an elephant calf that had reportedly fallen into the Kallar river was found near the Meenmutty waterfalls in the Neyyar wildlife sanctuary on Monday. The remains of the calf, believed to have been around three years old, was found along the forest route from Kallar to Meenmutty around 11 a.m. by a group of children who had arrived at the spot for fishing. The carcass, found to be in early stages of decomposition, is suspected to be at least two days old, said official sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/carcass-of-elephant-calf-found/article37064542.ece
19 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Train service partially cancelled||Train 06102 Kollam-Chennai Egmore special train leaving Kollam at 12 noon on October 19 will be partially cancelled between Kollam and Sengottai and will run from Sengottai to Chennai Egmore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-partially-cancelled/article37064296.ece
19 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NIIST signs MoU with start-up||The CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) here has tied up with a Palakkad- based start-up company for the development of scientifically validated nutraceutical products from the edible fungi, Cordyceps. The products will in the form of dietary supplements and functional food and drinks. The start-up, Adhinidhi Nutriment Products Pvt. Ltd., is involved in food technology, agriculture and biotechnology. Cordyceps has potential antioxidant, anti-cancer, anti-inflammatory, anti-ageing and anti-microbial properties, making it an ideal food supplement for lifestyle diseases like diabetes and elevated cholesterol as well as to reverse the side effects of cancer therapy. Raghu O. Nair, Managing Director, Adhinidhi Nutriment Products, and A. Ajayaghosh, Director, CSIR-NIIST exchanged documents to formalise the MoU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/niist-signs-mou-with-start-up/article37064260.ece
19 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU exams||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has postponed second-semester examinations of BTech, BArch, BHMCT and BDes scheduled to be held on October 20 and 22 on account of the inclement weather. The rescheduled dates will be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-puts-off-examinations/article37064294.ece
19 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC exams postponed||The Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) has postponed its examinations scheduled to be held on October 21 and 23 in view of the incessant rain and flooding in some districts. The revised dates will be announced later, said a press release from the PSC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-exams-postponed-due-to-rain/article37064295.ece
19 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Milad-i-Sherif greetings from Governor, CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday greeted the public on the eve of Milad-i-Sherif  (Nabi Dinam). He said the message of Prophet Mohammad stressed equality and humanity. The Prophet laid stress on helping fellow beings, wiping the tears of the suffering masses and giving a leg-up in life to the less fortunate, especially in the time of natural disasters, said Mr. Vijayan. Governor’s greetings Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has conveyed his greetings and best wishes to Keralites the world over on the eve of Milad-i-Sherif (Nabi Dinam). “May Prophet Muhammad’s message of universal brotherhood and compassion inspire us to work in unity for the happiness and welfare of everyone", said Mr. Khan said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-governor-extend-milad-i-sherif-greetings/article37064449.ece
19 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Flood-hit Kerala gets aid from Dalai Lama||The Dalai Lama has donated Rs. 11 lakh to Kerala’s flood-relief efforts. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the Dalai Lama has expressed his deep sadness at the loss of lives and property due to flooding and landslips. Token of sympathy “I am writing to express my deep sadness at the tragic loss of lives and property due to flooding and landslips in many parts of Kerala. I offer my condolences to you, to the families who have lost (their) loved (ones) and to all affected by the devastations,” Dalai Lama said. “I understand that the State Government and authorities concerned are making every effort to rescue and relief efforts are well under way. As a token of my sympathy, I would like to donate Rs. 11 lakh from the Dalai Lama Trust towards rescue and relief efforts,” he added. The Dalai Lama said his prayers were with the people of Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flood-aid-dalai-lama-donates-rs-11-lakh-to-kerala/article37064287.ece
19 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Rain subsides but flooding continues||There is no let-up in the flood situation though rain subsided in many areas of Thrissur district on Monday. However, high range areas in the district are still getting heavy rain. All the rivers continue to be in spate and shutters of dams have been opened. Catchment areas of the dams in the district are getting heavy rain. As major rivers in the district including Chalakudy, Manaly, Kurumaly, Karuvannur and Bharathapuzha are overflowing, people on the banks of the rivers have been rehabilitated. In all, 16 relief camps were opened in the district. As many as 328 people from 98 families have been rehabilitated. More people are coming to the camps, as flood situations continue to be grim in many areas. Maximum camps have been opened at Mukundapuram Taluk. In all, 156 people from 44 families have been shifted to the 12 camps opened in the taluk. Increasing water level in Karuvannur river forced water to enter the houses in low-lying areas in Kattur and Karalam panchayats. Accordingly, two relief camps have been opened at Karalam panchayat. Four camps have been started at Ollukkara in Thrissur Taluk. As many as 105 people have been shifted to the camps. Relief camps have been opened at Cherpu and Pallissery too. In all, 47 people are there in these camps. Revenue Minister K. Rajan called an emergency meeting to review the situation. Phased manner He asked the authorities to open dams in a phased manner and urged the people on the banks of water bodies to be very careful. Catchment areas of the Peechi dam are still witnessing heavy rain. Large-scale crop loss have been reported across the district. Local bodies have been asked to get prepared for opening relief camps whenever necessary. They should also arrange clothing, drinking water, and food in the camps. The Minister asked for special arrangements to be made for COVID patients and separate rooms for those in quarantine. People will not be allowed to go to tourist places. Police and fire and rescue forces are ready to face any emergency situation. Minister R. Bindu, K.K. Ramachandran MLA and others participated in the meeting. Drowned in flood Body of a retired teacher, who drowned in the floods, was recovered on Monday. The deceased was identified as P.A. Joseph, 81, who was residing near Nirmala High School, Kundukad. He fell into the water canal by accident while trying to remove the pump set from his compound near the overflowing canal. As shutters of Kerala Sholayar dam opened, water level increased in Chalakudy river. People on the banks of the river have been asked to be vigilant. Four families from Poomala of Mulangunnathukavu Panchayat were shifted in the wake of the threat of landslides. Two people died following landslides in the area during the 2018 floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-subsides-but-flooding-continues/article37064448.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||‘Even after several floods, politicians’ mindset has not changed’||“Kerala must think how to implement an advanced environmental protection system that will ultimately reduce the human cost,” says C.P. Rajendran, geoscientist and Adjunct Professor, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru, in an e-mail interview to The Hindu as the State continues to reel under the effects of flood and rain havoc. What are the lessons not learnt from the deluge in 2018, 2019 and the increasing incidents of landslips in Kerala triggered by extreme weather events? The 2018-2019 flood was a warning that the State should have heeded and accepted vagaries of climate as a new norm. Kerala must think how to implement an advanced environmental protection system that will ultimately reduce the human cost. But, I doubt the State has made any meaningful advances in bringing about a change in that front despite the recommendations. Even after several flood disasters in the recent past, the mindset of politicians has not changed in their approach to developmental projects. Take the case of the new railway project [semi-high-speed SilverLine rail], which will have a direct bearing on future flood disasters. This project will require the State to acquire 1,383 hectares and will cut through many of the State’s ecologically fragile coastal ecosystems, including wetlands, forest areas, backwater regions, densely populated areas and paddy fields. The line will also cut through a number of eco-sensitive heritage sites such as the Madayipara biodiversity park in Kannur, the Kadalundi bird sanctuary in Kozhikode, the Ponnani-Thrissur Kole wetlands and the historical Thirunavaya ponds, lakes and wetlands in Malappuram. As a result, the construction and operation of the railway will quite likely degrade, fragment and ultimately destroy these ecosystems. The construction activities will also hasten soil erosion, land degradation, flooding and habitat destruction, decimate water bodies, hamper the movement of the dependent biological entities and, indeed, the livelihoods of many of the local inhabitants. On the unchecked land use pattern in the hilly districts It is important that for the hilly districts of Idukki and Wayanad, both the local and State authorities should rely on scientific reports on the landslip vulnerabilities to reach decisions on land allocations for various constructions. While deciding on it, local soil properties and slope stability should be important factors to be considered rather than political expediency. It is important to bring in restrictions on machine-mediated quarrying activities. A blueprint that demarcates areas suitable for habituation and those to be left untouched should help strictly implement the basic tenets of land zonation. The short-term and long-term solutions? Climate change, population growth and related economic aspects should have compelled Kerala to move towards a more integrated, catchment-based approach to the management of land and water, if necessary, through environmental legislation. A key component of this integrated catchment-based approach is the recognition that only by strengthening the natural processes, the rivers would be able to find their pathways for floodwaters. For that to happen, the immediate need is to develop flood zonation maps for various catchment areas. These maps should have been used to issue both long-term and short-term warnings to the local population. For the long term, these maps available locally should be used for land zonation and thus help the residents to move out in exchange for land elsewhere. The same procedure should be followed also in the case of landslips. The incidents of landslips in the State have increased exponentially over the last several years. We need to follow the land zonation map in identifying the areas vulnerable to landslips and discourage building houses in such places.  A blueprint that demarcates areas suitable for habituation and those to be left untouched should help strictly implement the basic tenets of land zonation C.P. Rajendran Adjunct Professor, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/even-after-several-disasters-politicians-mindset-has-not-changed/article37064262.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making hay||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-hay/article37064545.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Up in arms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/up-in-arms/article37064547.ece
19 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sailing away to a happy married life in a vessel||For Akash Kunjumon and A. Aishwarya, their lives as man and wife could not have begun on a more adventurous note. The couple braved the floods to tie the knot in an inundated hall at Thalavady in Kuttanad on Monday. Though the weather was not on their side, Kunjumon and Aishwarya, determined to get married, reached the wedding venue, adjacent to the Panayannurkavu Devi temple at Thalavady, in a large copper cooking vessel as all roads in the region remained waterlogged. Boat not available “The wedding was originally scheduled at the Panayannurkavu Devi temple. As the temple remained submerged, we shifted the ceremony to a nearby hall where the floodwaters had not entered the stage. Although we tried to arrange a small boat to reach the venue, none was available. We sailed in a cooking vessel provided by the temple authorities to reach there in time for the muhurtham,” says Kunjumon. Local people help The couple were helped by a group of local residents led by Champakulam block panchayat member Ajith Kumar Pisharath. “Dressed in their wedding finery, the couple reached a junction half a kilometre away from the temple in a car. As the road leading to the temple was waterlogged, we arranged the cooking vessel. They also circumnavigated the temple sitting in the vessel,” says Mr. Pisharath. Although Kunjumon, hailing from Thakazhi, and Aishwarya, from Ambalappuzha, legally got married on October 6, the wedding was scheduled for Monday. The couple, both health workers, entered into the wedlock in the presence of a handful of relatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sailing-away-to-a-happy-married-life-in-a-vessel/article37064013.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||War of words between Cong., BJP in Karnataka||In the heat of the bypolls to Hangal and Sindgi Assembly constituencies, the Congress and the BJP were involved in a spat on Twitter after the former called Prime Minister Narendra Modi “illiterate”. “The Congress had built schools. Despite this, Mr. Modi did not study. There was an adult education programme, but he still did not study. Though there is prohibition on begging, those who are addicted to easy life by begging are turning citizens into beggars. The country is suffering because of illiterate Modi,” Karnataka Congress said in a series of tweets in Kannada with a hashtag #illiterateModi (#hebbattugirakimodi). In another tweet, Karnataka Congress said, “Speech does not come without a teleprompter! His play in external affairs does not start without translators! A person who quit studies to beg does not understand the economy! Fashionable attire, free publicity, and speech full of lies is his strength!” Claiming that petrol and diesel would have been made available for Rs. 66 and Rs. 55, respectively, if the Congress was in power, the party’s Twitter handle wrote, “Prices of essential commodities have gone up because of the government’s tax terrorism. The BJP has plans to rob people to provide to industrialists. The country is struggling because illiterate Modi does not understandpeople’s problems.”  BJP reaction Hitting out at the Congress, the BJP said, “Though there were enough schools, a 50-year-old and a senior youth leader did not study in India at all. Though there was an adult education programme, Pappu did not grow mentally. He is wandering like a beggar [thinking] that he will become Prime Minister because his great-grandfather and father were Prime Ministers.” The BJP has used such names to refer to Rahul Gandhi in the past too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/war-of-words-between-cong-bjp-in-karnataka/article37063981.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister defends officers who posed in saffron attire||Defending the personnel of Vijayapura Rural and Kaup police stations who posed in saffron attire during the Dasara festivities, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Monday accused Congress leader Siddaramaiah for raising such issues to gain political mileage among minorities. “Is the saffron colour banned in the country? Were they wearing any banned colour? Saffron is a symbol of sacrifice and is part of our national flag. For political mileage, Mr. Siddaramaiah comments on such things to make the minorities happy,” the Minister told The Hindu . “Why does he fear the saffron colour? Why should it be commented upon? He does not comment on wearing white (skull) cap or white kurtha. In fact, many police personnel offer namaz during duty hours. They take a break from duty to offer namaz. We respect it.” The Congress leader had, on Sunday, objected to police personnel at the two stations wearing saffron attire during the Dasara festivities. While the personnel in Vijayapura wore a saffron shawl, at Kaup police wore a saffron shirt. Tagging the photographs, Mr. Siddaramaiah accused Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai of taking Karnataka towards ‘Jungle Raj’ and asked him to resign if he cannot rule as per the constitutional provisions. Saying that wearing saffron robes during religious festivals was a common practice, the Home Minister said, “We also have to respect the private lives of police personnel. It is part of our culture to be in traditional dress during puja. When they are on duty, they will have to be in uniform. When he Mr. Siddaramaiah was Chief Minister, he was brandishing a sword during Tipu Jayanti. Was that right?” Mr. Jnanendra also ruled out taking any action against the police personnel in question.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-defends-officers-who-posed-in-saffron-attire/article37063979.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Classes I to V to reopen from October 25 First week will have half-day classes and full-day classes will start on November 2||After nearly 20 months, students of classes I to V will return to classrooms next week. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh, on Monday announced that physical classes for students of Class I to V would begin on October 25, with half-day classes for the first week and full-day classes from November 2. Midday meals would be provided once full-day classes begin. “COVID-19 cases are continually declining in the State and the success of holding physical classes for higher classes has spurred us to start primary classes as well. We have analysed cases where children attending physical classes tested positive for COVID-19 and found they contracted it mostly at home or outside. When other students of the school were tested in such cases, the positivity rate was almost zero. So, we are confident that starting physical classes for primary students will pose no harm to them and the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee has also felt the same,” said Mr. Nagesh. Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar issued new set of COVID-19 guidelines for the State, which said that there shall be “screening for COVID-19 symptoms on entry, 50% of the capacity in a classroom, provision of hand sanitisers, physical distance of one metre minimum as practically feasible, no crowding, particularly at school entry and exit,” apart from classrooms and restrooms to be disinfected daily for classes I to V. The guidelines further said only teachers and staff who had got two shots of the COVID-19 vaccine would be allowed in the classes and additionally, teachers above the age of 50 shall wear a face shield. The Minister said attendance was not compulsory, and that school managements could continue online classes as well, “but parents are keen on physical classes”. The government guidelines make parental consent letter for physical classes mandatory. Mr. Nagesh said the 50% limit was imposed to ensure no overcrowding in classrooms and it would probably not affect 80% of the schools. “But in cases where there are more students in classrooms, we may have to resort to alternate day classes making two batches. We will issue a detailed set of guidelines shortly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/classes-i-to-v-to-reopen-from-october-25-first-week-will-have-half-day-classes-and-full-day-classes-will-start-on-november-2/article37063978.ece
19 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leopard dead after caught in snare meant for wild boar||A three-year-old male leopard was found dead after it was caught in a snare in the fields close to the forests at Madamaneri village of Tavanampalle mandal, 25 km from here, on Monday morning. According to forest officials (Chittoor West), some villagers on their way to the fields had spotted the carcass of a leopard in the snare and informed the former. The officials found that the animal was caught in the snare erected by local hunters for wild boars and that the incident happened sometime after 11 p.m. on Sunday. An official said the accused had used the brake-wires of a two-wheeler to prepare the snare. Postmortem A case was registered and further investigation was on. A team of veterinarians from SV Veterinary University conducted the postmortem on the leopard. “We have formed a special party to track down the accused,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leopard-dead-after-caught-in-snare-meant-for-wild-boar/article37064348.ece
19 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur SP lends an ear to residents as part of outreach programme||Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban, K. Arif Hafeez on Monday evening visited Swarnabharathi Colony and talked to a few women regarding the issues they faced pertaining to traffic and law and order in their areas, as part of his outreach programme undertaken to improve policing. “We want to reach out to people so that we can understand their issues. We want to ensure that they have the confidence to approach police directly and we want them to know that we are just a call away,” said the SP while touring areas and talking to residents. During his interaction with women in Swarnabharathi Colony on Monday, while one pointed out to the dysfunctional CCTV, another informed him about the inadequate street lighting in the area and lack of surveillance that provides cover to miscreants. The police responded to their concerns and arranged beat point books, increased surveillance and saw to it that streets get proper lighting with the help of municipal corporation officials. The road leading to the new Guntur railway station has also been transformed, with a fresh coat of paint, better lighting and increased surveillance. SP adopts two areas The SP adopted Venkatadripet near the new Guntur railway station and Satyanarayanapuram under Pattabhipuram police station limits. The SP has so far visited areas in Kothapet, Nehru Nagar, Yanadi Colony, Suddapalli Donka, Yadava Bazaar in East Sub Division, KVP Colony, Srinivasarao Thota in Nagaramapalem police station limits, Sarada Colony in Arundelpet police station limits, Swarnabharathi Nagar in Nallapadu police station limits. “The outreach programme has been commenced in areas of low-income groups as of now. We identified key issues here and will be taking remedial measures,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-sp-lends-an-ear-to-residents-as-part-of-outreach-programme/article37064037.ece
19 October 2021||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor behind death of four in Karnataka||The Chitradurga police have unravelled the mystery behind the death of four persons at Isamudra Gollarahatti near Chitradurga taluk, which was reported on July 12. The accused is a minor girl of the family and she has been sent to an observation home. She allegedly mixed pesticide in ragi flour while preparing ‘mudde’ (ragi balls) as she was feeling neglected in the family. Her father Thippa Naika, 45, mother Sudha Bai, 40, grandmother Gundibai, 80, and sister Ramya, 16, died after having dinner that day. Her elder brother Chandrashekhar alias Rahul, who also ate the food, survived after undergoing treatment in Davangere. The Bharamasagar police had registered a case. A sample of the food from the kitchen was sent for forensic examination and the report confirmed the presence of pesticide in the ragi ‘mudde’. Only the accused didn’t have ‘mudde’ on that day. She is said to have procured a used bottle of pesticide while returning home from the agricultural field. G. Radhika, Superintendent of Police of Chitradurga, said on Monday that the girl had been separated from her parents within three months of her birth. She had been staying with her maternal grandmother at Inahalli, about 30 km from Isamudra. She shifted to her parents’ home only three years ago. She often had differences with her siblings and parents. “She was not good at studies and spent most of her time watching television serials. Her parents had forced her to work in the agricultural fields and also made her do household chores, while her two siblings went to school. There were instances when her parents and siblings beat her up. All this must have forced her to take this step,” the officer said. The accused, the Superintendent of Police said, had attempted to kill her family members a few months ago. “Then she had mixed pesticide with sambar. No one ate the food as they found the smell odd. However, nobody suspected her role in the incident. This emboldened her to make another attempt,” she said. Ms. Radhika also suspected the influence of TV serials on the girl. “She was addicted to watching TV serials. Glorification of crime on serials could have influenced her. The parents could have prevented the incident had they understood her feelings and responded positively,” she said. ‘Conduct disorder’ If the girl had gone to the extent of murdering her family members, she must have undergone a lot of suffering, said S.V. Santhosh, professor and head of the Department of Psychiatry at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. “Whenever children commit such crimes, we analyse the way they were brought up and the background of parents. In some children, we notice conduct disorder, a tendency of opposing basic social values. This could have led to this situation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minor-behind-death-of-four-in-karnataka/article37063984.ece
19 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surender Reddy grilled again by SC committee||“How can the witness be so dumb,” asked members of the Supreme Court-appointed commission to inquire into the Cyberabad police’s alleged encounter killings of the four accused in the rape and murder of Disha, a 27-year-old veterinarian, after listening to investigating officer (IO) and Deputy Commissioner of Police, Rachakonda Special Operations Team, J. Surender Reddy’s answers during his deposition on Monday. The IO was asked again about the duration of the submitted video clippings, photographs and the procedure followed while recording the videos of the scene of the incident at Chatanpally on December 6, 2019. The officer maintained that there were no photos or videos of the articles recovered and the place from where the accused tried to flee. “If the IO is clueless about the clues, what can we do? Leave it for the influence of the commission,” the members said. Earlier, when Mr. Reddy did not respond to their questions, chairman of the commission, former judge Justice V.S. Sirpurkar, said the IO was trying to “run away” from questions. “That would be disastrous for you. You are deliberately trying to avoid my questions. I will write about it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surender-reddy-grilled-by-sc-committee-again/article37063980.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sharmila padayatra from Chevella on October 20||YSR Telangana Party president Y.S. Sharmila is yet again embarking on a padayatra, this time in Telangana from Wednesday. Ms. Sharmila chose to launch her padayatra from Chevella, the place where her father and former AP Chief Minister Y.S.Rajasekhara Reddy had launched his marathon walkathon in 2003. According to the schedule released by the YSRT Party spokesperson Tudi Devender Reddy, the party chief would undertake rigorous 400-days padayatra covering 90 Assembly segments in 14 parliamentary constituencies in Telangana spread over 400 days. She proposes to utilise the yatra to understand the issues concerning the farmers, youth, parents, workers and enquire if the fruits of the welfare schemes were reaching them or not. Typically, the yatra would commence at 8.30 a.m. and break at 12.30 p.m. and again start at 3 p.m. and conclude at 6 p.m. daily. After the padayatra, Ms. Sharmila would interact with the local leaders, cadres, youth and others. The YSRTP leader is focussing on the youth and the unemployed as she has been undertaking protest programmes in their support in the last two months across Telangana. She would be leaving for Idupulapaya on Tuesday to pay her respects at YSR memorial and then launch her padayatra from Chevella.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sharmila-padayatra-from-chevella-on-october-20/article37064244.ece
19 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Political parties roll up their sleeves for Badvel bypoll||The political parties have intensified campaign for the bypoll to Badvel (SC) constituency, scheduled to be held on October 30. With the BJP contrasting the ‘backwardness’ of Badvel with the ‘developed’ Pulivendula, Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha stood in the forefront of campaign for the YSRCP on Monday, canvassing along with the party’s candidate, D. Sudha in Radhakrishna Nagar and Mahabub Nagar localities. Apart from a road-show, he participated in a door-to-door campaign, seeking victory for the party with higher margin. Government Chief whip G. Srikanth Reddy, Kadapa Mayor Suresh Babu and former MLC Govinda Reddy also took part in the campaign. During the campaign, MLC C. Ramachandraiah accused TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu of exhibiting short-sightedness and double standards that had caused immense loss to the State. Referring to TDP’s recent meeting led by Hindupur MLA N. Balakrishna that harped on the pending irrigation projects in the Rayalaseema region, he wondered what the TDP had done in this regard when it was in power. Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) working president N. Tulasi Reddy said the fight was between their original Congress and the ‘fake’ Congress, subtly meaning the YSR Congress Party. He accused the YSRCP of not having done anything for the development of Badvel, in contrast to the development witnessed during the Congress rule between 2004 and 2014. He appealed to the voters to understand the importance of bringing the Congress to power to ensure overall progress. Meanwhile, poll expenditure observer Sheel Ashish appealed to political parties to submit expenditure report as mandated by the Election Commission. Participating in a meeting with Returning Officer and Rajampet Sub-Collector Ketan Garg, he said the submitted expenses would be cross-checked with the figures secured by the EC’s accounting team. Security reviewed Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan reviewed the security arrangements with the seven Deputy Superintendents who have been made in-charges of seven mandals falling under the constituency. He reviewed the deployment of route mobiles, striking force, patrol parties near the polling stations and appealed to outsiders to leave the constituency 48 hours before the election date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/political-parties-roll-up-their-sleeves-for-badvel-bypoll/article37064365.ece
19 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Missing boy found dead in park||A 14-year-old boy who had been missing for two days was found dead on Monday under mysterious circumstances in a pond in boat club park here. The deceased A.S. Prasanth was a class IX student. According to Sarpavaram police, Prasanth’s parents lodged a missing complaint on Saturday. The police have retrieved the body from the pond and sent it to Government General Hospital for post-mortem. A case has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/missing-boy-found-dead-in-park/article37064349.ece
19 October 2021||Kalpetta,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala submits new proposal for Wayanad sanctuary eco-zone||The State government has submitted a proposal to the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change to declare an extent of 88.21 square kilometres around the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary as eco-sensitive zone (EZ). According to a draft notification published on January 28 this year, an extent of 3.4 km around the boundary of the sanctuary had been notified as its EZ. The EZ, according to the draft notification, covered an area of 118.59 sq km, of which 99.5 sq km is outside the sanctuary that includes 8.89 sq km of Thirunelly Reserve Forest of north Wayanad and 17.67 sq km of the vested forest of the Chedelayath Range of south Wayanad forest division. The remaining 19.09 sq km constitutes the revenue villages that fall within the sanctuary. These include Thirunelly, Thrishilery Pulpally, Irulam, Kidanganad, and Noolpuzha villages. As many as 29 enclosures inside the sanctuary also fall within the EZ. The sanctuary, spread over an area of 344.53 sq km in the Wayanad Wildlife Division, is a component of the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve (5,520 sq km) and is a vital component of the Elephant Reserve No.7 of south India. Public protest A strong public protest had been raised against the notification. The Wayanad District Panchayat and several block panchayats had passed resolutions against it. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala had sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to repeal the draft notification, stating that it would affect the farmers living in densely populated areas coming under the proposed notified areas. The State government has now submitted a revised draft by reducing the EZ to 88.21 sq km after excluding the human settlements on 30 sq km, Warden S. Narendra Babu told The Hindu . All the private properties outside the sanctuary have been excluded from the proposal, Mr. Babu said. The 88.21 sq km includes 69.12 sq km area of the two territorial forest divisions and 10.09 sq km area of the enclosures inside the sanctuary, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-submits-new-proposal-for-wayanad-sanctuary-eco-zone/article37063985.ece
19 October 2021||KONDRUKOTA (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Performing last rites is an uphill task here||On August 15 this year, a Koya tribal family had to perform the last rites of a 65-year-old woman, Moolem Subbayamma, in a crematorium located outside the rehabilitation colony – Kondrukota R&R Colony – in Polavaram mandal in the district. Performing the last rites in such a way was against the Koya custom. As per the tradition, the body is consigned to flames after giving it a bath with water brought in pots by every household in the habitation. “My sister-in-law, Subbayamma, died on August 14 with non-COVID-19 complications. We were left with no option but to perform her last rites outside the colony as the crematorium designated by the government is on a hill. How can we perform the last rites on the hill?” questioned Ganja Raju. Since June this year, the colony had seen three deaths, two of them due to COVID-19, and their last rites were performed in Rajamahendravaram as per COVID-19 protocol. Early this year, at least 420 families had been shifted from their native Kondrukota panchayat located upstream the Polavaram project site to the rehabilitation colony. “Our colony does not have a dedicated place to perform the last rites. The officials have designated a five-acre hill in our layout as a crematorium. We cannot even cross the Godavari to perform the last rites in our ancestral habitation,” said Mr. Ganja Raju, a farmer, who had received compensation under the land-to-land package. “Nobody can take the dead body on foot to the ancestral village about 50 km away in the forest to perform the last rites,” the Koyas said. As a part of the Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) exercise, the government had bought land, along with the hill, from a private landowner, which, the Koyas said, served no purpose. Karam Sravan Kumar, who had lost his mother and brother to COVID-19 in June, said, “We have lost everything to make way for the Polavaram project. We are leading a life that cannot even offer decent last rites to the dead. We are still waiting to get a proper crematorium. While we can wait, death will not wait for anybody. The government should realise it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/performing-last-rites-is-an-uphill-task-here/article37064370.ece
19 October 2021||MYLAVARAM (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for fatally injuring father-in-law||A shepherd was reportedly taken into custody for allegedly attacking his wife and fatally injuring her father at Yedurubedem thanda in Krishna district in the early hours of Monday. The accused, V. Rambabu of Balliparru village in Gannavaram mandal, attacked his wife V. Dhanalakshmi, father-in-law K. Kondala Rao, mother-in-law Ramana and sister-in-law Bhavani with a sickle injuring all of them. On hearing their screams, neighbours rushed the victims to Government General Hospital (GGH) in Vijayawada, where Kondala Rao succumbed to his injuries. Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu said that Kondala Rao had given half an acre to his daughter during her marriage with Rambabu. Rambabu, who was addicted to vices, was reportedly harassing her to sell the land and give the money to him. On Sunday, the couple quarrelled over the issue and Rambabu reportedly thrashed her severely, following which she left for her parents’ house. Around 4 a.m., Rambabu went to his in-laws’ house and attacked them, the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-fatally-injuring-father-in-law/article37064557.ece
19 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 pandemic draws the curtains on ‘Padya Natakam’||Kona Subba Rao would get into the character on stage as people would watch the ‘Kurukshetram’, a mythological play, with rapt attention. The audience would shout, urging the 57-year ‘Padya Natakam’ exponent from Podili to repeat the long-winding ‘padyam’ and the latter would oblige with pleasure. “Well, it seems a thing of past now,” says Mr. Subba Rao. The coronavirus pandemic has drawn the curtains on the traditional Telugu theatre performances, thanks to curbs in place to contain the spread of the virus. “It is not just me. Thousands of padyam artistes in the State are now clueless as to how to eke out a living with dignity,” laments Mr. Subba Rao who now sells betel leaves at Podili in Prakasam district. Hey days “We have seen better days. No Tirunalu in villages would end without our plays. The annual temple festivals now are few and far between. Even if they are organised, we are not allowed to perform,” he says during a conversation with The Hindu, after singing a long-winding padyam while playing his harmonium. The last performance of Mr. Subba Rao was in March 2020 before the first wave of COVID-19 set in. Lack of work and funds crunch have made it difficult for him to take care of his family. He recalled how he had trained hundreds of artistes in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana during the long innings in his vocation. “We used to perform among other plays ‘Satya Harischandra’ and ‘Bama Rukmini Kalyanam’ that would start late in the night and continue till the wee hours. The crowd used to stay put and encourage them to perform again and again,” he reminisces. The woes of Chimakurthy Nageswara Rao and other thespians are no different. They are hoping against hope that the State government will allow the theatre performances again. “The number of coronavirus infections are going down. If the cinema halls can run, why not theatres? We are clueless about the rationale behind continuing the curbs on Telugu theatres,” says Mr. Nageswara Rao. ex gratia sought “We have exhausted whatever little savings at our disposal long back. None is ready to advance loans to us. Many of us do odd jobs. Some of us even resort to begging. Many artistes have sold their harmoniums to run their families. We are ready to perform in strict adherence to the safety norms,” he says. The artistes urge the State government to pay them at least Rs. 10,000 per month as ex gratia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-pandemic-draws-the-curtains-on-padya-natakam/article37064043.ece
19 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrest Union Minister Ajay Mishra: farmers||Farmers staged a demonstration in front of the Ongole railway station on Monday, demanding dismissal of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra from the Cabinet. They also wanted Mr. Mishra’s arrest in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh. Leading the protest, Samyukta Kisan Morcha Prakasam district convenor Ch. Ranga Rao said the protest seeking justice for the families of the farmers who died in the violence would be intensified. The protesting farmers, including TDP farmers’ wing district president K. Venkaiah raised slogans against the three controversial farm laws and the proposal to amend the Electricity Act, which, he said, would phase out power subsidy being extended to the agricultural connections. The farmers also pressed for statutory backing to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for agricultural produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrest-union-minister-ajay-mishra-farmers/article37064039.ece
19 October 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will focus on implementation of govt. schemes, says ZP chief||Zilla Parishad new Chairperson Piriya Vijaya has said that periodical inspections of all the departments and field inspections to know the progress of the developmental activities at villages would be given top priority for the effective implementation of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s flagship programmes. She said that the developmental activities in rural areas would ensure economic activity locally and benefit thousands of people living in remote areas. Ms.Vijaya, who was recently elected unanimously as the ZP chairperson, took charge on Monday and revealed her action plan to take up developmental activities in all 38 mandals of the district. “We will hold monthly reviews to observe the progress of all the works taken up by each department. It will certainly help us to know the ground situation and take up corrective measures. Along with local public representatives, including ZPTC members, we will take up field inspections. It will act as a deterrent and make officials meet the expectations of the government,” she told the media here. Ms. Vijaya, who was elected as the ZPTC member from Kaviti, is the wife of former MLA of Itchapuram Piriya Sairaj. She promised to take up more charitable activities across the district in association with the Uddanam Foundation established by her husband a decade ago. Earlier, Zilla Parishad Chief Executive Officer B. Lakshmipati and officials greeted her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-focus-on-implementation-of-govt-schemes-says-zp-chief/article37064391.ece
19 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala CM chairs high-level meet on rain havoc||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday asked officials to enlist the services of civil defence volunteers, neighbourhood self-help groups and civic-minded citizens for flood relief and rehabilitation efforts. At a high-level meeting he chaired, Mr. Vijayan asked Collectors to identify mud-slip prone areas and evacuate residents from there urgently. Chief Secretary V.P. Joy, Power Minister K. Krishnankutty, Revenue Minister K. Rajan and other top officials also attended. Central and State forces continued their joint search for persons feared swept away by floodwaters or caught under mud-slips. Residents, too, were helping the uniformed forces. The Government currently is operating 184 relief camps in the State in the wake of the disaster caused by the torrential rain. Waterlogging continued unabated in Kuttanad and other low-lying areas in the district on Monday. Although rain has subsided, floodwaters flowing from the eastern side have inundated most of the upper Kuttanad region. The water level in major rivers in the district also continues to remain high. Several people from Thalavady were shifted to relief camps after floodwaters entered houses. The situation was not different in Kidangara, Neerattupuram, Edathua, and Veeyapuram, with people moving to safer places. People from other parts of Kuttanad, including Kainakary, Pulinkunnu, and Mankombu, have moved to safer places in anticipation of the worsening situation. A number of bedridden patients in Kuttanad were shifted to a camp opened at the Alappuzha Town Hall. Kakki dam opening In view of the opening of the floodgates of the Kakki dam in Pathanamthitta, the district administration urged the people living on the banks of rivers in Kuttanad, Chengannur, Mavelikara, and Karthikappally taluks to move to safer places. The water from the reservoir is expected to reach Chengannur early on Tuesday and in Kuttanad later in the day. Bus services suspended On Monday, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation partially suspended bus services through the Alappuzha-Changanassery road and the Ambalappuzha-Thiruvalla road due to waterlogging. The district administration has put a ban on houseboat and shikara boat operations in Alappuzha. The body of a four-year-old child was recovered from the debris in the landslip-hit Makochi at Kokkayar on Monday. Six bodies were recovered on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-cm-chairs-high-level-meet-on-rain-havoc/article37063974.ece
19 October 2021||TIRUCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||DVAC books disproportionate assets case against Vijayabaskar||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) conducted simultaneous searches at the houses of former Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and his relatives in Pudukottai and other places in Tamil Nadu on Monday after booking a case of disproportionate assets against him and his wife. The searches were conducted at 50 locations, including 32 in Pudukottai district, a senior DVAC official told The Hindu . The Minister’s houses in Chennai and his native village Illupur, the educational institutions run by the Mother Teresa Educational and Charitable Trust run by his family and a stone crushing unit in Pudukottai district were among the places that were searched. One of the teams searched the residence of Mr. Vijayabaskar’s father-in-law at Ramanathapuram in Coimbatore. Various other premises of Dr. Vijayabaskar’s family members, relatives, aides and business partners in Tiruchi, Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore and Madurai were searched, the official said. The searches began in the early hours and went on till late in the evening. A sum of Rs. 23.85 lakh in cash, 4.87 kg of gold articles, registration certificates for 136 heavy vehicles, hard discs and documents relating to property transactions were seized, the DVAC said. The searches were conducted by different teams after an FIR was filed by the DVACs’s Pudukottai unit based on information that Mr. Vijayabaskar had indulged in corrupt practices and enriched himself by acquiring assets in his and dependents’ names and in the name of the businesses in which he and his wife were proprietors/share-holders. While holding office, Mr. Vijayabaskar and his wife Ramya, also cited as an accused, were alleged to have been in possession of pecuniary resources and movable and immovable assets valued at about Rs. 27.22 crore, disproportionate to their known sources of income. The properties were allegedly in the form of bank deposits, jewels, motor vehicles, agriculture lands, house sites, insurance policies, investment in the partnership companies and buildings in his, wife’s and dependents’ names. Properties have allegedly been acquired in the name of business firms such as M/s. Rasi Blue Metals, M/s. Green land Hi-tech Promoters, Om Sri Vari Stones (P) Ltd, M/s Rasi Enterprises, Anya Enterprises, V Infrastructure and Sai Hridham Infraa Private Ltd in which Mr. Vijayabaskar and his family members were proprietors /shareholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dvac-files-disproportionate-assets-case-against-vijayabaskar/article37064096.ece
19 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cadet selection camp begins in Tirupati||As many as 360 members of National Cadet Corps (NCC) from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana converged at Tirupati for the Inter Group Competition (IGC) camp, which got off to a colourful start at Veritas Sainik School campus here on Monday. The week-long camp meant to select cadets for participation in the Republic Day Celebrations at New Delhi is generally conducted at Secunderabad every year, but for the first time, the Andhra Pradesh Directorate (AP & TS) has chosen Tirupati for the event. Coloner Soumen Adhikary, Officer Commanding 29 (A) Batallion, formally flagged off the opening ceremony. Apart from around 50 officers and staff members, 40 cadets from each of the nine groups viz., Secunderabad, Hyderabad, Nizamabad, Warangal, Visakhapatnam, Kakinada, Guntur, Kurnool and Tirupati have arrived here. Tirupati Group Commander Colonel Yogesh Dungrakoti, who is the overall in-charge of the event, greeted the participants, who are expected to prove their mettle in drill, firing, flag area preparation, line area competition, cultural programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cadet-selection-camp-begins-in-tirupati/article37064353.ece
19 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited for ‘Tiruppavai’ discourses||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) invites applications from scholars of Srivaishnavite philosophy to give spiritual discourses on ‘Tiruppavai’ during the ensuing Dhanurmasam at various temples across the country. The auspicious month starting from December 16 to January 14 is considered sacred, when the devout throng temples early in the day in tune with the call given by poetess Andal (Godha Devi) in her magnum opus ‘Tiruppavai’. It has been an ancient practice to chant and explain the meaning of the thirty verses on each day of the month, for which the interested scholars can send in their applications and consent letters addressed to ‘The Special Officer, Alwar Divyaprabandha Project, SVETA building, Tirupati – 517 502’. The format can be downloaded from ‘www.tirumala.org’ and the project office reached at 0877 – 226 4519 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-invited-for-tiruppavai-discourses/article37064041.ece
19 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Swaminarayan sect’s chief monk to address NSU convocation||Sadhu Bhadresh Das, chief monk of Bochasanwasi Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha (BAPS), who also heads the Swaminarayan Research Institute at Akshardham in New Delhi, will address students at the maiden convocation of National Sanskrit University at Mahati auditorium here on Wednesday. This is the first convocation for NSU after getting the Central university status in April 2020. The varsity was earlier known as Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidyapeetha, a deemed-to-be university under the union MHRD. The varsity’s Chancellor N. Gopalaswami will declare the convocation open,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sadhu-bhadresh-das-to-address-nsu-convocation/article37064354.ece
19 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||MITS bags A+ grade in NAAC accreditation||Madanapalle Institute of Technology and Science (MITS), Madanapalle, has achieved A+ grade in the first cycle of accreditation by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). The grade is valid for five years till September 2026. MITS secured A+ grade with 3.3 CGPA in this cycle at the study conducted by a NAAC peer team that visited the campus on September 25 and 26 to assess the curricular development, faculty quality and research, infrastructure, placements and so on, Principal C. Yuvaraj told the media on Monday. Group Chairman N. Vijayabhaskara Choudary thanked all the participants who had contributed to the process of securing the A+ grade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mits-bags-a-grade-in-naac-accreditation/article37064040.ece
19 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amara Raja among top 500 best employers||Tirupati-based Amara Raja Group has been listed among the 500 best employers to work for across the globe, according to the ‘World’s Best Employer Ranking-2021’ published by the Forbes Magazine. The only company from the Telugu States to appear in the list, the Amara Raja Group has also figured among the top five companies from India. The study was conducted in partnership with market research firm Statista, which contacted 1.5 lakh full and part-time employees from 58 countries working for multinational companies and institutions. The participants were asked to rate their willingness to recommend their own employer to friends and family, besides other employers in their respective industries. Though South Korean giant Samsung Electronics was ranked the highest, it was Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries that emerged as the best employer among the Indian companies. The Amara Raja Group is ranked fourth in the list, after Reliance Industries, Larsen & Toubro and Bajaj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amara-raja-among-top-500-best-employers/article37064363.ece
19 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Smugglers using tribals, youth to transport ganja’||Many tribal youth are being lured into ganja peddling in the State, the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials have said, adding that smugglers from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and other States are running their trade by establishing contacts with the local ganja cultivators. The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and police have seized about 2.70 lakh kg ganja worth more than Rs. 150 crore after the bureau was formed in the State. The smugglers are roping in tribal people and the youth, especially students, for transporting the contraband to other States by paying paltry amounts, the officials say. “As many as 2,039 lakh cases have been registered against ganja smugglers and 5,411 persons have been arrested. The police have seized 1,404 vehicles used for transportation of the contraband,” SEB Commissioner Vineet Brijlal told The Hindu. The arrested include women and peddlers from the neighbouring States. Instructions have been issued to act tough on them, said SEB Director P.H.D. Ramakrishna. “The SEB has launched a war against ganja trade. A joint operation has been planned with the police in the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) region and the agency areas in Visakhapatnam and East Godavari district. We will conduct raids and destroy the stocks at the cultivation points,” said Mr. Brijlal. Strict vigilance Krishna district Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal said vigil had stepped up on the National Highways and at the border check-posts to prevent ganja smuggling. “We have identified many youth who are addicted to ganja. They, along with their parents, are being counselled. More than 100 students have been counselled so far in phases,” said Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. The officials said that the kingpins of the trade were transporting the contraband in different modes. The smuggling gangs were using pilot vehicles to inform those shifting the contraband in two-wheelers, cars, buses and lorries about the checking. West Godavari SP Rahul Dev Sharma said that vulnerable points had been identified and an ‘Anti-drug Drive’ had been launched in educational institutions to prevent youth from falling prey to the ganja addiction. In many cases, the kingpins from other States were using tribal people and the youth to transport the stocks. Police are trying to arrest the kingpins, said an SEB officer. Lucrative trade The smugglers are procuring ganja from the agency areas at Rs. 1,500 a kg, which is sold at Rs. 5,000 a kg in other States and more than Rs. 10,000 in metro cities, said a police officer. “The police have seized about 4,000 kg ganja in West Godavari district, which was being smuggled to Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana,” said Mr. Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-tribal-people-being-used-to-transport-ganja/article37063975.ece
19 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus claims six more lives in State||The State reported six more deaths due to coronavirus and 332 infections in the 24 hours, ending Monday morning. The cumulative tally and toll reached 20,60,804 and 14,313 respectively. At 5,709 , the number of active cases was less than 6,000 for the first time in the past 204 days. The number of recoveries and recovery rate stood at 20,40,782 and 99.03%. During the past day, 651 patients recovered . The daily test positivity rate of the 30,219 samples tested was put at 1.10% . Krishna district reported two deaths in the past day, while Chittoor, Guntur, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported one fatality each in the past day. Chittoor reported 74 more infections in the past day. It was followed by Kadapa (51), Guntur (50), Nellore (39), Krishna (32), East Godavari (28), Prakasam (26), Visakhapatnam (11), West Godavari (7), Srikakulam (6), Anantapur (6) and Kurnool (2). Vizianagaram district reported no infection. More than half of the State’s active cases were reported in three districts —East Godavari (1,200), Chittoor (920) and Nellore (757). Four districts —Srikakulam (82), Anantapur (58), Kurnool (29) and Vizianagaram (26)— together have 195 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coronavirus-claims-six-more-lives-in-state/article37064359.ece
19 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ravi Nath Tilhari sworn in as High Court judge||Justice Ravi Nath Tilhari was sworn in as a judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court by Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra on Monday. Justice Tilhari was a judge of Allahabad High Court prior to his present posting. A.P. High Court Registrar General B.S. Bhanumathi read out Justice Tilhari’s appointment notification issued on October 5. High Court judges A.V. Sesha Sai, U. Durga Prasad Rao, M. Ganga Rao, M. Satyanarayana Murthy, R. Raghunandan Rao, B. Krishna Mohan, M. Venkataramana and K. Suresh Reddy, Advocate General S. Sriram and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ravi-nath-tilhari-sworn-in-as-high-court-judge/article37064362.ece
19 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tele-consultation services provided to 12 lakh people in five months||The ‘104’ COVID-19 Call Centre has so far reached out to a record number of 11.9 lakh people and offered tele-consultation services since May this year. The call centre, with 5,546 doctors including 1,146 specialists, made 11,90,789 calls during the past five months, according to a release by the ‘104’ Call Centre in-charge Babu A. More than 8.5 lakh calls were made to people who were put under home isolation after testing positive for COVID-19 infection. Calls were also made to people in vulnerable areas as part of the fever surveys to identify people with COVID-19 symptoms. Virtual triaging was carried out through tele-consultation after which people were advised to undergo COVID-19 tests, home isolation, quarantine and others. The number of calls received by the call centre from the public crossed the 6 lakh-mark and reached 6,01,410. Of them, 2.60 lakh calls were made by people seeking general information about COVID-19 and 1.12 persons called to get tested. About 97,000 persons called for hospital admission and 87,455 people called to know their COVID-19 test results. More than 333 staff members including 27 doctors are working with the call centre round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tele-consultation-services-provided-to-12-lakh-people-in-five-months/article37064360.ece
19 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Corporator raises grievance in Spandana||CPI(M) floor leader and corporator B. Satya Babu submitted a grievance to Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi on Monday at the Spandana programme saying that he was not informed about the launch of State government’s YSR Asara scheme in his ward. He said the scheme was launched in his ward on October 16 but he was not informed about the same by the officials concerned. He asked the Mayor to take action against the officials responsible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/corporator-raises-grievance-in-spandana/article37064558.ece
19 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayanand Reddy is new APSRTC Vice-Chairman||M.C. Vijayanand Reddy took charge as the Vice-Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) at Mangalagiri on Monday. Participating in the programme, Transport Minister Perni Venkatramaiah said that APSRTC was extending good services across the State, particularly in the rural areas. The new Board of Directors of the APSRTC should strive for development of the corporation, the Minister said. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, Rajya Sabha member Mopidevi Venkataramana, Satavahana RTC Region chairman Tatineni Padmavathi, were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijayanand-reddy-is-new-apsrtc-vice-chairman/article37064357.ece
19 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unions vow to intensify stir against move to privatise steel plant||The All party Trade Unions, People’s Organisations for Protection of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and public sector units’ (PSUs) Joint Action Committee (JAC) have resolved to intensify the agitation against privatisation of the VSP at a roundtable meeting organised at the public library here on Monday. The participants deplored the adamant attitude of the Centre in going ahead with its decision on strategic sale of the VSP though agitations were being held all over the State for the past 10 months against the decision. The JAC has been organising relay hunger strikes at the Gandhi statue for the past 200 days seeking reversal of the decision on privatisation of the VSP and a halt to privation of other PSUs in the country. Signature campaign The JAC also resolved to organise a campaign to collect one crore signatures and appealed to all sections of the people to participate in the campaign and express their resentment against the decision of the BJP government. The participants sought that all municipal corporations, municipalities, Zilla Parishads and Mandal Parishads adopt resolutions against the sale of the VSP and sought the cooperation of all political parties and people’s organisations in this regard. They said that resolutions were already adopted in the State Assembly and the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) opposing the decision of the Centre. They wondered as to how the BJP government, which had failed to implement the assurances given to the State in the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, could think of selling the lone heavy industry in the State. They alleged that the Centre has not allocated captive mines to the VSP with the objective of handing it over to corporate groups. The meeting also resolved to organise a rally with students and youths from Mrs. AVN College to the Old Head Post Office Junction on November 1 and to conduct seminars in all districts of the State on the issue to sensitise people. JAC chairman M. Jaggu Naidu presided over the meeting. CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao, FDNA general secretary A. Aja Sarma, UFBU convener A. Sushma, Writer’s Academy chairman V.V. Ramana Murthy, VJF president Gantla Srinu Babu, INTUC general secretary Neerukonda Ramachandra Rao, CFTUI national president N. Kanaka Rao, PAV leader T. Kameswara Rao and CITU city president R.K.S.V. Kumar were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unions-vow-to-intensify-stir-against-move-to-privatise-steel-plant/article37064560.ece
19 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ZP Chairperson stresses on cleanliness||Zilla Parishad Chairperson J. Subhadra called upon the public to participate in the Jagananna Swachh Sankalpam programme and contribute to the promotion of health, as health is linked to cleanliness of the surroundings. The ZP Chairperson flagged off 29 CLAP (Clean Andhra Pradesh) vehicles, which carry two different coloured garbage bins to segregate dry and wet wastes. She garlanded the bust of Mahatma Gandhi and a portrait of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy at the ZP hall. Addressing the gathering, Ms. Subhadra said that the objective of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was to make all gram panchayats in the district garbage-free. She called upon the people to realise that they could stay healthy only when their villages and surroundings were clean. ZP CEO Nagarjuna Sagar said that the programme would be successful when the officials and people’s representatives work in tandem to achieve the objective and make the programme a success. He suggested greening of the villages through planting of saplings and nurturing them. District coordination for the Swachh Sankalpam programme Chandrakala explained about the objectives of the programme. District Panchayat Officer K. Krishna Kumari, RWS SE T. Ravi Kumar and DWMA Project Director Sandeep were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zp-chairperson-stresses-on-cleanliness/article37064577.ece
19 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals booked for attacking TS police team, says SP||The district police have booked cases against the group of tribals who had reportedly attacked a police team from Nalgonda that had come to peobe a case related to ganja smuggling, near Lambasingi in the Visakhapatnam Agency area. A 10-member team of Nalgonda police from Telangana, had come to Lambasingi for further investigation in a ganja smuggling case. They were heading to Annavaram village with an accused who was earlier caught in Nalgonda. Near Lambasingi, they were reportedly attacked by a group of tribals armed with axes and other weapons. In self-defence, the police team opened two rounds of fire from their service weapons, in which one tribal received a bullet injury that ricochetted of a surface and another suffered injury trying to escape in the melee. Both the injuries were simple and the injured are out of danger, said Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao. “Based on a complaint lodged by the Nalgonda police team, we have booked cases under various IPC Sections such as rioting and attacking with weapons,” he said. Further investigation is on, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-booked-for-attacking-ts-police-team-says-sp/article37064368.ece
19 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Law and order situation in State has deteriorated in YSRCP rule: Chinarajappa||Former Home Minister Nimmakayala Chinarajappa has alleged that the law and order situation in the State has deteriorated after the YSR Congress Party government came to power. There is no development and the State is in a financial crisis and now the electricity crisis is looming large, he alleged. He was speaking to the media after participating in the district coordination committee meeting of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), at the party office here on Monday. Lashing out at the YSRCP government, he said power tariff was hiked by the ruling party, and recalled the assurance of TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu that there would be no power tariff hike. The roads in the State were in a bad shape but the government was not bothered, he alleged. He said the coordination committee had discussed the forthcoming visit of TDP general secretary N. Lokesh to Anakapalle, where he would inaugurate the party office. It also discussed issues pertaining to Visakhapatnam and Anakapalle Parliamentary constituencies. Former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu alleged that ganja was being detected at various places in the country but its source was pointing to Visakhapatnam. Referring to the statements of Home Minister M. Sucharita linking his name to the ganja trade, Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu offered to quit politics, if she proved her allegations. He alleged that the police and excise officials were aware of those who were behind the ganja trade but did not bother. He alleged that a police constable had escorted a ganja lorry in the Agency area. He recalled that in the past, the SIs and the CIs used to be posted to Nathavaram, Rolugunta and other areas in the Agency as a ‘punishment’, but now they were paying bribes to get those posting. TDP Visakhapatnam Parliamentary president Palla Srinivasa Rao, MLAs, and party leaders participated in the coordination meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/law-and-order-situation-in-state-has-deteriorated-in-ysrcp-rule-chinarajappa/article37064371.ece
19 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girijan Sangham thanks Collector for issuance of ROFR pattas||The AP Girijana Sangham 5th Schedule Sadhana Committee has thanked District Collector A. Mallikarjuna for keeping his commitment on issue of ROFR (Recognition of Forest Rights) pattas to tribal people living in non-scheduled areas in the district. Dr. Mallikarjuna had held the weekly ‘Spandana’ programme at Narsipatnam in the district on October 11. The tribal people had staged a protest at the venue and sought the intervention of the Collector in the issue of ROFR pattas apart from some other issues. The Collector had promised to look into the issue and on the next day (October 12), he signed the pattas and directed the revenue officials and the Narsipatnam RDO to distribute the same to the tribal beneficiaries during the 3rd and 4th phase of the patta distribution programme at Ravikamatham, Rolugunta, Kotauratla and Golugonda mandals. The revenue officials are, however, making arrangements for distribution of the pattas through the local MLA, according the committee leaders. The committee leaders said that the circular, issued by the Centre on implementation of Employment Assurance Scheme (EAS) for 2020-21, states that under the Forest Rights Act, 2006, tribal families, who do not have assets apart from land rights should be given an additional 50 days (in addition to the stipulated 100 days) of work. They said it was unfortunate that most tribals were unaware of this and were not availing of the benefit. They said that tribal people, who have ROFR pattas, can apply for work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girijan-sangham-thanks-collector-for-issuance-of-rofr-pattas/article37064573.ece
19 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple gets ISO certificate||The Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple at Burujupeta in Old Town area has bagged the ISO 9001: 2015 certificate. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao handed over the certificate to temple Executive Officer Jyothi Madhavi on Monday. The Minister expressed happiness that the temple has bagged the prestigious certificate for its cleanliness, the courteous behaviour of the temple staff towards devotees, amenities, adhering to quality parameters and for protection of Hindu dharma. The goddess was revered by the people of the city, he said. He said that Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam and Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple at Burujupeta have contributed to the growth of the city. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said the problems pertaining to the approach roads to the temple would be sorted out soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kanaka-mahalakshmi-temple-gets-iso-certificate/article37064367.ece
19 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records one death and 11 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded the lowest COVID-19 cases on Monday, since the first week of March, this year. On Monday morning, the number of cases recorded in the last 24 hours was just 11, taking the cumulative tally to 1,57,821. After the first week of March, the district has been recording a steady increase in cases and by the end of the month, the district administration had announced the arrival of the second wave. In April and May, the district had seen the worst with over 50,000 cases piling up in just 60 days and the district officially recording over 600 deaths. “From August we have been seeing a slide and October was the best month so far, after we were hit by the second wave and 11 is the least number that we have recorded from mid of March till date,” said a senior doctor from KGH. But the health experts are keeping their fingers crossed, as last week was a festive week and the number of tests conducted were on the lower side, when compared to the normal days. Moreover, the tests are fewer in the weekends, said P.V. Sudhakar, District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College. It may be remembered, that during the first wave in 2020, the first case was detected in the last week of March and the cases piled up in July and August. From September onwards there was a decline and the curve started to flatten from December and dropped to a single digit from mid February, till the arrival of the second wave in mid March 2021. Meanwhile, 40 persons infected with the virus were discharged on Monday taking the total number of discharges so far to 1,55,919. The district also recorded one more death as on Monday morning taking the total deaths to 1,094. The active cases as on date stand at 808.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-one-death-and-11-new-covid-cases/article37064580.ece
19 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU inks pact with HPCL||The youth need to be trained to meet the future needs of the industry and the training should be made part of the curriculum, said HPCL (HR) Director Pushp Kumar Joshi. He was speaking after HPCL signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Andhra University, here on Monday. As part of the MoU, both HPCL and AU will cooperate in teaching and research. AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy said that empowering the youth in the areas that fit the industry requirement is the need of the hour. Dr. Pushp Kumar said that HPCL is offering internship to students from many departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-inks-pact-with-hpcl/article37064574.ece
19 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl goes missing at Appikonda Beach||A 15-year-old girl went missing at Appikonda Beach here on Monday. Thegirl has been identified as O. Deepika of Kakinada. According to the police, a group of three friends had come to the beach for a jolly trip and had ventured into waters. All the three were dragged in by strong currents. But two of them were rescued by two auto drivers who were present at the spot. A search operation has been launched by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-goes-missing-at-appikonda-beach/article37064392.ece
19 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mega job mela on October 22||A mega job mela is being organised under the National Career Service scheme, at the District Employment Office, near the Old ITI, at Kancharapalem here on October 22. Representatives of 15 companies will participate in the mela to select candidates for nearly 1,300 vacancies in different disciplines. Eligible candidates can register their names on the websitewww.ncs.gov.inand attend the mela. Candidates, who fail to register their names on the website, for any reason, can attend the mela on October 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mega-job-mela-on-october-22/article37064576.ece
19 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||25-hour fast by 250 VSP workers today||A 25-hour fast is being undertaken by 250 workers from 8 a.m. at the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) arch at Kurmannapalem here on Tuesday to mark the completion of the 250th day of the relay hunger strikes, being organised by the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee. Centurion University Chancellor G.S.N. Raju, former Director (Operations) of VSP K.K/ Rao will visit the protest camp on Tuesday. Representatives of all political parties are expected to visit the camp. The workers of various departments in the VSP, trade union representatives and members of people’s organisations have been protesting against the Union government’s decision to go for strategic sale of the VSP. The workers have been participating in relay hunger strikes by turns for the last 249 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/25-hour-fast-by-250-vsp-workers-today/article37064561.ece
19 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRM inspects Wagon POH Workshop||Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy inspected the newly built state- of-the-art Wagon Periodic Over Hauling (POH) Workshop at Vadlapudi here on Monday. He was accompanied by S.K. Senapati (Chief Project Manager of BCL) and D.P Mishra (Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineer of Vadlapudi Workshop), who explained about the activities undertaken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drm-inspects-wagon-poh-workshop/article37064578.ece
19 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ashok prays at Pydimamba temple||Former Union Minister Pusapati Ashok Gajapathi Raju and his family members who skipped darshan of Goddess Pydimamba last year had a darshan of the deity in a traditional manner on Monday, ahead of Sirimanotsavam on Tuesday. Mr. Ashok, who was reportedly offended with the removal as chairperson of the temple and MANSAS Trust, did not come for darshan in 2020 but offered prayers from his home. Temple E.O. B.H.V.S. Kishore Kumar welcomed him with Poorna Kumbam as Mr. Ashok is the hereditary trustee of the temple. He interacted with the officials and discussed the arrangements for Sirimanotsavam. Later speaking to the media, he urged everyone to wear masks as per the COVID-19 protocol. The temple premises wore a festive look with the celebration of Tholellu, a festival celebrated on Monday ahead of Sirimanotsavam. Local artists showcased their talent on the road between Three Lamp junction and Fort junction. Temple priest Bantupalli Venkata Rao would sit on the Sirimanu and offer blessings on behalf of Sri Pydimamba who was believed to have sacrificed her life by jumping into Pedda Cheruvu after hearing about the death of her brother on January 24, 1757. Her idol was believed to be identified by local fishermen and she is being worshipped as deity of Vizianagaram. Normally, two lakh people participate in Sirimanotsavam every year. But the government has restricted the direct participation of the public in the festival to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Collector A. Surya Kumari, who offered prayers in the temple on Monday morning, urged the devotees to cooperate with the district administration since the step was taken to protect them from the coronavirus. Visakhapatnam DIG L.K.V. Ranga Rao, and Vizianagaram SP Deepika M. Patil reviewed the security arrangements. Traffic diversion Vehicular traffic would be diverted to outskirts and barricades have been set up on the roads leading to the temple and fort premises. A control room has been set up near the temple to monitor security on all routes. Mr. Ranga Rao said there should be perfect coordination between all the teams deployed in 21 sectors. He directed them not to be rude with the people and temple staff during the procession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ashok-prays-at-pydimamba-temple/article37064350.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panoramic view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panoramic-view/article37064564.ece
19 October 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||‘Protect interests of peasantry’||All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) joint secretary Vijoo Krishnan has alleged that the BJP regime at the Centre was resorting to oppressive tactics to crush the ongoing agitation by farmers against the Centre’s three farm laws since November last year. Undeterred by the repressive measures by the BJP dispensation, the farmers are spearheading the agitation with indomitable spirit demanding the repeal of the three “pro-corporate” agriculture laws, he said, adding that the farmers are determined to continue the ongoing agitation until the three “black laws” are repealed. Seminar held He was speaking at a seminar on “Bharatha Vyavasaya Rangam — Prastutha Savallu” (Indian Agriculture Sector — Current Challenges) organised by the Telangana Rythu Sangham in Kothagudem on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-to-protect-interests-of-peasantry/article37064441.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A sordid tale of encroachments and inaction||The Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) is beset with a host of problems — from over three-quarters of endowed land parcels being encroached in the State, to a stagnant income through rentals and few institution filing annual returns, and from a records section which has been sealed for nearly four years to a cloud of doubt looming large over the second waqf survey. According to official data, over 75% of waqf land parcels in the State have been encroached upon. The first waqf survey showed there are 33,929 Muslim endowment institutions in the State. This, in terms of acreage, is over 77,538 acres, but only on paper. The ground realities are quite different, given that over 57,423 acres have been encroached upon. Survey doubt The second waqf survey sought to enumerate, add institutions and their corresponding endowed properties to those recorded during the first survey. According to those in the know, the number of institutions increased from 33,929 to over 47,000, and a considerable augmentation in terms of acreage was seen. While the second waqf survey data was shared with the board in 2017, it remains to be accepted. “The first issue is that after survey, the findings should be reconciled with waqf and revenue records. There are some technical issues which need to be addressed — whether the position on the land parcels is the same or if there are structures which have been constructed over a period of time, or whether supporting documents, such as those stating that a particular property is waqf, are available or not. A lack of TSWB staff to verify the second survey data is also a massive hindrance,” a senior official at the TSWB said, adding that as on Saturday, there was no change in the board’s position. Stagnant rents While it was suggested that the increase in waqf institutions could imply an increase in the board’s revenue, little has changed. The TSWB is also dealing with a longstanding problem of stagnant rents. The Macca Madina Aladdin Wakf is a case in point. Despite being under the ‘direct management’ of the board, the Muslim endowments panel is grappling with collecting rents from those who run 500 shops endowed to the institution. “A large number of tenants are defaulters and the rents are much lower than prevailing rates. We are not able to do much as there is a lack of cooperation. However, a case which was dealt with by the High Court could help our cause to increase rents,” a staff member said. The said case pertains to a writ petition filed by Omer Khan, a tenant who had taken the shop on sublease from one Md Tameem, with the TSWB as a respondent. The petitioner stated that he was paying Rs. 3,090 per month as rent, but the board had not renewed the lease. TSWB standing counsel Abu Akram submitted that if Mr Khan agreed to increase the rent to Rs. 65 per square feet, the board would consider granting of lease in his favour. The HC, in an order dated March 24, 2021, granted the petitioner permission to make a fresh application offering to pay an enhanced rent of Rs. 65 per sqaure feet and to enclose a demand draft reflecting arrears of rent payable till the time of making the representation. The HC directed the board to consider the request of the petitioner and take an appropriate decision within four weeks of the date of the representation. If the TSWB accepts Mr Khan’s application, the enhanced rate per square feet will take the rent for the 160 square feet shop from Rs. 3,090 to Rs. 10,400. Lack of compliance Another stumbling block in the board’s revenue is abysmal compliance of institutions filing annual returns. According to data obtained from the Waqf Management System of India portal, in FY 2020-2021, of the 40,788 assessable immovable properties, only six had filed returns, reflecting a compliance of 0.01%. The compliance in FY 2019-2020 stood at 0.08%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-sordid-tale-of-encroachments-and-inaction/article37064492.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Financial scheme for other sections of society soon: CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asserted that Dalit Bandhu, the one of its kind scheme for financial empowerment of dalits, will be extended to the needy in other sections in a phased manner. The scheme has been launched for dalits initially as they were the most backward section financially as they suffered discrimination for long. The scheme would be gradually extended to scheduled tribes, financially poor in backward classes and economically backward in the upper castes as well in due course. “The income generated in the State should reach the deserving sections and priority has been given to the most oppressed first,” he said asserting that the government is committed to reach out to all the sections of people who were suffering. The Chief Minister was speaking at a meeting organised in connection with former Minister Motkupalli Narsimhulu joining the Telangana Rashtra Samiti here on Monday. Mr. Rao reiterated that scheme is solely aimed at empowerment of financially weaker sections and there is no politics involved in it. Some of the party leaders insisted that the beneficiaries host a photograph of the Chief Minister in the projects/works launched as part of the scheme. “But we rejected it as it has no politics involved and I am against looking at political gains out of such scheme aimed at financial empowerment of dalits. Being dalit is the only qualification for availing of the benefits under Dalit Bandhu irrespective of the political affiliation of the beneficiary,” he said. The scheme is also not confined to one constituency, and 100 members would be selected from each Assembly constituency across the State for implementation of the scheme initially. The Chief Minister asserted that the scheme would continue “come what may” as the government is committed to implementing it. The scheme would entail expenditure of Rs. 1.7 lakh crore over the next seven years, but the government has the courage to launch such an innovative scheme that would become role model for the country soon. “According to estimates, the State will spend Rs. 23 lakh crore in the next seven years. Rs. 1.7 lakh crore is a small portion of it. The government will continuously monitor the progress achieved by the beneficiaries and systems have been put in place for that,” he said. Once operational, the scheme is likely to generate Rs. 10 lakh crore as the investment made through Dalit Bandhu would have spin off effects in generating more employment as well as returns. Mr. Rao said committees from village-level to State-level, comprising a “dalit brigade”, would be set up to monitor the implementation of the scheme. The scheme was conceived with specific targets and positive view towards empowering the oppressed sections and dalits were accorded priority as they are the most backward section in Telangana. “With population of more than 75 lakh, dalits have land holding of less than 13 lakh acres. Their population is more but they are given less opportunities,” he lamented. He exhorted the party leaders and cadre to ensure the implementation of the scheme like a movement on the lines of the one carried out for achievement of separate Telangana. At the same time, steps should be taken to educate the beneficiaries not to replicate one another as this could have a bearing on the outcome of their activities. “There is a need to ensure that beneficiaries do not take up similar activities as this can impact their earnings. Educate them about appropriate activities that fetch them maximum returns so that they are in a position to give gainful employment to others,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/financial-scheme-for-other-sections-of-society-soon-cm/article37064438.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daily COVID caseload in TS drops to pre-second wave level||The daily load of COVID-19 cases in Telangana has declined to pre-second wave numbers. After the first wave of the pandemic started to wean off, the lowest daily case burden (less than 200) was recorded in February this year. The second wave took root from second week of March. From mid-October — after nearly seven months — the number of daily infections now is the same as it was in February. This indicates that the second wave is on its way out. Currently, more than 200 new infections are detected whenever daily tests are around 45,000. On Monday, 45,418 samples were examined and 208 persons were detected with coronavirus. Scarred by the trail of devastation left by the two waves of the pandemic, people continue to be apprehensive about a third wave. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao has said, at least on two occasions, that another wave can be expected if a new and stronger variant of the coronavirus emerges. Lack of precautions against the infectious disease can also make way for a third wave, experts have cautioned. The pandemic made its presence felt in the State from March 2020. But from January-end this year, less than 200 new infections were recorded consistently every day. The daily tests in February varied from around 25,000 to 40,000. The caseload would drop to 120-140 as testing dipped. A similar situation is now being observed with daily tests in the 25,000-45,000 range, and infections hovering around the 200-mark. From October 15 to 17, the cases per day did not cross 125 as daily tests too dropped to 20,000-30,000. While it took 11 months post the pandemic first wave for daily caseload to fall to around 200, it took seven months since the second wave to reach a similar case total a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-covid-caseload-in-ts-drops-to-pre-second-wave-level/article37064416.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||T-Hub to build on strengths and improve, says new CEO||T-Hub will build on its strengths to continually improve as an innovation ecosystem enabler, CEO Srinivas Rao Mahankali said on Monday. A serial entrepreneur with over three decades in the IT industry, Mr.Rao, who took over as the CEO earlier this month, will focus on fund-raising initiatives, higher valuations, robust employment generation and building scale through active community engagement, T-Hub said in a release. Mr.Rao, who previously was CEO of The Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship, said T-Hub has lined up some interesting projects, partnerships and programme for launch in the coming months. The aim is to go ahead with them as planned. The launch of T-Hub’s new campus, an over 5.82-lakh square feet facility, is also on the cards. Welcoming him, Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao said “given his rich experience in this industry, we believe he is best placed to lead T-Hub and its operations”. Stating how T-Hub in the six years since its formation has made a progressive impact on the startup, innovation and tech ecosystem, across India and beyond, Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said “appointing MSR to take T-Hub to the next level of its growth is a strategic decision, given the experience he is bringing to the ecosystem”. T-Hub said Mr.Srinivas Rao will be leveraging his experience and strong network to create a funding ecosystem at T-Hub along with the other ecosystem stakeholders. The process of T-Fund is expected to be expedited. A component of Telangana government’s Innovation Policy, T-Fund is a co-investment fund that will invest alongside venture capital funds and angel networks to support startups in the State. Any startup that is in the process of finalising a term sheet or has a signed sheet can apply for T-Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/t-hub-to-build-on-strengths-says-new-ceo/article37064417.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revanth Reddy tweets about ‘illegal structure’, blames ‘Hyderabad Minister’||A tweet by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee chief A. Revanth Reddy about an ‘illegal structure’ stirred up a hornet’s nest on Monday. Mr. Revanth Reddy shared a video clip of the illegal structure allegedly coming up near the Uppal circle on his official Twitter handle, and accused a ‘Hyderabad Minister’ for promoting it. Several complaints to officials concerned have not yielded any result, he said, tagging the Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao in the tweet. Also tagging the official Twitter handles of the Telangana Chief Minister’s Office and GHMC Commissioner, Mr.Revanth Reddy questioned the Minister if there would be action against the erring officials. The video clip shared by him shows a huge cellar pit dug up for two levels of basement, complete with foundation work, indicating work in progress for a multi-storey building. Already, the reinforcement for the first cellar is half way in progress. According to details further shared by Mr.Revanth Reddy with The Hindu , the structure is a multiplex-cum-shopping mall being developed on 5,200 square yards, by a limited liability partnership firm headquartered in Somajiguda. Several attempts to reach out to the officials immediately responsible, including the GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar and Town Planning officials did not yield any result. ‘Application processed’ However, local officials, under the condition of anonymity, said the company’s application for permission has already been processed, and the permission will have been issued in a couple of days. “They, in fact, have prior permission, but applied for a revised permission seeking relaxations in set back spaces. The revised permission, too, is ready for issue,” said an official. Building permissions for multi-storey structures are processed at the GHMC headquarters, after discussing the applications in a committee set up for the same. Going by the present status, work was seemingly started and is under progress, without much scope for altering set back spaces. Asked for his version, Special Chief Secretary of MA&UD Arvind Kumar said the issue was within the purview of GHMC. A report, nevertheless, has been sought, and till such time, officials have been asked to put the work on hold, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-tweets-about-illegal-structure-blames-hyd-minister-for-promoting-it/article37064421.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Steps to check temple land encroachment||The State government is working out modalities to bring out stringent legislations governing endowment lands so that temple lands under encroachment can be resumed and steps can be taken to prevent future encroachments. In addition to incorporating provisions to safeguard these lands from encroachments, the government is learnt to be studying a recent judgment of the Madras High Court directing the State government to detain encroachers of temple lands under Goondas Act. The court, in its September 15 judgment, ruled that persons involved in encroachment activities, fraudulent transactions, illegal documents in respect of the temple properties were liable to be prosecuted. “In some cases, actions may be required under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act and in other cases, serious actions under the criminal law are required. In extreme cases, the provisions of the Goondas Act is to be invoked by the police on facts to facts basis,” the court said. Following the resolve of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to protect temple lands as well as Waqf properties, the officials concerned are said to be studying the judgment in detail so that parts of the judgment could be incorporated in the orders that would be issued forthwith. The development follows revelations that over 20,000 acres of temple lands, out of the total 87,235 acres possessed by the charitable and Hindu religious institutions, are under encroachment. CAG report The Comptroller and Auditor General of India, in its report observed that absence of proper mechanism to protect temple land increased the risk of encroachments with attendant risk of increasing land disputes. “Of the 20,124 acre land encroached, the assistant commissioners of Endowments department filed cases with Endowments Tribunals to an extent of only 3,488 acres,” the CAG said in the report. Majority of these lands is in rural and urban areas while parts are located in the forest too. According to officials, encroachments occurred as the lessees were taking the temple lands at throwaway prices and in turn, giving them on sub-lease at market prices resulting in huge revenue loss to the Endowments department. Endowments Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy, at a recent review meeting, directed the officials to deal sternly with those who gave the endowments lands on sub-lease. Officials concerned are said to be ascertaining the actual rental value of their lands and reviewing the prices to earn better revenue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-mulls-stern-steps-to-check-encroachment-of-temple-lands/article37064412.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC issues notices to govt. over Dharani portal glitches||Telangana High Court on Monday issued notices to State government instructing them to file counter affidavits in a PIL petition about the glitches faced by people in registration of properties through Dharani portal. Lawyer T. Indra Prakash, who filed the plea, sought a direction to the government to revert to the old system of registration of lands and properties. According to him, the new registration system through Dharani portal is frequently getting interrupted due to technical glitches even as the registration process is getting hampered. The HC division bench comprising Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy sought to know what measures the State government had taken to redress the grievances of farmers and citizens facing problem in registration of properties through Dharani portal. The bench observed that State government undertook Dharani project without creating adequate infrastructure in place. COVID-19 PILs The bench, hearing a batch of PIL pleas on COVID-19 related matters, instructed Health and Family Welfare director to inform the court within two weeks if the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by Union Home Ministry on September 21 and 29 to check further spread of Coronavirus. Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the bench that government is “taking all measures” to check further incidence of COVID-19. Assuring the court that all SOPs issued by the Centre are being adhered to, he requested the bench to close the pleas. A counsel appearing for one of the petitioners, however, contended that massive gatherings witnessed during events coinciding with Dasara festival like the one at People’s Plaza and ‘Ek Sham Charminar ke Naam’ are likely to turn into super spreaders of the virus. Such events would spoke Coronavirus cases, he contended. In this backdrop, the government should be instructed to strictly follow Centre’s instructions on the matter. Lawyer Chikkudu Prabhakar told the court that political parties were holding massive rallies and meetings during the ongoing political campaign for Huzurabad by-poll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-issues-notices-to-govt-over-dharani-portal-glitches/article37064431.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR fears revolt in TRS, alleges Revanth Reddy||Telangana Congress chief A. Revanth Reddy has claimed that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao fears revolt within the party after the Huzurabad byelection and the party’s proposed ‘Vijaya Garjana’ at Warangal is to keep its flock together. In an informal interaction with reporters here, he said the Chief Minister will go for early polls in August 2022 along with Gujarat Assembly polls as a part of agreement with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao will cite 75 years of completion of the Indian Independence and use the historic occasion as an excuse to go for early polls. The Congress chief also alleged that KCR has assured to help BJP gain political benefits in the Uttar Pradesh polls using the AIMIM to split the votes. An agreement has already been made with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and in return there will no raids or investigation into cases of corruption by KCR, he claimed. Referring to Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao ruling out early polls in the TRS Parliamentary and Legislature Party meeting, the Congress chief said the CM deliberately raked up the issue to keep the leaders in check. The very fact of CM claiming of a full term, when no one was talking about it, is an indication of his loss of faith in his MLAs. “He is trying to convince the sitting MLAs about the full term as many would not be getting party ticket due to intense competition,” Mr. Reddy claimed. The TPCC president also alleged that Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao would be sent out of the TRS very soon due to the internal party politics. That CM was focussing on party activities when he was supposed to concentrate on governance was an indication of the developments, he claimed.  CM will go for early polls as a part of agreement with BJP. Revanth Reddy, TPCC chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-fears-revolt-in-trs-alleges-revanth-reddy/article37064440.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||INCOIS to work on local climate advisories on rising sea levels||Oceans impact the weather and the climate. With global warming sea levels rise is an established fact, but there is a dire need to to downscale the predictability to local levels as it has impact on coastal communities, said Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) Director T. Srinivasa Kumar on Monday. “There are broad-based predictions about the sea levels rise as a whole like the Indian Ocean rises by 3-4 mm each year due to warming, however, we need local climate advisories which we are planning to do under the ‘Deep Ocean Mission’ in the next five years,” he explained. Observation systems “We will be launching lot of observation systems to downscale the high resolution dynamical and statistical models to come out with climate change advisories in the coastal areas,” said Dr. Kumar. This is to be done through deep sea argo floats which can go upto 5 km deep to measure temperatures, salinity, currents, etc., and the gliders which can move from East Coast till the Andaman & Nicobar Islands recording the observations in the Bay of Bengal,” said the director. INCOIS has done 3-D inundation mapping of the 3,600 km of the country’s vulnerable coastal line and this data level will be used extensively for measuring the quantum of sea level rise, storm surges, tsunami impact, tidal waves and so on. Participating in an online interaction organised by the Ministry Of Earth Sciences on ‘Ocean Information & Advisory for the Blue Economy’, he said research and observational activities will be scaled up in collaboration with other institutions like the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) and pitched in for emerging tech start-ups to make use of the data for analysis and improve communications set up. “New technology is available and has to made accessible to the stakeholders like we need more receivers for ‘Gagan’ and ‘NAVIC’ which provide ocean state forecasts way beyond the mobile phone reach,” the director pointed out. Giving an example, he said 12 lakh SMS messages were sent to people along the West Coast during the Cyclone Tauktae in May earlier this year with the help of 16 wave rider buoys. “We keep track of our predictions based on the observations made by our platforms on the ocean,” he said. Accurate predictions are a big help as it can save precious lives. When Cyclone Phailin occurred in 2013, Rs. 3,500 crore was spent to evacuate people to safer places and lives were saved. There is scope for industry to come in for developing sensors, observing platforms, deep data mining, applications, apps and communication systems for providing the last mile connection, added Dr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/incois-to-work-on-local-climate-advisories-on-rising-sea-levels/article37064481.ece
19 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SC panel finds the Clues Team ‘clueless’||Commenting on investigating officer and DCP, Rachakonda Special Operation Team J. Surender Reddy’s answers during his deposition on Monday, the members of the Supreme Court-appointed commission to inquire into the Cyberabad police’s alleged encounter killings of the four accused in the rape and murder of Disha, a 27-year-old veterinarian, observed: “How can the witness be so dumb?” The investigating officer was examined again about the duration of the submitted video clippings, photographs and the procedure followed while recording the videos of the scene of occurrence at Chatanpally on December 6, 2019. Photographic evidence Mr. Reddy was asked about the photographs and videography of the place from where Disha’s articles were recovered, empty cartridges lying on the ground, the place from where the accused allegedly ran away after snatching the pistols and police party had to open fire, and recordings during the collection of gunshot residue (GSR) from the hands of accused Mohammed Arif and Ch. Chennakeshavulu. The officer maintained ‘there are no such photos or videos of the articles being recovered and place from where the accused ran away’. “If the investigating ofificer s clueless about the clues, what can we do? Leave it for the influence of the commission,” the members said. “How can the witness be so (I should not use this word but) so dumb?” former Bombay High Court judge Rekha Sondur-Baldota commented. Earlier, when Mr. Reddy was not responding to their questions, the chairman of the commission, former judge Justice V. S. Sirpurkar stated that the IO was trying to ‘run away’ from questions. Deliberate act “That would be disastrous for you. You are deliberately trying to avoid my questions. I will write about it,” he said. “For the last time, you are being asked as to what the spot from where Disha’s articles were recovered was not photographed or videographed?” the members asked. The investigating officer answered: “I had instructed the Clues team to record the place from where articles were recovered. I realised later that the places were not recorded.” For which, the commission member and former director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) D. R. Karthikeyan commented, “Clues team turned out to be a clueless team.” While Justice Sirpurkar said, “I’m surprised by the kind of attitude shown to the commission by the police officers.” The panel also asked the officer why the fired lead pieces of the bullet were not recovered despite using the metal detectors. “We tried to retrieve/trace them but couldn’t find them as the grass on the ground was long,” he said. Call records Mr. Reddy had also submitted the unsigned Call Details Record analysis reports of police personnel and independent eyewitnesses who were present at the scene of offences in the alleged encounter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sc-panel-finds-the-clues-team-clueless/article37064484.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. seeking to construct on waqf lands another concern||The Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB), in the past few months, has grappled with at least three instances of the government either suggesting construction, or having allegedly started construction work on waqf land parcels. The latest incident was reported to the TSWB earlier this month at the Ashoorkhana Imam Qasim and Nal Sahab, spread over an acre and 34 guntas in Yousufguda Basti. The construction was allegedly being carried out by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) for a new Basti Dawakhana. As a result, the board inspected the site, followed by TSWB chief executive officer Shahnawaz Qasim writing a letter to GHMC Zonal Commissioner, Khairtabad, urging a cancellation of building permission, if one was accorded. In a similar incident, the Waqf Tribunal halted construction and ordered that status quo be maintained at Masjid-e-Almaspet in Chotuppal mandal. Petitioner and waqf protection activist Osman bin Mohammed Al Hajiri had stated that the land parcel was dug for the construction of a panchayat office. The respondents in the case were the District Collector of Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, Revenue Divisional Officer of Chotuppal division, Chotuppal Mandal Tahsildar, and Devulamma Nagaram village sarpanch. In the third such instance, Revenue Department and GHMC officials inspected a land parcel endowed to Tharthare Shah graveyard in Bansilalpet in August, exploring the possibility of constructing 16 units of the Dignity Housing scheme, over 375 square yards. A joint site visit by TSWB chairman Mohammed Saleem and Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav was done as well. However, there has been no development since. One of the reasons why government authorities tend to lock horns with the TSWB, a board member opined, is the widely prevailing misconception that ownership of waqf land parcels rests with the board. This, he said, is far from the truth. “The reality is that the TSWB is a supervisory or administrative body. It does not own any land. Its job is to look into whether waqf properties are being utilised per the mansha (object) of waqf, and to keep encroachments at bay. While there have been occasions during which the government has come to the aid of the board, we also know that on many others, it has given away prime waqf lands for other uses many years ago. These cases are still being fought in courts of law,” the board member requesting anonymity said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-seeking-to-construct-on-waqf-lands-another-concern/article37064488.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP asks CM to quit over EC freeze||The Bha ratiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday demanded the resignation of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao holding him responsible for the freeze on ‘Dalit Bandhu’ by the Election Commission (EC) in view of Huzurabad bypoll. Party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar in a press statement accused Mr. Rao of enacting a “big drama” of bringing out a scheme for the benefit of the Dalits with an “ulterior motive” and said that there was never any intention to provide succour to the disadvantaged sections. “It is clear that the CM had no intention to implement the scheme as there was no precedent of the EC halting an ongoing full fledged welfare scheme,” he maintained. The official release from the CMO about another tranche of Rs. 250 crore is another “sham” as Mr. Rao was aware of the EC notification, he said, and claimed that not a single Dalit benefitted from the largesse as the government had not allowed the identified beneficiaries from drawing sanctioned money from the bank accounts liberally as conditions have been inserted later. The dalit community members are conscious of the ruling party’s intentions in bringing about the scheme and are ready to teach a lesson in the bypoll, he maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-demands-cm-to-resign-over-ec-freeze/article37064434.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Game developers’ conference next month||The India Game Developer Conference (IGDC), a premier event for game developers, being organised in partnership with Telangana government, will be held from November 16-18. Like the previous edition, the 13th edition will also be a virtual affair, the organisers said in a release on Monday. Game developers, publishers and investors will be participating in the event, which is held with the objective to support and empower game developers with insights, upskilling and networking opportunities in the presence of industry leaders and investors. There will be 10 key tracks at IGDC this year – Design, Art, Engineering, Production, Applied Games, Indie, eSports, Hyper-casual, Careers; and Business and Product Management. The event will see the participation of around 10,000 people, 120 industry experts and host over 100 e-stalls, 30 publishers and 30 investors. The Annual India Game Developer Awards 2021 also forms part of the IGDC. While the finalists will be announced on November 10, the winners will be felicitated on the first day of the conference. IGDC organisers said this year will also mark the return of BYOG (Build Your Own Game) – India’s oldest game jam. The results of BYOG, which is to be held from October 22-24 on itch.io, will be announced during IGDC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/game-developers-meet-next-month/article37064418.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL to scale up coal production||Chairman and Managing Director of the Singareni Collieries N. Sridhar has categorically ruled out the possibility of fuel scarcity for the thermal power generation units in State. In view of reports about coal shortage in a few States, Mr. Sridhar conducted a review meeting through video conference with the directors and general managers of SCCL from 11 areas about scaling up production of coal. He made it clear that sufficient coal is being transported to the thermal generation units on daily basis, hence, there is no question of scarcity. The units have not faced any scarcity for the past seven years, and the same trend will be continued in future too, he assured. Apart from local consumption, coal is also being exported to Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, which have supply agreements with SCCL. The supply will be scaled up in the coming days, Mr. Sridhar said. Singareni Thermal Power Plant is at sixth position in the country in terms of plant load factor by achieving good plant load factor, he said. Measures are being taken to meet targets of coal supply from all open cast and underground mines, and Singareni is prepared to supply 1.9 lakh tonnes of coal every day. Starting from next month, the supply will be scaled up to two lakh tonnes, he informed, and asked the officials concerned to gear up for meeting the targets. The targets of exports to other States, fixed by the Ministry of Coal, are also being met without fail, he said. The ministry has sought scaled up production and supply from the SCCL, owing to coal shortage experienced by various thermal power plants in other States. All permissions and funding required for increased production will be green channelled, in view of the crisis situation, Mr. Sridhar said, and called for solidarity with the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-to-scale-up-coal-production/article37064425.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Info sought under RTI to go through scrutiny||Information sought under the Right to Information (RTI) Act may not be released henceforth without scrutiny by the secretarial officials of the departments concerned. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued an unofficial note to this effect a few days ago, asking all Special Chief Secretaries, Principal Secretaries, and Secretaries to the government to instruct the Public Information Officers appointed under the RTI Act to obtain their orders before furnishing the information to the applicant concerned. It has come to the notice of the Chief Secretary that the State public information officers in certain administrative units or offices are furnishing information to the applicants in a routine manner without proper verification of records, the note observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/info-sought-under-rti-to-go-through-scrutiny/article37064422.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State to procure food grain from farmers||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has assured that the State government would procure food grain produced during kharif on the lines of last year. The State government had opened 6,545 procurement centres across the State last year and the Chief Minister directed the Civil Supplies Department officials to procure food grain through them this year as well. He asserted that farmers need not worry about procurement of food grain and advised them to bring the crop dried after harvesting to the procurement centres. The government is committed to take steps to procure the food grain paying the minimum support price to farmers. The Chief Minister made this comments at a meeting to review procurement of food grain with senior officials led by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-to-procure-food-grain-from-farmers/article37064496.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Canadian Wood villa project coming up||MAK Projects in collaboration with the Canadian Wood of Government of British Columbia, Canada, announced its foray into the city’s maiden premium ‘Canadian Wood Villa Project’ at BTR Greens in ‘Knowledge City’ on Srisailam highway in Maheswaram mandal. MP G. Ranjith Reddy unveiled a replica of the Canadian Wood Villa in the presence of Minister (Commercial), High Commission of Canada Andrew Smith, Canadian Wood country director Pranesh Chhibber and Honorary Consul of Republic of Kazakhstan for TS and AP and promoter and managing director of MAK Projects Nawab Mir Nasir Ali Khan. “The economic relationship between India and Canada is $ 100 bn and had increased by 62% in the last five years. Canada is recognised as a global leader in sustainable forest management, and wood construction saves resources such as water and sand, in short supply here in India,” said Mr. Smith. “Wood is bio-degradable, recyclable, reusable, eco-friendly, carbon negative and saves water and sand. We as developers are not looking for any incentives from the government, but if they can give some incentives to the end user in terms of stamp duty registration, property registration, and municipal tax, it will be lucrative for people to invest in this area,” said Mr. Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/canadian-wood-villa-project-coming-up/article37064486.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sympathetic to problems of podu cultivators: KCR||The State government has resolved to sympathetically examine the problems faced by tribes engaged in podu cultivation in Agency areas and take steps to resolve them. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has convened a meeting of District Collectors and senior officials of the Forest Department on October 23 to discuss solutions to podu cultivation issue, protection of forests and progress of Harita Haaram. The day-long meeting would focus on addressing the problems faced by podu cultivators and at the same time, evolve measures to ensure that there is no further degradation of forests. The meeting would discuss the progress of Harita Haaram, the green cover improvement programme, and chalk out an action plan to take it forward in an accelerated mode. A delegation of senior officials headed by Forest Department Special Chief Secretary Shanti Kumari would take up field visit of areas where podu cultivation is underway to get first-hand information about the problems faced by tribes engaged in the profession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sympathetic-to-problems-of-podu-cultivators-kcr/article37064439.ece
19 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Are you becoming a master at evading questions?’||“You are trying to evade questions,” the three-member commission constituted by the Supreme Court to inquire into the alleged encounter killings of the four accused in the rape and murder of Disha by Cyberabad police in December 2019, told Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shamshabad) N Prakash Reddy on Monday. Mr. Reddy, who appeared before the commission for the second time, was answering the questions posed on the ‘existing teams and request for additional teams’ for an effective investigation into the gang rape and murder of Disha in the last week of November 2019. “If 10 teams have had already been formed by November 29, 2019, and were working under your command (as stated by the then Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar in a press conference), how can you say you have requested for additional teams on November 30, 2019?” the members said. When Mr. Reddy tried to give a detailed reply, “we will not permit you to evade the questions. Are you becoming masters at evading the questions,” they said. The officer said that after being arrested, the accused had confessed to the crime after ACP Shadnagar V Surender Reddy had informed him about the accused confessing to the crime and explained the manner in which they committed the crime. Mr. Reddy said that at 6.45 p.m. the ACP informed him that the disclosure statement of the accused Mohd Arif in the presence of Panchayatdars was completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/are-you-becoming-a-master-at-evading-questions/article37064482.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dalit Bandhu: Rs. 250 crore allocated to four mandals||The government has released Rs 250 crore for implementation of Dalit Bandhu scheme in four mandals to which the scheme has been extended recently. Finance Special Chief Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao has released BRO (budget release order) this evening in line with Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao's directions. Order issued According to the order, Rs. 100 crore had been allocated for Chintakani mandal in Madhira constituency of Khammam district, and Rs. 50 crore each for Tirumalagiri mandal in Thungathurthy constituency of Suryapet district, Charakonda mandal in Achampet constituency of Nagarkurnool district and Nizamsagar mandal in Jukkal constituency of Kamareddy district which have been included under the scheme. Highest allocation Interestingly, Chintakani mandal, falling under Madhira constituency represented by Congress Legislative Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, will get the highest allocation under Dalit Bandhu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalit-bandhu-rs-250-crore-allocated-to-four-mandals/article37064435.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM to visit Yadadri today||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will inspect the progress of works at Yadadri temple on Tuesday. Works on the prestigious project to convert the hill shrine as a major religious and tourist attraction were launched with an estimated cost of over Rs. 1,200 crore. Renovation and beautification works, including the construction of a ring road around the hill shrine, are nearing completion and the Chief Minister is expected to review the progress of pending works for which time lines have already been set. Dates for the inauguration of the temple complex have already been finalised in consultation with pontiff Chinna Jeeyar Swamy. The Chief Minister is likely to announce the date of inauguration along with the yagams that are proposed to be conducted to mark the inauguration of the temple complex after the visit. Addressing a meeting at the party office in the afternoon, the Chief Minister lamented that temples in Telangana did not get the recognition they deserved in the erstwhile united State. The government therefore took up works on renovation and beautification of Yadadri temple to ensure that it becomes one of the best tourist attractions in the world, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-to-visit-yadadri-today/article37064436.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State posts 208 new COVID cases||Telangana recorded 208 new cases of COVID-19 cases with a total of 45,418 samples being tested on Monday. The results of 1,361 persons are awaited. The Greater Hyderabad region had the highest of 62 infections out of the fresh daily total, followed by 14 each in Karimnagar and Mancherial, 13 from Rangareddy and 11 from Warangal Rural. No infection was detected in six districts. The total case burden of the State now stands at 6,69,163. Two more COVID patients died on the day, taking the death toll to 3,940.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-posts-208-new-covid-cases/article37064414.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR firm on weeding out drug menace||After controlling sale of arrack to a large extent, the State Government has focused its attention on controlling illegal transport of drugs into the State. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has convened a meeting of senior officials of Home and Excise departments on Wednesday to evolve an action plan to check the sale of the contraband. The meeting will work out the modalities to make sure that youth were not attracted to drugs and take steps to make Telangana drug free State. The meeting is also expected to discuss about stringent steps to check gambling and sale of arrack amid reports of resurgence of sale of arrack in sporadic incidents. The Government took several steps to strengthen the police department since the formation of the State and the department was provided with modern equipment and tools to control crime. Several steps were initiated to control sale of arrack and tight restrictions were imposed against operating clubs allowing gambling. In view of the reports that drug sale was on the rise in other parts of the country, the meeting has been convened to finalise a fool-proof action plan to ensure that there was no scope for occurrence of the menace in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-firm-on-weeding-out-drug-menace/article37064411.ece
19 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Job mela for network technicians||A job mela will be held for the posts of Act Fiber ‘network technicians’ on October 20. Sangareddy district employment officer A. Vandana said those who qualified diploma or ITI can attend interviews to be held at old DRDA office on by-pass road in the district headquarters. Salary will be Rs. 7,500 for those selected. Interested candidates can attend interviews along with originals and photostat copies of all the required certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/job-mela-tomorrow/article37064426.ece
19 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MSN Labs launches drug for diabetes management||Drugmaker MSN Laboratories has launched Empagliflozin tablets (SGLT2i), a product used in the management of diabetes. nnouncing that it has launched the most affordable Empagliflozin tablets, under the Empaone brand, MSN in a release on Monday said while the 10 mg tablet will cost Rs. 15.90 each, the 25 mg tablet will come for Rs. 18.90 each. MSN said the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and finished dosage formulation (FDF) of Empaone were developed in-house. The development is indigenous right from conceptualisation to API development and FDF, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/anti-diabetes-drug-launched/article37064419.ece
19 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Meet on environment and education next month||Pure Earth Foundation (PEF), a charitable society, is organising the 3rd Pure Earth Environment Conference (PEEC) on November 27 in the virtual mode. The focal theme for PEEC-2021 is ‘Environment and Education’. Under - graduate, post graduate or research students in science, engineering and social subjects are invited to share their ideas through paper presentations. Write to pureearthfoundation @gmail.com or call 95739-47170 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/meet-on-environment-and-education-next-month/article37064423.ece
19 October 2021||JAMMIKUNTA (Karimnagar District),TELANGANA||Huzurabad candidates get into battle mode||With just nine days left for campaign, all candidates for Huzurabad byelection entered battle mode trying to reach out to maximum number of voters on Monday. Though campaign started from the day of filing nominations on October 1, with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) nominee Eatala Rajender staying ahead of all others by touring the constituency soon after his resignation as MLA on June 12, election canvassing slowed down due to Dasara festival on Friday. Dasara celebrations continued till Sunday. Though 30 candidates are in the fray, main fight is between nominees of the Congress, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and the BJP with the latter two claiming one another as their main opponent. Minster for Finance T. Harish Rao, who is said to have been assigned the task of securing ruling party candidate Gellu Srinivas Yadav’s victory, has campaigned in Rampur, Rangapur, Kanukalagidde and other villages in Huzurabad mandal with the party nominee. They organised ‘dhoom dham’ by evening in Chelpur village. “Give youngster Srinivas, a loyalist of the party, a chance. He will ensure constituency’s further progress,” the Minister appealed to people. Congress party Telangana in-charge Manickam Tagore, accompanied by Karimnagar ex-MP Ponnam Prabhakar, Nizamabad ex-MP Madhu Yaski, Congress MLAs Sridhar Babu and Seethakka along with party candidate Balmuri Venkat campaigned in 10 divisions of Jammikunta. They took out a rally from Ambedkar statue to Gandhi chowk. “Do not get lured by pensions and other benefits. We will provide jobs to youngsters,” they told the public. Later in the evening, Manickam Tagore had a meeting with key party workers. Eatala Rajender continued his door-to-door campaign by moving in SC colony and other areas in Mamidalapally, Challur and adjoining villages. People received him by offering ‘harati’ and ‘sindhur’. Since he was familiar with majority of the local leaders and public, he was seen calling some of them by their first names and requesting them with folded hands to see him through the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/huzurabad-candidates-get-into-battle-mode/article37064433.ece
19 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Sit-in protest held in front of Khammam railway station||Members owing allegiance to the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) and the All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha (AIKMS) besides the cadres of the Congress and the three Left parties staged a sit-in protest in front of the railway station after the police foiled their attempt to gain entry into the railway station to stage a “rail roko” here on Monday. The protesters took out a rally from Pavilion Grounds to the railway station road here in response to the nation-wide “rail roko” call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) in protest against the Centre’s three farm laws and the recent incident of Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh. A large posse of police personnel stopped the protesters from entering into the railway station by erecting barricades on the main road near the One Town police station. The demonstrators squatted on the main road in front of the railway station and shouted slogans against the Centre’s three farm laws terming them as “pro-corporate” and “black laws” detrimental to farmers. They vowed to organise peaceful protests to amplify the voices of farmers waging a relentless agitation against the new agriculture laws. A host of senior leaders of the Congress, the CPI, the CPI (M) and the CPI (ML-ND) took part in the demonstration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sit-in-protest-held-in-front-of-khammam-railway-station/article37064429.ece
19 October 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Protest held, slogans raised against Harish Rao||Demanding that double bedroom houses be constructed for them, some angry residents of Kolgur village in Gajwel constituency held a dharna in the village on Monday. They even burnt an effigy of Finance Minister T. Harish Rao. Police rushed to the spot and promised to take the issue to the notice of officials concerned. The village was adopted by Mr. Harish Rao after the TRS came to power for the second time. According to sources, the villagers alleged that Mr. Harish Rao promised to develop the village and as part of that, 16 houses in the village were demolished to construct new houses. Despite repeated appeals, there was no response from the Minister or from the officials and hence they were forced to agitate to push their demands, they said. “The Minister promised to complete the double bed room houses within two months at the time of demolition and since then we are living in huts. He said that the village will be developed as a model in the State. And already two years have passed and nothing has transpired. Where should we go and whom should we approach?” asked one of the villagers. The agitation was led by local BJP leaders.  The Minister promised to complete houses within two months at the time of demolition and since then we are living in huts. Kolgur villager||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protest-held-slogans-raised-against-harish-rao/article37064427.ece
19 October 2021||Ahmedabad,||Mundra drug haul: NIA gets custody of 3||A special court here on Monday granted the National Investigation Agency (NIA) 10-day remand of three persons initially arrested in a case related to seizure of 2,988 kg of heroin at Gujarat’s Mundra Port last month. The court of special judge P.C. Joshi remanded the accused, M. Sudhakaran and Durga Vaishali — who allegedly ran M/S Aashi Trading Company that had imported a consignment of ‘talc stones’ (which turned out to be drug) — and Rajkumar P., to 10-day NIA custody as sought by the Central agency. The accused, also booked under anti-terror act UAPA, were arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence before the case was transferred earlier this month to the NIA. The case relates to the seizure of heroin originating from Afghanistan, which had arrived at Mundra Port from Iran’s Bandar Abbas Port.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mundra-drug-haul-nia-gets-custody-of-3/article37064476.ece
19 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Serosurvey in Haryana pegs positivity at 76.3%||The seropositivity rate in the third survey across Haryana has been found to be 76.3% — 78.1% in urban and 75.1% in rural areas. The positivity rate was 8% and 14.8% in the first and second rounds respectively. Releasing the report for the third round, Health Minister Anil Vij said the positivity rate among the children in the six to nine and 10-17 age groups was 69.8% and 73.2% respectively. Similarly, 75.3% men and 77.1% women were found to have developed antibodies against the infection. The positivity rate of 81.6% has been found in vaccinated people and 75.5% in those not vaccinated. Kurukshetra highest Mr. Vij said the survey was done to ascertain whether the COVID-19 antibodies had developed due to vaccination or naturally. The antibodies developed after vaccination were identified by the Spike Protein Antibody Test, he added. Kurukshetra witnessed the highest 85% seropositivity rate and Faridabad the lowest at 64.2%. However, 14% samples in Faridabad were found inconclusive and the survey will be conducted again in the district. Mr. Vij said the positivity rate of 76% was comforting as majority of people were protected from coronavirus. He informed that around 2.47 crore beneficiaries were vaccinated in the State of whom 1.74 crore were administered the first dose and 73 lakh both doses. Rajeev Arora, additional Chief Secretary, Health, said the major challenges before department during the third survey were the enlarged sample size of 36,520, which posed a huge burden for district authorities, and the testing of all these samples at District Civil Hospital Laboratory at Panchkula. The reason behind testing at Panchkula laboratory was the shifting of testing technique to find out antibodies against spike proteins of SARS-CoV-2, he said. The sample size for the first and second round was 18,700 and 15,840 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/serosurvey-in-haryana-pegs-positivity-at-763/article37064475.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||As cases surge, city reports this year’s first dengue death||The Capital reported 243 dengue cases over the past week, and one death — the first this year. As per a civic report on Monday, the deceased was a 35-year-old woman from south Delhi’s Sarita Vihar, who succumbed to the vector-borne disease in late September at a private hospital. The caseload for the current month stands at 382, including 139 cases reported till October 9. A total of 723 cases have been recorded this season (till October 16), the highest for the same period since 2018 — which saw 1,020 cases. In September, the city reported 217 cases, which was also the highest case count for the month since 2018. Delhi recorded 1,072 cases and one death in 2020, 2,036 cases and two deaths in 2019, and 2,798 cases and four deaths in 2018. South Delhi recorded the highest cases this week at 61, followed by north Delhi with 52 cases. South Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Mukesh Suryan said maximum efforts are being made to combat vector-borne diseases. However, residents said that the steps taken by the civic authorities are insufficient. A resident of Sant Nagar said she has not had any fogging or fumigation done in her vicinity. Another resident of Jamia Nagar said that the fogging and fumigation are not carried out on a regular basis. He added, “This monsoon, municipal authorities have come once or twice in the last few months. There are narrow by-lanes which are not fumigated and most of the fogging is done only on main roads.” At LNJP Hospital, the largest Delhi government-run facility, there has been an increase in patients coming with fever and dengue, doctors said. “Nineteen patients have been admitted with dengue in the last four days. All of them are stable or recovering. We have opened two new wards for fever cases,” Dr. Suresh Kumar, medical director of LNJP Hospital, said. Dr. Ritu Saxena, deputy medical superintendent of the hospital, said the separate wards were set up about a week ago. “We get about 50-60 fever patients every day. Yesterday, of all the samples of admitted patients that were sent for testing, nine came positive for dengue and some results are awaited,” Dr. Saxena said. She added that COVID-19 tests are being done for patients coming to the hospital with fever, but very few people are testing positive for the virus and that “many dengue cases are coming very late to us”. Dr. R.S. Mishra, director of internal medicine, Max Hospital, said currently, there is a significant rise in patients with fever and many of them have dengue. “Most of these patients are being managed at OPD while some require hospitalisation; a few need ICU care due to the severity of illness. Last year, we had had a very few patients but if we compare with the last five years, the situation is not alarmingly bad,” Dr. Mishra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/as-cases-surge-city-reports-this-years-first-dengue-death/article37064466.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Rain lifts city’s air quality to ‘good’ category||The air quality of the city improved substantially to “good” category on Monday from “poor” levels on Saturday and Sunday, following rain over the last two days, as per official data. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5 — a chief pollutant — in Delhi was estimated to have fallen to 1% on Monday, down from 14% on Saturday, according to government-run monitoring agency — System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Also, the number of fire counts in the region fell to 170 on Monday from 1,572 on Saturday, as per SAFAR. “Local land surfaces are wet and so dust re-suspension is minimum, which leads to low PM10. Presence of western disturbance has led to scattered rainfall over north India, leading to low biomass burning. This condition improved AQI with low PM2.5. Moist surfaces inhibit re-suspension of dust which will keep AQI in good for next 24 hours and after that AQI will degrade to satisfactory for Delhi,” SAFAR said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rain-lifts-citys-air-quality-to-good-category/article37064470.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Wettest Oct. in Delhi since 1960||The Capital received heavy overnight showers on Monday, taking the amount of rainfall received so far this October to the highest recorded since 1960. The Met department said the Capital received 89.7 mm of rainfall in a 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Monday and 0.4 mm of rainfall thereafter. This takes the total rainfall for the month to 95 mm, breaking the record set in October 1960, that reported 93.4 mm of rain. The rain led to waterlogging with the Public Works Department (PWD) receiving 34 calls throughout Monday generated mainly from the city’s underpasses, flyovers and major junctions. A PWD official said though the complaints pertained to all the locations categorised as vulnerable by the agency, vehicular movement was not thrown out of gear since the magnitude of waterlogging was not severe. Complaints were mainly generated from locations such as the Pul Prahladpur underpass, Minto Bridge, ITO, WHO Building, Azadpur Mandi and its vicinity, Dhaula Kuan, NH-8, Mathura Road and some points located on Ring Road. The rain brought down temperatures with the maximum temperature settling at 23.9 degrees Celsius, which was nine degrees cooler than normal and a sharp fall from the 30.4 degrees Celsius recorded the previous day. The minimum settled at 20.1 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees above normal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wettest-oct-in-delhi-since-1960/article37064474.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. starts campaign to reduce air pollution||The Delhi government on Monday started the “Red Light On, Gaadi Off” campaign in the Capital. Environment Minister Gopal Rai appealed to the citizens to turn their cars off at red lights to help reduce air pollution. “Research data show that vehicular pollution plays a very prominent role in polluting the air. The Delhi government is running a campaign against dust pollution and similarly, the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign has been started to reduce vehicular pollution,” Mr. Rai said. Under the campaign, volunteers at traffic signals are requesting people to switch off their vehicles when the signal is red. The Minister said the government can’t do anything to stop stubble burning in neighbouring States and that is why it is important to reduce air pollution in Delhi. “The number of vehicles running inside Delhi in September is still the same. But at that time, the level of pollution was normal. The pollution levels are increasing in winter due to changing weather and stubble burning. As the incidents of stubble burning are increasing, the pollution levels in Delhi are rising rapidly. We cannot do anything to stop the stubble burning that is going on in other States. That’s why our effort is to reduce vehicular pollution in Delhi for some relief. For this, the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign has been started,” Mr. Rai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-starts-campaign-to-reduce-air-pollution/article37064472.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. floats tender for new job portal||The Delhi government has floated a tender for developing its “Rojgar Bazaar 2.0” portal, which will be the “first-of-its-kind job matching” digital platform, authorities said. Over 14 lakh job seekers and 10 lakh jobs have already been advertised on the existing portal, as per the government and the new portal will have options for skill training, career guidance, and job matching. However, the government did not share data on how many people got jobs till now through the portal, which was launched last year. “The Rojgar Bazaar 1.0 portal was launched in August 2020 by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal at the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic and turned out to be a lifeline for the unemployed youth as well as small businesses in Delhi. It will provide not just AI-based job matching but also end-to-end employment-related services to the youth of Delhi,” Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said. The government said that based on the experiences with Rojgar Bazaar 1.0 portal and to drive employment linkages across Delhi, they decided to upgrade the portal to bring in best-in-class practices from national and international job portals. “The platform will also provide other critical services. This will range from skilling to career guidance to skill credentialing to automated analytics services, all of which will help enhance the job seekers’ ability to gain meaningful livelihoods. Also, a strong analytics platform will provide the government with rich insights to frame policies and drive on-ground positive impact,” an official statement said. When the portal was launched last year, the government had said that in the first six hours, 51,403 job seekers registered on the portal and 1,071 employers posted 18,585 vacancies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-floats-tender-for-new-job-portal/article37064469.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||HC allows medical termination of 24-week pregnancy||The Delhi High Court has permitted a 24-year-old woman to undergo the procedure of medical termination of her over 24-week pregnancy, noting that the chances of survival of the unborn child are very remote due to serious deformities in the foetus. Justice Rekha Palli gave the decision after taking into consideration the report sent by the medical board of Lady Hardinge Hospital . The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act stipulates a ceiling of 20 weeks, for termination of pregnancy, beyond which abortion of a foetus is statutorily impermissible. In January last year, the Union Cabinet had approved the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which provides for enhancing the upper gestation limit from 20 to 24 weeks for special categories of women, including survivors of rape, victim of incest, and other vulnerable women. “Once the medical board has clearly opined that the deformities in the petitioner’s foetus are likely to be incompatible with life and in case the pregnancy is carried to term, the chances of survival of the unborn child are very remote, as also the fact that the petitioner is found to be both physically and psychologically fit to undergo medical termination of her pregnancy, I am of the considered view that the petition deserves to be allowed,” Justice Palli said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-allows-medical-termination-of-24-week-pregnancy/article37064467.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Active cases fall below 300||The city reported no new COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours for the eighth day and the total number of deaths stood at 25,089, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Fifteen new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,39,405. A total of 44,739 tests were done. There are only 298 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/active-cases-fall-below-300/article37064468.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Shots fired at undertrial’s car, one hurt||The Delhi police on Monday said shots were fired at an undertrial’s car allegedly by his rivals, injuring his driver, near Kishangarh in south-west Delhi. While the injured, Shafiq alias Lucky, has been taken to Fortis Hospital, the undertrial has been identified as one Somraj alias Dhami. Four rounds were fired, and one live round has been seized. “Somraj was on the co-driver seat and his personal PSO Krishan was sitting in the rear,” DCP (south-west) Gaurav Sharma said. The three were returning from Patiala House Court after attending a hearing of a case related to murder of one Ashok Maan, in which Somraj along with his brothers is an accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/shots-fired-at-undertrials-car-one-hurt/article37064463.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Three minors detained for shooting||Three minor boys were detained by the Delhi police for allegedly shooting at a 26-year-old tea seller in Safdarjung Enclave on Sunday. The teenagers came to Ramkishan’s shop at 4 a.m. and asked for refreshments. The tea seller told them that he had not started his kitchen. After this, they went for a smoke but soon the tea seller reached there to answer nature’s call. A heated argument broke out. “Later, they called one of their friends and shot the tea seller in the leg,” DCP (South-West) Gaurav Sharma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-minors-detained-for-shooting/article37064464.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||China denies testing ‘hypersonic missile’||China’s government on Monday denied a recent report saying it had carried out a test of a nuclear capable hypersonic missile, stating that the launch was a “routine test of a space vehicle”. On Sunday, the Financial Times reported China’s military in August carried out its first ever test of a “nuclear capable hypersonic missile”, adding that the test “circled the globe before speeding towards its target, demonstrating an advanced space capability that caught U.S. intelligence by surprise”. The newspaper quoted five people familiar with the test as saying the Chinese military launched a rocket that carried a hypersonic glide vehicle “which flew through low-orbit space before cruising down towards its target”. Two of those people told the newspaper the test “showed that China had made astounding progress on hypersonic weapons and was far more advanced than U.S. officials realised.” Only the U.S., Russia and China were developing the hypersonic glide vehicles, the newspaper said, noting they are far more difficult to track than ballistic missiles. The Chinese Foreign Ministry, however, denied the report. “As we understand,” spokesperson Zhao Lijian said, “this was a routine test of space vehicle to verify technology of spacecraft’s reusability.” “It is of great significance to reducing the cost of using space vehicle and providing a convenient and cheap way for mankind’s two-way transportation in the peaceful use of space,” he added. “Several companies around the world have conducted similar tests. After separating from the space vehicle before its return, the supporting devices will burn up when it’s falling in the atmosphere and the debris will fall into the high seas. China will work with other countries in the world for the peaceful use of space for the benefit of mankind.” The Financial Times quoted security experts as saying the test was conducted in August. It noted that the China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology, which carries out launches, had in July announced its 77th launch of a Long March rocket, and in end-August said it had carried out a 79th flight, sparking speculation about a secretive 78th launch that had not been reported. Asked if he was referring to the same launch as reported by the Financial Times , Mr. Zhao said, “It’s not a missile, but a space vehicle.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-denies-testing-hypersonic-missile/article37063924.ece
19 October 2021||Moscow,||After spying row, Russia shuts mission to NATO||Russia said on Monday it would halt the activities of its diplomatic mission to NATO after the Western military alliance expelled eight Russians in a row over spying. Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov also said staff at NATO's military mission in Moscow would be stripped of their accreditation from November 1, and the alliance's information office in the Russian capital would be shuttered. “If NATO members have any urgent matters, they can contact our ambassador in Belgium on these questions,” Mr. Lavrov told a news conference. NATO said on October 6 it had expelled eight members of Russia’s mission to the alliance who it said were “undeclared Russian intelligence officers”. Moscow said at the time that the expulsions undermined hopes that relations with the U.S.-led alliance could normalise. “NATO is not interested in equitable dialogue and joint work,” Mr. Lavrov said on Monday, announcing the closure of the Russian mission. “If that’s the case, then we don’t see the need to keep pretending that changes in the foreseeable future are possible.” The dispute marks the latest deterioration in East-West ties that are already at post-Cold War lows. Russia accuses NATO of provocative activity close to its borders, and recently staged major exercises of its own. Not official yet: NATO The alliance says it is determined to reinforce the security of member states close to Russia following Moscow’s annexation of the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine in 2014 and backing for separatists in eastern Ukraine. NATO said it had taken note of Mr. Lavrov’s comments but had received no official communication on the issues raised by Russia. NATO said on Monday it had taken note of Mr. Lavrov’s comments but had received no official communication on the issues raised. German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said Russia no longer seemed willing to talk to the West. “It’s more than just regrettable, this decision taken in Moscow,” he said. “It will seriously damage the relationship.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-shuts-mission-to-nato-in-row-over-spying/article37063929.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Bangladesh violence needs to stop: UN||The attacks on minority Hindus in Bangladesh are against the values enshrined in its Constitution and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's government needs to ensure an impartial inquiry into the incidents, the UN said on Monday. Communal tension continued to remain high in Bangladesh as violence spread to northern district of Rangpur during the weekend. “Recent attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh, fuelled by hate speech on social media, are against the values of the Constitution and need to stop. We call upon the Government to ensure protection of minorities and an impartial probe. We call upon all to join hands to strengthen inclusive tolerant Bangladesh,” said Mia Seppo, UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh. The developments of the past several days have already drawn international attention. Sources told The Hindu that “all of the community leaders including ISKCON” met the Indian High Commissioner Vikram Doraiswamy at the Indian mission in Dhaka on Monday evening. The message from the top UN official based in Dhaka was prompted by a nearly week-long spell of communal violence targeting the minority Hindus during the just concluded Durga puja celebrations. The violence reached Pirganj of Rangpur district during Sunday night when a village of fisherfolks in the area was targeted by a group of arsonists.  Arson attack Late on Sunday, a large number of properties belonging to the minority community were set on fire by groups of people. The attacks in Rangpur followed the script of the incidents that unfolded earlier in Comilla, Noakhali, Chittagong and other areas. “The incident in Comilla that triggered the violence was orchestrated by some people to disturb inter-community ties and defame our government,” said Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan to the media. A reported incident of desecration of the Quran during the Durga puja celebrations in Comilla town went viral on social media last Wednesday, which quickly triggered mob attacks against puja pandals. On Monday, the situation remained tense in Chittagong and Comilla where some of the worst communal attacks were witnessed that led to the death of at least four attackers in police firing and two devotees of the ISKCON temple in Noakhali district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bangladesh-violence-needs-to-stop-un/article37063925.ece
19 October 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar to free 5,000 protesters||Myanmar’s junta chief on Monday announced the release of more than 5,000 people jailed for protesting against a February coup, days after a regional bloc delivered a major snub to the military regime. There has been chaos in Myanmar since the coup, with more than 1,100 civilians killed in a bloody crackdown on dissent and more than 8,000 arrested, according to a monitoring group. More than 7,300 are currently behind bars, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP). Junta chief Min Aung Hlaing said a total of 5,636 prisoners will be freed to mark the Thadingyut festival later in October. The announcement comes on the heels of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations’ decision to exclude Gen. Min Aung Hlaing from an upcoming summit of the 10-country bloc over his administration’s failure in defusing the bloody crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-to-free-5000-protesters/article37063926.ece
19 October 2021||Olympia,||Activists try to disrupt Beijing Olympic event||Activists grabbed the spotlight at the flame-lighting ceremony for the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics in Greece on Monday by unfurling a Tibetan flag and a banner that said “no genocide” at the Games. The demonstrators pulled out the flag and banner during the ceremony in Olympia attended by International Olympic Committee (IOC) president Thomas Bach and several dozen dignitaries, including Chinese officials. Greek police forced the demonstrators to take down the flag and the banner before detaining them. The incident, which came a day after three Tibet activists staged a demonstration at the Acropolis in Athens calling for a boycott of next year’s Games, illustrates the challenges faced by the first Olympics to be held in China since the 2008 Beijing Summer Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/activists-try-to-disrupt-beijing-olympic-event/article37063930.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Over-simplified models, complex social systems||The 2021 Nobel Prize for Physics has been shared by three physicists (with one half jointly to Syukuro Manabe and Klaus Hasselmann) “for the physical modelling of Earth’s climate, quantifying variability and reliably predicting global warming” and (and the other half to Giorgio Parisi) “for the discovery of the interplay of disorder and fluctuations in physical systems from atomic to planetary scales”, according to the citation by the Nobel selection committee. Nod for modelling methods The 2021 Nobel Prize in Economics (or the The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2021) was awarded to David Card, for proving that rises in minimum wages increase employment levels (and improve overall societal well-being), contrary to the views of most mainstream economists that because higher wages increase firms’ costs, the well-being of firms (and societies) will be harmed. The other half of the Economics Nobel went to Joshua D. Angrist and Guido W. Imbens for improving economists’ tools for understanding complex systems, which were tools David Card had also used. Thus, the Physics and Economics Nobel prizes were for contributions to methods of modelling complex systems (apart from the half in economics for insights into wages and labour markets using new methods in economics). A quarter century ago, Nobel laureates in economics, Kenneth J. Arrow and Brian Arthur, had arranged a meeting, at the Santa Fe Institute, of economists with physicists including Nobel Laureates, Murray Gell-Mann and Philip Anderson, to understand what economists can learn from physicists about the formulation of theories and models. The economists presented their models. M. Mitchell Waldrop gives an account of the meeting in his book, Complexity: The Emerging Science at the Edge of Order and Chaos . “And indeed, as the axioms and theorems and proofs marched across the overhead projector screen, the physicists could only be awe-struck at their counterparts’ mathematical prowess — awestruck and appalled. It seemed as if though they were dazzling themselves with fancy mathematics, until they couldn’t see the forest for the trees. They weren’t looking at what the models were for, and whether the underlying assumptions were any good. In a lot of cases, what was required was just common sense.” Realised a long while ago Physicists had realised the limitations of human minds to understand how the world really works a century ago. The Nobel Prizes in Physics were awarded to Max Planck (1918), Albert Einstein (1921), Niels Bohr (1922), Louis de Broglie (1929) and Werner Heisenberg (1932). They displaced the Newtonian paradigm of physics, which had reigned for three centuries, which saw Nature as a machine that could be described with linear theories of cause-and-effect. The essence of the new physics was that reality is not what it seems to be to the rational mind. More startling was the conclusion that the human mind can never know what reality is because it is limited to models that can satisfy only its internal logic. The science of economics lags physics by a century. Economists continue to model economies as machines whose efficiency can be increased by managing inputs to produce more outputs, thus also increasing the overall sizes of economies. The saving grace for physicists is that they attempt to model only the physics of the universe, as the winners of the 2021 Prize have done. Whereas economists try to develop rigorous mathematical proofs of social phenomena. Now, some economists are reluctantly accepting that economies are affected by fuzzy human and societal irrationalities. Recently, some have won Nobel Prizes for (finally) including emotions and concepts of ‘identity’ into their models. Which common sense alone should have revealed to them long ago. Nature’s workings, humans Systems’ sciences have advanced since the seminal meeting at the Santa Fe Institute in 1987. Engineers design machines, applying the laws of mechanics, to produce greater outputs with lesser inputs. Similarly, 20th century economists have been attempting to design more efficient economies, looking for levers to pull within them, such as prices of money and carbon, to improve their performance. Now they are beginning to look at Nature with greater respect, to understand how Nature designs itself. Nature is an adaptive system that produces innovations from within itself, such as new species. And species too adapt their abilities as Nature around them changes. Homo sapiens is the most complicated of all species because, unlike other species, it has intentions to master Nature, not just adapt to it. With human agency come complications of egos and ethics. Humans want to have power over Nature and over other humans too. Even when their actions are well-intended, they are ill-informed because they do not comprehend the power of the system of which they are only small parts, which the paradigm-changing physicists of the 20th century had realised. A flawed construct The harm that measurements derived from over-simplified models can cause to the health of complex self-adaptive social systems has become evident with the recent imbroglio of the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Framework. The intentions of the measurer will determine what is measured. Stock market indices, ease of doing business, and profits of firms are measures of what financial investors are looking for. Whereas levels of incomes at the bottom of the pyramid, and equity in ease of living for all human beings are better indicators of the health of a society and its economy. GDP is an indicator of the material performance of an economy; not its social and environmental health. According to the paradigm-changing physicists of the early 20th century, the “logical”, linear, way of thinking is only a construct of the human mind. Nevertheless, economists (and even some physicists) persist in thinking that there must be causal, linear relationships amongst all variables in a system. New statistical methods (like Angrist and Imbens’) apparently enable causation to be separated from mere correlation. Jordan Ellenberg explains, in How Not to be Wrong: The Power of Mathematical Thinking , how mathematical methods can reveal hidden structures beneath the messy and chaotic structures of our daily lives,. He warns: “Mathematics is a way not to be wrong. There is a real danger that, by strengthening our abilities to analyse some questions mathematically, we acquire a general confidence in our beliefs, which extends unjustifiably to those things we’re still wrong about.” Too little listening now Along with fundamental epistemic limitations, western scientific methods are revealing ethical weaknesses too. The dignity of human beings is squeezed out to convert humans into quantities to fit into economists and social scientists’ mathematical equations. Scientists arrogantly claim they know best what is good for everybody; and that their views must prevail because they are more ‘rational’. There is too much mathematical calculation in the world of modern scientists; too little listening to people not like themselves. We have the dialogue series, The Limits of Thought (1998) , by David Bohm (who was nominated for the Nobel Prize in physics) and Jiddu Krishnamurthy, the Indian philosopher. Scientific models of the climate as a physical system only in which economists can determine a price of carbon that will make the world alright again are fundamentally flawed. Bohm had said that the end of science means the coming of western civilisation, in its own time and in its own way, into the higher dimensions of human experience. Those higher dimensions include humility within the world that has created the human mind, and which humans cannot logically explain. The time has come for more equity in global governance, and for an “Eastern” philosophical way of thinking to save the world from a scientific apocalypse. Arun Maira is the author of ‘Transforming Systems: Why the World Needs a New Ethical Toolkit’. He is also a former Member of the Planning Commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/over-simplified-models-complex-social-systems/article37063792.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A shadow foreign policy for the first time||India does not have a tradition of shadow cabinets lurking behind the government in power with ready alternative approaches to policy matters. The opposition challenges government policies, but provides no alternatives to be adopted in the event of a change in government. It is only at the time of elections that a manifesto is put forward, but that does not become the policy of the government automatically. The opposition uses think tanks and NGOs to float ideas, which may become part of policy if they become publicly acceptable. Since there has been a consensus on foreign policy, a shadow foreign policy was out of the question. But for the first time, a document has emerged from the Centre for Policy Research (CPR) in the nature of an alternative to the present foreign and defence policies named ‘India’s Path to Power: Strategy in a world adrift’. It is authored by eight well-known strategists and thinkers. In 2012, many of the same authors had produced another document, ‘Non-alignment 2.0’, in the light of the global changes at that time, as a contribution to policymaking, without criticising the policies of the government. But the new government in 2014 had its own ideas and not much attention was given to the study. The present document, however, is in the nature of an alternative to the foreign and defence policies of the Modi government, as some of its tenets are not considered conducive to finding a path to power for India in the post-pandemic world. The eight conclusions are quite logical and reasonable, but the tenor and tone of the paper is one of criticism and need for course correction. Change in foreign policy The first term of the Modi government was remarkable for its innovative, bold and assertive foreign policy, which received general approbation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi led from the front and took the credit for overcoming the hesitations of history. He laid out his priorities and pursued them with vigour. After his unconventional peace initiatives with Pakistan failed, he took a firm stand and gained popularity at home. His wish to have close relations with the other neighbours did not materialise, but his helpful attitude to them even in difficult situations averted any crisis. He brought a new symphony into India-U.S. relations and engaged China continuously to find a new equation with it. India’s relations with Israel and the Arab countries became productive. Mr. Modi’s enhanced majority in the second term was partly on account of his foreign policy successes. It was when the second Modi government dealt with some of the unfinished sensitive matters, which were essentially of a domestic nature (Article 370, citizenship issues and farming regulations), that their external dimensions led to a challenge to its foreign policy. Questions were raised in the West about human rights and the state of democracy in India. The opposition in India began to question the foreign policy postures of the government. The pandemic, the economic meltdown and China’s incursion into Ladakh added to the woes of the government. The cumulative effect of these developments is reflected in the CPR report. It says, “The foundational source of India’s influence in the world is the power of its example. This rests on four pillars, domestic economic growth, social inclusion, political democracy and a broadly liberal constitutional order. If these integral pillars remain strong, there is no stopping India... The most significant change in the last decade or so is that we cannot take for granted the success of India’s development model... But the fundamental sources of India’s development and international influence look increasingly precarious. We must confront this changed outlook... Nourishing the foundations of India’s success requires a conscious political effort, and it is a strategic imperative...” Set the house in order This assertion at the beginning of the report is the heart of the report and it is repeated in different forms. In other words, the finding is that domestic issues have impacted foreign policy and, therefore, India should set its house in order to stem the tide of international reaction. “It is important that we acknowledge the perverse impact of domestic political and ideological factors that are driving our foreign policy... Political polarisation and majoritarianism will lead to a diminished India — one that may struggle to meet the challenges and opportunities that lie... ahead,” asserts the report. It also says that the confused international order that followed the global crisis saw an “omnidirectional Indian foreign policy.” These harsh statements are likely to be challenged by the government, which will claim that India has stood true to its own foundational values and there is no “authoritarian model of development”. Once the basic premise is set aside, the report has many positive elements, which will help policymakers to rethink policy. For instance, the report rightly points out that “it would be incorrect and counterproductive for India to turn its back on globalisation...” It also suggests that SAARC should be revived and that India should rejoin the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership and continue its long-standing quest for membership in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation. The report also stresses the importance of strategic autonomy in today’s world where change is the only certainty. As for the India-U.S.- China triangle, the report makes the unusual suggestion that India should have better relations individually with both the U.S. and China than they have with each other. The report contains detailed analyses on different regions and key countries, but the general thrust is that all is not well with Indian foreign policy and a fundamental change is necessary to meet the present situation. The report concludes that since China will influence India’s external environment politically, economically and infrastructurally, there is no feasible alternative to a combination of engagement and competition with China. The approach of the present government is not very different. There is implicit criticism of the Pakistan policy when the report asserts, “as long as our objectives of policy towards Pakistan are modest, resumption of dialogue and a gradual revival of trade, transport and other links are worth pursuing.” A considerable part of the report is devoted to issues relating to defence, the nuclear doctrine, space, cyberspace and the ecological crisis. On the looming environmental disaster, the report states that since India is still at an early stage of its modern development trajectory, it is not yet locked into an energy-intensive pattern of growth. Much of its infrastructure remains to be built. It suggests all is not well with the present strategy for environmental protection and economic development. The eminent stature of the authors and the CPR will certainly compel detailed studies of the report in the run-up to the next elections and beyond as the time frame suggested for change is the next decade. But the significance of the report is that it reveals the end of the era of consensus foreign policy and presents a shadow foreign policy for the first time in India. It remains to be seen whether any of the opposition parties will adopt it and fight the next election on the platform provided by the report. T.P. Sreenivasan is former Ambassador of India and Governor for India of the IAEA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-shadow-foreign-policy-for-the-first-time/article37063919.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The nuclear proliferator who was never indicted||One key question is unlikely to go away despite the passing of A.Q. Khan, the world’s biggest nuclear proliferator, who developed COVID-19 complications. Why did the United States never indict this Dutch-trained Pakistani metallurgist for stealing western nuclear secrets and operating an illicit international nuclear-smuggling network for more than a quarter of a century? After all, the U.S. has indicted lesser known individuals, including as recently as last year, for conspiring to smuggle nuclear goods to Pakistan. The beginnings Khan began his nuclear smuggling in the mid-1970s while working in the Netherlands as an engineer at Urenco, a European consortium, where he furtively accessed blueprints of centrifuges for enriching uranium. With the help of the designs he stole and the nuclear components and materials he procured illicitly from Europe and North America, Khan played a central role in Pakistan’s nuclear-weapons development, although China’s covert assistance was critical to its ultimate success. Until Pakistan’s 1998 nuclear tests, Khan focused on smuggling western nuclear goods to his country. Thereafter, Pakistan’s nuclear czar established a nuclear supermarket, selling starter kits and components to countries the U.S. considered rogue states — Iran, Libya and North Korea. Yet, the U.S. never indicted Khan. Why the world’s nuclear non-proliferation leader did not indict the top global nuclear-smuggling kingpin is an issue that has not even been examined. The Lubbers revelations Former Dutch Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers revealed in 2005 that the Netherlands sought to arrest Khan in 1975 and then again in 1986 but that on each occasion, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) advised his country to back off. With Dutch authorities deferring to U.S. intelligence, Khan was allowed to return to the Netherlands repeatedly, with his last visit being in 1992. In fact, after Khan was tried in absentia and sentenced to four years in prison in 1983 for stealing secret blueprints, the Amsterdam court lost his legal files, with the main judge suspecting the CIA’s hand in the disappearance. In 1985, Khan’s sentence was overturned on a technicality — he had not been served the summons. Instead of seeking a retrial, authorities abandoned prosecuting the most momentous crime committed in the Netherlands since the Second World War. As Lubbers said, “The last word is Washington. There is no doubt they knew everything, heard everything.” So, why did the U.S. protect Khan? Probably the same reason why Washington ignored mounting evidence of Pakistan’s nuclear-weapons advances. As The New York Times reported in 1998 that “without China’s help, Pakistan’s bomb would not exist”, but that the U.S. “pursued policies that proved almost as essential to the Pakistani bomb program” as the Chinese assistance. In the 1980s, while Khan’s network was smuggling western nuclear items to Pakistan, the CIA was smuggling billions of dollars of weapons to anti-Soviet guerrillas in Afghanistan via Pakistan. Add to the picture another Cold War dimension that Lubbers alluded to: New Delhi’s warm ties with Moscow and the 1974 nuclear test induced the U.S. to turn a blind eye to Pakistani proliferation to help balance India. A role switch The U.S.’s concerns were stirred only after Pakistan’s 1998 nuclear tests, which emboldened Khan’s metamorphosis from a buyer to a seller. After Iran and Libya later admitted receiving nuclear items from Pakistan-linked black marketeers, U.S. pressure compelled Pakistan to open investigations into Khan’s activities. What followed was a remarkable charade. In a state-scripted confession, Khan appeared on national television in 2004 asking for forgiveness, saying he had acted entirely on his own in transferring nuclear goods to other countries. Pakistani dictator General Pervez Musharraf then quickly pardoned Khan. But to prevent the uncovering of the military’s own role in the nuclear-smuggling scandal, Musharraf also barred international investigators from questioning Khan. Before long, the charade started unravelling. Khan disowned his confession, saying it had been forced upon him by Musharraf, while the Islamabad High Court ruled his house detention unlawful. Khan lived the rest of his life in his comfortable Islamabad villa, with state-provided security. Yet, the U.S. readily acquiesced in the charade from the beginning, despite knowing well that Khan could not have operated alone in a country that has always been in the grip of its military. British investigative journalists Adrian Levy and Catherine Scott-Clark, in their book on the scandal, concluded that Khan’s underground trade was “supervised by Pakistan’s ruling military clique”. Musharraf himself, according to French intellectual Bernard Henri Lévy, was in the know of “Khan’s dark machinations”. The North Korean link In exchange for supplying centrifuges to Pyongyang, Pakistan received North Korean ballistic missile technology, helping it to build its first intermediate-range, nuclear-capable missile, Ghauri. North Korea’s nuclear-weapons capability, however, relies not on enriched uranium but on plutonium, which the Khan network did not traffic. Iran apparently received second-hand gear — discarded Pakistani centrifuges, some with traces of enriched uranium. Libya was sold basic kits, from ageing centrifuges to natural uranium. As Pakistan’s Kahuta facility advanced from entry-level P-1 aluminium centrifuges to P-2 maraging-steel centrifuges — which could spin almost twice faster, thus doubling the rate of uranium enrichment — Khan’s network palmed off the old centrifuges on other nations. However, until Khan’s very last breath, Pakistan’s military generals ensured that no outside investigator questioned him. The law of consequences Against this background, America’s shielding of Khan, who long championed a “Muslim bomb”, paralleled its policy of not penalising the Pakistani military’s nexus with terrorist groups, thus leading to unforeseen but far-reaching consequences. Such dual shielding paved the way for Pakistan’s emergence as the world’s sole state sponsor of Islamist terrorism protected by nuclear weapons. Today, the U.S. maintains contingency plans to seize Pakistan’s nuclear weapons if they risk falling into terrorist hands. Such a threat, however, comes from jihadists within Pakistan’s military and nuclear establishment. The U.S. has added Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps to its list of foreign terrorist organisations but not Pakistan’s rogue Inter-Services Intelligence, with which the CIA has sustained long-standing ties. But as if to underscore the law of unintended consequences, the U.S., through its humiliating Afghanistan defeat at the hands of a terrorist militia, has tasted the bitter fruits of the Pakistani generals’ cross-border use of jihadist proxies from behind their protective nuclear shield. Brahma Chellaney is a geostrategist and the author of nine books, including the award-winning ‘Water: Asia’s New Battleground’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-nuclear-proliferator-who-was-never-indicted/article37063915.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||India needs a caste count||The Constituent Assembly sat together 114 times to draft a visionary Constitution for India, targeted at transforming an ancient civilisation into a modern nation state. The Preamble inter alia stated that there would be justice (social, economic and political) and equality of status and opportunity. An economic and social fillip In order to fulfil the egalitarian construct of the Constitution, the makers of modern India incorporated into the chapter on Fundamental Rights three path-breaking postulates: Article 17 (abolishing untouchability), Article 23 (prohibition of traffic in human beings and forced labour) and Article 24 (prohibition of child labour). The Constitution outlaws discrimination on the grounds of religion, race, caste, sex and place of birth and mandates equality of opportunity in matters of public employment albeit with caveats to promote the interests of the underprivileged. Part XVI delineates Special Provisions relating to certain classes, including reservation of seats for Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled Tribes (STs) and Anglo-Indians in the Legislatures. This reservation system was supposed to end 10 years after the commencement of the Constitution. However, it has been extended every 10 years since. The objective is to provide a political voice to the disempowered. Article 335 provides for reservations for SCs and STs in public employment both under the Union and the States. The Constitution thus provides both an economic and social fillip to the weaker sections who had been discriminated against historically. The aim is to bring about social integration that could pave the way for the creation of a classless ethos. In 1990, another step was taken in this direction when the then Prime Minister V.P. Singh decided to act on the recommendations of the Mandal Commission report and provide 27% reservation in public employment to Other Backward Classes (OBCs). This was subsequently extended to educational institutions. This added to the existing 22.5% reservation quota for SCs and STs thereby increasing reservations in educational institutions to 49.5%. This decision led to a nationwide tumult in university campuses and a legal challenge in the Supreme Court. In Indra Sawhney v. Union of India, the Supreme Court upheld 27% reservation for OBCs but struck down the 10% quota based on economic criteria. It further fixed the ceiling of reservations at 50%. It also held that a “caste can be and quite often is a social class. If it is backward socially, it would be a backward class for the purposes of Article 16(4).” It also evolved the concept of a creamy layer. This was done to ensure that those who really require reservation get it. The OBC reservations sparked off similar demands from socially powerful and upwardly mobile caste groups. Reservations provided by successive governments either within the 27% quota for OBCs or beyond the 50% ceiling to various communities were struck down by various courts or are still being challenged. Demand for a caste census The demand for a caste census is growing louder as its findings can be used to cross the 50% hurdle. If it can be empirically established that the OBCs are numerically higher, perhaps it could be argued that the 50% cap on reservation is redundant. But where would that leave merit? Nations are built by an intricate interplay of social inclusion and meritocracies. The UPA government had, albeit reluctantly, acquiesced to a Socio-Economic and Caste Census in 2011 that it then rigorously implemented. In 2016, the Parliamentary Standing Committee of Rural Development observed that “the data has been examined and 98.87% data on individuals’ caste and religion is error free”. However, the NDA government told the Supreme Court and Parliament that the caste census data are flawed and cannot be released. Over time, what has been forgotten is the original dream of transforming India into an egalitarian and classless society. Undoubtedly, while reservations have ameliorated socio-economic backwardness, they have equally created silos whereby the benefits of reservation have been more far-reaching vertically than horizontally. Therefore, a new paradigm of affirmative action is required to fulfil the vision of the makers of independent India given that economic stimuli have not brought about societal integration. Since it has been judicially determined that caste is synonymous with class, a fresh socio-economic caste census is imperative if the previous one is flawed and cannot be released. Once it is known what the economic and social status of every caste group is, a new intervention strategy can then be fashioned to emancipate caste groups that are still at the bottom of the ladder. Only when all castes are equal can society become egalitarian. Manish Tewari is lawyer, MP & former Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-needs-a-caste-count/article37063921.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Improving livestock breeding||Livestock breeding in India has been largely unorganised because of which there have been gaps in forward and backward integration across the value chain. Such a scenario impacts the quality of livestock that is produced and in turn negatively impacts the return on investment for livestock farmers. Approximately 200 million Indians are involved in livestock farming, including around 100 million dairy farmers. Roughly 80% bovines in the country are low on productivity and are reared by small and marginal farmers. To enhance the productivity of cattle, the Rashtriya Gokul Mission was initiated in 2014 with a focus on the genetic upgradation of the bovine population through widespread initiatives on artificial insemination, sex-sorted semen, and in vitro fertilization. Entrepreneurship development The revised version of the Rashtriya Gokul Mission and National Livestock Mission (NLM) proposes to bring focus on entrepreneurship development and breed improvement in cattle, buffalo, poultry, sheep, goat, and piggery by providing incentives to individual entrepreneurs, farmer producer organisations, farmer cooperatives, joint liability groups, self-help groups, Section 8 companies for entrepreneurship development and State governments for breed improvement infrastructure. The breed multiplication farm component of the Rashtriya Gokul Mission is going to provide for capital subsidy up to Rs. 200 lakh for setting up breeding farm with at least 200 milch cows/ buffalo using latest breeding technology. The entrepreneur will be responsible for the arrangement of and would be able to sell at least 116 elite female calves every year out of this farm from the third year. The entrepreneur will also start generating income out of the sale of 15 kg of milk per animal per day for around 180 animals from the first year. This breeding farm will break even from the first year of the project after induction of milk in animals. Moreover, the strategy of incentivising breed multiplication farm will result in the employment of 1 lakh farmers. The grassroots initiatives in this sphere will be further amplified by web applications like e-Gopala that provide real-time information to livestock farmers on the availability of disease-free germplasm in relevant centres, veterinary care, etc. The poultry entrepreneurship programme of the NLM will provide for capital subsidy up to Rs. 25 lakh for setting up of a parent farm with a capacity to rear 1,000 chicks. Under this model, the hatchery is expected to produce at least 500 eggs daily, followed by the birth of chicks that are in turn reared for four weeks. Thereafter, the chicks can be supplied to local farmers for rearing. Under this model, the rural entrepreneur running the hatchery will be supplying chicks to the farmers. An entrepreneur will be able to break even within 18 months after launching the business. This is expected to provide employment to at least 14 lakh people. In the context of sheep and goat entrepreneurship, there is a provision of capital subsidy of 50% up to 50 lakh. An entrepreneur under this model shall set up a breeder farm, develop the whole chain will eventually sell the animals to the farmers or in the open market. Each entrepreneur can avail assistance for a breeder farm with 500 does/ewe and 25 buck/ram animals with high genetic merit from the Central/State government university farms. This model is projected to generate a net profit of more than Rs. 33 lakh for the entrepreneur per year. For piggery, the NLM will provide 50% capital subsidy of up to Rs. 30 lakh. Each entrepreneur will be aided with establishment of breeder farms with 100 sows and 10 boars, expected to produce 2,400 piglets in a year. A new batch of piglets will be ready for sale every six months. This model is expected to generate a profit of Rs. 1.37 crore after 16 months and 1.5 lakh jobs. The revised scheme of NLM coupled with the Rashtriya Gokul Mission and the Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund has the potential to dramatically enhance the productivity and traceability standards of our livestock. Atul Chaturvedi is Secretary, Ministry of Animal Husbandry and Dairying||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/improving-livestock-breeding/article37063922.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Slippery slopes||Even as the Southwest monsoon retreats along parts of northern Karnataka, Telangana, Odisha, Bengal and the northeastern States in October, it is leaving a trail of destruction in several districts. Significant loss of life has occurred in Kerala. While the heaviest recent downpour has been reported from west Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, east Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, with as much as 31 cm in Sheopur on Monday, there has been very heavy rain in Kerala and Gangetic West Bengal. The Indian monsoon is an invaluable resource that sustains hundreds of millions of people, but variations in its patterns and intensity pose a rising challenge. Kerala, which hosts a vast stretch of the Western Ghats, is having to contend with these changes with almost no respite between severe spells. The recurrent bursts show that anomalies in precipitation over the State, spectacularly demonstrated by the inundation of idyllic towns in 2018 and by mudslides that killed many a year later, require a comprehensive adaptation plan. This year’s torrential rain in the State, which has killed at least 35 people so far, is causing alarm as large reservoirs in mountainous reaches start filling up fast, while the Northeast monsoon lies ahead. The Government has responded by issuing alerts for several dams, including Idukki, and put in place plans to release water to avoid a repeat of the flooding witnessed three years ago. Significantly, the IMD has issued an alert for more heavy rainfall in Kerala from October 20. The precarity of living conditions in much of the country make the annual monsoon a persistent threat for millions, and governments should do more to reduce the risk to life and property. Nurturing the health of rivers and keeping them free of encroachments, protecting the integrity of mountain slopes by ending mining, deforestation and incompatible construction hold the key. The ecological imperative should be clear to Kerala with successive years of devastation, echoing the warnings in the Madhav Gadgil committee report on the Western Ghats. Land may be an extremely scarce resource, but expanding extractive economic activity to montane forests is certain to cause incalculable losses. One estimate by researchers in 2017 put quarrying area in Kerala at over 7,157 hectares, much of it in central districts that were hit later by mudslides. It should be evident to governments that it is unconscionable to allow the pursuit of short-term profits at the cost of helpless communities. A more benign development policy should treat nature as an asset, and not an impediment. Accurately mapped hazard zones should inform all decisions. There is a similar threat from extreme weather, breaking glaciers and cloudbursts to Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. Several States face climate change impacts and extreme weather, and the response must be to strengthen natural defences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/slippery-slopes/article37063787.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Greenfield hopes||The ebbing of the second wave of the pandemic, accompanied by the gradual lifting of restrictions across States, have not only spurred an improvement in several economic indicators but also led to a much-awaited investment revival. Data from investment monitoring firm Projects Today reveal that investment commitments and indicators of actual capital expenditure on the ground recorded a more than robust sequential growth in the July-September quarter after an insipid Q1. Even though enhanced central government infrastructure spending is partly responsible, this uptick is surprising for another reason — the first half of 2021-22 has now seen fresh investments higher than the pre-COVID year of 2019-20, with private capital outlays up nearly 49% to Rs. 4.87-lakh crore. Whether or not this growth rate is sustained, the implementation of the “PLI” scheme to promote manufacturing investments in India is expected to spur more investments in textiles, pharma, electronics over the second half of this year and 2022-23. Critics may call it a retro-style import substitution push, but if it manages to nudge a few investments away from Vietnam, Cambodia and now, Bangladesh, at a time the world is looking to reduce its China dependence, this is worth the effort. Initial evidence suggests some investors have been converted. Speedy implementation is, however, essential to ensure the expected gains accrue — of the 13 sectors for which PLIs have been announced, nine have been notified so far, and the others must be spelt out quickly lest global investors pick another destination. The handing over of Air India to the Tata group — the first outright sale of a public sector firm in almost two decades — will ring in some much-needed confidence in the Government’s much-reiterated stance that it has no business to be in business. With its efforts to repair some of the damage to the long-bleeding telecom sector and finally fix the festering folly of pursuing retrospective tax cases that it had termed as ‘tax terrorism’ while in the Opposition, the Government has been making the right noises. These decisions still have to be taken to their respective logical conclusions swiftly, for an enduring shift in perceptions, and outcomes on the ground. Moreover, as it seeks to seal economic partnership pacts or scale up ties with key markets like the EU, the U.S. and the U.K., India needs to also invest some of this energy into improving its image on key socio-economic parameters and the adherence to the ‘rule of law’ while refraining from fresh mistakes and heavy-handed regulations like the much-opposed draft norms for e-commerce. In a world where capital is increasingly influenced by environmental, social and governance standards, these factors merit more policy attention as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/greenfield-hopes/article37063788.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Children’s Tamil encyclopaedia||Mr. M. Karunanidhi, Chief Minister, to-day [Madras, Oct. 17] expressed his desire that Tamil publications seeking to instill scientific knowledge in the minds of children should, as far as possible, employ terms which could be easily understood. There was nothing wrong in assimilating English words like ‘cycle’ in Tamil also, as they were understood by all. The Chief Minister was releasing the third volume of Children’s Encyclopaedia (in Tamil) brought out by the Tamil Academy. He also suggested that children be given the opportunity to get acquainted with new words and modern discoveries, in Tamil. He felt that commonly understood Tamil words like “Vizha” and “Pori” could have been adopted in the encyclopedia in the place of “Pandigai” and “Yanthiram” to denote festival and machine respectively. He commended the efforts of those connected with the publication and said that not only children but even elders would have a lot to learn from such books. Mr. Karunanidhi released a copy of the book and presented it to Mr. Anbil Dharmalingam, Minister for Agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/childrens-tamil-encyclopaedia/article37063916.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Economic activity resurged to a post-COVID peak last week’||Economic activity hit a fresh post-pandemic high last week, the Nomura India Business Resumption Index signalled, with most indicators showing improvements even as power demand declined from the previous week. The index rose to an all-time high of 108.8 for the week ended October 17, from 105 in the prior period, Nomura said in a research note. A reading of 100 on the index, which uses February 23, 2020, as its base, relates to the pre-pandemic economic activity level. While mobility rose sharply, and the labour force participation rate inched up to 41.6% from 40.4%, power demand slid 1.7% after a 0.3% uptick in the previous week, Nomura economists Sonal Varma and Aurodeep Nandi wrote in the note. The economists, however, raised concerns about supply side risks, including the coal and power situation. Last week, Nomura had warned that if power outages widened, then industrial output could suffer. “Even as demand is recovering, supply bottlenecks have emerged as a bigger constraint. Coal shortages are resulting in supply disruptions to non-power customers, while chip shortages have hurt passenger vehicle sales during the festive season. As supply struggles to tango with demand, we see higher inflation as a bigger risk,” they noted. With domestic flights allowed to operate at full capacity from Monday, the transportation sector would get a further boost, the Nomura economists pointed out. Vaccine coverage was enabling reopening, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/economic-activity-resurged-to-a-post-covid-peak-last-week/article37063773.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Private industrial investments set to bounce back, says Crisil||India’s private industrial investment cycle is poised to bounce back, ratings agency Crisil said in a research note on Monday, citing a rise beyond pre-pandemic levels in Industrial Entrepreneur Memorandum (IEM) filings with the government, the pace of environmental approvals, and the surge in foreign direct investments. The Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes for 13 sectors and the surge in commodity prices will influence fresh private investments, aided by accommodative monetary policies, lower interest rates, rising merchandise exports and the supply chain diversification underway globally, Crisil projected. The macro and micro triggers for recovering from the collapse in private investments last year include flush global liquidity and healthier corporate balance sheets, it noted. ‘New growth drivers’ “Overall, private industrial capex appears to be getting into a whole new cycle after the pandemic hiccup — this time around armed with a new set of growth drivers,” Crisil’s research analysts said in the note, stressing that the new capex cycle will depend on the implementation of government support and policy measures. Estimating that industrial investments will rise 30% over the period 2021-22 to 2023-24, Crisil said that the PLI scheme had given a ‘much-needed booster dose to flailing capex’, which may have likely taken almost two more years to touch pre-pandemic levels in its absence. “Actualisation of the scheme will result in aggregate industrial capex rising 1.3 times through fiscals 2022-2024 in comparison to fiscals 2018-2020,” they said.  Without the PLI scheme, capex may have taken 2 more years to touch pre-pandemic level||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/private-industrial-investments-set-to-bounce-back-says-crisil/article37063774.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||High fuel prices spur demand for CNG vehicles, says Maruti||Maruti Suzuki is witnessing strong demand for CNG-powered vehicles and expects more than 80% growth in sales of such vehicles this fiscal, said Shashank Srivastava, senior executive director (Marketing & Sales). This is in the backdrop of pump prices of petrol and diesel hovering at all-time highs. India’s largest carmaker sold about 1.6 lakh CNG vehicles in FY21, and expects this number to climb to about 3 lakh in the current financial year, Mr. Srivastava told The Hindu . “Generally, the increase in fuel prices impacts consumer sentiment negatively. However, one good thing which has happened for us is that this has led to a huge increase in the demand for CNG vehicles as CNG prices haven't gone up as much and CNG running cost is just around Rs. 1.60-1.70 per kilometre,” he added. He said that in addition to the surge in fuel prices, the increase in the network of CNG stations had also helped the growth. In the six months ended September, the company sold 83,000 CNG vehicles, accounting for 14% of total sales. CNG vehicles accounted for 11.5% of the company's sales in FY21 and 7.4% in FY20. Asked about sales during the Navratras, Mr. Srivastava said booking and enquiries grew 11-13% compared with the same period last year, while retail sales were down by 20% because of the non-availability of stock at the dealerships amid the semiconductor shortage. “We cannot rule out price corrections in the future,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/high-fuel-prices-spur-demand-for-cng-vehicles-says-maruti/article37063777.ece
19 October 2021||Bengaluru,||JK Tech eyeing $100 mn worth acquisitions: CEO||JK Tech, the technology division of the 140-year-old JK Group, is planning to spend $100 million on ramping up its business through acquisitions. The acquisitions will be in the fields of analytics, artificial intelligence, machine learning capabilities, Aloke Paskar, CEO & president, JK Tech told The Hindu . Deep technologies The firm is evaluating more than 20 firms focused on deep technologies, for acquisitions that would be carried out from any time now to the next 24 months. JK Tech had recently reshuffled its business strategy to increase its focus on hyper automation (holistic automation of the entire business process of an enterprise with the help of multiple technologies, tools and platforms backed by AI and ML), modernisation and digital transformation. “We now have a laser focus on hyper automation, which is expected to be an industry segment worth $40 billion in the next three to four years, as per Gartner,” he said. “We want to be a lead player in this market in the next five years.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jk-tech-eyeing-100-mn-worth-acquisitions-ceo/article37063767.ece
19 October 2021||MUMBAI,||EV firm Wardwizard mulls Rs. 150-crore capex||Wardwizard Innovations & Mobility Ltd., a BSE listed electric vehicles (EV) company, is planning to invest Rs. 150 crore in the development of new products, meeting working capital requirements and setting up manufacturing facilities in the South and East to cater to the growing demand. To stay closer to its customers as well as to improve margins, the firm has started discussions to set up facilities in Kerala in the South and either in Odisha or West Bengal in the East, top company executives said. “We are in a sunrise sector,” said Yatin Gupte, chairman and MD. “Whatever we are producing is far less than the demand. So, we are ramping up production. We are developing a reliable vendor base to source all components from India. “We are also in discussions with our distributors in the South and the East to finalise the location of the new facilities, Mr. Gupte said, adding “we need to invest Rs. 150 crore to cater to the demand.” Last year, the firm had sold 4,300 units. The plan is to sell 25,000 units in FY22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ev-firm-wardwizard-mulls-rs-150-crore-capex/article37063769.ece
19 October 2021||new delhi,||Coal costs weigh down UltraTech net at Rs. 1,310 cr.||Aditya Birla group firm UltraTech Cement Ltd. on Monday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs. 1,310.34 crore for the quarter ended in September against Rs. 1,310.06 crore in the year-earlier quarter on account of a sharp rise in coal and pet-coke prices. However, revenue from operations was up 15.7% to Rs. 12,016.78 crore, UltraTech Cement said in a BSE filing. Total expenses were at Rs. 10,209.43 crore, up 17%. “Coal and pet-coke prices almost doubled in Q2FY22 resulting in energy cost rising 17% YoY. “The resulting impact on the company’s operations were partly offset by a reduction in power consumption and continuing focus on operational efficiencies,” UltraTech Cement said. The company expects to commence mining operations at its Bicharpur coal block situated in Madhya Pradesh, during Q3/FY22 which will help in reducing the dependence on coal purchases, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/coal-costs-weigh-down-ultratech-net-at-rs-1310-cr/article37063784.ece
19 October 2021||Kolkata,||Tea exports fall 14% in first 7 months of 2021||Exports of tea from India registered a fall of about 14.4% in the first seven months of 2021 compared with the same period last year. Total exports of the beverage during January to July of 2021 was 100.78 million kg as against 117.56 million kg in the same period of 2020, according to Tea Board data. The CIS block remained the largest importer at 24.14 million kg, down from 30.53 million kg in the previous similar period. Though shipments to Iran were substantially down due to the sanctions, the country imported 12.63 million kg in the first 7 months of 2021, as against 21 million kg in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tea-exports-fall-14-in-first-7-months-of-2021/article37063782.ece
19 October 2021||mumbai,||NCLT gives nod for meet on Future deal||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Monday allowed the creditors and shareholders of Reliance Retail Ventures to hold meetings to seek approval for the firm’s proposed Rs. 24,700 crore deal with the Future Group. The Mumbai bench of NCLT allowed the application by Reliance Retail’s creditors and shareholders to convene meetings to seek approval for the deal.  Reliance Retail Ventures is a subsidiary of Reliance Industries. On June 22, the tribunal had reserved its order on Reliance Retail’s plea to seek consensus of the shareholders on the company’s deal with Future Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclt-gives-nod-for-meet-on-future-deal/article37063780.ece
19 October 2021||Mumbai,||‘India start-ups raised $11 bn. in July-Sept.’||Indian start-ups received a record funding of $10.9 billion across 347 deals in the third quarter of 2021, according to a PwC India report. This is twice the amount of funding received in Q3 of the calendar year 2020 and an approximate increase of 41% compared to the second quarter of 2021. An increase in funding activity was witnessed across all sectors in terms of value and volume. However, finTech, edtech and SaaS are the top three hot investment sectors in the calendar year 2021 (CY21), together accounting for approximately 47% of the total funding activity, PwC India said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-start-ups-raised-11-bn-in-july-sept/article37063781.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Paytm earmarks Rs. 100 cr. for marketing during festive season||Paytm on Monday said it has set aside Rs. 100 crore for marketing campaigns during festive season to promote UPI, buy-now-pay-later (BNPL) and wallet businesses. “The campaigns will be aligned to promote digital payments in India and educate users about Paytm UPI for money transfers, Paytm Wallet and Paytm Postpaid (buy now, pay later) for spends, to drive financial inclusion across the country,” Paytm said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/paytm-earmarks-rs-100-cr-for-marketing-during-festive-season/article37063775.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||CG Power signs pact with Evie Real Estate to sell Kanjurmarg property for Rs 382 cr||CG Power and Industrial Solutions on Monday said it has signed a binding term sheet with Evie Real Estate to sell its property at Kanjurmarg in Mumbai, for Rs. 382 crore by March 2022. "The sale consideration has been fixed at Rs. 382 crore, in addition to the repayment of Rs. 20 crore of deposit, under dispute. The transaction is scheduled to be completed on or before March 31, 2022 (long stop date)," according to a BSE filing.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cg-power-signs-pact-with-evie-real-estate-to-sell-kanjurmarg-property-for-rs-382-cr/article37063778.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Housing sales up 59 pc annually in Jul-Sep across 8 cities; jump over 3-fold from Jun qtr||Showing signs of recovery, housing sales across eight major cities registered an annual growth of 59% during July-September at 55,907 units, but demand jumped more than threefold against the previous quarter, according to PropTiger.com. Sales stood at 35,132 units in the July-September last year and 15,968 units in the previous quarter because of the adverse impact of the first and second wave of the COVID pandemic.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/housing-sales-up-59-pc-annually-in-jul-sep-across-8-cities-jump-over-3-fold-from-jun-qtr/article37063779.ece
19 October 2021||Chennai,||CSK returns to city with trophy||The victorious Chennai Super Kings team arrived in the city on Monday morning. While most members stayed back in the UAE for the World T20, other domestic cricketers reached their home bases. Later in the day, the team management took the IPL trophy to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam Temple in the city for prayers. N. Srinivasan, vice chairman and managing director, The India Cements Ltd., and member of the temple trust board, Rupa Gurunath, TNCA president, and CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan were present. Speaking to reporters Srinivasan said, “M.S. Dhoni, after completing his assignment as mentor of the Indian team for the ICC World T20 tournament in UAE, will come to Chennai and share the trophy with Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Mr. M.K. Stalin at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-returns-to-city-with-trophy/article37064093.ece
19 October 2021||DUBAI,||Kishan, Rahul among the runs as India beats England||K.L. Rahul’s elegant half-century sealed the second opener’s debate while Ishan Kishan grabbed the opportunity as India warmed-up nicely with a seven-wicket win over England in the opening practice match ahead of the T20 World Cup. Rahul made batting look easy with six boundaries and three sixes in his 24-ball 51 while Kishan retired hurt after a chiselled 70 off 46 balls that had three sixes apart from seven boundaries as India chased down a target of 189 with an over to spare. Breathtaking sixes In a game where the result was secondary, Rahul’s knock would have pleased skipper Virat Kohli as he hit some breathtaking sixes off Chris Woakes and also treated Mark Wood with disdain. Kishan, who might have to sit out if he is not playing as an opener, did his case no harm once Rahul was dismissed, as he punished the spinners, including a dazzling six coming down the track off Adil Rashid. India ticked some boxes that includes two senior pacers Jasprit Bumrah (one for 26) and Mohammed Shami (three for 40) hitting the straps straightaway with some fast and accurate deliveries. Bhuvneshwar Kumar, however, missed the length and gave away 54 runs in four overs. Hardik Pandya came in with 21 needed off 15 balls and hit a few streaky shots in his unbeaten 16 off 10 balls. Earlier, the England batters threw their willows around to get some quality time in the middle on a good surface after being asked to bat. Aggressive knocks by Jonny Bairstow (49), Liam Livingstone (30) and Moeen Ali (43) lifted England to 188/5.  The scores: England 188/5 in 20 overs (Jonny Bairstow 49, Liam Livingstone 30, Moeen Ali 43 n.o., Mohd. Shami 3/40) lost to India 192/3 in 19 overs (K.L. Rahul 51, Ishan Kishan 70 retd. n.o., Rishabh Pant 29 n.o.).   West Indies 130/7 in 20 overs (Shimron Hetmyer 28, , Shaheen Shah Afridi 2/41, Hasan Ali 2/21, Haris Rauf 2/32) lost to Pakistan 131/3 in 15.3 overs (Babar Azam 50, Fakhar Zaman 46, Hayden Walsh 2/41).   South Africa 145/5 in 20 overs (Temba Bavuma 31, Adien Markram 48, ) bt Afghanistan 104/8 in 20 overs (Mohammad Nabi 34, Lungi Ngidi 2/27, Tabraiz Shamsi 3/18).   New Zealand 158/7 in 20 overs (Martin Guptill 30, Daryl Mitchell 33 retd. n.o., Kane Williamson 37, James Neesham 31, Kane Richardson 3/24, Adam Zampa 2/17) lost to Australia 159/7 in 19.5 overs (Steve Smith 35, Marcus Stoinis 28, Mitchell Santner 3/22, Trent Boult 2/13).   India beats England Openers K.L. Rahul (51), Ishan Kishan (70) and Rishabh Pant (29 n.o.) helped India beat England by seven wicket with six-balls to spare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bairstow-moeen-take-england-to-188-shami-claims-three/article37063993.ece
19 October 2021||KOCHI,||Kozhikode makes it six in a row||A nice mix of promising juniors and experienced seniors helped Kozhikode win its sixth straight inter-district team title in the State senior badminton championships at the Regional Sports Centre here on Monday. The mixed team final went the full distance and Kozhikode defeated host Ernakulam 3-2. Ernakulam had the State strongest female player in Pavithra Naveen, who played three matches in about three and half hours. She won the first two she featured in, women’s singles and doubles (with Diya Arun), but Kozhikode came up with a smart strategy in the decider. Kozhikode’s Aravind Suresh and Nayana Oasis trained their guns on Jaison John in the mixed doubles and that helped them retain the title. Former international George Thomas gave away the prizes.  The results (senior inter-district mixed team championship):   Final: Kozhikode bt Ernakulam 3-2 (K. Govind bt Saket Prakash 21-15, 21-11; Zainaba Reem Siraj lost to Pavithra Naveen 16-21, 11-21; Aravind V. Suresh & N.G. Balasubramannian bt Akshay Anand & Jaison John 22-20, 21-18; Gayathri Nambiar & Nayana S. Oasis lost to Diya Arun & Pavithra Naveen 21-18, 11-21, 19-21; Aravind V. Suresh & Nayana Oasis bt Jaison John & Pavithra Naveen 21-16, 21-13).   Semifinals: Kozhikode bt Thiruvananthapuram 3-1 (K. Govind bt S.D. Aadithyan 21-19, 21-18; Zainaba Siraj lost to B.M. Neeraja 13-21, 9-21; Aravind Suresh & Balasubramannian bt M. Shyam Prasad & Vishnu Rajendran 21-17, 21-10; Gayathri Nambiar & Nayana Oasis bt Meenakshi Vinu & Nanda Ghosh 21-15, 21-18).   Ernakulam bt Palakkad 3-1 (Saket Prakash lost to Athul John Mathew 13-21, 13-21; Pavithra Naveen bt Varsha Venkitesh 21-12, 21-6; Jaison John & K. Nived bt Athul John Mathew & C. Ranjith 21-16, 21-8; Archana Varghese & Diya Arun bt V. Rosenitha & Varsha Venkitesh 19-21, 25-23, 21-11) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kozhikode-makes-it-six-in-a-row/article37064281.ece
19 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Mudit Dani escapes to victory||Sixth-ranked Indian in World ranking, Mudit Dani huffed and puffed to beat little-known Tushar Chauhan in five sets and then learnt of getting a possible walkover for a place in the men’s main draw of the National ranking table tennis championship on Monday. Over the last few years, 22-year Dani accumulated enough ranking points by playing several international tournaments and climbed to the 200th spot in the world. However, the youngster is yet to prove his worth in domestic competitions. On the first day of qualifying rounds at Panchkula’s Devi Lal Stadium, Dani posted a hard-fought 9-21, 12-10, 11-8, 5-11, 11-7 victory over his rival from Daman & Diu. In the three-man Group 14, Dani was due to face Parth Virmani, ranked 30th in the country. But Virmani, who lost his father to Covid not so long ago, was absent for his first match. On Tuesday, in the likely scenario of Virmani staying away, Dani will join the main draw of 128. Utkarsh Gupta, one of the players tipped to qualify, suffered a serious setback to his plan after a shock 12-10, 5-11, 5-11, 5-11 loss to Shivam Das. Since only one player advances from each of the 64 groups, Shivam is set to be a surprise qualifier. Karnataka’s K. J. Akash surprised Railway’s Kiranjoy Pushilal 3-1 and wildcard Parth Mishra 3-2 to qualify. Among those who remained on course to qualify are, Birdie Boro, Raj Mondal, Anirban Ghosh, Sougata Sarkar, T. Nitin, Siddesh Pande, Abhimanyu Mitra, Ravindra Kotiyan, Anukram Jain and Omkar Torgalkar. In the women’s section, Yashaswini Ghorpade upstaged Moumita Dutta in four sets to brighten her prospects of gate-crashing into the main draw. In other upsets, Isha Chavan surprised Riti Shankar 3-1, Aarthi Chaudhary got past Manasi Chiplunkar 3-1, Sanchita Chatterjee beat Vanshika Bhargava 3-2 and Shubha Bhat scalped Trisha Gogoi 3-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mudit-dani-escapes-to-victory/article37064054.ece
19 October 2021||KOZIKODE,||Calicut University celebrates a special golden jubilee||The Calicut University Senate Hall will be awash with sweet memories on Tuesday. Memories of a feat achieved 50 years ago. It was on October 19 in 1971 that Calicut won the all-India inter-university football championship for the first time. For the young university — it had come into existence only three years earlier — it was a fantastic moment; the victory made the front page of regional dailies. Members of that victorious team, coach C.P.M. Usman Koya and manager C.P. Abubacker will be honoured at a function on Tuesday. Four from the team would be missed: K.P. Ratnatakaran, M.R. Babu, C.S. Sasikumar and Dinesh Patel are no more. The others — Victor Manjila (captain and goalkeeper), A. Abdul Rafeeque, K.P. Pradeep Kumar, K.C. Prakash, P. Poulose, M.V. Davis, N.K. Suresh, P. Kunhi Mohamed, P. Abdul Hameed, P. Asokan, E. Ramachandran and M.I. Mohammed Basheer — will be there. Victor, who went on to keep goal for India, has vivid memories about the victory. “The South Zone and all-India tournaments were conducted at the University Ground and there were big crowds to watch us play,” he told The Hindu . “More than 10,000 people had bought tickets to cheer us on from the temporary stands.” Calicut emerged champion after drawing with Gauhati University 2-2 in the last match. “We had a great team and we played the 4-2-4 format,” he recalled. “Striker Basheer was the Player-of-the-Tournament. Another striker, Babu, also scored several goals.” Victor said Calicut’s win was celebrated across Kerala. It was also the first major achievement for Kerala football. The State would win its first Santosh Trophy two years later; five from the University team — Victor, Paulose, Ratnakaran, Hameed and Basheer — made it to the Kerala team. “After winning the varsity tournament, we were felicitated at a function in which Vice-Chancellor M.M. Ghani was the chief guest,” he said. “At that function, on the advice of Physical Education Director E.J. Jacob, I requested the VC that members of the team be granted grace marks as reward for winning the trophy,” Victor revealed. The request paved the way for the practice of awarding grace marks to achievers in sports. “After Calicut, other universities in Kerala also adopted that policy,’ he said. “Members from our team also benefited.” After that maiden triumph five decades ago, Calicut went on to win the all-India football title nine more times. It also contributed to Indian football several outstanding players, like U. Sharaf Ali, C.V. Pappachan and Jo Paul Ancheri. Pappachan and Ancheri will also attend Tuesday’s function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/calicut-university-celebrates-a-special-golden-jubilee/article37064283.ece
19 October 2021||London,||PSG to miss Neymar against Leipzig||Paris Saint-Germain has won 10 of its 12 games overall this season, but there are serious questions being raised about the level of play. PSG again looked laborious in a league game against Angers on Friday night and scraped another late win courtesy of a controversial penalty from striker Kylian Mbappe. It was handed a further blow with Neymar ruled out for the clash against RB Leipzig due to an abductor injury suffered while on international duty with Brazil. PSG at least it will have Lionel Messi, but midfielder Leandro Paredes is also out with a thigh injury. Pep Guardiola will make a late decision on whether goalkeeper Ederson and forward Gabriel Jesus should play in Manchester City’s match at Club Brugge on Tuesday after being unable to prepare with the team due to a prolonged period on duty with Brazil. Daniel Maldini is the third member of his family to play for AC Milan after grandfather Cesare and record-breaking father Paolo. Daniel scored his first Serie A goal last month and now could get his first start in the Champions League when Milan visits Porto in Group B. Striker Luis Suarez will meet former club Liverpool for the first time since joining Atletico Madrid from Barcelona. For Tuesday’s Group B game, Atletico coach Diego Simeone is expected to count on a couple of players who had been doubtful because of injuries — midfielder Marcos Llorente and defender José María Giménez. Shakhtar Donetsk will try to make it three straight group-stage victories against Real Madrid after consecutive wins last season.  Tuesday’s fixtures: Besiktas vs Sporting, Club Brugge vs Man City, 10:15 p.m.; Shakhtar Donetsk vs Real Madrid, PSG vs RB Leipzig, Atletico Madrid vs Liverpool, Inter Milan vs Sheriff, Ajax vs Dortmund, Porto vs AC Milan 12.30 a.m. (Wednesday) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/psg-to-miss-neymar-against-leipzig/article37063996.ece
19 October 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Campher on fire, takes four in four||Johannesburg-born seamer Curtis Campher became only the third bowler to claim four wickets in four balls in T20Is as Ireland defeated Netherlands by seven wickets in a first round Group A match here on Monday. Thanks to Campher’s exploits, Ireland bundled out Netherlands for 106 after the Dutch had decided to bat. Ireland chased down the target with 29 balls to spare. Gareth Delany (44) and Paul Stirling (30 not out) were the significant contributors with the bat for the Irish team.  Earlier, bowling the 10th over of Netherlands innings, the 22-year-old Campher left the opposition in disarray when he dismissed Colin Ackermann, Ryan ten Doeschate, Scott Edwards and Roelof van der Merwe off successive balls. He was bowling his second over of the day, having gone for 12 runs first up. Ackermann was out caught behind on review, having played an attempted pull off a shortish ball that seemed to be going down leg. The seasoned ten Doeschate, best remembered for his incredible century against England in the 2011 World Cup, was out for a duck, trapped in front by a full and straight one. Edwards too fell leg before as DRS tracked the ball hitting the leg stump. For his final wicket, van der Merwe played on to his stumps a widish delivery, leaving the Irish camp in a state of frenzy.   The scores: Netherlands 106 in 20 overs (Max O’Dowd 51, Curtis Campher 4/26, Mark Adair 3/9) lost to Ireland 107/3 in 15.1 overs (Gareth Delany 44, Paul Stirling 30 n.o.). Toss: Netherlands. Ireland won by seven wickets with 29 balls to spare .   Campher is the third bowler to claim four wickets in four balls in T20Is, joining Malinga and Rashid||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/campher-on-fire-takes-four-in-four/article37063998.ece
19 October 2021||Al Amerat (Oman),||Bangladesh takes on Oman in a must-win game||Handed a rude shock in their T20 World Cup opener, Bangladesh will have to sort some self-confessed batting problems and play as per its reputation in a must-win game against upbeat host Oman here on Tuesday. Bangladesh came into the tournament as the sixth-ranked team which had beaten New Zealand and Australia at home. However, it was found wanting against Scotland on Sunday and lost the game by six runs due to an ordinary batting performance.  Bangladesh was expected to run away with it after reducing Scotland to 53 for six, but the pressure of the big stage perhaps got the the better of it. Skipper Mahmudullah blamed the batters for the unexpected loss and said they must perform better against Oman, which thrashed Papua New Guinea in its opener. Bangladesh needs to win on Tuesday to keep itself in contention for a spot in the Super-12 stage.  Tuesday’s matches Scotland vs Papua New Guinea, 3.30 p.m. (IST)  Bangladesh vs Oman, 7.30 p.m. (IST)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-takes-on-oman-in-a-must-win-game/article37064000.ece
19 October 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Sri Lanka proves too good for Namibia||Spinners Maheesh Theekshana and Wanindu Hasaranga set up a seven-wicket win for Sri Lanka against debutant Namibia in the Twenty20 World Cup on Monday. Theekshana returned figures of three for 25 and Hasaranga took two wickets to help dismiss Namibia for 96. Useful stand Namibia hurt Sri Lanka with three wickets in the chase but Avishka Fernando (30) and Bhanuka Rajapaksa (42) put on an unbeaten stand of 74 to steer the team home in 13.3 overs. The left-handed Rajapaksa smashed four fours and two sixes in his 27-ball blitz. But bowlers remained key to victory with pacer Lahiru Kumara also chipping in with two wickets to bowl out Namibia in 19.3 overs after Sri Lanka chose to field. Craig Williams, with his 29, skipper Gerhard Erasmus, 20, and J.J. Smit, unbeaten on 12, were the only three batsmen to manage double figures.  The scores:   Namibia 96 in 19.3 overs (Craig Williams 29, Maheesh Theekshana 3/25, Lahiru Kumara 2/9, Wanindu Hasaranga 2/24) vs Sri Lanka 100/3 in 13.3 overs (Bhanuka Rajapaksa 42 n.o., Avishka Fernando 30 n.o.).   Toss: Sri Lanka.   Sri Lanka won by seven wickets with 39 balls to spare .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lanka-hammers-namibia/article37064002.ece
19 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Karan Singh set for the big league||The newly-crowned National junior champion Karan Singh is a natural talent, who believes in the power of being vegetarian. National coach Zeeshan Ali has been fine-tuning Karan’s game, , while Arun Kumar, the other experienced coach at the National Tennis Centre has been motivating him. More than the raw power that his tall frame can generate, Karan thrives on superb technique and timing. Having grown up on clay, he constructs the points before delivering telling blows. He loves serving and often spends one of the two sessions of training in a day, mastering the craft. “My kick serve has improved a lot,” says Karan, quite pleased about his overall game. Before the national junior championship, Karan travelled to Egypt for four ITF tournaments. He did well to qualify in one event, had his chances against the fifth seed, and lost three matches in the third set super tie-break. “It was for the first time I was travelling abroad, and I was alone but I managed well. I have gained a lot of experience. I know what I need to do to get better,” said Karan. The last time the Fenesta National championship was held in 2019, Karan had won the under-16 title in a cracker of a contest. Despite the pandemic and lockdown, Karan was able to sustain his training at the academy set up by his father Ashok Chauhan in Karnal. “Our whole family has shifted to the academy. We have hostel facilities for a few players,” he said. Last year, renowned coach Kawaljeet Singh had done a few stints of training at the academy, ensuring quality guidance for Karan. “Kawaljeet sir helped me a lot, like working on the leg drive in serve,” Karan said. The National championship, in which Karan will start in the qualifying event, will serve as another test. Karan, who loves watching Dominic Thiem play, promises exciting times ahead for Indian tennis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karan-singh-set-for-the-big-league/article37064331.ece
19 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Coach Sachdeva to lead RoundGlass Tennis Academy||Coach Aditya Sachdeva, with players like Yuki Bhambri, Karman Thandi, Divij Sharan and Vijayant Malik to his credit, will be the Technical Director of the RoundGlass Tennis Academy. Making the announcement in a release, the founder of RoundGlass Sports, Sunny Gurpreet Singh stated, “In addition to football and hockey, we are happy to add tennis. “We want to transform tennis in India by offering best in class training and give children the opportunity to explore their potential. “Aditya Sachdeva brings significant coaching experience, and we are proud to have him lead the academy.” “We aim to develop world class players and create role models. We aspire to be one of Asia’s premier training academies in the next five years,” said Aditya Sachdeva. Pay and play scheme The pay and play scheme of RoundGlass Tennis was launched at the Chandigarh Club earlier this year. The tennis academy will offer 100% scholarship to about 20 players selected through trials. The Academy will also have several developmental and grassroots centres across Punjab as part of its overall drive to redefine tennis coaching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coach-sachdeva-to-lead-roundglass-tennis-academy/article37064332.ece
19 October 2021||Al Amerat,||Scotland looks to keep momentum going||Buoyed by the stunning victory over Bangladesh, Scotland will be keen to keep the winning momentum going when it takes on Papua New Guinea in the T20 World Cup here on Tuesday. Chris Greaves’ magnificent all-round display helped Scotland notch up a six-run victory over Bangladesh while debutant Papua New Guinea was handed a 10-wicket thrashing by co-host Oman in the tournament opener. However, despite ending on the winning side skipper Kyle Coetzer conceded that the side was capable of better performances. “We understand that we have to play extremely well to beat sides. We certainly didn't play to our full potential,” Coetzer said. A win on Tuesday will put Scotland in strong position to head to the Super 12 stage. On the other hand, Papua New Guinea, which was hoping to end its 12-match losing streak in white ball cricket, was completely outplayed in all departments. Going ahead, not only will it have to win against Scotland but also needs to improve its net run rate. Barring skipper Assad Vala, who hit a half century and Charles Amini’s (37), the PNG batters struggled. Looking ahead, Vala said “We just need to focus on ourselves and not worry about Scotland and Bangladesh.”  Match starts at 3.30 p.m. (IST) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/scotland-looks-to-keep-momentum-going/article37064001.ece
19 October 2021||Madrid,||Sensational Fati stars for Barca||Ansu Fati came to the rescue again on Sunday by scoring a sensational goal and earning a penalty in a 3-1 victory over Valencia as Barcelona got a big week off to a winning start. Memphis Depay slammed in the spot-kick and Philippe Coutinho, who came on for Fati on the hour, added a late third to give a comfortable complexion to a game that Valencia had led after just five minutes. Ansu went off with Valencia still chasing an equaliser, an indication of how important Ronald Koeman considers his involvement in Wednesday’s Champions League game against Dynamo Kiev, with the season’s first Clasico against Real Madrid coming four days later.  Napoli returned to the top of Serie A on Sunday after Nigerian international Victor Osimhen scored the only goal in a hard-fought 1-0 win against Torino. Napoli has 24 points, two more than AC Milan, after equalling the best start in club history, having also won the first eight games in 2017-18.    The results: La Liga: Villarreal 1 (Gerard 55) lost to Osasuna 2 (Torro 26, Avila 87); Barcelona 3 (Fati 13, Depay 41-pen, Coutinho 85) bt Valencia 1 (Gaya 5).       Serie A: Napoli 1 (Osimhen 81) bt Torino 0; Juventus 1 (Kean 16) bt Roma 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sensational-fati-stars-in-barca-win/article37064005.ece
19 October 2021||Muscat,||Scotland stuns Bangladesh||Chris Greaves starred with bat and ball as Scotland shocked Bangladesh with a six-run win in the Twenty20 World Cup on Sunday. Greaves’ 28-ball 45 guided Scotland to 140 for nine and he then took two key wickets with his leg-spin to restrict Bangladesh to 134 for seven. Greaves sent back Shakib Al Hasan (20) and Mushfiqur Rahim (38) to dent Bangladesh’s chase.  Shakib’s wicket of Michael Leask took him past Sri Lanka’s Lasith Malinga as the leading wicket-taker in T20Is.   The scores: Scotland 140/9 in 20 overs (George Munsey 29, Chris Greaves 45, Mustafizur 2/32, Shakib 2/17, Mahedi 3/19) bt Bangladesh 134/7 in 20 overs (Mushfiqur 38, Brad Wheal 3/24, Chris Greaves 2/19).   Toss: Bangladesh.   Scotland won by six runs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/scotland-stuns-bangladesh/article37063989.ece
19 October 2021||Mumbai,||Rahane to lead Mumbai||Ajinkya Rahane will lead Mumbai’s quest of bouncing back after a miserable Syed Mushtaq Ali (T20) Trophy campaign last year. Prithvi Shaw has been handed over vice-captaincy for Mumbai’s league stage of the season-opening tournament, to be played from November 4 in Guwahati. Besides, the squad also includes proven performers like internationals Shivam Dube and Dhawal Kulkarni; seasoned pros Aditya Tare, Siddhesh Lad and Sarfaraz Khan; and promising youngsters like Yashasvi Jaiswal, Armaan Jaffer, leggie Prashant Solanki and allrounder Atharva Ankolekar. The selection committee, headed by former India pacer Salil Ankola, has made sweeping changes to the squad from last year’s campaign. With Mumbai winning a solitary game from its five league encounters and finishing last in the group, the selectors have retained only 11 of the previous 22. Left-arm pacer Royston Dias, who was omitted last year despite being among the most consistent bowlers in the 2019-20 season, deservingly returns to the squad. Meanwhile, former India hockey captain Viren Rasquinha, who is involved in Olympic athlete mentoring, interacted with Mumbai’s squad during its preparatory camp on Monday.  The squad: Ajinkya Rahane (Capt.), Prithvi Shaw (Vice-capt.), Yashasvi Jaiswal, Aditya Tare, Shivam Dube, Sarfaraz Khan, Prashant Solanki, Shams Mulani, Dhawal Kulkarni, Roystan Dias, Tushar Deshpande, Hardik Tamore, Mohit Awasthi, Siddhesh Lad, Sairaj Patil, Aman Khan, Arman Jaffer, Tanush Kotian, Deepak Shetty, Atharva Ankolekar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahane-to-lead-mumbai/article37064535.ece
19 October 2021||Colombo,||Lanka’s first Test skipper Warnapura no more||Sri Lanka’s first Test captain, who was hit with a 25-year ban for leading a rebel cricket team to South Africa in breach of an international boycott, died on Monday. Bandula Warnapura, 68, died following a heart attack after undergoing a leg amputation for complications arising from diabetes. Warnapura captained Sri Lanka’s first Test, against England in 1982, scoring 38 runs. But his international career came to a crashing halt after four Tests, when he led a team of local players to South Africa in 1982, defying a government ban against any sporting contact with the then-apartheid regime. He and other players were banned for 25 years but it was lifted in 1990, allowing Warnapura to take an active role in coaching. Sri Lanka’s former skipper Mahela Jayawardena paid tribute to Warnapura, who was one of his coaches as a young cricketer. “He coached me at Nalanda (college) and was a steady influence in my growth as a cricketer and a person,” the 44-year-old tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lankas-first-test-skipper-warnapura-no-more/article37063995.ece
19 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Competitive swimming set to start today||National-level competitive swimming will restart after more than a year-long, Covid-induced hiatus, with the 37th sub-junior and 47th junior National Aquatic Championships that begin here on Tuesday. The event will be followed by the 74th Senior National Aquatic Championships from October 26 to 29. The newly-renovated Basavanagudi Aquatic Centre will be the main venue, with the Kensington Swimming Pool in Ulsoor hosting diving competitions and the Nettakallappa Aquatic Centre water polo. More than 1200 athletes are expected to participate. Tough phase “The Covid-19 period was tough for swimming. Across states, swimming was the first to be stopped and the last to be opened,” said Monal Chokshi, secretary-general of the Swimming Federation of India, at a media briefing on Monday. “But we are glad that the calendar has restarted and these events will help the swimmers prepare for 2022 which has the Asian Games, World Championships among others. The announcement of these competitions also spurred other state units to put pressure on their governments to relax restrictions for swimming,” added Chokshi. But the less-than-ideal preparation might have an effect on the timings at the two National meets. “We are not expecting great performances, barring from a few who have been in continuous training,” Chokshi said. “On the whole, there may be fewer National records.” Qualification guidelines have also been relaxed, with the SFI permitting two swimmers from a state unit per event even if the qualification times haven’t been achieved. Generally, a single entry is allowed if no swimmer has achieved qualification or two entries only where both candidates have achieved the time standard. Regardless, the likes of Ridhima Virendrakumar, Nina Venkatesh and Shoan Ganguly from Karnataka, Ananya Joshi and Aryan Varnekar from Maharashtra, Vishesh Parmeshwar from Tamil Nadu and Bhavya Sachdeva from Delhi are expected to shine. The SFI will also be selecting 10 promising juniors for a joint-training camp with the South African junior squad in early 2022. The symbolism of the two National meets, however, goes way beyond. “The hosting of this event is a sign of normalcy,” said Gopal B.Hosur, President of the Karnataka Swimming Association. “And we are thankful to the SFI for reposing faith in us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/competitive-swimming-set-to-start-today/article37064046.ece
19 October 2021||Hyderabad:,||Saffron Art triumphs||Trainer Laxman Singh’s Saffron Art, ridden by Ajit Singh, won the G. Sudhakar Reddy Memorial Cup, the main event of Monday’s (Oct. 18) races here. The winner is owned by Mr. S. Pathy.  1. NEARCO PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: COSMICO (Akshay Kumar) 1, Thanks (Nakhat Singh) 2, Hot Seat (Md. Ismail) 3 and Wild Card (Aneel) 4. 3-3/4, 2-1/2 and 3/4. 1m 13.97s. Rs. 29 (w), 12, 12 and 55 (p). SHP: 32, THP: 154, SHW: 18 and 10, FP: 77, Q: 27, Tanala: 1,857. Favourite: Thanks. Owners: Mr. Subodh Kumar Ananthula, Mr. G. Raghunandan Chary & Mr. Shailendra Singh. Trainer: Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan.  2. BELOVED PRINCE PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): GURBAAZ (Kuldeep Singh) 1, Royal Girl (Gaurav Singh) 2, N R I City (Rohit Kumar) 3 and Solo Winner (B.R. Kumar) 4. Nk, 3-1/2 and 1. 1m 42.82s. Rs. 88 (w), 23, 14 and 27 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 81, SHW: 50 and 17, FP: 419, Q: 188, Tanala: 2,507. Favourite: Solo Winner. Owners: Mr. Hari Sharan Devgan & Mr. Tinder Singh Ahluwalia. Trainer: L D Silva. Note: In this race Lightning Fairy (Ajeeth Kumar up) stumbled in the early part of the race and dislodged her rider. Jockey Ajeeth Kumar escaped unhurt.  3. NEARCO PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): UNSUNG HERO (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Morior Invictus (Rafique Sk.) 2, Visionary (Neeraj) 3 and Total Darc (Afroz Khan) 4. 3-3/4, Sh and 1-1/4. 1m 13.82s. Rs. 91 (w), 18, 23 and 11 (p). SHP: 82, THP: 80, SHW: 37 and 99, FP: 1,084, Q: 712, Tanala: 4,957. Favourite: Visionary. Owner: Mr. Syed Abul Hasan Razvi. Trainer: Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan.  4. LOYAL MANZAR PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): ICICLE (Ashad Asbar) 1, Show Me Your Walk (Akshay Kumar) 2, Cheltenham (Ajeeth Kumar) 3 and N R I Sun (Mukesh Kumar) 4. 2, 1-1/2 and Sh. 1m 40.13s. Rs. 20 (w), 15, 18 and 42 (p). SHP: 37, THP: 80, SHW: 13 and 35, FP: 158, Q: 104, Tanala: 2,703. Favourite: Icicle. Owner: Mr. B.E. Vasanth Kumar. Trainer: D. Netto.  5. ALIJAH PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): BLISSFUL (Nakhat Singh) 1, Mind Reader (R.S. Jodha) 2, N R I Magic (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Angelita (Kuldeep Singh) 4. Not run: Secret Circle. 2, 1 and 1-1/4. 1m 14. 00s. Rs. 15 (w), 11, 19 and 13 (p). SHP: 48, THP: 39, SHW: 10 and 47, FP: 91, Q: 71, Tanala: 255. Favourite: Blissful. Owners: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: K. Satheesh.  6. G. SUDHAKAR REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (2,000m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): SAFFRON ART (Ajit Singh) 1, Just Incredible (Aneel) 2, Lamha (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Mark My Word (Nakhat Singh) 4. 3-1/2, 4-3/4 and Nose. 2m 5.66s. Rs. 18 (w), 11, 24 and 10 (p). SHP: 118, THP: 43, SHW: 10 and 100, FP: 567, Q: 395, Tanala: 908. Favourite: Saffron Art. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  7. ALIJAH PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): PROUD (Nakhat Singh) 1, Brilliant View (Santosh Raj) 2, Aibak (Aneel) 3 and Curcumin (R. Ajinkya) 4. Not run: Stunning Force. 2-1/2, Nk and 1/2. 1m 13.71s. Rs. 21 9w), 13, 15 and 17 (p). SHP: 57, THP: 53, SHW: 19 and 24, FP; 91, Q: 61, Tanala: 714. Favourite: Proud. Owner: Mrs. Lingala Aarti Reddy. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  8. BELOVED PRINCE PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): SPUTNIC (Md. Ismail) 1, Cephalonia (B. Nikhil) 2, Wot’s Up Jay (Abhay Singh) 3 and Proud Legacy (Kuldeep Singh) 4. Not run: Astronaut and Jo Malone. Nk, Nk and 4-1/4. 1m 42. 88s. Rs. 18 (w), 11, 24 and 24 (p). SHP: 68, THP: 72, SHW: 10 and 56, FP: 193, Q: 81, Tanala: 1,643. Favourite: Sputnic. Owners: Mr. Donald Anthony Netto and Mr. C. Parthasarthy. Trainer: D. Netto. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 374 (1,127 tkts.), 30%: 67 (2,697 tkts.). Treble: (i) 1,750 (26 tkts.), (ii) 1,169 (30 tkts.), (iii) 85 (666 tkts.). Mini Jackpot: (i) 5,968 (8 tkts.), (ii) 149 (514 tkts.).s||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saffron-art-triumphs/article37064056.ece
19 October 2021||KOLKATA,||Manolo to bring a dash of Real to East Bengal||SC East Bengal’s fans can expect the team to follow the winning mentality and attitude of Real Madrid when it embarks on its Indian Super League journey, according to its new coach Jose Manuel (Manolo) Diaz. The Spanish coach, who replaces Liverpool legend Robbie Fowler in East Bengal’s second ISL season, said that his coaching methods will reflect much of what he has assimilated during his long association with the La Liga giant. Manolo had last coached the Real Madrid B side before accepting the East Bengal offer. “Both of us come from Real Madrid and thus have a strong mentality. This means that we will be looking to win every match,” said Manolo’s assistant Angel Puebla, who did the translation for the head coach. On being asked about the possible changes in East Bengal’s playing style, Manolo said the team will adopt a flexible approach. “We will decide the team formation depending on the opponent and the shape of the squad. “We will try to adapt to different situations before the match and during the match. Our decision making in the tournament will be determined by these aspects,” he said. Speaking about the Kolkata derby which will see East Bengal taking on Mohun Bagan in its second match on November 27, Manolo said that his squad is prepared for a win. “We want to win it not only for three points but we also want to see our fans happy,” Manolo said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manolo-to-bring-a-dash-of-real-to-east-bengal/article37064057.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Pragg claims title in style||With a stunning performance that attracted praise from the world’s elite, R. Praggnanandhaa destroyed American Christopher Yoo 3-0 to win the $40,000 Julius Baer Challengers Chess Tour title on Sunday. As in the previous two matches, Praggnanandhaa won with a game to spare in the best-of-four-game rapid encounters. In all, Praggnanandhaa scored a stupendous 8.5 from nine games. In fact, he could have finished with an astonishing 9/9 score had he not chosen to draw in a winning position against arch-rival Vincent Keymer in the semifinals. Praggnanandhaa not only won $12,500 but also gained the right to play with the creamy layer of the chess world in the million-dollar Meltwater Champions Tour next year. If World champion Magnus Carlsen was among the first ones to congratulate Praggnanandhaa on Twitter, former World champion Vladimir Kramnik and the strongest woman player in chess history, Judit Polgar, praised the 15-year-old from Chennai. Kramnik said of Praggnanandhaa, “He reminds me so much of the young Vishy (Anand). Judit tweeted, “Absolutely brilliant play by Praggnanandhaa.”   The result: Final: R. Praggnanandhaa bt Christopher Yoo (USA) 3-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/praggna-wins-title-in-style/article37063991.ece
19 October 2021||BENGALURU,||RUFC posts win||Aman Thapa’s injury-time goal gave Rajasthan United Football Club full points against Delhi Football Club in the opening match of the final round of the I-League Qualifiers here on Monday.  The result: Rajasthan United Football Club 1 (Aman Thapa 90+2) bt Delhi Football Club 0; Kenkre 1 (Pravitto Raju 85) bt Madan Maharaj FC 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rufc-posts-win/article37064047.ece
19 October 2021||Los Angeles,||McIlroy reigns||Rory McIlroy captured his 20th career USPGA title on Sunday, firing a six-under 66 to win the CJ Cup in Las Vegas by one stroke over Collin Morikawa. The four-time Major winner shot a 62 on Saturday before claiming his 29th worldwide title.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mcilroy-reigns/article37064052.ece
19 October 2021||Dubai,||Fortunate to coach talented players, says Sridhar||India’s outgoing fielding coach R. Sridhar finds himself extremely fortunate to have coached and interacted with “amazingly talented cricketers” and said that every mistake made was a learning experience along the way. Head coach Ravi Shastri, bowling coach Bharath Arun and Sridhar will be leaving at the end of the T20 World Cup. “I was fortunate to coach & interact with amazingly talented cricketers and help them unleash their full potential. Lasting relationships “I fostered lasting relationships and made memories that I will treasure for a lifetime and beyond,” Sridhar wrote on his instagram page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fortunate-to-coach-talented-players-sridhar/article37064003.ece
19 October 2021||Chennai,||Karthik pulls out of Mushtaq Ali||Dinesh Karthik, named Tamil Nadu captain by the State selectors for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament, has pulled out of the competition citing a knee injury on Monday. Karthik, who led Tamil Nadu to trophy triumph in the Mushtaq Ali tournament last season, is reportedly suffering from a knee injury. Sources told The Hindu that Karthik played the Qualifier-2 and the final of the Indian Premier League for Kolkata Knight Riders last week taking pain-killing injections. Wicketkeeper-batter Adithya Ganesh will replace Karthik in the squad. Vice-captain Vijay Shankar will take over the captaincy from Karthik. Wicketkeeper- batter N. Jagadeesan will be the vice-captain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karthik-pulls-out-of-mushtaq-ali/article37064091.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy win for Salem CA||B. Whipra Harihara's unbeaten 67 helped Salem CA beat Vivekananda CA, Bengaluru, by 133 runs in the Chengalpattu DCA Invitation Trophy under-16 match here on Monday.  The scores:   Under-16: Vivekananda CA 125/4 in 25 overs (Mohammed Kaif 40, Pranjal Pandey 30) bt Chengalpattu DCA Yellow 103/8 in 25 overs (V. Adithiya 30, Milan Katariya 3/13).   Salem CA 187/3 in 25 overs (B.K. Samrith 40, Nithin R. Ramanan 32, B. Whipra Harihara 67 n.o.) bt Vivekananda CA 54 in 17 overs (S. Aadithya 3/7).   Under-14: Vivekananda CA 82/6 in 25 overs (Aarav 25) lost to Chengalpattu DCA-B 84/0 in 12.3 overs (S. Sarvesh 42 n.o., K. Thanesh 30 n.o.).   Vivekananda CA 44 in 15.4 overs (Heshanth 3/5, Ashwarudhan 3/6) lost to Chengalpattu DCA-A 45/0 in 3.2 overs (S. Keerthivasan 26 n.o.).    C. Manikandan’s five for seven helped Apollo Tyres bundle out SSCPL for just 59 and notch up a seven-wicket win in the semifinals of the 16th Lucas TVS-Thiruvallur DCA Trophy 2019-20.  The scores:   IV div.: Frankworrell 98/5 in 30 overs (N. Aditya 28, R. Manikandan 3/29) lost to DRBCCC Hindu College 99/3 in 15.4 overs (P. Vikram 34 n.o., G. Kabilan 25).   Lucas TVS-Thiruvallur DCA Trophy: Semifinals: Samsung India 143 in 24.4 overs (R. Amudhavan 38, R. Aravindraj 27 n.o, G. Ganesh Moorthy 27, J. Sathish 5/45, D. Alexander David Raj 4/35) lost to Wheels India Ltd. 148/5 in 29 overs (C. Sathya Kumar 42, D. Alexander David Raj 25 n.o.).   SSCPL 59 in 15.2 overs (C. Manikandan 5/7, B. Praanesh 3/4) lost to Apollo Tyres 60/3 in 12 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easy-win-for-salem-ca/article37064090.ece
19 October 2021||THANJAVUR:,||Sibi Daranish’s stars with six-wicket haul||S. Sibi Daranish’s six-wicket haul, including four-in-a-row, set up Dr. G.S. Kalyanasundaram Memorial School’s eight-wicket win over Don Bosco MHSS in the Arun Nets inter-school cricket tournament, organised by Thanjavur DCA and Rocket CC, recently.  The scores (league): Don Bosco 32 in 9.1 overs (S. Sibi Daranish 6/9) lost to Dr. G.S. Kalyanasundaram 33/2 in 4.4 overs.   Combined schools team 31 in 13 overs (A. Vaithiyanathan 4/9) lost to Amalraj MHSS 32/2 in 3.2 overs (A. Vaithiyanathan 25 n.o.).   Anjuman MHSS 145 in 19.4 overs (M.S. Abdul Rahman 78, R. Santhosh 4/7) bt Rajah’s HSS 122/6 in 20 overs (R. Santhosh 34, V. Harish 25).   Anjuman 142/5 in 20 overs (K. Athul Krishna 76) bt Blossom PS 92/9 in 20 overs (S. Syed Adil 4/17).   Don Bosco 100/9 in 20 overs (A.S. Arun Sakthidharan 43, Mohamed Thowbeek 4/16) lost to Little Scholars MHSS 103/5 in 14.5 overs (R. Sachin 25).   Maxwell MHSS 84 in 14.2 overs (Jeevan 3/27) bt Combined schools team 48 in 15 overs (V. Harrish Rajan 3/4).   Rajah’s 100/8 in 20 overs (V. Harish 32, T. Jashwanth 4/11, Ferouz Ahamed 3/7) bt Blossom 90/5 in 20 overs.   Dr. G.S. Kalyanasundaram 70/4 in 20 overs lost to Little Scholars 71/4 in 12.3 overs (Surya 25 n.o.).   Maxwell 98/5 in 20 overs bt Amalraj 96 in 15 overs (Sai Ramji 3/17).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sibi-daranishs-stars-with-six-wicket-haul/article37064139.ece
19 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Sushanth claims five||Left-arm spinner M. Sushanth Naidu’s spell of five for 20 helped Krishna bundle out Guntur for 135 on the first day of the ACA Central Zone u-19 (three-day) championship at Perecherla on Monday.  The scores:   Guntur 135 in 39 overs (Sk.Md. Toufeeq 33, J. Jai Chander Kesava 32, M. Sushanth Naidu 5/20) vs Krishna 181/4 in 51 overs (P. Ananth Karthikeya 73, T. Varun Satwik 71 n.o.).   At Kadapa: Kurnool 169 in 58.3 overs (M. Nayeemullah 30, P. Khanish 3/41) vs Nellore 97/4 in 29 overs (A. Sai Surya Teja Reddy 3/31) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sushanth-claims-five/article37064345.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Ambal to the rescue||There are many instances where Goddess Parvathi has come to the rescue of Her devotees, said M.A. Manickavelu in a discourse. Vallalar was not interested in formal lessons at school. Having lost his parents, Vallalar was under the care of his elder brother Kanakasabapathi Pillai, who was afraid that if Vallalar continued to neglect his studies, then it would be taken as a case of bad upbringing by the brother. So Kanakasbapathi Pillai was strict with Vallalar. One day, Vallalar returned home late at night and not wanting to wake the household, decided to sleep on the pyol outside the house. But he had not eaten anything, and Ambal was not going to let Her devotee sleep on an empty stomach. Vadivudai Amman, the Goddess of Thiruvottriyur, came in the guise of Kanakasabapathi Pillai’s wife and gave Vallalar a dish of rice and lentils to eat. A little later, Vallalar’s sister-in-law brought him some food, and Vallalar realised that the One who had fed him was the Goddess. In Vikramasingapuram, near Tirunelveli, lived a devotee of Siva, called Singai Namasivayar. Every day he would go to the Papanasam temple to worship Siva. One day, while he was away, his daughter attained puberty, and asked her neighbour to serve her father some food. When Namasivayar returned, the Goddess, in the guise of his daughter, served him food. When his neighbour told him that his daughter had not cooked and had asked her to serve him, he knew it was Ambal who had served him food. Ramakrishna Paramahamsa’s consort Sarada Devi and her father were on their way to Calcutta. They spent the night in a rest house, and that night Sarada Devi developed a fever. In her dream, she saw a lady of dark hue stroke her and she was cured at once. The lady was none other than Goddess Kali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/ambal-to-the-rescue/article37063960.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 07:28 IST,||Sudoku — October 19, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-19-2021/article37064612.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Everything makes||If you’re a child of the 80s and 90s, growing up in India, chances are you spent your younger years on a diet of Tinkle , Champak , Amar Chitra Katha , and Chandamama . The stories tended to be slapstick or heavy on morals and mythology. “Shouldn’t you be reading something more serious?” was a question I often found myself fielding. That’s not a question one would ask a young person reading Comixense though. The new, quarterly comic magazine published by Ektara Trust aims to feed the ‘intelligence, imagination and empathy’ of readers between the ages of 12 and 17 with nuanced stories that touch upon science, technology, the environment and social justice. The first of its kind in India (for this age group), the magazine is the brainchild of acclaimed Goa-based artist and designer Orijit Sen. “From being a reader, collector and maker of comics from a young age, they taught me so many things that textbooks just couldn’t,” he says. “They provoked my imagination and the stories stimulated so much in me as a reader. Comics allow you to go back and forth in a way no other narrative medium does. The reader can break time and space in their own way to construct and deconstruct the narrative.”  Calling all comic artists  Launching a print magazine at a time when publications are downing their shutters or going digital-only might raise eyebrows. Sen argues that the pandemic has forced young people to shift almost every aspect of their lives online: from school to socialising to extracurricular activities. “We wanted to give them a reprieve from this digital life.” At a larger level, Sen believes that while countries like Japan and France have long-standing cultures of m anga and b andes dessinées , the comics scene in India needs to have more artists and writers who know and understand the medium. He sees Comixense as a possible breeding ground for this. In fact, many of the contributors to the first three issues have never worked in this format before, and answered open calls for entries, or were given a one-line brief.  Rooted in lives realities  I was out when the first two issues arrived at home. I returned to find a torn and crumpled envelope lying on the table, and two children furtively reading an issue each under their desks while online school was in session. When I finally got hold of the magazines, I could see why they’d been so enthralled. The richly-illustrated stories leap boldly across time and place and are rooted in lived realities and experiences, linking our past to the present and the future, giving the reader a deeply-immersive reading experience.  The Plague Doctor’s Apprentice (Indrajit Hazra and Paue), starts in Florence, 2020, as riots break out against government-imposed Covid-19 lockdowns. The story then steps back in time to 1630, when Florence is in the grip of the Bubonic Plague. Hazra draws parallels between the two periods: from differing scientific opinions to the racism certain communities faced. From 1630, the reader travels well into the future in Love for Dummies (Venita Coelho and Pia Alize Hazarika). The Earth has finally rid itself of humans, and the machines we have created are in charge of cleaning and maintaining our cities on loop. In this landscape, two crash test dummies take a stroll through an immersive art museum, studying works of art by Klimt, Picasso and Koons and musing about love. “Because I was writing for a comic for the first time and was very excited by the idea of images equally important to words, I decided to throw in an homage to artists I loved. After all, what was it that robots were unlikely to understand? Art and love,” says writer Venita Coelho, who hopes that Comixense will show young readers there is more to life than Amar Chitra Katha . “I am a great fan of ACK , but I do think that comics have come of age and so should our readers!”  Science meets age-old wisdom  While The Irritability of Plants (Sarat T Rao and Pakhi) looks at the life of scientist and polymath JC Bose and his groundbreaking work in the field of plant neurobiology, The Razor and the Scalpel (Sheela Jaywant and Hasine Casukhela) pauses on an unsung hero of the medical field and the implement he wields. “Even though they’re rooted in science, these aren’t topics and themes that our education system deals with,” says CG Salamander, whose story Roots in issue 2, looks at the Pazhaverkadu, or mangrove forests of Chennai’s Pulicat Lake. Young Rahman plants saplings in the water with his grandfather, in an attempt to protect the coast from the Thimingala, a folkloric monster that ‘swerves and swells, slithers and sides, swallowing shores’ and is a manifestation of the sea itself. Lokesh Khodke’s illustrations spillover between the pages and panels, mimicking the water and it’s will to move where it pleases. “This is not just a personal story about the environment, but talks of a wider social movement and the struggles people are fighting,” he says, adding, “Children often grow up with a skewed perception of certain communities. Stories like Roots and The Adivasi Will Not Dance (Hansda Sowvendra Shekhar, Priyanka Purty and Neha Alice Kerketta) widen their perspective.”  Expanding the mind  Social justice and politics are the very foundation of Sen’s own personal work. “Our school syllabus doesn’t address social justice, and whatever you grow up to do, a sense of empathy and social justice must be a default setting.” Sen hopes the magazine will be an antidote to the social media content that is created, consumed and forgotten with ease. Something that invites young people to read, pause, linger and revisit these stories, perhaps discovering something new each time they do. “We concern ourselves with making the story and art excellent, and having a theme that’s broad enough to accommodate a variety of perspectives. I think if a reader doesn’t understand something, but likes the story they’ll make an effort to find out more. That’s how you learn — when you’re curious,” he says. Who ensures the content is age appropriate? “Two [out of three] of us in the editorial team have several years of experience with creating stories for young readers and we rely on that when making decisions on the content. Overall, we explore themes and topics that we feel are relevant to young, curious readers.” And the response to the magazine has been positive and encouraging so far. “We’re constantly surprised to hear which stories readers respond to. A friend’s 11-year-old enjoyed The Plague Doctor’s Apprentice , even though some may say the content is too mature for a child that age.” Future issues will examine themes such as spies and surveillance and a sense of duty. It’s hard to imagine anyone trying to dismiss Comixense as childish or silly or a waste of time. If they do, they clearly have some growing up of their own to do. Rs. 200 on ektaraindia.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/everything-makes/article37064267.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Behind Elmehed’s gold portraits||Swedish artist Niklas Elmehed is an anonymous celebrity. He lives every artist’s dream — as soon as the portraits drawn by him are revealed, they are seen and shared by millions of people and media channels around the world. Yet, he’s not a household name. That might change, thanks to a tweet from the Nobel committee stating that Elmehed is the artist behind the distinctive gold-and-black portraits that accompany the proclamation of the Nobel Prize winners. How much time is he given, before the announcement, to draw the portraits? This question, now most frequently asked, is one that he’s not allowed to answer. “Unfortunately, I can’t tell you that, it’s confidential!” he says with easy good humour, on a Zoom call with The Hindu Weekend from the Nobel committee headquarters in Stockholm. With the Nobel Prizes, it’s not just timing that’s everything, it’s the confidentiality as well. But he can tell us how drawing the laureates is both a marathon and a sprint. “I’m pretty fast, so it’s a few hours for each portrait. There’s a lot of preparation before — it’s like a sports event: you have to train for weeks, even years, then go to the race, and finish in a very short time,” says Elmehed, 44, who has been doing these portraits since 2012.  Read thefull story on weekend. thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/behind-elmeheds-gold-portraits/article37064333.ece
19 October 2021||New Delhi,||Meghalaya Governor offers to mediate with farmers||On a day when the Samyukt Kisan Morcha issued a ‘rail roko’ call against the three contentious farm laws, a statement by the Meghalaya Governor, Satya Pal Malik, saying BJP leaders could not enter villages in Meerut, Baghpat and Muzaffarnagar, went viral. The Governor also said if the farmers’ demands were not met, BJP could not return to power. Once again offering to mediate, Mr. Malik said farmers would call off the agitation if the government accepted to guarantee Minimum Support Price for crops. Speaking to the reporters in Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan, on Monday, Mr. Malik said the government had been unreasonable with the farmers. “They have been languishing at the borders for 10 months. The government should listen to their demands. I am with them and if required I will leave the post,” he said. He added he had fought with the Prime Minister and the Home Minister and had advised them “not to do this”. “But it seems they are surrounded by people who are giving them wrong advice,” he said. “ Sarkaron ka mijaz aasman pe ho jata hai [Governments tend to become bereft of ground realities]. They don’t realise the pain [of the public]. But time forces them to listen and see. This government will also have to listen. If it fails to meet the demands, it will not return to power...in Meerut, Baghpat and Muzaffarnagar, the BJP leaders can’t enter the villages,” said Mr. Malik. “I am ready to mediate. You guarantee the MSP, I will persuade farmers. I will tell them the SC is seized of the matter, leave it,” he said. Sources said Mr. Malik was looking to return to active politics, using the farmers’ protest as a platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/meghalaya-governor-offers-to-mediate-with-farmers/article37064277.ece
19 October 2021||October 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Audible’s streaming shift||The Sandman audiobooks, based on the series by Neil Gaiman, are an excellent example of how a classic in one medium (in this case, comics) can receive a new lease of life, even an all-new audience, when it’s adapted into another medium. Narrated by Gaiman himself for Audible, alongside actors like James McAvoy and Riz Ahmed, the audio version (launched in September 2021) has received great reviews across the spectrum, with good reason. Now, the podcast and audiobook platform has announced that Indian audiences will soon get a Hindi version of The Sandman . This is just one among the slew of announcements made by Audible India this week. They’ve just released an all-you-can-listen Audible Plus catalogue with over 15,000 titles available to existing users for no additional costs. There’s also a ‘free tier’ with over 150 Audible-exclusive podcasts and Originals (audio stories) — including Kaali Aawazein narrated by Amitabh Bachchan — and over 40,000 popular podcasts from around the world.  New audiences  During a virtual interaction with The Hindu Weekend , Shailesh Sawlani, VP and Country GM, Audible India, said, “I think there’s plenty of room to grow within the audience we already cater to. What we’re trying to do with the new Plus catalogue is to deliver more value to our subscribers, including those who’re prolific consumers of more established forms of media, like streaming.” He added that the category is growing at the speed of knots in India. “For Audible, India has been one of the fastest-growing markets in its history. Our most engaged listeners are tuned in for over two-and-a-half hours per day, and people are now listening to audio stories and podcasts while engaged in their daily lives, their jobs.” According to industry studies, the last couple of years and the more recent pandemic-induced lockdowns have led to people spending more time with audio books — the average weekly consumption has risen from seven to 16 hours. Perhaps why the platform has now invested in different kinds of formats and stories: from thrillers and comedies to family dramas and ghost stories. Several upcoming ones now feature Bollywood actors — something we’ve seen on Spotify India, which recently released V irus 2062 , with Richa Chadha and Ali Fazal lending their voice. Sasural Wonder Phool , for example, is a Hindi-language romantic comedy starring Sanya Malhotra ( Shakuntala Devi ) and Varun Malhotra ( Fukrey ), set in a family that runs a sex clinic. Romance novelist Durjoy Datta’s The Last Girl to Fall in Love is another Hindi-language story set in the pandemic, voiced by actors Anupriya Goenka and Akshay Oberoi.  Regional content  Soon, we might get to listen to these performers as they adapt your favourite international audio stories into Indian languages. “We’re always on the lookout for stories from around the world that we feel would do well irrespective of language. We have recently released Buri Nazar , which is an adaptation of a popular Audible title, Evil Eye ,” says Sawlani, who is quick to add, “There are a lot of things in motion that we can’t talk about today. And it’s actually an opportunity that works both ways; this is also a chance for Indian Originals to reach out to an international market.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/audibles-streaming-shift/article37064268.ece
19 October 2021||Mumbai,||‘Mumbai lost 40% green cover between 1991 and 2018’||Mumbai lost 81% of its open land (barren spaces without any vegetation), 40% green cover (forests & scrublands) and approximately 30% of its water bodies (lakes, ponds, floodplains) between 1991 and 2018, while the built-up area (areas developed upon) rose by 66% in the same period, says a recent study. It concludes that the city witnessed a 2-degree Celsius average temperature rise across 27 years. Researchers from the Faculty of Natural Sciences, Jamia Millia Islamia in New Delhi; Osmania University in Hyderabad; and Aligarh Muslim University in Uttar Pradesh through their study - Urban Heat Island Dynamics in Response to Land-Use/Land-Cover Change in the Coastal City of Mumbai - published in the peer-reviewed Springer Journal of the Indian Society of Remote Sensing found that with this pace of urbanisation and landscape transformation, it is expected that the Urban Heat Island intensity will further increase in the city. Using satellite imagery (USA-NASA Landsat datasets freely available), the authors studied an area of 603 sq km of Mumbai region (both city and suburbs) to understand the land-use and land-cover changes, difference in maximum, minimum and average temperatures (for Urban Heat Island intensity), land surface temperatures, changes in vegetation cover versus urban built-up density between 1991 and 2018. The extreme heat that one experiences while strolling through any urban landscape is caused by the Urban Heat Island effect, a micro-climatic phenomenon. This is due to a number of causes, the most prominent being the usage of materials such as concrete, according to Atiqur Rahman from the Department of Geography, Faculty of Natural Sciences, Jamia Millia Islamia. Health risks “This will not only deteriorate the urban thermal environment but also increase the serious risks to health for city dwellers. This rise in heat intensity in Mumbai is linked to the declining green cover in the city, which is the result of the large-scale transformation of the green cover into built-up land for the infrastructural development in the city,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mumbai-lost-40-green-cover-between-1991-and-2018/article37064275.ece
19 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan ordinance soon to curb unfair means in exams||After allegations of irregularities in the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) held recently, the State Government has decided to take stringent measures to prevent use of unfair means in the competitive exams. An ordinance will be brought to strengthen the law to prevent malpractices in tests for recruitment to government services. As many as 10 people, including some police constables, have been arrested and 20 government employees suspended in connection with the alleged cheating and irregularities in REET-2021 conducted last month. Candidates have staged protests in several towns demanding cancellation of the exam and a re-exam, while the Opposition BJP has demanded a CBI inquiry into the matter. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who discussed the issue with the Home Department officials at a high-level meeting here on Sunday, said the ordinance would have provisions for strict action against those involved in cheating, paper leaks and irregularities in the competitive examinations. The use of unfair means will be included in the category of cognisable and non-bailable offences and a provision made to increase the punishment for the crime from the present three years to seven years. Government officials found involved in the instances of paper leak, appearance of dummy candidates and copying will be terminated from service. Mr. Gehlot said the recognition of private educational institutions, where the exams were conducted, would be withdrawn if their office-bearers or employees were found involved in any irregularity or malpractices. More than 16 lakh candidates had appeared in REET-2021 on September 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-ordinance-soon-to-curb-unfair-means-in-exams/article37064272.ece
19 October 2021||Pune,||‘Safety checks a must before theatres open on Oct. 22’||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday directed that the theatres and cinema halls across the State, which are to reopen from October 22, should carry out proper fire and structural safety checks. At a meeting with the office-bearers of the Cinema Owners’ and Exhibitors’ Association, Mr. Thackeray said a solution would be found in coordination with the Finance Department to address the problems faced by single-screen cinema hall owners, a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said. A delegation of Poona Exhibitors’ Association demanded that the government give concessions for the renewal of various licenses, including free renewal of cinema licenses, and permission to levy a service charge of Rs. 25 per ticket after payment of GST. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Deputy CM Ajit Pawar and Transport Minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab were also present at the meeting along with several senior Ministers and officials. Cooperation promised “It was assured that the State government would extend all possible cooperation to revive the film exhibition business,” tweeted Mr. Pawar. A delegation of the Maharashtra truck tempo, tankers, bus transport federation also met the Chief Minister and presented a number of demands, including exemption from the annual motor vehicle tax and business tax, a complete exemption of motor tax on vehicles transporting passengers to schools and religious places, and a provision of parking spaces for vehicles and buses. Mr. Thackeray said the Urban Development Department would be informed about the need for adequate parking spaces. He also asked officials to plan setting up of trauma care centres at various check posts. “A solution will be worked out for immediately in the case of transporters who are facing financial crisis due to COVID-19,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/safety-checks-a-must-before-theatres-open-on-oct-22/article37064279.ece
19 October 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘Rail roko’ symbolic in U.P.||The SKM’s ‘rail roko’ call disrupted rail traffic at a few places in western U.P. on Monday. At least nine trains were affected. Bharatiya Kisan Union members sat on the tracks in Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Bulandshahr, and Ghaziabad and at the Hapur railway station. The protest largely remained symbolic. At the Ghazipur border, BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said, “It’s a people’s protest... was not to cause discomfort to the public but to make them aware of our demands. We have added the arrest of Ajay Teni to our demands.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rail-roko-symbolic-in-up/article37064278.ece
19 October 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Gold seized from Odisha MLA’s house||The anti-corruption vigilance sleuths have seized 1,440 gram gold and a designer necklace worth Rs. 24.25 lakh from the house of Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Panigrahy, an official said. Earlier, a case was registered against Mr. Panigrahy on October 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gold-seized-from-odisha-mlas-house/article37064341.ece
