20 October 2021||Dehradun/Nainital,||Uttarakhand rain toll touches 47||Forty-two more people were reported killed in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region on Tuesday as several houses collapsed following the incessant downpour, taking the toll due to rain-related incidents to 47. The connectivity to Nainital was restored in the evening after hours of struggle amid inclement weather, officials said. Most rivers in the State are in spate.   “The number of casualties in the Kumaon region alone has crossed 40,” DIG Nilesh Anand Bharne said. Twenty-eight people were killed in Nainital district, six each in Almora and Champawat, and one each in Pithoragarh and Udham Singh Nagar districts, the official said. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami undertook an aerial survey of the rain-hit areas and also interacted with the affected people. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Mr. Dhami on the phone and assured him of all help. Interacting with the disaster-affected people in Rudraprayag, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar districts, Mr. Dhami said people need to have patience in this hour of crisis. He announced a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh each to the next of kin of those killed in rain-related incidents. DIG Bharne said that despite bad weather and continuing showers, the blocked roads in Nainital were cleared. With connectivity restored, stranded tourists began to leave for their destinations through Kaladhungi and Haldwani, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-claims-23-more-lives-in-uttarakhand/article37081916.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,||SI hit by SUV, run over by mini van in Chennai||A 27-year-old sub-inspector of police was run over by a mini-van after a speeding SUV hit him near the police headquarters late on Monday night. The victim was identified as T. Prasanna, a native of Koliyanur, Villupuram. He was an engineering graduate and had been working as a sub-inspector with the technical services since 2019. He was attached to the police ‘repeater centre’ in Vandalur. The accident occurred when he was on night duty at the police headquarters. While Prasanna was crossing Kamarajar Salai at 7.40 p.m., the SUV coming from Gandhi Square hit his two-wheeler, and in the impact, he fell on the road. Subsequently, another mini-van coming from the Light House side ran over him, police sources said. Passers-by and police personnel rushed Prasanna to the Government Royapettah Hospital. He was declared dead by doctors later. The traffic police registered a case. The police arrested Rajkumar, 41, of Vadapalani, for rash driving and causing death due to negligence. His vehicle was also seized. On Tuesday, Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu and other police officers paid homage to the deceased sub-inspector. Solatium announced Chief Minister M.K. Stalin expressed his condolences to the sub-inspector’s death and ordered a relief of Rs. 3 lakh to the bereaved family from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund.  The accident occurred when the sub-inspector was on night duty at the police headquarters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/si-hit-by-suv-run-over-by-mini-van-on-kamarajar-salai/article37082104.ece
20 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||TDP leader’s house, offices attacked, furniture damaged||With miscreants allegedly attacking the Telugu Desam Party’s (TDP) offices and houses of Opposition party leaders, the police stepped up security at the TDP and YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) offices across Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday. Protesting against the alleged comments made by the TDP’s official spokesperson, K. Pattabhiram, on ganja and drug smuggling at a press conference on Tuesday, unidentified persons attacked TDP offices and party leaders’ houses on Tuesday. In Vijayawada, protesters stormed into Mr. Pattabhiram’s house, damaged furniture and a vehicle. TDP leaders alleged that YSRCP activists had participated in the attacks, and demanded that the culprits be brought to book. Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang said stern action would be taken against the persons who had taken part in the attacks, and urged the public not to believe rumours and to cooperate with the police in restoring peace. “I request the public not to take the law into their hands. Additional forces have been deployed,” Mr. Sawang said, and appealed to the public not to make provocative statements. Tension prevailed at many places following the attacks and protests, which continued till late in the evening on Tuesday. Condemning the attacks, TDP workers organised dharnas and protests. They demanded that the police take action against the attackers immediately. YSRCP activists staged dharnas against Mr. Pattabhiram’s comments against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. They raised slogans demanding that the police book a case against the TDP leaders immediately. Security was also stepped up at YSRCP offices, and at the houses of Ministers, MLCs and MPs across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tdp-leaders-houses-offices-attacked/article37081880.ece
20 October 2021||IDUKKI,||3 shutters of Cheruthoni dam opened||Three shutters of the Cheruthoni dam of the Idukki reservoir were opened on Tuesday after the water level crossed the red alert level. Preparations were undertaken prior to the dam opening. Sixty-four families in five villages of the downstream area were shifted. The water level reached 2,398. 08 ft at 10 a.m. (red alert level at 2,397.86 ft). Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty and Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine held a top-level meeting with Kerala State Electricity Board officials and reviewed the situation in the downstream before the shutters were opened. At 10.55 a.m. a siren was sounded and the third shutter was opened first and the second shutter was opened at 12 noon and the fourth shutter at 12.30 p.m. All the shutters were opened by 35 cm to release 0.331 mcm (million cubic metres) of water per hour into the Periyar. After opening the first shutter, the flow of water close to the Cheruthoni town was monitored. In August 2018, the water overflowing the chappathu near Cheruthoni town on the Puliyanmala-Thodupuzha State Highway had blocked traffic to Neryamangalam and Thodupuzha, he said. “Now there was no traffic curb on the chappathu,” he said, adding that it would take some time before the water level in the large reservoir came down. Inflow and discharge While the inflow into the reservoir was 0.331 mcm, the discharge was 0.315 mcm. This was in addition to the PH (power house) discharge of 0.41 mcm per hour now. There was a storage level of 94.28%, in the reservoir at 4 p.m., he said. Though the upper rule curve level was 2,398.86 ft, the decision to open the dam was taken in consideration of the forecast of heavy rainfall in the State on Wednesday and Thursday. The Central Water Commission fixed the new rule curve level to avoid sudden opening of the dam and releasing of a high volume of water as in the case of 2018.  Prior to the opening of the Cheruthoni dam, water from the Edamalayar dam was released from 6 a.m. raising three shutters by 85 cm. This was the fourth time the Idukki dam, one of the largest in Asia, was opened. The gates of the Cheruthoni dam were opened in 1981, 1992 and 2018. The water level at the Mullaperiyar dam, in the upstream of the Idukki dam, at 5 p.m. on Tuesday was 134.10 ft. While there was an inflow of 2,929 cubic feet per second (cfs), Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 1,750 cfs. The maximum storage level is 142 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-shutters-of-cheruthoni-dam-opened/article37082301.ece
20 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Prosecutor booked||The police have booked advocate and a Special Public Prosecutor for the Lokayukta K.S.N. Rajesh on the charge of sexually harassing a law student in the city. A complaint from the victim has been registered under Sections 376, 376 (2)(f), 376(2)(k), 376(c), 354 (A), 354 (B), 354 (C), 354 (D), 506, 384, 388 and 389 of Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, in another complaint, a friend of the victim has accused Ashok Nagar Mahila Vedike president Pavitra Acharya of taking her to a police station and forcing her to sign a document to deny the incident involving her friend. This complaint has been registered under Sections 363, 384, 504 and 506 of IPC. Both the complaints were registered on Monday at the Women Police Station. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar on Tuesday appointed Assistant Commissioner of Police (South) Ranjith Kumar Bandaru as the investigation officer in the case. In her complaint, the victim, a 20-year-old second year law student, has said that she started working in the advocate’s firm as an intern on August 18. On September 25, the advocate called her to his cabin and pulled her closer and made her sit on his lap, as there was no one in the office, the complainant said. She added that he touched her inappropriately on the chest and back. She, however, managed to wriggle out of his clasp and left the office quickly, she said. The advocate later called her and threatened her with her life, if she were to reveal the incident to anyone, she said. In the other complaint, the victim’s friend, who has finished her final year law course and worked in the same firm, said that she received a call on October 14 from Pavitra Acharya stating that her friend had released on social media an audio conversation clip between the advocate and herself (victim).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prosecutor-booked/article37082409.ece
20 October 2021||MYSURU,||Mysugar revival move evokes mixed response from farmers||The State Government’s decision against privatisation of Mysore Sugar Company Ltd. (Mysugar) in Mandya and announcement on setting up an expert committee to help revive the factory has evoked mixed response from farmers. The factory started by Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar in 1933 fared well for decades but suffered losses from the late 1980s before it suspended regular operations a few years ago. Though private players evinced interest in taking over its operations, the Government faced political opposition to it and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai announced on Monday that fresh efforts would be made to revive it. Incidentally, the Karnataka Evaluation Authority — a government body which subjects all departments and projects for evaluation so as to help enhance performance — conducted an analysis of Mysugar’s performance in 2015. Poor machinery The report throws light on the reason for the gradual decline of the company and it pointed out that on an average, 11 hours per day were lost on account of mechanical and electrical problems besides other issues during the crushing season. Some of the machinery had outlived their utility as evident in the frequent breakdown and impacted productivity. Though a cogeneration plant was established at a cost of Rs. 96 crore with a 30-MW capacity in 2007, it was idle for years. Shockingly, since its installation in 2007, the plant had functioned only for four hours till the evaluation period. The capacity utilisation of Mysugar was pegged at 35% as against 94% of a private sugar factory in the region. Cost of production increased and this coupled with dip in revenue generation resulted in accumulation of losses besides interest liability. Long process Responding to the government’s latest move, Kurubur Shanthakumar, president, Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers’ Association, said that with the new development and the uncertainty over the factory’s fate continuing, it was the farmers whose misery would prolong. “The constitution of an expert committee, its submission of the finalreport and the Government’s action on the recommendations will take time. For a majority of the cultivators it is immaterial as to who runs the factory as long as sugarcane is purchased and the payment made promptly,” he said. Mr. Shanthakumar said that successive governments had released funds to the tune of Rs. 450 crore over the last many years for the factory’s modernisation. Yet the officials appointed to manage it have been unsuccessful in making it profitable. “There is a divide even among farmers’ leaders and organisations some of whom want the factory to be managed by the Government,” he added. Atahalli Devaraj, general secretary of the association, said there were nearly 70 sugar factories in Karnataka of which only two or three were managed by the Government while the rest was managed by either private players or cooperatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysugar-revival-move-evokes-mixed-response-from-farmers/article37082434.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State braces for another bout of heavy rain||With the India Meteorology Department (IMD) warning of another bout of heavy rainfall in the run-up to the northeast monsoon, the State Government on Tuesday sounded an alert on landslips and flooding and mobilised the administration for emergency response and disaster relief. A press note from the Chief Minister’s Office directed people residing in high ranges and riverbanks to be extremely cautious, considering the possibility of heavy rain from October 20 to 23. Noting that many parts of the State were especially prone to landslips, mudslides and overflowing rivers during the last phase of the southwest monsoon, it said intense spells of rain could unleash havoc. As many as 11 National Disaster Response Force  teams have been deployed in various districts to assist the administration, along with two teams each of the Indian Army and the Defence Security Corps. Besides, two helicopters of the IAF and one of the Navy are on standby. The Civil Defence Force and volunteer corps have also been kept ready. An official press note said the State Emergency Operations Centre had been augmented with representatives of the Kerala State Electricity Board, Irrigation and Motor Vehicles Departments and the Army functioning round the clock. Taluk control rooms had been opened in all districts. As many as 3,071 buildings had been identified for setting up relief camps to accommodate more than 4,00,000 people. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said directives had been issued to relocate families from dwellings categorised as unsafe by experts from the Geological Survey of India and the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) and those living close to riverbanks. SDMA alert The SDMA alerted the administration about the possibility of landslips in the eastern hilly areas and the Western Ghats region where the rainfall was expected to be intense. The Revenue Department and local bodies had been directed to open relief camps to accommodate families to be relocated from vulnerable places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-braces-for-another-bout-of-heavy-rain/article37082304.ece
20 October 2021||Mumbai,||Eateries to stay open till midnight||Amid festive season, the Maharashtra government announced on Tuesday that restaurants and eateries can now remain open till midnight instead of downing their shutters by 10 p.m. The deadline relaxation came a day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with State task force on COVID-19, also attended by senior Ministers, in which a decision was made to further ease the restrictions imposed in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the notification issued by the State government, other establishments such as shops can also remain open till 11 p.m. Local district administrations are being given authority to restrict timings further in accordance with local requirements. The State’s Agriculture department too on Tuesday issued directions to reopen all agriculture universities and government as well as private unaided agriculture colleges under its aegis from October 20. Agriculture Minister Dadaji Bhuse said that the decision to reopen all non-agriculture universities and colleges from October 20 had already been announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ahead-of-deepavali-maharashtra-relaxes-timings-for-restaurants/article37082194.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Plastic waste conversion plant to begin operations this month||The Greater Chennai Corporation has planned to promote more factories under the public-private partnership (PPP) mode to convert plastic waste to fuel oil. The first of such plants is set to launch operations this month. The facility has been developed in Chinna Sekkadu near the Kodungaiyur dumpyard. Another plant is set to be developed in Sholinganallur. Experts have advised the setting up of at least 20 such factories after obtaining clearance from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. The first plant will process waste using pyrolysis, a proven technology against the incineration of waste plastics. The plant has been designed and manufactured by Bioneer Green Energy, and automated by Unique Industrial Automation Pvt. Ltd., Madurai. It has been established by Entice Renewable Energy Pvt. Ltd. along with the Corporation. In pyrolysis, combustible materials, such as plastic, rubber, wood, tyres, straw and garden waste, are converted into useful products, such as fuel oil and carbon, without any pollution. The plant will also be able to produce hydrogen. The unit installed in north Chennai will convert 20 tonnes in 24 hours. The proposed unit in south Chennai will have a similar capacity. Fossil fuel is not required for the operation of the plant. The Corporation will supply plastic waste to the factory after segregation. The factory will operate round-the-clock. Currently, the facility is undergoing testing using plastic waste from industries. A fraction of the 5,100 tonnes of waste generated daily in the city will be processed at such plants in a few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plastic-waste-conversion-plant-to-begin-operations-this-month/article37082099.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,||TNUEF seeks reinvestigation into techie Swathi’s murder||The Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front has demanded reinvestigation into the murder of Swathi, a young techie, in 2016, following recent developments surrounding the alleged suicide of Ramkumar, the lone accused in the case. According to the police, Ramkumar killed himself in Puzhal prison by biting a live wire in September that year. However, recent media reports, citing histopathology reports of doctors, showed that there was no evidence of electrocution being the cause of his death. After meeting Ramkumar’s family, TNUEF office-bearers on Tuesday appealed to the government to reinvestigate the case. They said that the family of Ramkumar expressed serious concerns on how the investigation on the murder was done. According to them, Ramkumar was never allowed to interact with any members of the family right after his arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tnuef-seeks-fresh-probe-into-swathis-murder/article37082118.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||EU food recall linked to GM rice from India||When candy giant Mars Wrigley carried out a mass recall of several batches of its Crispy M&Ms across Europe this August, it was due to the use of one ingredient: rice flour with genetically modified (GM) contamination that allegedly originated in India, according to notifications on the European Commission’s rapid alert system. However, the Commerce Ministry pointed out that GM rice is not grown commercially in India, let alone exported, and promised a thorough enquiry by its agricultural exports authority. The Ministry alleged that the case was a “futile conspiracy to malign the image of India as a reliable food security provider”. Worried farmers’ groups and environmental activists, however, noted that multiple GM rice varieties had been approved for confined field trials, and warned that any cross-contamination could dampen the country’s agricultural export ambitions. India’s annual rice exports amount to 18 million tonnes worth Rs. 65,000 crore, and reach more than 75 countries, according to the Ministry. According to the European Commission’s Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed, 500 tonnes of broken rice imported from India and converted into rice flour by a French company named Westhove was flagged during a regular check. On June 21, France issued a notification for unauthorised genetically modified rice flour, identifying India as the point of origin and alerted Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, the United Kingdom and the U.S. as possible destinations of products made with the flour. In a statement on August 4, Mars Wrigley announced that it was recalling four packaging sizes of its Crispy M&Ms product with two affected best-before dates. According to German NGO site Informationdienst Gentechnik, the European Commission announced that 144 tonnes of the contaminated rice flour had been processed by Mars, while more flour went into 11 types of baked goods manufactured in Italy and further distributed to other countries, all of which were recalled. Commerce Ministry spokesperson D.J. Narain said that the whole issue appeared to be “infructuous”. He pointed out that “the GM ingredient may have been added in Europe to cut costs, not in India where commercial GM cultivation is banned. The quantity involved is too big to have come from leaked output from controlled trial cultivation.” However, he also added that “APEDA is collecting all the details and will enquire every aspect of it thoroughly with the technical and scientific institutions like GEAC and strictest form of action will be taken accordingly.” Farmers groups say the issue of cross contamination from field trials has been raised previously. “The issue with GM field trials is that once they take place, they can contaminate crops long after the actual trials either directly or through seed leakages,” said a letter from the Coalition for GM-Free India, sent on Tuesday to authorities at the Environment, Agriculture and Commerce Ministries. It pointed to a 2006 case, where a Bayer food trial contaminated rice and seeds in the U.S., leading to a plunge in exports from that country. Commerce Ministry spokesperson Mr. Narain emphasised that there was little danger to India’s agricultural export image. “It may be noted that India’s export orders remain globally growing. India is fast emerging as the world’s most trusted business partner and investment destination,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eu-food-recall-linked-to-gm-rice-from-india/article37081914.ece
20 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI/COLOMBO,||T.N. fisherman drowns after boat rams Lankan vessel||A fisherman from Kottaipattinam in Pudukottai district reportedly died after falling into the sea when the boat on which he was fishing collided with a Sri Lankan naval vessel on Monday. Two other fishermen on the boat were detained by Sri Lankan naval personnel on the charge of crossing the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL). According to official sources, Rajkiran, 30, Suganthan, 23, and Arockia Xavier, 32, of Kottaipattinam, had ventured into the sea on Monday. When they were fishing in waters close to the IMBL near Katchatheevu, a Sri Lankan naval patrol vessel intercepted their boat. On noticing the authorities, the fishermen reportedly tried to escape. But the Sri Lankan personnel managed to detain Suganthan and Arockia Xavier. In the melee, Rajkiran fell into the sea. M. Chinnakuppan, Assistant Director of Fisheries, Pudukottai, told The Hindu that he had received communication that Rajkiran’s body had been recovered from the sea, and it had been taken to Kankesanthurai for post-mortem examination. “The information has been conveyed to his family members. Steps are under way to bring back his body as early as possible,” he said. Angered over the death of Rajkiran, the fishermen of Kottaipattinam resorted to a road blockade on the East Coast Road on Tuesday, holding the Sri Lankan Navy responsible for his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-fisherman-drowns-after-boat-rams-lankan-vessel/article37082449.ece
20 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Efforts on to develop disease-resistant arecanut palms||The Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) has launched efforts to develop an arecanut variety resistant to Yellow Leaf Disease (YLD). The initiative has been taken up after demand came from arecanut growers. General secretary of the Puttur-based All India Areca Growers Association Mahesh Puchchappady said that a CPCRI scientist, Bhavishya, has now begun the process of identifying healthy arecanut palms in the disease-affected region for further research. Mr. Bhavishya visited some arecanut plantations in Sampaje of Dakshina Kannada district and Chembu of Kodagu district on Monday to identify such palms. The general secretary said that a few plants in the disease-hit plantations are immune to the disease. Considering this, farmers from the affected region had requested the CPCRI to conduct research and develop a disease-resistant variety of arecanut. “We are identifying disease-free arecanut palms in arecanut gardens with more than 90% disease incidence in disease hotspot areas such as Sampaje. “We are planning to multiply these palms by inter-crossing between two disease-free palms and by tissue culture technique,” Mr. Bhavishya told The Hindu . Mr. Puchchappady said that CPCRI Director (Acting) Anita Karun and her team of scientists had visited two arecanut plantations in the disease-affected regions of Sullia taluk a few days ago. At that time, she had promised to take up research for developing a disease-resistant variety of arecanut. Healthy plants will be selected from plantations that have been facing the disease for at least 15-20 years now. Such selected plants should be in a position to bear arecanut. These plants will be further subjected to intensive observation and research for another two years leading to final selection. Steps will be taken to develop a disease-resistant variety after that selection, he said. Caused by bacteria phytoplasma, arecanut leaves turn yellow when afflicted with the disease. Kernel of the nuts of disease-affected palms become soft, showing blackish discolouration, leading to a spongy texture. The disease is transmitted by the plant-hopper insect Proutista moesta .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/efforts-on-to-develop-disease-resistant-arecanut-palms/article37082408.ece
20 October 2021||KALABURAGI,||Article 371(J) Special Cell will be shifted to Kalaburagi shortly: CM||Referring to a recent Government Order on shifting a Special Cell constituted for executing the provisions of Article 371(J) of the Constitution that offered special status to Kalyana Karnataka region, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that the cell will shortly be shifted to Kalaburagi from Bengaluru. Speaking to mediapersons at the airport here on Tuesday, he said that an additional Rs. 1,500 crore will be provided to Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) after March and a detailed project report will be prepared for the amount. “An order has already been issued with regard to shifting the Special Cell to Kalaburagi and it will start functioning shortly. Besides, the detailed project report for the additional Rs. 1,500 crore that I had promised for KKRDB is being prepared. The additional amount will be over and above the regular Rs. 1,500 crore allocated to KKRDB. The board should spend the regular amount within the stipulated time so that the additional amount can also be released immediately,” Mr. Bommai said. To a question on rehabilitation measures taken in the tremor-hit villages in Kalaburagi district, the Chief Minister said that he has directed the Deputy Commissioner to distribute compensation temporarily for the people who lost their houses to the frequent tremors. “Our officers are visiting the tremor-hit villages. The Revenue Minister is also there and interacting with the people. I have directed the Deputy Commissioner to pay compensation temporarily to people who have lost their houses. However, we are waiting for a report from seismologists. Once we receive the report, we will plan rehabilitation based on the recommendations,” Mr. Bommai said. Asked about the byelections to Sindgi and Hangal Assembly constituencies, Mr. Bommai exuded the confidence of the party winning in both the segments with impressive margins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/article-371j-special-cell-will-be-shifted-to-kalaburagi-shortly-cm/article37082258.ece
20 October 2021||Jammu,||Killings spark migrant flight from J&K||Thousands of migrant workers fleeing Kashmir along with their families queued up outside ticket counters of railway stations and bus stops here on Tuesday, with the targeted killing of minorities and non-locals by terrorists triggering an exodus. Security in and around railway stations and bus stands in Jammu and Udhampur had been tightened as a precautionary measure as people had been arriving in large numbers, desperate to leave, and more were on the way, officials said. According to rough estimates, three lakh to four lakh migrant labourers — most of them Hindus from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand — come to the Valley every year in early March and return before the onset of winter in November. But the selective killings over the last fortnight have triggered panic, forcing them to leave earlier. Poonch operation Meanwhile, as the counter-insurgency operation in the forest belt of Jammu and Kashmir’s twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri entered the ninth day, public announcements were made from local mosques in the Mendhar area asking residents to stay indoors, officials said, as the security forces were preparing a final assault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/killings-spark-migrant-flight-from-kashmir/article37081915.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Many people yet to get second dose, says Centre||A sizeable number of eligible COVID-19 vaccination beneficiaries have not received their second dose, and the States have been asked to focus on this, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has said. He reviewed the progress of vaccination with senior health officials of the States and the Union Territories (UTs) earlier this week. The country launched the vaccination programme on January 16. Mr. Bhushan noted that the nation was close to administering a billion doses. Many States had adequate doses to vaccinate those awaiting the second dose. “The Central Government is in a position to provide additional vaccine doses to the States/UTs so that they can complete the second dose vaccination. We also need to improve the momentum of the vaccination drive.” The Health Ministry said the Government had advised the States and the UTs to identify and prioritise districts having low coverage for focused action. The Ministry pointed out that it was in the process of reviewing international travel guidelines in consultation with all stakeholders, including the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Bureau of Immigration, the Ministry of Civil Aviation, and the Ministry of External Affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-people-yet-to-get-second-dose-says-centre/article37081913.ece
20 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘40% Cong. candidates in U.P. will be women’||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday announced that 40% of the candidates fielded by the party for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election would be women. However, she was non-committal on whether she would contest. “I have not taken this decision yet. There is still some time for the election. I will think about this and take a decision,” Ms. Vadra said at a press conference in the State capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/40-cong-candidates-in-up-will-be-women/article37082179.ece
20 October 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra eateries to stay open till 12 a.m.||Amid festive season, the Maharashtra government announced on Tuesday that restaurants and eateries can now remain open till midnight instead of downing their shutters by 10 p.m. The deadline relaxation came a day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with State task force on COVID-19, also attended by senior Ministers, in which a decision was made to further ease the restrictions. According to the notification, other establishments such as shops can also remain open till 11 p.m. Local district administrations are being given authority to restrict timings further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-eateries-to-stay-open-till-12-am/article37082450.ece
20 October 2021||MYSURU,||Vaccination at 65 centres in Mysuru from Oct. 20 to 22||All the 65 wards of the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) will have a special drive of vaccination from October 20 to 22 to inoculate mainly those who are either delaying their second dose even after completing 84 days from their first dose or awaiting availability of vaccine. The MCC has joined hands with the Department of Health and Family Welfare to organise the mega drive to maximise the vaccination coverage. “If the entire population is vaccinated, we could successfully fight the pandemic and stop its spread. People’s support and cooperation is key as the data says that many have completed 84 days and above from their first dose but are yet to get their second dose. We have been calling up such persons and requesting them to make use of the opportunity and stay protected,” said MCC Health Officer D.G. Nagaraj. He told The Hindu that vaccination drives would be conducted at government schools, primary health centres, anganwadi centres, and hostels — once centre in each ward — and people could go to their nearest site to get the vaccination. “Our social media network, pourakarmikas, and staff in the zonal offices are mobilising logistics so that the drive becomes successful with maximum vaccination coverage. We have called up the people and informed them about the drive. We have a sufficient number of doses available that could cover the first and second doses,” he said. In view of schools reopening for classes I to V, it was important that parents were vaccinated. If the parents were yet to get their doses, they could make use of the drive, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-at-65-centres-in-mysuru-from-oct-20-to-22/article37082432.ece
20 October 2021||MYSURU,||Stir withdrawn||A section of farmers and progressive groups who were on a strike from the last 37 days against moves to privatise Mysugar company withdrew the agitation on Tuesday. They welcomed the government decision to drop the privatisation move and also announcement on setting up an expert committee to suggest measures to revive the factory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stir-withdrawn/article37082433.ece
20 October 2021||GUNTUR,||TDP calls for bandh today||The TDP has called for a bandh on Wednesday protesting against the assault on its party cadres. Criticising the attack on the TDP national office, party president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday said the YSRCP government had unleashed a “State-sponsored terrorism,” against the TDP and its supporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tdp-calls-for-bandh-today/article37081911.ece
20 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Amarinder to launch his own party||Former Punjab Chief Minister and Congress leader Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced that he would launch his political party, saying that an alliance with the BJP was on the cards if the farmers’ concerns were resolved. Like-minded parties Capt. Singh (retd.), who had quit as CM saying that he had been “humiliated”, said he was willing to work with like-minded parties, including breakaway Akali Dal groups.  “The battle for Punjab’s future is on. Will soon announce the launch of my own political party to serve the interests of Punjab & its people, including our farmers who’ve been fighting for their survival for over a year,” said Capt. Singh, as quoted by his media adviser Raveen Thukral on Twitter. In another tweet, he said, “Hopeful of a seat arrangement with @BJP4India in 2022 Punjab Assembly polls if #FarmersProtest is resolved in farmers’ interest. Also looking at alliance with like-minded parties such as breakaway Akali groups, particularly Dhindsa & Brahmpura factions” “I will not rest till I can secure the future of my people and my state. Punjab needs political stability and protection from internal & external threats. I promise my people I will do what it takes to ensure peace and security, which is today at stake,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amarinder-to-launch-his-own-party/article37081843.ece
20 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI/COLOMBO,||T.N. man drowns after boat rams Lankan vessel||A fisherman from Kottaipattinam in Pudukottai district reportedly died after falling into the sea when his boat collided with a Sri Lankan naval vessel on Monday. Two other fishermen on the boat were detained by Sri Lankan naval personnel on the charge of crossing the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL). Rajkiran, 30, Suganthan, 23, and Arockia Xavier, 32, of Kottaipattinam, had ventured into the sea on Monday, said sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-man-drowns-after-boat-rams-lankan-vessel/article37082178.ece
20 October 2021||Chennai,||Stalin deputes Ministers to districts||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has named a few Ministers as in-charge to speed up development work, to monitor the implementation of people welfare schemes and to coordinate relief measures during natural disasters in 16 districts across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-deputes-ministers-to-districts/article37082141.ece
20 October 2021||Chennai,||Stalin deputes Ministers to districts||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has named a few Ministers as in-charge to speed up development work, to monitor the implementation of people welfare schemes and to coordinate relief measures during natural disasters in 16 districts across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-deputes-ministers-to-districts/article37082233.ece
20 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Juvenile secured in assault case in Ullal||A 17-year-old boy was accused of assaulting a 42-year-old man in Uliya of Ullal on Tuesday. He has been secured and will be produced before the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/juvenile-secured-in-assault-case-in-ullal/article37082407.ece
20 October 2021||TENGA (Arunachal Pradesh),||Chinese patrolling slightly up in east: Army||There has been a marginal increase in Chinese patrols in the eastern sector along the Line of Actual Control, , Lt. Gen. Manoj Pande, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Army Command, said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chinese-patrolling-slightly-up-in-east-army/article37082180.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Customer flags Zomato support staff’s behaviour||Online food aggregator Zomato was widely criticised on Tuesday after a support staff told a customer from Tamil Nadu that everyone should speak a little Hindi since it was the national language. The customer took to Twitter asking for a change in the attitude of the food aggregator and its staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/customer-flags-zomato-support-staffs-behaviour/article37082181.ece
20 October 2021||BELAGAVI,||‘Efforts on to make Kittur Utsav State-level fest’||Efforts are being made to get Kittur Utsav declared as a State-level festival, MLA and BJP leader from Kittur Mahantesh Dodagoudar said in Belagavi. He was speaking to journalists after releasing a brochure for Kittur Utsav, scheduled for October 23 and 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/efforts-on-to-make-kittur-utsav-state-level-fest/article37082256.ece
20 October 2021||KALABURAGI,||‘Relief in tremor-hit villages after report’||Revenue Minister R. Ashok visited Gadikeshwar in Chin- choli taluk, Kalaburagi dist- rict, which has been hit by tremors in the last couple of weeks, on Tuesday. He was interacting with people frightened by tremors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/relief-in-tremor-hit-villages-after-report/article37082260.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Midday meals may take longer to resume||While primary classes across Karnataka are set to reopen on October 25 after nearly 20 months, teachers and Education Department officials foresee some hurdles before the functioning is back on track. Several schools across the State expressed anxiety over the logistics of restarting midday meals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/midday-meals-may-take-longer-to-resume/article37082435.ece
20 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘40% Cong. candidates in U.P. will be women’||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday announced that 40% of the candidates fielded by the party for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election would be women. However, she was non-committal on whether she would contest. “I have not taken this decision yet. There is still some time for the election. I will think about this and take a decision,” Ms. Vadra said at a press conference in the State capital. Ambiguous on CM face She was also yet to decide if the Congress would announce chief ministerial face ahead of the polls. Ms. Vadra said the decision to provide 40% of party ticket to women was to provide them better representation in State politics. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly has 403 seats. She lamented that women were not emerging as a united force as they were also being divided into castes and religions. If women wanted to pull the country out from “politics of casteism and religion” and take it towards politics of development and representation, they would have to step forward, the Congress leader said. While Ms. Vadra’s move could be seen as a step to win over women voters cutting across sections, it is bound to encounter questions on representation of various communities in a State where caste dynamics dictate politics. Asked by a reporter if the selection of women candidates would be on the basis of caste, Ms. Vadra said ticket would be distributed to women on “merit”. This would be determined by the work of the candidate and how much the people in her Assembly constituency recognised her, Ms. Vadra added. The Congress’ announcement drew sharp criticism from other parties. Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati dismissed it as “election drama”. When the Congress is in power and enjoys ache din (good days), it does not remember Dalits, OBC and women but when its “ bure din (bad days) refuse to go away,” it remembers women in U.P. just like it is wooing Dalits in Punjab, Ms. Mayawati said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/40-cong-candidates-in-up-will-be-women/article37081854.ece
20 October 2021||TENGA (Arunachal Pradesh),||‘Chinese patrolling slightly up in east’||There has been a marginal increase in Chinese patrols in the eastern sector along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), while the scale and durations of its exercises has increased in their depth areas since the stand-off in eastern Ladakh last year, said Eastern Army Commander Lt. Gen. Manoj Pande on Tuesday. He noted that both India and China were attempting to develop infrastructure close to the LAC. The Army is countering the Chinese presence by incorporating technological advancements with specific focus on expanding surveillance capabilities like long range Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) and radars, Lt. Gen. Pande said while also stating that the Army’s 17 Mountain Strike Corps, meant for the border with China, had been fully operationalised. Giving an overview on the situation along the LAC in the eastern sector in an interaction with a group of journalists from Delhi, Lt. Gen. Pande said, “Some of the PLA [People’s Liberation Army] reserve formations which were mobilised continue to remain in their training areas, that again is in the operational depth. Both sides are attempting to develop infrastructure closer to the LAC and that leads to certain issues at times.” Since this infrastructure had come up close to the LAC, there had been a marginal increase in the number of border defence troops already deployed there, he pointed out. Enhanced surveillance Speaking of the measures taken, he observed that the first step was enhancing surveillance both close to the LAC and in the depth areas. This was being done by synergising resources right from satellites at strategic level to troops on the ground and “we have adequate forces in each sector for any need that may arise”. They were also looking at maximising technology, especially in terms of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities, communications and likewise, he reiterated. Of the 3,488 km-long LAC, 1,346 km fall in the eastern sector. The raising of the new 17 Mountain Strike Corps commenced in 2014. By now it was fully operationalised and all its units, including combat, combat support and support, had been fully equipped, the Army Commander asserted. “Its employment philosophy is stabilised. The formations of the corps have been carrying our validation and integrated training with other formations,” he said. To further enhance the operational efficiency, they were were looking at Integrated Battle Group (IBG) model for the mountain strike corps so that “we have better options for its employment and its areas of application”, he remarked. Equipment deployed IBGs are brigade-sized agile self-sufficient combat formations meant to swiftly launch strikes against adversary in case of hostilities. The concept had been tested in exercises and fine-tuned. There had been a major push for development of infrastructure in the region. The induction of equipment such as Chinook heavy-lift helicopters, which enabled faster movement, and deployment of M777 Ultra Light Howitzers have strengthened their position. In addition, there is major expansion of roads in the region which will facilitate faster mobilisation of men, resources and equipment. Several tunnels are under construction while a railway line is also planned to Tawang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-patrolling-slightly-up-in-east/article37081835.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Israel, UAE and U.S. launch quad forum||India, Israel, the United Arab Emirates and the United States have decided to launch a new quadrilateral economic forum, as External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar joined his counterparts at a videoconference from Jerusalem, where he is on a five-day visit. The quadrilateral, which followed his bilateral meeting with Israeli Alternate Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Yair Lapid, builds on ongoing cooperation between the U.S., Israel and the UAE after the Abraham Accords last year, and the India, Israel and UAE cooperation that was launched since. Mr. Jaishankar said it was a fruitful first meeting with Mr. Lapid, UAE Minister of Foreign Affairs Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed and U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, “on economic growth and global issues”. In an interesting aside, Mr. Jaishankar’s travel to Israel is also routed via the UAE, on flights that started as a consequence of the Abraham Accords and the opening of diplomatic missions and flights between them. Infrastructure projects Mr. Lapid added that the grouping had decided to establish an international forum for economic cooperation, and specifically discussed “possibilities for joint infrastructure projects”. The U.S. State Department said that during the meeting on Monday, the four Ministers discussed “expanding economic and political cooperation in the Middle East and Asia, including through trade, combating climate change, energy cooperation, and increasing maritime security,” as well as ways to counter the COVID-19 pandemic. Foreign Ministers of the U.S., Israel and the UAE had met in Washington on October 13 to discuss modalities of trilateral cooperation, and set up two working groups: on religious coexistence and the other on water and energy. Business groups in India, the UAE and Israel have also been in talks for trilateral cooperation since diplomatic ties were established, and the International Federation of Indo-Israel Chambers of Commerce (IFIIC) has predicted that the potential for agreements backed by Israeli innovation, UAE funding and Indian manufacturing, given India’s close ties and strategic partnership with the two other countries could cross $100 billion by 2030. In the first such venture, a UAE project for robotic solar panel cleaning technology was signed by Israeli company Ecoppia that has a manufacturing base in India. Significantly, neither the quadrilateral meeting, nor the trilateral meeting discussed the issue of Palestine and resuming the “Middle East peace process”, although the Joe Biden administration has expressed support for a “two-state solution”, that is in line with India’s broader position. Bilateral talks On Monday, Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Lapid held bilateral talks, agreeing to resume long-pending negotiations for a free trade agreement, a mutual recognition agreement for COVID-19 vaccine certificates, beginning with Israeli acceptance of Indian travellers vaccinated with Covishield, and Israel’s joining the International Solar Alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-israel-uae-and-us-launch-quad-forum/article37081873.ece
20 October 2021||New Delhi,||Strategy meet discusses Chinese cyberattacks||The rising cyberattacks from China on critical installations was discussed at the National Security Strategies Conference chaired by Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday. The Madhya Pradesh police gave a presentation on various lacunae in the legal and administrative sphere that were an impediment in investigating such cases. The participants were told that while the Pakistani cyberattacks focused on stealing identity and personal data, the Chinese hackers were more sophisticated and they settled down in any network, striking at will. “There are several choke points that deter investigation, such as the origin of the message and from where the data packet was uploaded. The Minister agreed to expedite any legal framework required to plug the gaps,” said an official who attended the conference. Power centres targeted On March 1, the Union Power Ministry said the government thwarted “state-sponsored” Chinese hacker groups targeting various Indian power centres in November 2020 and February 2021. The U.S. cybersecurity and intelligence firm Recorded Future discovered that Chinese state-sponsored actors may have deployed malware into Indian power grids and seaports after border tensions between India-China began escalating in May 2020. The conference, an annual event held at the Intelligence Bureau headquarters, was attended by Director General of Police of all States and Directors-General of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF). The nine-hour conference was divided into separate sessions. A detailed discussion was also held on illegal migration and counter-terrorism measures. Islamic terrorism “The counter-terror session centred on Islamic terrorism. There was no mention of extremism involving other religions,” said the official. The session on undocumented migrants encapsulated the Rohingya migrant crisis. Rohingya, an ethnic group from Myanmar, mostly Muslims who faced persecution in the neighbouring country. have taken shelter in Bangladesh, India and Saudi Arabia since 2012. Though the Home Ministry informed Parliament last March that there was no accurate data on Rohingya, it had said there were around 40,000 Rohingya in India. The consequences of the Taliban taking over power in Afghanistan was not discussed at the meeting. An official said the topic would be discussed threadbare at the annual Director-General of Police (DGP) meet to be chaired by Prime Minister Narenda Modi later this year. The role of certain non-government organisations (NGOs) in stoking protests was also highlighted. “Deliberations were detailed and expansive, given the presence of all DGPs and DGs of CPFs. The conference deliberated on various internal security challenges and discussed ways to tackle them firmly,” the Home Ministry had tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/concern-over-chinese-cyberattacks/article37081845.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI/ CHANDIGARH,||Tomar met Nihang leader: Cong.||Photographs of a meeting between Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar and Baba Aman Singh, leader of the Nihang sect whose members have confessed to killing a young man at the Singhu border in Haryana’s Sonipat, has created a flutter in political circles. The Agriculture Ministry, however, made it clear that the meeting that was held in July this year was not an official meeting and took place at the residence of Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary. The photographs of the meeting show Mr. Tomar, Mr. Choudhary, Gurmeet Singh Pinki — a Punjab police officer who was dismissed from service and convicted for murder — and Baba Aman Singh together. “The photograph was taken at a meeting which took place in July at Mr. Choudhary’s residence, it was a courtesy meeting... As a politician, Mr. Tomar meets with a lot of people and his doors are always open to religious leaders,” a senior official told The Hindu . Conspiracy, says Cong. With the photographs going ‘viral’ on social media platforms, the Congress hit out at the BJP, demanding an explanation. Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Tuesday saw a deep-rooted conspiracy to defame the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Mr. Randhawa said the government will get to the bottom of the case and identify and expose the conspirators behind the incident. “In view of the recent disclosures about one of the Nihang leaders having already been in touch with the government of India, Minister for Agriculture N.S. Tomar in particular, the lynching incident has now taken an entirely different turn. The same Nihang leader is now defending the main accused for the killing. The victim belonged to Cheema Kalan village in Tarn Taran and was very poor. We need to find out who lured him to the Singhu border and who paid for his travel as he could not even afford his meals,” said Mr. Randhawa. Mr. Randhawa also asked in what capacity the Nihang leader had met the Minister and whether he was mandated to do so by the farmers’ organisations. “This has raised genuine doubts and suspicion in the minds of people which will need to be cleared and the Punjab government will do everything to expose and punish the culprits,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tomar-met-nihang-leader-cong/article37082037.ece
20 October 2021||New Delhi,||RJD, Congress divided over bypolls||The coming bypolls to two Assembly seats in Bihar have deeply divided allies Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress, with each sniping at the other after they decided to contest the elections on their own. The Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur Assembly seats fell vacant due to the death of the incumbent legislators. The Congress’s State in-charge Bhakta Charan Das even went to the extent of accusing the RJD of colluding with “communal forces”, without specifically naming the BJP. The RJD retorted that Mr. Das was completely unaware of the State’s political history and “drawing room politics” would not pay dividends. The RJD refused to concede Kusheshwar Asthan to the Congress, though the latter contested the seat in 2020. The Congress candidate, Ashok Kumar, lost by a little over 7,000 votes to the JD(U). “The alliance among the Congress, the RJD and the Left happened on the basis of secular, democratic and socialist ideals. The alliance was specifically to fight the communal forces. The obvious question that comes to mind is that if the RJD has broken the alliance, are they now with the communal forces,” Mr. Das asked, speaking to The Hindu . ‘An insult’ By refusing the Congress’s demand, Mr. Das noted that the RJD was insulting the other 19 Congress legislators who had been supporting them. “They are denying our very existence,” he added. In a sharp riposte, senior RJD leader and Rajya Sabha member Manoj K. Jha said Mr. Das’s comments were both unfortunate and tragically funny. The latter was betraying his lack of knowledge of Bihar’s political history, he said. “He obviously does not know about the sacrifices that Lalu ji and the RJD have made to fight communal forces. Lalu ji was the only Chief Minister in the country to stop the BJP’s rath yatra and arrest L.K. Advani. It’s unfortunate that no one even briefed him after he took charge of the State,” Mr. Jha observed. The Congress is hoping to utilise the opportunity to re-energise its cadre, who for long have played only a supporting role in the RJD-led alliance. To assert its seriousness about the task at hand, it appointed its secretaries Chandan Yadav and Ranjeet Ranjan as observers for the two seats. Made scapegoat Mr. Das said the Congress was wrongly blamed for not delivering in the 2020 Assembly polls. The RJD spared 70 seats for the Congress but the latter could only win 19 seats. “There were 26 seats, which the RJD had traditionally contested but palmed off to us just before the polls and obviously we couldn’t recover the seats. And there are 16 other seats where the RJD votes did not transfer to us. So, it is wrong to blame us for the Mahagatbandhan’s defeat,” Mr. Das stressed. So far, both sides have been careful not to brand the tensions as a divorce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rjd-congress-divided-over-bypolls/article37081856.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM orders drive to cut red tape||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has directed all government departments to have a fresh look at all existing processes and scrap unnecessary paperwork and compliances, as part of a special spring-cleaning exercise this month. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, in a recent missive to all Secretaries, has asked each department to weed out old files, clear all pending public grievances and references from MPs and States, while endeavouring to meet any assurances made to Parliament as part of a special campaign. In the course of disposing of such pending matters and references, “the existing processes may be reviewed with a view to reducing compliance burden, and unnecessary paperwork done away with, wherever feasible”. Mr. Gauba invoked the PM’s Independence Day address this year where Mr. Modi had emphasised the need to review rules and procedures on a continuing basis. To be monitored by the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) in the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, this special campaign to run till the end of October is based on the directions of the PM, the Cabinet Secretary conveyed. Secretaries have now been asked to monitor the progress on resolving pending issues on a daily basis and send a weekly report to the DARPG. “As you are well aware, timely and effective disposal of public grievances, references from MPs and State Governments, inter-ministerial consultations, parliamentary assurances, etc. is an important part of the work of Ministries and Departments. However, these issues sometimes do not receive the desired attention,” he noted. “During the special campaign, all out efforts may be made to dispose of the identified pending references, and do so in a meaningful manner,” Mr. Gauba emphasised, before reiterating instructions to ensure that offices are clean with a “good work environment”. ‘Temporary files’ Asking Departments to weed out files of “temporary nature”, the Cabinet Secretary has also urged them to review the period for which different records are retained. Files must neither be prematurely destroyed nor kept for periods longer than necessary. “Further, redundant scrap material and obsolete items may be discarded during this campaign to improve cleanliness at work places,” Mr. Gauba said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-orders-drive-to-cut-red-tape/article37081859.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The focus will be on economic cooperation’||The newly announced quadrilateral meeting between India, Israel, the UAE and the U.S. is a forum for economic cooperation for the moment, said Israel’s Deputy Chief of Mission Rony Yedidia-Clein , adding that more cooperation and high-level visits would follow as Israel and India mark 30 years of full diplomatic ties in 2022.  The big announcement after the bilateral meeting between External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Israel Foreign Minister Yair Lapid was the decision to resume negotiations on the Free Trade Agreement. There have been several attempts to do this since 2007; where do the blocks to the agreement lie? The struggle on both sides is on bureaucratic issues. Former Ambassador Ron Malka has gone from being Ambassador here to Director-General at the Ministry of the Economy, and maybe he’ll be able to push things forward since he has a personal interest in India. I think his counterparts here on the Indian side will also have an interest in pushing things forward. Will it be essentially an agreement on goods? Or will services be included in the FTA negotiations? We will have to see how that’s resolved. Israel is more interested in seeing it purely on goods. We have to see how the negotiations work out. I think [the deadline in 2022] will put a little bit more pressure on the two sides to, you know, make it work. Where did the idea for the India-Israel-UAE-U.S. quadrilateral come from and where is this headed? We understand that Minister Lapid was in the United States, and he had talks with his counterparts there. And the UAE Minister was also there at the time. So it came up in a conversation and they agreed on having some sort of a structure like that. Since India is such a close and important strategic partner and Dr. Jaishankar planned to visit the week after Mr. Lapid was in the U.S. I think it holds a lot of promise. India has a very constructive relationship with the UAE, it has a wonderful relationship with Israel. I think it also has a very, very good relationship with the United States as well. So, why not bring everything together, for the good of the citizens of four countries? And especially speaking of economics, here, I mean, we’re talking about ery huge opportunities in trade and all the different fronts. Does a quadrilateral like this also have a strategic purpose when it comes to West Asia? I think right now we’re talking more about the economic opportunities here and less about the strategic ones. The U.S. State Department spokesperson spoke about the quadrilateral being an area for economic and political coordination. Now UAE by its own admission already plays a role in mediating talks between India and Pakistan. Do you see a role for India in the Middle East [Israel-Palestine] peace process? I wouldn’t rule it out, but I don’t know if there is any specific role right now. Israel will participate at the Dubai Expo, where India has a pavilion as well. Will there be discussions on avenues for India-Israel-UAE trilateral cooperation, and in what fields? Well, I think we can see [trilateral cooperation] in a number of different fields. We’re talking about water, we’re talking about agricultural opportunities, we’re talking about health opportunities. The fact that India and Israel have neighbouring pavilions at Dubai at the Expo, and we already have joint events there with Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), will help to organise these events. So the opportunities are there, and we [will] leave it to the private sector to develop these.  We’re talking about water, we’re talking about agricultural opportunities, we’re talking about health opportunities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-focus-will-be-on-economic-cooperation/article37081871.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||INSACOG to track SARS-CoV-2 in sewage||The decline in daily new infections across India has prompted INSACOG, the consortium of labs focused on sequencing coronavirus variants, to “prioritise” new surveillance approaches. In a bulletin dated October 11, but made public on Monday, INSACOG (India SARS-CoV-2 Genome Consortium) notes: “In view of currently declining cases and importance of early detection of increased transmission in the future, INSACOG will prioritise developing and expanding a SARS-CoV-2 sewage surveillance program.” The CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, which is also part of the INSACOG network, has since early 2020 been collecting sewage from large drains in cities to check for the presence of the virus. Because a large fraction of those afflicted by the virus are asymptomatic but are carriers of infection, their body fluids and stool often contain traces of the virus. Finding large proportions of it in public drains can often be a precursor to a fresh outbreak, with a rise in symptomatic infections. A study on these lines in Hyderabad had estimated that nearly 6% of the city may have been exposed to the virus from March to August 2020. India has been observing a steady decline in new infections with a seven-day average of 16,000 cases a day. The all-time low, since the first wave abated in February, was around 11,000 daily. It was after this decline that the second wave started, primarily led by the emergence of new variants such as Alpha, Kappa and Delta. “Delta (B.1.617.2 and AY.x) continues to be the main VOC (Variant of Concern) in India. No new VOI (Variant of Interest) or VOC are noted in India,” the communique noted. As of last week, 1,04,441 coronavirus samples have been sequenced for their genetic structure, though the bulk of these are from two States: Maharashtra and Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/insacog-to-track-sars-cov-2-in-sewage/article37081867.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fight club: a debt of Rs. 3,000 and half a century of litigation||The Supreme Court has signed off a hard-fought, five-rounder litigation which dates back half a century regarding a debt of Rs. 3,000. “We wish this will be the knock-out round,” Justice V. Ramasubramanian, who authored the judgment for a Bench led by Justice Hemant Gupta, conveyed the top court’s fervent hope in the very first paragraph of the 22-page verdict. The court compared the habit of the litigants to bounce back after every failed round to King Vikramaditya’s relentless pursuit to capture the ghost, Betal. The tireless king “Not to be put off by repeated failures, the appellants herein, like the tireless Vikramaditya, who made repeated attempts to capture Betal, started the present round and hopefully the final round,” Justice Ramasubranian observed while tracing the labyrinthine history of the case. The dispute dates back to 1971 between Rama Rani Devi and Sasadhar Biswas before the munsif court in West Bengal. The subject of their dispute was the Rs. 3,000 Biswas owed Devi. In 1974, the munsif directed Mr. Biswas to pay Ms. Devi the amount in six equal instalments. However, the munsif’s decree was not honoured. Ms. Devi moved the court for execution of the decree through attachment and sale of 7,450 sq.ft belonging to Mr. Biswas to realise her debt. The civil court agreed. However, Mr. Biswas challenged the sale, which was dismissed in 1975. An auction was held in 1979. Two brothers, Sachindra Nath Mukherjee and Dulal Kanti Mukherjee, became the highest bidders. They deposited Rs. 5,500 in court. Mr. Biswas, in July 1980, reached a compromise with the brothers who agreed to revoke their bid provided he paid them their “entire money” by December 1980. Mr. Biswas deposited Rs. 3,700 but the brothers had paid more. The brothers and Mr. Biswas had a falling out. The former went to court against Mr. Biswas. The dispute reached the Supreme Court in 1992 and the case against Mr. Biswas was dismissed. Years pass The second round was kick-started with a suit to declare the auction sale void. However, this effort was aborted. The third round concerned the issuance of the sale certificate. This came to an end in 2001. The fourth round followed when the purchasers moved the civil court for delivery of possession of the land. This round went on till 2006 until the Supreme Court dismissed a review petition challenging the delivery of the property. In the fifth and present round, the Biswas family members raised the ‘bogey’ of “jurisdictional error” to avoid delivery of the property to the Mukherjees. Rejecting the Biswas family’s appeal, the court observed that they have “now exhausted almost all provisions available” to stall the delivery of the property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fight-club-a-debt-of-rs-3000-and-half-a-century-of-litigation/article37081838.ece
20 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘India, Russia face common threats from Afghanistan’||India and Russia face “common threats” emanating from Afghanistan, said India’s outgoing Ambassador to Russia, confirming India’s presence at the “Moscow format” meeting, which will include the Taliban Deputy Prime Minister, on Wednesday, and a meeting of National Security Advisers in Delhi in November, where NSAs of China and Pakistan are also invited. “The situation in Afghanistan poses similar problems in terms of instability, drug trafficking, terrorism threat, and also the instability that may radiate towards Central Asia,” Ambassador Venkatesh Verma, who is set to return to Delhi shortly, said in a “farewell interview” to the Kommersant daily. “Both sides recognise common threats emanating from Afghanistan affect India and Russia — probably more than any other set of countries,” he added. The Moscow format meet will see an official Indian delegation led by Joint Secretary for Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran J.P. Singh, and Joint Secretary for Eurasia Adarsh Swaika participate for the first time. Officials from 10 countries, including Taliban Deputy PM Abdul Salam Hanafi, will attend the meeting, though the US, whose special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad resigned on Monday, has announced that it will not participate due to “logistical difficulties”. Military situation During the meeting, which will be addressed by Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, the Russian Foreign Ministry said the participants would “discuss prospects for development of the military-political situation in Afghanistan and the formation of an inclusive government”, adding that a separate meeting of Russia, China and Pakistan took place in Moscow on Tuesday. Ambassador Verma also confirmed an upcoming meeting of the Russia-India-China (RIC) trilateral via a videoconference format soon, amid a slew of Russia-India bilateral engagements towards the end of the year. “Unfortunately, due to the COVID pandemic, we could not have a summit in 2020. It is our intention and both sides are in active discussion on this, that President Putin will be able to visit India towards the end of this year,” Mr. Verma said, adding that there would be a visit by Russian Defence Minister Sergey Shoigu for the intergovernmental defence commission, along with the “2+2” format meetings of Defence and Foreign Ministers as well as an Economic Joint Commission to prepare for the bilateral summit. The Ambassador also confirmed that the S-400 missile systems were “on track” for delivery in December this year. Asked about the possibility of U.S. reservations over the deal, which Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman called “dangerous” and “not in anyone’s interest” earlier this month, Mr. Verma said India “stands on its own feet, thinks with its own mind and pursues its own interests.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-russia-face-common-threats-from-afghanistan/article37081842.ece
20 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Singhu Dalit murder: ensure ‘bhog’ rituals, Akal Takht told||National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) Chairman Vijay Sampla has asked Giani Harpreet Singh, chief priest of the Akal Takht — the highest Sikh temporal seat — to ensure that the ‘bhog’ ceremony of Lakhbir Singh, who was allegedly murdered in Haryana’s Sonipat, is performed as per the Sikh code of living. Mr. Sampla, in a letter to Mr. Singh, said, “You must be aware of the brutal murder of Lakhbir Singh. You must have also got the information that some people, especially the members of Satkar committee, objected to the victim’s cremation as per Sikh rituals, citing sacrilege of Sri Guru Granth Sahib. However, in the viral video, the culprits and other people can be seen saying Lakhbir Singh had disrespected the Sikh holy book but in reality, no video has surfaced on the social media or news organisations which can prove that Lakhbir Singh did the sacrilege.” Mr. Sampla said Lakhbir Singh should not be stated as ‘guilty’ until the police investigation proved the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/singhu-dalit-murder-ensure-bhog-rituals-akal-takht-told/article37081857.ece
20 October 2021||Guwahati,||Bhaskarabda to be added to official calendar of Assam||Bhaskarabda, an era counted from the date of the ascension of a seventh century local ruler, will be added to Saka and Gregorian eras in the official calendar of the Assam Government. This was decided at a meeting that Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma held with officials of the General Administration Department on October 18. Bhaskarabda began when Bhaskaravarman was crowned ruler of the Kamrupa kingdom. He was a contemporary and political ally of northern Indian ruler Harshavardhana. “We have decided that in addition to Saka and Gregorian, Bhaskarabda will be used in the official calendar by the Assam Government. We have also decided to have a theme-based calendar every year,” Mr. Sarma said. The themes, he said, could be wildlife, plants, culture, cuisine and other aspects of Assam. Unlike Gregorian, where a day starts at midnight, the Assamese calendar begins and ends at sunrise over 24 hours. While the Gregorian goes by the solar cycle, the Saka and Bhaskarabda eras use a lunisolar system based on both the phases of the moon and the solar year. The gap between Bhaskarabda and Gregorian is 593 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhaskarabda-to-be-added-to-official-calendar-of-assam/article37081869.ece
20 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Ride triples when petrol hits Rs. 200 a litre’||Assam BJP unit president Bhabesh Kalita has reportedly said the State Government will consider allowing three persons to ride a two-wheeler after the petrol price touches Rs. 200 a litre. He also predicted that the price of edible oil, now about Rs. 250 a litre, will fall after the harvesting of mustard in the State. A former Minister who was appointed party State chief in June,  Mr. Kalita said fuel price rise was inevitable because of an increase in crude oil prices in the international market. However, during an event in northern Assam’s Tamulpur on October 18, he advised the people to avoid using luxury cars to save fuel and use two-wheelers to commute. “I suggest tripling on two-wheelers when petrol sells at Rs. 200 a litre. When that happens, we can take the Government’s permission to allow three people on one motorcycle or even manufacture two-wheelers with three seats,” Mr. Kalita said. Petrol and diesel prices stood at Rs. 101.97 and Rs. 94.43 in Assam on Tuesday. The Congress ridiculed Mr. Kalita’s “insensitivity” to the difficulties being faced by the people because of the domino effect of the fuel prices on essential goods. “Whether he meant to be funny or was serious, his comment conveys the deep disrespect the BJP has to the issues being faced by the common people,” said Bobbeeta Sharma, media chairperson of the Congress in Assam. She reminded Mr. Kalita of the protests the BJP staged in 2013 when the prices were much cheaper. The Assam BJP president also said he was hopeful of mustard oil becoming cheaper. “It is a matter of time.” In Meghalaya, several organisations demanded the slashing of the value-added tax and other levies on fuel to bring down prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ride-triples-when-petrol-hits-rs-200-a-litre/article37081875.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Yadadri temple re-dedication on Mar. 28||Proposing gold plating of the Vimana Gopuram, the structure which rests above the sanctum sanctorum, akin to Tirumala temple,with 125 kg of gold, KCR urged people of Telangana to own the temple and said all villages in the State could donate for the exercise. The gold plating work are estimated to cost Rs. 65 crore and will be assigned to experts who had worked on the Tirumala temple. “Even if it is a contribution of Rs. 11 per village, all villages should participate,” he said, announcing donation of rupees equivalent for one kilogram and 16 tolas of gold as his family’s contribution. Mr. Rao informed that several Ministers and leaders have already announced their donations for the temple. Gold would be purchased from the Reserve Bank of India and the complete exercise would be performed under the supervision of a designated committee. The Chief Minister said free bus service for devotees and a separate bus stand at a cost of Rs. 6.90 crore, re-allocations for shopkeepers who lost their businesses, underground drainage and storm water management as a special project will be taken up immediately. Work to build 250 cottages with four suites each, with donations of up to Rs. 2 crore each, as part of the phase-I layout in the temple town are also being taken up, Mr. Rao added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yadadri-temple-re-dedication-on-mar-28/article37082500.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||EU food recall linked to GM rice from India||When candy giant Mars Wrigley carried out a mass recall of several batches of its Crispy M&Ms across Europe this August, it was due to the use of one ingredient: rice flour with genetically modified (GM) contamination that allegedly originated in India, according to notifications on the European Commission’s rapid alert system. However, the Commerce Ministry pointed out that GM rice is not grown commercially in India, let alone exported, and promised a thorough enquiry by its agricultural exports authority. The Ministry alleged that the case was a “futile conspiracy to malign the image of India as a reliable food security provider”. Worried farmers’ groups and environmental activists, however, noted that multiple GM rice varieties had been approved for confined field trials, and warned that any cross-contamination could dampen the country’s agricultural export ambitions. India’s annual rice exports amount to 18 million tonnes worth Rs. 65,000 crore, and reach more than 75 countries, according to the Ministry. According to the European Commission’s Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed, 500 tonnes of broken rice imported from India and converted into rice flour by a French company named Westhove was flagged during a regular check. On June 21, France issued a notification for unauthorised genetically modified rice flour, identifying India as the point of origin. Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States were alerted as possible destinations of products made with the flour. In a statement on August 4, Mars Wrigley announced that it was recalling four packaging sizes of its Crispy M&Ms product with two affected best-before dates. According to German NGO site Informationdienst Gentechnik, the European Commission announced that 144 tonnes of the contaminated rice flour had been processed by Mars, while more flour went into 11 types of baked goods manufactured in Italy and further distributed to other countries, all of which were recalled. Commerce Ministry spokesperson D.J. Narain said that the whole issue appeared to be “infructuous”. He pointed out that “the GM ingredient may have been added in Europe to cut costs, not in India where commercial GM cultivation is banned. The quantity involved is too big to have come from leaked output from controlled trial cultivation.” However, he also added that “APEDA is collecting all the details and will enquire every aspect of it thoroughly with the technical and scientific institutions like GEAC and strictest form of action will be taken accordingly.” Farmers groups say the issue of cross contamination from field trials has been raised previously. “The issue with GM field trials is that once they take place, they can contaminate crops long after the actual trials either directly or through seed leakages,” said a letter from the Coalition for GM-Free India, sent on Tuesday to authorities at the Environment, Agriculture and Commerce Ministries. It pointed to a 2006 case, where a Bayer food trial contaminated rice and seeds in the U.S., leading to a plunge in exports from that country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eu-food-recall-linked-to-gm-rice-from-india/article37081839.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Killings spark migrant flight from Kashmir||Meanwhile, as the counter-insurgency operation in the forest belt of Jammu and Kashmir’s twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri entered the ninth day, public announcements were made from local mosques in the Mendhar area asking residents to stay indoors, officials said, as the security forces were preparing a final assault. As per rough estimates, three to four lakh migrant labourers — most of them Hindus from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand — come to the Valley every year in early March for skilled and unskilled jobs such as masonry, carpentry, welding and farming, and return before the onset of winter in November. But the selective killings over the last fortnight have triggered panic, forcing them to leave earlier. On Sunday, two labourers from Bihar were gunned down when terrorists barged into their accommodation in Kulgam district, taking the number of civilians killed in targeted attacks in Jammu and Kashmir this month to 11. Another labourer sustained bullet injuries. “There is grave fear and terror after the killings of labourers. This has never happened in the past. So we fled the Valley to save our lives and also our children,” Santosh Kumar of Bihar's Sitamarhi district said. A brick kiln worker in the Rajpora area of Pulwama district, Kumar said most of those fleeing are scared as there is no guarantee of their security. Army chief General M.M. Naravane visited forward areas along the LoC in Jammu region on Tuesday and was briefed on the ground situation in the region and ongoing counter-infiltration operations, officials said here. Gen. Naravane arrived in Jammu on a two-day visit on Monday amid a spurt in targeted attacks on civilians by terrorists in the Valley and an ongoing counter-insurgency operation where nine soldiers have been killed over the past week. Eight suspected persons including a mother-son duo were detained for questioning from Bhatta Durrian in connection with providing logistic support to the terrorists. However, it is to be seen whether the support was given voluntarily or under duress, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/killings-spark-migrant-exodus-from-kashmir/article37081840.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Uttarakhand rain toll touches 47||Director General of Police Ashok Kumar, who accompanied the Chief Minister on his visit to Kumaon, said roads, bridges and railway tracks have been damaged in Kathgodam and Lalkuan in Nainital and Rudrapur in Udham Singh Nagar district. Around 100 people stranded at the Lemon Tree resort on the Ramnagar-Ranikhet route after water from the swollen Kosi river entered the resort were later evacuated to safety.  While Mr. Dhami reiterated his appeal to Chardham Yatra pilgrims to stay where they are and not to resume their journeys before the weather improves, a Devasthanam Board official said the yatra to Yamunotri in Uttarkashi has resumed with a record 2,381 pilgrims visiting the Himalayan temple on Tuesday. The State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) said most rivers in the State were in spate. The water level in the Ganga in Haridwar has reached 293.90 metres, just a notch below the danger mark of 294 metres. Kali and Saryu rivers in Pithoragarh have reached the danger marks of 890 metres and 453 metres respectively. The Gori river is flowing close to the danger mark at 606.75 metres, the SEOC said. Nainital received 90 mm rainfall, Haldwani 128 mm, Koshyakutoli 86.6 mm, Almora 216. 6 mm, Dwarahot 184 mm and Jageshwar 176 mm, the SEOC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rain-claims-23-more-lives-in-uttarakhand/article37081846.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Amarinder Singh to launch his own party||“The battle for Punjab’s future is on. Will soon announce the launch of my own political party to serve the interests of Punjab & its people, including our farmers who’ve been fighting for their survival for over a year,” said Capt. Singh, as quoted by his media adviser Raveen Thukral on Twitter. In another tweet, he said, “Hopeful of a seat arrangement with @BJP4India in 2022 Punjab Assembly polls if #FarmersProtest is resolved in farmers’ interest. Also looking at alliance with like-minded parties such as breakaway Akali groups, particularly Dhindsa & Brahmpura factions” “I will not rest till I can secure the future of my people and my state. Punjab needs political stability and protection from internal & external threats. I promise my people I will do what it takes to ensure peace and security, which is today at stake,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-singh-to-launch-his-own-party/article37082035.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central trade unions ask PM to roll back AI sale||Ten Central trade unions on Tuesday wrote a joint letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop the sale of Air India to the Tatas and roll back what they termed the “policy of selling national assets”. They said the people of the country, and the employees of Air India in particular, were unhappy with the recently announced sale of the national carrier. “By selling Air India by hook or by crook (because it is slowly emerging that it has been sold for a song), the Government has tried to cover up its misdeeds,” the letter stated, while listing out decisions in the past that had left Air India in a precarious financial position. The unions stressed that the sale of Air India offered greater avenues for profitability to the new owners, with 141 aircraft, a well-trained workforce, and 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international slots at Indian airports and 900 abroad. “This sale of Air India to Tatas facilitates an oligopoly. The combined revenues of the three airlines — Air India, Vistara and Air Asia— amounted to Rs. 40,500 crore in 2020, out of the total revenues of the entire industry amounting to Rs. 95,700 crore, i.e. 42.32%,,” the letter noted. There was no clarity on the future of the 14,000 employees of the airline, who were praised for their service during the COVID-19 lockdown, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/roll-back-ai-sale-say-trade-unions/article37081851.ece
20 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan reels under DAP fertilizer shortage||Rajasthan continues to reel under an acute shortage of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) fertilizer, which has adversely affected the sowing of rabi crops, especially mustard and gram, in an estimated 50 lakh hectare area. The State Government has made a request to the Centre to make available 1.1 lakh tonnes of DAP during October. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who reviewed the availability of fertilizers here on Tuesday, said he had drawn Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s attention in a letter about the difficulties being faced by farmers. Mr. Gehlot said DAP was supplied only by the Union Government. Against the demand for 1.5 lakh tonnes in the State in October, 68,000 tonnes has been approved by the Centre. Of that, only 60,000 tonnes have been received so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-reels-under-dap-fertilizer-shortage/article37081852.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Niira Radia served notice in loan fraud case||The Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing has served notice on Niira Radia and other promoters and directors of Nayati Healthcare and Research NCR Pvt Ltd to join investigation in connection with the alleged embezzlement of over Rs. 300 crore of bank loans, the police said on Tuesday. Ms. Radia and others have been asked to appear before the police next week. Three persons, identified as Yateesh Wahaal, Satish Kumar Narula and Rahul Singh Yadav, have been arrested for misappropriation of crores of rupees. According to the police, a complaint was filed by orthopaedic surgeon Rajeev Kumar Sharma against M/s Naarayani Investment Pvt Ltd., holding company of M/s Nayati Healthcare and Research NCR Pvt Ltd. and its promoters and directors Niira Radia, her sister Karuna Menon, Satish Narula and Yateesh Wahaal and others. Dr. Sharma alleged that Naarayani had borrowed more than Rs. 600 crore from various sources, including DHFL, and invested Rs. 311 crore for acquiring a majority stake in Nayati Healthcare NCR. After taking over management of the new entity, Naarayani and the four individuals got a loan of over Rs. 300 crore from Yes Bank for the development of a Gurgaon hospital, but they siphoned off and embezzled the loan amount using fictitious transactions, Dr Sharma alleged. He added that the accused also borrowed Rs. 60 crore from Yes Bank for another hospital project, but embezzled that as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/niira-radia-served-notice-in-loan-fraud-case/article37081836.ece
20 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||BSF issue yet another jolt to Punjab: Minister||The Union Government’s decision to enhance the powers of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Punjab is yet another jolt to the State, according to the State’s Technical Education Minister, Rana Gurjeet Singh. ‘Pass a resolution’ Mr. Singh on Tuesday said he would request Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to convene a one-day session of the Assembly to pass a resolution and to take up the matter with the Centre to reconsider the BSF jurisdiction extension and also lead a delegation of all stakeholders for a meeting with the Prime Minister. The State’s agriculture sector, especially in the border area, was already under stress and extension of the BSF jurisdiction would further add to their difficulties, he stated. “There is a dire need to reconsider the jurisdiction issue in concurrence with the State and grant special incentives on a par with the northeastern States,” Rana Gurjeet Singh remarked. On Monday, Chief Minister Channi declared that his government would not accept the Centre’s decision on the BSF’s jurisdiction, which he termed was “against the spirit of federalism.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsf-issue-yet-another-jolt-to-punjab-minister/article37081861.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||T.N. fisherman drowns after boat rams Sri Lankan vessel||When they were fishing in waters close to the IMBL near Katchatheevu, a Sri Lankan patrol vessel intercepted their boat. On noticing the authorities, the fishermen reportedly tried to escape. But the Sri Lankan personnel managed to detain Suganthan and Arockia Xavier. In the melee, Rajkiran fell into the sea. M. Chinnakuppan, Assistant Director of Fisheries, Pudukottai, told The Hindu that he had received communication that Rajkiran’s body had been recovered from the sea, and it had been taken to Kankesanthurai for post-mortem examination. “The information has been conveyed to his family. Steps are under way to bring back his body as early as possible,” he said. However, the Sri Lankan Navy on Tuesday evening said the body had not been found, and the search operation was still on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tn-fisherman-drowns-after-boat-rams-sri-lankan-vessel/article37082182.ece
20 October 2021||BHOPAL,||M.P. to launch probe into Ramleela skit||The Madhya Pradesh Government is planning to conduct a legal enquiry into a video clip of a Ramleela skit, staged by some students of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, which it found offensive. The skit, performed on the occasion of Dasara, sparked criticism after which the institute’s student body issued an apology. “The video clip of Delhi AIIMS Ramleela skit is very offensive. I will tell the officers to conduct legal inquiry,” Madhya Pradesh Minister for Home, Jail and Parliamentary Affairs and Law Narottam Mishra tweeted in Hindi. The AIIMS administration had a discussion with the students on the matter and clarified that the skit was not part of any official activity or event and the students had organised it on their own. The AIIMS Student Association tweeted an apology. According to media reports, the skit was performed by some first-year MBBS students near the hostel quadrangle on the AIIMS campus on the occasion of Dasara. A video clip of the event shared on social media later sparked criticism and with demands for action against the students for “disrespectful portrayal” of religious figures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-to-launch-probe-into-ramleela-skit/article37081874.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||UN urged to stop attacks in Bangladesh||The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Tuesday called for the United Nations to send a peacekeeping force to Bangladesh in the wake of attacks on Hindus in that country. Addressing a press conference here, VHP joint general secretary Surendra Jain compared the attacks to the “brutality of the Nazis”. The VHP also called on Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to ensure security for the minority Hindu community. “It is the clear view of the VHP that due to the Islamic character of Bangladesh, the governments there have not only been looking the other way when Hindus are attacked, but also proving to be the motivators and patrons of the radical Islamists. They cannot get out of the clutches of fundamentalists without declaring Bangladesh a secular country instead of an Islamic country,” the VHP statement read. He announced that a demonstration would be held outside the Bangladesh High Commission here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/un-must-stop-attacks-in-bangladesh-says-vhp/article37081833.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC bats for eyewitness testimony||Delay on the part of terrified eyewitnesses to record their statements about crimes is not a ground for rejecting their testimonies, the Supreme Court has said in a judgment. The case concerns the brutal murder of a fish seller at Malda in West Bengal a decade ago. The accused were sentenced to life in prison. The Calcutta High Court confirmed their guilt in 2019. They, in turn, appealed the decision in the Supreme Court. They argued that the case hinged on the testimonies of two eyewitnesses whose statements were recorded late and, thus, cannot be trusted. Their lawyer argued that there was no explanation on why they had delayed coming forward to give their statements. The delay was fatal to the case. However, a three-judge Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit dismissed their appeal. The court, instead, agreed with the submissions made by the State of West Bengal, represented by advocate Liz Mathew, that the accused had spread terror in the locality of the murder. They had systematically robbed fish sellers of the area. “The terror unleashed by the accused was of such magnitude that the witnesses had fled in fear. It was only after the appropriate steps were taken by the investigating machinery, including the arrest of the accused, that the witnesses came forward,” the court referred to the submissions made by Ms. Mathew for the State. The court clarified that delay cannot be used to deny veracity to the testimony of the eyewitnesses if it could be adequately explained. “The factum of delay by itself cannot result in rejection of their testimonies. The material on record definitely establishes the fear created by the accused. If the witnesses felt terrorised and frightened and did not come forward for some time, the delay in recording their statements stood adequately explained,” the court concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-bats-for-eyewitness-testimony/article37082034.ece
20 October 2021||Mumbai,||Sena leader moves SC against NCB official||Shiv Sena leader Kishore Tiwari has approached the Supreme Court seeking a judicial investigation against an official at the Narcotics Control Bureau in Mumbai for allegedly targeting select film celebrities and a few models for the past two years. Mr. Tiwari termed the arrest of actor Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan on a cruise ship a violation of his fundamental right.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sena-leader-moves-sc-against-ncb-official/article37081848.ece
20 October 2021||Patna,||Bihar BJP MLA seeks arm licences for outsiders in J&K||In the wake of the attacks on Bihari migrants in Kashmir, BJP MLA from Barh Gyanendra Singh Gyanu on Tuesday said the Centre should provide arms licences to non-local residents in Jammu and Kashmir so that they could defend themselves. Mr. Gyanu said, “When terrorism was peaking in Punjab, people were given licences to own AK-47 rifles, and the same can be done in J&K as well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-bjp-mla-seeks-arm-licences-for-outsiders-in-jk/article37081849.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI books two more persons for allegedly circulating child sexual abuse material online||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked two persons for circulating child sexual abuse material through social media. The first accused, Dharani P., of Vellore in Tamil Nadu, was creating or downloading digital images and sharing them via two phone numbers and three email IDs since June 2020. In the second case, Kratarth Kanungo, from Ghaziabad, created an Instagram account and circulated sexually explicit images of children since April last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-two-more-persons-for-allegedly-circulating-child-sexual-abuse-material-online/article37081850.ece
20 October 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||17-year-old school student ends life in Ariyalur||A 17-year-old girl student of Kadugur in Ariyalur district ended her life allegedly after a few youths harassed her with display of obscene pictures. According to sources, a group of youths harassed her by showing objectionable pictures when she went to a private school a few days ago, where she was studying Class XII. She brought the issue to the notice of her parents, who, in turn, questioned the trouble mongers. But, they continued to trouble her. Another youth too sent an objectionable message to her a few days ago. Besides it, they also confronted the girl’s father and picked up a quarrel with him for questioning them. Following this, her father lodged a complaint with Kayarlabath police station a few days ago. Since the girl’s father was not satisfied with the action taken by the police, he also sent petitions to the Superintendent of Police and the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi. The girl, who was seen depressed over the issue, was admitted to a government hospital here on Monday after attempting to end to her life. She died on Tuesday. Protest against delay Alleging that the girl took the extreme step due to the inordinate delay in taking action against the culprits, relatives, friends and residents of Kadugur resorted to road roko near Anna statue in Ariyalur. They also refused to accept the body after post mortem. After several rounds of negotiation, the agitators gave up the protest and received the body. The Kayarlabath police have registered a case over her death and have detained two persons in connection with it. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-year-old-school-student-ends-life-in-ariyalur/article37082206.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Commuters want e-ticketing options back on public transport||One of the COVID-19 prevention norms for public transport is maintaining physical distancing with minimal interactions. While digital transactions for issuing tickets can be handy, public transport systems in the city, including the suburban trains, dish out printed tickets rather than enhancing the digital mode. The Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC), which migrated to issuing bus tickets through electronic ticketing machines (ETMs) years before the pandemic, has discontinued the system and has gone back to the old format of issuing printed tickets to commuters. The MTC had started using ETMs based on complaints from commuters about conductors using saliva to issue tickets. Also, conductors were relieved of keeping tabs of the collections at different stages and the hassle of manually counting the amount to tally with the collection book at the end of the day. S. Arulmani, a public transport user from Medavakkam, wanted the MTC to go back to the old system of issuing e-tickets at the earliest. He also pointed out the quality of tickets being printed has come down. MTC officials said the usage of the ETMs were stopped after the contract with the vendor came to an end. Moreover, the MTC was unable to proceed with a new contract as a court case was pending regarding the selection of vendors for purchasing new ETMs. Even the Southern Railway, which has one of the best ticketing applications for suburban commuting in the country, has put out restrictions for using the Unreserved Ticketing System (UTS) app during peak hours, when crowding is at its worst. This forced commuters to purchase tickets at the counters, leading to long queues in some railway stations and resulting in physical distancing norms being flouted, passengers said. The Railway Board has directed the Southern Railway to remove all travel restrictions for common public to travel in suburban trains even during peak hours, with the only condition that commuters must produce a vaccination certificate. Southern Railway officials said allowing the general public with two-dosage vaccination certificates to travel during peak hours was a decision taken at the divisional level. But linking of digital vaccination certificates with the UTS app was not within the purview of the division, as the ticketing application was a broad-based software serving the entire country, they said. Presently tickets are issued upon showing the certificate at the counter, either digitally or as a hard copy, an official said. He also pointed out that once unreserved tickets in express trains are permitted, the UTS app will be enabled round-the-clock. B. Guganesan, Chief Public Relations Officer of Southern Railway, said the Centre for Railway Information Systems (CRIS) was working on linking the digital vaccination certificate with the UTS app for hassle free travel in the future. He said the commercial staff in the ticket counters had been directed to follow the issuing of train tickets strictly as per the protocols issued by the Railway Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commuters-want-e-ticketing-options-back-on-public-transport/article37082113.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 1,179 fresh cases, 16 fatalities||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday recorded 1,179 fresh COVID-19 cases. Chennai and Coimbatore continued to see a rise in cases — while Chennai accounted for 156 cases, Coimbatore saw 127. The State’s tally touched 26,89,463. At present, 14,326 people are under treatment, and three districts — Chennai, Chengalpattu and Coimbatore — account for 4,357 active cases. As many as 1,407 people were discharged after treatment, taking the figure to 26,39,209. Another 16 people succumbed to the infection, pushing the toll to 35,928. While five persons died in private facilities, 11 died in government hospitals. Chennai recorded three deaths. Two persons each died in Tiruppur and Tiruchi. Coimbatore, Namakkal, the Nilgiris, Salem, Sivaganga, Tiruvarur, Tirunelveli and Vellore districts logged one death each. Two of the deceased had no co-morbidity. One of them was a 58-year-old man from Villupuram, who was admitted on October 9 to a private hospital, with fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for five days. He tested positive on October 12 and died on Monday due to COVID-19 pneumonia. The oldest among the deceased was an 87-year-old man from Chennai. He was admitted on October 7 to a private hospital with fever, cough and difficulty in breathing. He tested positive on October 17. The severely hypertensive octagenerian died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia.  As many as 1,66,866 people were vaccinated. They included 98,228 people in the 18-44 age group and 53,293 peopel aged 45 to 59. With this, the State has vaccinated 5,12,46,870 people so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-1179-fresh-cases-16-fatalities/article37081933.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin reviews construction of desalination plant||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday inspected the site in Nemmeli, Chengalpattu district, where a 150 mld desalination plant is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 1,259 crore. He also visited another seawater desalination plant with a capacity of 100 mld, on the same campus, on East Coast Road. During his visit, Mr. Stalin reviewed the construction of an intake sump, product water tank, product water pumping station, ultra filter and the reverse osmosis process and a sludge thickener, among others — all integral components of the desalination plant — and instructed officials to complete the construction by April 2023, an official release said. The Chief Minister also visited Muttukadu, and inspected ongoing work towards the laying of pipelines from the plant to Pallavaram. As per the plan, water from the 150 mld plant will be supplied to the southern parts of Chennai such as Alandur, Keelkattalai, Kovilambakkam, Madipakkam, Medavakkam, Moovarasampettai, Nanmangalam, Sholinganallur, St. Thomas Mount, Ullagaram-Puzhuthivakkam, Velachery and areas on the IT corridor, benefiting around nine lakh people. The foundation stone for the 150 mld desalination plant was laid in 2019. Construction is expected to be completed by April 2023. The project is being implemented under the AMRUT scheme, with financial assistance from KfW (German Development Bank). Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan, Minister for Municipal Administration and Water Supply (MAWS) K.N. Nehru, MAWS Secretary Shiv Das Meena, CMWSSB Managing Director C. Vijayaraj Kumar, Chengalpattu Collector A.R. Rahul Nadh and CMWSSB Executive Director P. Akash were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-reviews-construction-of-desalination-plant/article37081930.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Finding a way forward together during tough times||Last March, like thousands of others, when 34-year-old Charles Edward Xavier, an IT professional in a leading firm, lost his job, he felt crushed and lost. Around the same time, his childhood friend Dinesh Kumar, who worked as a human resources professional in a leading five-star hotel in the city, also lost his job. “Our minds seemed shrouded with uncertainty, and we did not know the way forward. That’s when six of us, who did not have jobs, decided to turn into reality one of our casual discussions about running a restaurant. Subsequently, I used a part of my savings and bought a vehicle, customised it and obtained the necessary permissions, and by October, we had started a food truck in Tiruvallur,” Mr. Kumar says. ‘Running well’ Today, a year later, the food truck named ‘Thaayin Koodu Jigiri Dosth’ has been running fairly well, with no one regretting the decision. In a few weeks, they plan to put one more truck on the road. “Initially, it seemed tough. Used to working in an air-conditioned room, it was tough standing under a tin roof in the scorching heat. I’m also earning only half of what I used to. Yet, I continue to do this because it is immensely satisfying to work with friends. From Rs. 5 to Rs. 50, anyone can afford our food. A part of our earnings goes to an old age home that Mr. Kumar runs. It feels satisfying in more ways than one,” Mr. Xavier says. With idli, pongal, poori and vadai  for breakfast, a variety of rice items for lunch, and biryani, chilli chicken, noodles and kothu parotta for dinner, the truck draws a good crowd everyday, says S. Jeyamaan, the chef. “ Parotta and Madurai salna and muttai kalaki are popular items. I consider cooking and serving food sacred, and the work I have done in the past year has been immensely satisfying,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/finding-a-way-forward-together-during-tough-times/article37082120.ece
20 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Bulgaria offers help in Defence Industrial Corridor project||The Ambassador of Bulgaria to India, Eleonora Dimitrova, has indicated that her country is open to providing support to Tamil Nadu in the Defence Industrial Corridor project. “We have expertise in the defence sector, and can help if needed,” she told The Hindu during her first visit to the State on Tuesday. The Ambassador was here to strengthen the economic, business and cultural ties between Bulgaria and Tamil Nadu. “We will be meeting State government officials and explaining to them what we can offer,” she said, adding that Bulgaria was a top destination for investments and expansions. According to details provided by the Indo-Asia Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce, the country has the lowest corporate and personal tax rate of 10% amongst all the EU countries. And the bilateral trade between India and Bulgaria stood at $295 million in 2020-2021. India exported goods worth $170 million to Bulgaria while imports were $125 million. Bulgaria is also an attractive place for youngsters to come and study, the Ambassador noted. She highlighted that the country has both private and public universities that offer various courses. She will be meeting members of the film fraternity and invite them to shoot films in Bulgaria. “Many Hollywood and Bollywood film shootings happen in our country, and we extend our invitation to the Tamil film industry,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bulgaria-offers-help-in-defence-industrial-corridor-project/article37082125.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Book on difficulties faced by disabled persons released||One of the biggest challenges a disabled person faces in life is accessibility to toilets, Madhavi Latha, para athlete and founder president of Wheelchair Basketball Federation, said here on Tuesday. “When I addressed a group of civil engineers, I asked them what they thought could be the most challenging task in my life. They remained quiet. Then, I told them how to use the toilet, because it is not accessible. I can barely enjoy it when I step out to attend events because I have to constantly worry about it. They need to think about disabled persons during construction,” she said. During a discussion on her book ‘Swimming Against the Tide’ with dancer and actor Swarnamalya Ganesh, Ms. Latha said engineering students should be assigned a project that would have them go around the city so that it gives them a glimpse of what needs to be changed so that disabled person too can have access to this facility. Ms. Ganesh said, as she read the book, she realised how at every point in her life, there was a recurrent question or dialogue around accessibility. “She travels somewhere and the hotel doesn’t have a room for her which was originally booked and after two days she couldn’t take a bath because there were no hand railings in the bathtub in this room. What seems like an innocuous little thing for us has played a huge role in her life,” she added. Water For most people, water is essential, but for Ms. Latha, it turned into an elixir after she took to hydrotherapy, Ms. Ganesh said. “I used to love water but I was kept away from it thinking it was dangerous. The more they used to keep me away from water the more I started loving it. While I need a wheelchair to move around now, inside water, I can jump, walk and do yoga. I discovered the joy of freedom and want children with disabilities too to enjoy it,” Ms. Latha said. There needs to be more awareness about hydrotherapy but the problems associated with it are, children and parents have difficulty accessing pools in many places, she added. Oliver Ballhatchet, British Deputy High Commissioner, received a copy of the book from Ms. Latha. Janaka Pushpanathan, director, British Council South India, also spoke during the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-on-difficulties-faced-by-disabled-persons-released/article37082110.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Civic action group plans to conduct survey on safety of pedestrians||In a bid to ensure pedestrian-friendly spaces in the city, the Citizen Consumer and Civic Action Group (CAG), a non-profit organisation, plans to start citizen-led survey to assess pedestrian friendly infrastructure in various parts of Chennai. This is part of the campaign to lay stress on the Government of India to announce January 11 as National Pedestrian Day and create awareness on pedestrian safety. The three-month campaign has been launched by CAG as part of the Sustainable Mobility Network India (SUM NET India), a national coalition of non-governmental organisations. Members of CAG noted that national days serve as occasions to raise awareness about the issues faced by the pedestrians. The organisation has already launched an online petition (https://bit.ly/SUMpartners NPD)along with Jhatkaa.org to emphasise the need for safe and convenient walking infrastructure, and dedicate a national day for pedestrians. Sumana Narayanan, senior researcher, CAG and a member of SUM Net India, said pedestrian infrastructure was inadequate in many cities that had led to a rise in pedestrian fatalities. Citing statistics of Chennai City Traffic Police, she said nearly 2,191 pedestrians were killed between 2015 and 2020 and nearly 9,754 sustained injuries on city roads. “We are planning to involve city residents for road audits and enable them to take ownership of the walkability issues. Data obtained from the survey would be shared with the government agencies for action plan. We must improve pedestrian and cycling facilities and also recognise pedestrians as road users,” she said. CAG also plans to reach out to educational institutions for the audit. Recalling an audit done by CAG a few years ago, Ms.Narayanan said 11 city roads, including Rajaji Road, Usman Road and Poonamallee High Road were surveyed. Lack of footpaths, encroachments by shops and even utility infrastructure and illegal parking were some of the common problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-action-group-plans-to-conduct-survey-on-safety-of-pedestrians/article37082115.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sale of remaining stock of imported river sand soon||The Water Resources Department will begin the sale of the remaining stock of imported river sand soon. The State government has sanctioned permission for the sale till June 2022. According to a government order issued recently, nearly 18,616 metric tonnes of sand is available for sale. The contractor had noted that the sale was disrupted due to the pandemic, and sought time for clearing stocks. However, the government order has specified that no further cargo should be imported due to the pandemic. It may be recalled that Malaysian sand was imported through three ports — Kamarajar Port Limited, Ennore; Adani Kattupalli Port Private Limited, and the V.O. Chidambaranar Port in Thoothukudi. Though the contract expired last August, the sale period was extended twice, as large amounts of sand remained unsold and sale was stopped temporarily. WRD officials said the average sales had dropped to 2,000 metric tonnes a month when the sale period was extended between February and August this year for the second time. During the previous period, the average sale was 3,197 metric tonnes a month. The sale, extended for the third time, will be carried out based on the old rates, an official said. Imported sand will be available for online sale attnsand.in. As of now, bookings are open only for sale in the ports in Kattupalli and Thoothukudi. Need to fix price S. Yuvaraj, president, the Tamil Nadu State Sand Lorry Owners’ Federation, said the construction sector was picking up pace and demand for sand was about 20,000 loads a day now. Of this, Chennai’s daily demand stood at 6,000-7,000 loads. Imported sand is priced at Rs. 2,500 a tonne, and it works out to nearly Rs. 10,000 a unit. Transportation charges within the city alone will be around Rs. 10,000. A lorry load of sand, comprising three units, will become expensive, affecting consumers. “We may not be able to transport sand beyond city limits. The government must fix the cost at Rs. 1,500 a tonne,” he said.  According to a government order issued recently, nearly 18,616 metric tonnes of sand is available for sale||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-remaining-stock-of-imported-river-sand-soon/article37081941.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. students bag honours in global business contest||Three school students from Tamil Nadu have bagged top honours at the International Business Olympiad 2021 held earlier this year, and have found a place among the top 20 participants from across the world. The olympiad, which is a business knowledge competition aimed at training a new generation of global business leaders, had 129 participants from 16 countries. Sarvadh Sathiaram, a Class XI student from Akshar Arbol International School, Chennai, was first among the global top 20 individual award winners. Max Meynecke, a student of Kodai International School, was placed 11th and Ayush Samuel Kumar, a Class XII student of Akshar Arbol International School, was placed 18th. They all received special certificates. “The competition was challenging, yet interesting. It focussed on the application of our understanding of business and economics principles. Through the whole process, I learned a lot and it definitely broadened my understanding of economics, social sciences, and business,” said Sarvadh. “We prepared through a lot of extra reading and studying different case scenarios, and the opportunity encouraged us to look beyond our textbooks,” he added. He also scored the highest in the interactive objective case module among all the participants globally. Ayush said that the format was an interesting one and that he found the case analysis round the most challenging. “The experience did not just help me connect better to what I was already learning, but has also motivated me to learn more,” he said. In the case analysis team challenge, Sarvadh and Ayush were a part of the same team and placed second. “I would encourage students to take up such opportunities like the competition which enables them to go in-depth and explore their favourite subjects,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-students-bag-top-honours-in-global-business-competition/article37082117.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Milk producers urge State government to provide one-time grant to settle dues||Milk producers have urged the State government to settle Rs. 400 crore due to them through a one-time grant before the Deepavali festival. The government had reduced the price of Aavin milk by Rs. 3 per litre four months ago leading to a loss of Rs. 23 crore per month. However, no subsidy was provided to Aavin to make up for this loss, said M. G. Rajendran, Tamil Nadu Milk Producers’ Welfare Association. Last year Aavin had settled dues amounting to Rs. 250 crore after the district unions took loans from public sector banks. “Due to buying milk over and above its requirement, almost all the unions attached to the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Federation, whose popular brand is known as Aavin, are running at a loss. The Federation has been purchasing at least 10 lakh litres of additional milk on the orders of the State government,” explained a retired official of Aavin. Mr. Rajendran said that another round of bank loans would unnecessarily burden the district unions that were already in a bad shape. “A one-time grant would help Aavin get back on its feet. The government should also subsidise the Rs. 3 that it directed to reduce,” he said. Another retired official said that several years ago Karnataka had a system by which new members were paid lesser than the regular members of the cooperative societies. They would be paid more when there was a demand. If implemented in Tamil Nadu, a small but significant saving could be made, he added. Aavin procures around 37 lakh litres of milk daily of which it supplies 25 lakh litres as milk and requires another 2 lakh litres to process into milk-based products. The additional milk is being converted into butter and skimmed milk powder. The milk major has vast stocks of both products and is unable to sell powder due to a glut in the international market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/milk-producers-urge-state-government-to-provide-one-time-grant-to-settle-dues/article37082132.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Newly elected local body members to assume office today||Candidates elected to the rural local bodies through ordinary and casual elections in the nine newly constituted and 28 other districts respectively will assume office on Wednesday, the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission said on Tuesday. Those elected unopposed and those elected through elections to the posts of district panchayat ward member, panchayat union ward member, president of village panchayat and village panchayat ward member, will assume office at 10 a.m. on Wednesday, it said in an official release. Only those who assume office on Wednesday will be eligible to contest or cast votes during elections to the posts of president and vice-president of district panchayats, president and vice-president of panchayat unions and vice-president of village panchayats scheduled on October 22, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newly-elected-local-body-members-to-assume-office-today/article37081931.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suspended special DGP, SP move HC against trial court’s orders||Suspended special Director General of Police Rajesh Das has approached the Madras High Court, challenging the Villupuram Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) court’s refusal to accept his assertion that it lacks territorial jurisdiction to try a criminal case booked against him for having reportedly made sexual advances towards a woman Superintendent of Police (SP) and having prevented her from lodging a complaint. Justice P. Velmurugan will be hearing the revision petition on Wednesday, along with another revision filed by suspended SP D. Kannan, a co-accused, against the refusal of the CJM to discharge him from the criminal case. The duo have also filed sub applications, urging the High Court to stay the trial court proceedings until the disposal of their criminal revision petitions. The CJM had passed individual orders on October 4, dismissing the pleas made by the two suspended police officers, and hence, the present revision petitions. The offences for which the special DGP has been booked were committed when he and the victim officer were on duty on February 21, and travelling from one district to another to oversee security arrangements for the then Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Since the offences were committed during travel, the accused argued that the charge sheet ought to have been filed either before a judicial magistrate in Ulundurpet, Kallakurichi district, or a magistrate in Chengalpattu district. However, CJM S. Gopinathan rejected the argument on the ground that he was empowered to try all cases investigated by the CB-CID, Villupuram. The CJM said Villupuram had been bifurcated, and a new district, Kallakurichi, had been created only on the revenue side. Mr. Gopinanthan also recorded the submission of CB-CID that the suspended special DGP was preferring such pleas with meritless arguments only to delay the trial. Discharge plea As far as the co-accused, Kannan, who has been charged of waylaying the victim officer when she was on her way to Chennai to lodge the complaint, is concerned, the CJM refused to discharge him. He negatived his argument that the CB-CID had not established even a prima facie case, despite having examined 127 witnesses and collected 73 documents, three compact discs and nine photographs, before laying a chargesheet that runs to 1,069 pages. “This court found after consideration of the final report and the connected materials that there is prima facie a strong ground for the presumption of guilt of the accused, and is also of the opinion that the accused must have committed an offence...,” the CJM wrote, dismissing the discharge plea. Assailing the CJM’s order, the suspended SP said that he was present at the Paranur Toll Plaza on the day of the incident only as part of the Chief Minister’s security arrangement, and not at the behest of the prime accused (the suspended special DGP).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspended-special-dgp-sp-move-hc-against-trial-courts-orders/article37081928.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Facility for cardiac treatment commissioned||A 100-bed tertiary cardiac centre was commissioned in Kodambakkam recently. The Medway Heart Institute, which was commissioned by Health Minister Ma. Subramanian last Friday, aims to address the needs of cardiac patients with latest medical technology, and cater to both domestic and international patients, according to its promoters. A release stated that the hospital was equipped with a radial lounge, integrated cath labs, three modular operation theatres, an electrophysiology lab, facilities for heart and renal transplantation, heart failure surgery and non-surgical replacement of heart valve. Medway group chairman T. Palaniappan said, “The Medway Heart Institute is an exclusive stand-alone facility dedicated to cardiac services as per the Joint Commission International standards.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/facility-for-cardiac-treatment-commissioned/article37082100.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Elderly couple found dead in Ambattur||An elderly couple was found dead at their relative’s house in Ambattur. The victims were identified as Janakiraman, 84, and Mariammal, 75. The couple had a dispute with Sasikala, 50, a relative. On Tuesday, their burnt bodies were found in a toilet at Sasikala’s house along with a suicide note. She has been detained for interrogation. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-couple-found-dead-in-ambattur/article37082106.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin deputes Ministers to ensure development work in districts||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin has named a few Ministers as in-charge to speed up development work, to monitor the implementation of people welfare schemes and to coordinate relief measures during natural disasters in 16 districts across the State. While Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru would be in-charge for Salem district, Cooperation Minister I. Periyasamy would be in-charge for Theni district. Minister for Public Works E.V. Velu would look after Tirupattur and Kallakurichi districts, an official release said. Ministers & districts The other Ministers have been named in-charge for various districts are: Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam (Dharmapuri), Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran (Tenkasi), Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu (Ramanathapuram), Minister for Rural Industries T.M. Anbarasan (Kancheepuram), Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan (Tirunelveli), Food Minister R. Sakkarapani (Tiruvarur), Electricity Minister V.Senthilbalaji (Coimbatore), Minister for Handlooms and Textiles R. Gandhi (Krishnagiri), Minister for Backward Classes Welfare S.S. Sivasankar (Perambalur), School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi (Thanjavur) and Minister for Environment Siva.V. Meyyanathan (Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-deputes-ministers-to-ensure-development-work-in-districts/article37082130.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MTC to launch real-time bus tracking app soon||The Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) is almost in the final stages of testing the Locate and Access My Bus (LAMB) app. The mobile app can be used to track MTC buses in real time. A senior official of MTC said the testing of the LAMB app was almost complete, and soon, it would be launched for the use of commuters. He said live tracking of buses was also available in the Chalo app and would soon be migrated to the LAMB app. The MTC website has been upgraded as part of the LAMB app project. In the project, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation has installed global positioning system (GPS) technology in its fleet, and once the app was fully tested, the GPS would be linked with it to make the software fully functional. Data aggregation To improve bus operations, the MTC has commissioned the Intelligent Transport System. This system was installed under the Smart City Mission. The Intelligent Transport System would not only help in providing data of automatic vehicle location and passenger information service to the LAMB app but would also provide the depot managers with the operational efficiency of the buses through the Depot Management System.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mtc-to-launch-real-time-bus-tracking-app-soon/article37082108.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Congress leader protests closure of gate at IIT-Madras||Congress floor leader in the Tamil Nadu Assembly K. Selvaperunthagai on Tuesday held a protest against the closure of Krishna gate at IIT-Madras. Children attending school on the campus under the Right to Education Act have to travel 5 km instead of 3 km due to the closure of the entrance, Mr. Selvaperunthagai said, accusing IIT-Madras of practising ‘modern untouchability’. He questioned why the Krishna gate alone was closed when the three other gates were kept open. The DMK’s election manifesto too had promised the removal of the wall closing the entrance. “We are going to meet Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and raise this issue with him,” the MLA said. People working on the campus, students, employees and even sanitary workers were not able to enter the campus through Krishna gate and had to travel an additional distance to enter the campus, he said.  Children attending the school on the campus under Right to Education Act have to travel 5 km instead of 3 km due to the closure of the entrance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-leader-protests-against-closure-of-gate-at-iit-madras/article37082135.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile snatchers caught||Two people fleeing on a bike after snatching a mobile phone were caught, after their bike hit a pedestrian and crashed into a median on 100 Feet Road in Velachery on Tuesday. Police sources said a city resident, Mohan, was riding his bike. When he neared Velachery flyover, the duo, who came on a bike, snatched his mobile phone. Mr. Mohan chased them and the duo’s bike hit a woman Shalini, 29. She escaped with minor injuries. However, the duo fell on the road after they lost control of the bike. Members of the public caught them, and handed them over to the Velachery police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/phone-snatchers-caught/article37082133.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar to be held to mark World Menopause Day||The Chennai Menopause Society is organising a two-day international webinar this weekend on healthy ageing titled ‘Changes Not Challenges’. The webinar, being held on October 23 and 24, will include two workshops — Live Office Hysteroscopy and Cosmesis At Midlife — said N. Hepzibah Kirubamani, president of the society. On October 22, there will be a poster presentation on the subject. Annually, World Menopause Day is observed on October 18, with an aim to create awareness about menopause. “Menopause is a normal, natural part of the ageing process. Yet, a few women may develop symptoms like hot flashes, genitourinary symptoms, sexual dysfunction, mood swings and sleep problems. Menopause also has late consequences like osteoporosis and coronary heart disease,” she explained. Though menopause offers relief from periods and unwanted pregnancies there are certain long term consequences that the public must be aware of, Dr. Hepzibah said. Indian women normally attain menopause around 46.5 years, and tend to live as much as a third of their life postmenopause. Age-related issues On the second day of the webinar, there will be sessions on issues that women face as they age. There will be discussions on cosmetic enhancement of skin, cosmetic dentistry, breast reconstruction after mastectomy among others. The Chennai Menopause Society’s webinar aims at increasing awareness about perimenopausal and postmenopausal health issues. The programme is for teachers, lecturers and paramedicals, Dr. Hepzibah added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-to-be-held-to-mark-world-menopause-day/article37082107.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized from health dept. official||The officers of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) seized Rs. 4.88 lakh from Palani, Deputy Director, Health Services, Kancheepuram, after conducting a search at his office and house. According to DVAC sources, its officers conducted surprise checks at the office of Mr. Palani following credible information that health services officials were receiving bribe to issue sanitary certificate to colleges, companies and other establishments.  On Tuesday, a search was conducted at the house of Mr. Palani and Rs. 3,22,900 and a bank locker key were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-seized-from-health-dept-official/article37082121.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin deputes Ministers to ensure development work in districts||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has named a few Ministers as in-charge to speed up development work, to monitor the implementation of people welfare schemes and to coordinate relief measures during natural disasters in 16 districts across the State. While Minister for Municipal Administration K.N.Nehru would be in-charge for Salem district, Cooperation Minister I. Periyasamy would be in-charge for Theni district. Minister for Public Works E.V. Velu would look after Tirupattur and Kallakurichi districts, an official release said. The other Ministers have been named in-charge for various districts are: Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam (Dharmapuri), Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran (Tenkasi), Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu (Ramanathapuram), Minister for Rural Industries T.M.Anbarasan (Kancheepuram), Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan (Tirunelveli), Food Minister R. Sakkarapani (Tiruvarur), Electricity Minister V.Senthilbalaji (Coimbatore), Minister for Handlooms and Textiles R. Gandhi (Krishnagiri), Minister for Backward Classes Welfare S.S. Sivasankar (Perambalur), School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi (Thanjavur) and Minister for Environment Siva.V. Meyyanathan (Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-deputes-ministers-to-ensure-development-work-in-districts/article37082255.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman falls to death from second floor||Lakshmi Priya, 29, wife of Upendra, died after falling from the second floor terrace of a residential building in Mathiravedu village, near Thiruverkadu, on Saturday. She accidentally fell while trying to feed some crows. She was taken to a private hospital but succumbed to injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-falls-to-death-from-second-floor/article37082102.ece
20 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||October rain makes Coimbatore SW Monsoon surplus district||South West Monsoon rain that Coimbatore had received in the past few days in October had made it a rainfall-surplus district this year. At the start of this Monsoon season in June this year, the Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University had, based on Indian Meteorological Department inputs, predicted 204 mm rainfall. This was for four months – June to September, the usual Monsoon season. As of September 30, the district had received 117.5 mm rainfall, which was more than 40% deficit. Month-wise, this was 15 mm in June, 30.5 mm in July, 38.5 mm in August and 33.5 mm in September. As the weather watchers were readying to record Coimbatore in the monsoon-deficit category, the Monsoon rain continued well into October. As of October 19, the district had received 113 mm rainfall – almost as much as it had received in the last four months, said Prof. S.P. Ramanathan, head of the Agro Climate Research Centre. Adding October rainfall, the total received this South West Monsoon season stood at 230.5 mm, which was almost 113% of the predicted rainfall. And, the Centre had included October rain as a part of the South West Monsoon rainfall because the Indian Meteorological Department had not officially announced that the Monsoon season had ended, he further said. The rainfall the district had received this year was also well above the long-term average – 50 years’ rainfall average – 210 mm. With another 12 days to go for the end of this month and the Department not announcing the withdrawal of the Monsoon, the district could receive more rain in the coming days, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/october-rain-makes-coimbatore-sw-monsoon-surplus-district/article37082159.ece
20 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Consumer body issues notice to ECI||Coimbatore Consumer Cause has issued notice to the Election Commission of India asking why it had failed in its duty by not scrutinising political parties’ manifestoes in the run up to Assembly elections in April-May this year. In his notice, consumer body secretary K. Kathirmathiyon said in response to an RTI query that the consumer body had filed, the Commission had replied that it had not received any election manifesto from political parties in the run up to Assembly elections in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry this year. This showed that the ECI “had failed in its duty” to enforce the Model Code of Conduct on the issue, as mandated by the Supreme Court. In the run up the 2016 Assembly election in the State, the ECI that received manifestoes for scrutiny in May 2016 had issued orders only in August 2016, much after the election was over. As there was no use in scrutinising manifestoes after the declaration of results, the consumer body had moved the Madras High Court with a public interest litigation. The Court had then said that while it was too late for the petition to be considered, directed the ECI to consider the Coimbatore Consumer Cause’s petition and communicate an order within two months of the result of the 2021 Assembly election. But the ECI’s reply that it had not scrutinised manifestoes in the run up to the 2021 Assembly election was disappointing and totally unsatisfactory, more so when considering the Supreme Court observation that freebies promised by political parties in their election manifestoes shook the roots of free and fair polls and directed the ECI to frame guidelines for regulating content in manifestoes. It was based on this Supreme Court observation, the ECI had framed the ‘Guidelines on Election manifestoes’ and made it a part of the Model Code of Conduct. Therein, the ECI had said that whenever political parties released manifestoes for elections it conducted, they should share hard and soft copies within three days along with the declaration that the programme and policies made there in consonance with the Model Code of Conduct. The ECI had, however, failed to do this in the run up to 2021 Assembly elections, the consumer body said and termed that the Commission had let down the voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consumer-body-issues-notice-to-eci/article37082161.ece
20 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Probe into construction of bridge connecting Podanur, Chettipalayam’||Consumer rights organisation Citizens’ Voice Coimbatore has appealed to the Central and State governments to conduct an investigation into the construction of a rail over-bridge connecting Podanur and Chettipalayam inaugurated in 2018. Organisation president C.M. Jayaraman and secretary V.A. Shanmugham wrote a letter in this regard on Monday to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Minister for Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw, Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu. The road from Coimbatore to Chettipalayam was previously provided with a bridge over the Coimbatore-Palakkad railway line and a level-crossing at the Coimbatore-Pollachi line, the letter said. The construction of the rail over-bridge parallel to the existing bridge had led to traffic snarls on Sarada Mill Road towards Eachanari during peak hours, it said. Laying a parallel railway track along the Coimbatore – Palakkad line could have resulted in the construction of a wider bridge to replace the old bridge and would have avoided the need for a level-crossing. This could have been done at a fraction of the cost incurred for the recent railway over-bridge, which would have also ensured smooth flow of traffic on the Coimbatore – Chettipalayam road. Alleging a “waste of the tax payer’s money,” the letter claimed that there were “reasons to suspect extraneous considerations” for the construction of the rail over-bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-into-construction-of-bridge-connecting-podanur-chettipalayam/article37082168.ece
20 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Committee formed to demand reopening of NTC mills||A committee called “Save NTC” is formed with Members of Parliament (MPs) from States that have National Textile Corporation (NTC) mills. Convenor of the committee C. Padmanabhan said 23 NTC mills across the country, including seven in Tamil Nadu, remained shut for more than a year, since the outbreak of the pandemic in the country. The workers of these mills got just 50 % wages. The trade unions had made several representations to the Union Government, seeking reopening of the mills. However, there was no move to reopen the mills. Hence, it was decided at a meeting here on Monday to form a committee. Coimbatore MP PR Natarajan participated in the meeting that had trade union leaders from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. The committee would meet the Ministers and officials concerned and take up the issue of the NTC mills. There was a fear among the workers and the unions that the government might privatise these mills. It was decided at the meeting to stage protests in front of Central Government offices demanding reopening of the mills. Protests would also be held in New Delhi during the Winter Session of Parliament, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/committee-formed-to-demand-reopening-of-ntc-mills/article37082163.ece
20 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for burglary||The city police arrested a 59-year-old man on charges of attempt to burgle a computer shop near Sitra junction in the early hours of Tuesday. Sources said Siddeekh, the owner of the shop, saw the accused Saravanan entering the shop, through live CCTV footage. The owner with his friend reached the shop at around 4.30 a.m. and found Saravanan boarding a bus to Gandhipuram. The owner also boarded the bus and informed the conductor regarding the incident, following which the bus was stopped. The accused was handed over at the Peelamedu police station. He was subsequently handed over to Saravanampatti police station, where another burglary case was pending against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-burglary/article37082153.ece
20 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Withdraw temple jewellery monetisation scheme: HM||State president of Hindu Munnani Kadeswara C. Subramaniam on Tuesday urged the State government to withdraw the scheme to convert gold jewellery deposited in temples under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department into gold bars. Staging a demonstration near Koniamman Temple, he told reporters that the State government must prepare a report on properties belonging to the temples under the control of the HR&CE Department as per the guidelines of the Madras High Court before proceeding with this scheme. The gold monetisation scheme could hurt the sentiments of the devotees who donated the jewellery to the temples, he claimed. Hindu Munnani will conduct a State-wide demonstration on October 26 if the scheme is not withdrawn, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withdraw-temple-jewellery-monetisation-scheme-hm/article37082251.ece
20 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Former MLA’s son-in-law arrested in cheating case||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the Coimbatore City Police on Tuesday arrested B. Arun Prakash (41), son-in-law of former MLA Kovai Thangam, on charges of cheating a man of Rs. 1.5 crore. Police sources said that the accused, who was involved in real estate business, borrowed money from one Senguttuvan to invest in a tea estate at Valparai. When Mr. Senguttuvan demanded the money back, the accused allegedly issued cheques that bounced. Following this, Mr. Senguttuvan lodged a complaint against Arun Prakash at the CCB and a case was registered under Section 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code. The CCB police remanded the accused in judicial custody on Tuesday. In July this year, the All Women Police Station, Coimbatore East, had registered a case against Arun Prakash based on a cheating complaint lodged by Mr. Senguttuvan’s daughter, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-mlas-son-in-law-arrested-in-cheating-case/article37082252.ece
20 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Legal awareness camp||District Legal Services Authority conducted over 100 legal awareness camps here as part of the 45-day nationwide campaign organised by National Legal Services Authority to commemorate 75th anniversary of India’s Independence. A release said that as of Sunday, the Authority hosted 109 camps at various locations. These camps saw the participation of 11,068 people, according to the release.   Royal Care Super Speciality Hospital in association with Southern Railway organised a signature campaign on breast cancer awareness at the Coimbatore Railway Station on Tuesday. A release said around 500 people participated in the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/legal-awareness-camp/article37082149.ece
20 October 2021||Coimbatore/Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Make yoga a part of daily life: Governor||Governor R.N. Ravi visited Isha Foundation in Coimbatore on Tuesday and had a discussion with its founder Jaggi Vasudev, the Raj Bhavan said. An official release said that the Governor was received by the founder of Isha Foundation, who took him around the centre. “Later they had good discussions about yoga and its importance in contemporary human life,” the release said. The Governor urged the people to embrace yoga as a part of their daily life for a healthy and stress-free life, especially during the extended pandemic situation, the release added. The Governor along with his wife Laxmi Ravi visited Dhyanalinga, Linga Bhairavi and Adiyogi. Police sources in Coimbatore said the Governor along with his family members travelled by road from Udhagamandalam on Tuesday morning and reached Isha Yoga Centre at around noon. After spending about an hour, the Governor left for Chennai in the afternoon. Coimbatore District Police deployed around 800 police personnel as part of security arrangements, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-urges-people-to-make-yoga-part-of-daily-life/article37082148.ece
20 October 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Man bludgeons father to death with iron pipe||A 32-year-old man bludgeoned his father to death with an iron pipe, allegedly after the latter refused to give him money for alcohol in Anaikuppam here on Monday. Police said the deceased P. Subramanian, 76, was a retired Deputy Collector. According to police, the victim lived with his younger son after his wife’s death a few years ago. The accused S. Karthick was an alcoholic and frequently harassed his father for money to buy alcohol. On Monday, Karthick argued with his father who refused to give him money. He picked up an iron pipe and attacked Subramanian repeatedly. He died on the spot. The accused ordered for a freezer box to preserve the body. Two employees of a private firm renting out freezer boxes noticed injuries on the victim’s body and alerted the police. The accused was arrested and remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-kills-father/article37082207.ece
20 October 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Firecracker sale: deadline to apply for temporary licence extended||The deadline to apply for temporary licence to set up firecracker stalls in the district for Deepavali has been extended to October 22. According to the district administration, under the Explosives Act, 1884 and Explosives Rules, 2008, licence is necessary for setting up temporary outlets. Units seeking temporary licence may apply through e-seva centers. The applications should be accompanied by a photograph, identity proof by way of Aadhar/EPIC, property proof, or rental agreement, proof of property tax paid to the local body, layout of the building, and a fee payment of Rs. 500. Applications, received after October 22 shall be rejected, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firecracker-sale-deadline-to-apply-for-temporary-licence-extended/article37082236.ece
20 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||‘Register products with Magalir Thittam’||Under the State Rural/Urban Livelihood Mission, steps are under way to encourage self-help groups (SHGs) market their products. SHGs registered under the local Panchayat Level Federation may register their products with the Magalir Thittam. The SHG may register with a copy of the resolution of the SHG, the model of the product to be registered for marketing, Aadhar card of the producer, information on the product if registered, price of the product. Further details may be a ascertained from the office of Magalir Thittam, Collectorate or on phone on 9444094121.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/register-products-with-magalir-thittam/article37082235.ece
20 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Traffic disrupted on Chennimalai Road after vehicles get stuck in trench||Heavy vehicle traffic was disrupted for over five hours on Chennimalai Road here on Tuesday after a truck and a van got stuck in a poorly-covered trench. Water stagnation Following stagnation of rainwater on the stretch near the District Industries Centre, the road was dug and a pipeline was laid to clear the water. After the work, the trench was closed. At 4 a.m., a timber-laden lorry from Karur to Erode got stuck in the trench and fell on its side. The lorry driver, Siva (32), suffered minor injuries. Similarly, a cement-laden van too got stuck in the trench. Since the road was blocked, only two-wheelers were allowed. Four-wheelers and heavy vehicles were diverted through another road. Police reached the spot and moved the two vehicles to the side of the road using a crane. Traffic flow was restored at noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-disrupted-on-chennimalai-road-after-vehicles-get-stuck-in-trench/article37082241.ece
20 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Gani market witnesses brisk sales ahead of Deepavali||With two weeks left for Deepavali, the shops at E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market (Gani Market) here witnessed brisk sales on Tuesday. People from the district and from other districts thronged the shops and made retail purchases from the morning. Merchants from other districts visited the market and made bulk purchases. P. Kandan, a merchant from Madurai, said that he had purchased additional goods as he expected good business this festival season. “Business have started recovering and cash flow is improving after COVID-19 pandemic. People want to celebrate the festival in a grand manner,” Mr. Kandhan said. Traders expect good business till October-end. Saris, shirts, dhotis, towels, garments for children and youngsters are in good demand. While wholesale business was above 70%, retail sales were above 60% in the market on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gani-market-witnesses-brisk-sales-ahead-of-deepavali/article37082246.ece
20 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode records 82 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Tuesday reported 82 new COVID-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,03,440. While 88 persons were discharged, 878 persons are under treatment. The 58 fresh cases reported in Salem district on Tuesday took the overall tally to 99,165. While 64 persons were discharged, 549 persons are under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 1,679. Namakkal district reported 51 new cases, which took the overall tally to 51,666. While 49 persons were discharged, 620 are under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 493. Krishnagiri recorded 16 fresh cases on Tuesday. While 33 persons were discharged after recovery, the number of active cases stands at 283. A total of 43,352 cases have been reported so far in the district. Dharmapuri recorded 24 fresh cases. While 30 persons were discharged after treatment, the number of active cases stands at 313. As on date, a total 28,219 cases have been reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-records-82-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37082238.ece
20 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Small onion price drops due to fresh arrivals||Following the arrival of fresh stocks, the price of small onion has reduced from Rs. 60 to Rs. 20 a kg in the markets here. Onion arrives from the State of Maharashtra and the Oddanchatram vegetable market in Dindigul to the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit market in the city. Also, onion is cultivated as an intercrop with turmeric within the district and in the nearby districts. Usually, farmers stock onion after harvesting and sell it in markets for a better price. Last month, on an average, onion was sold between Rs. 50 to Rs. 60 a kg. Owing to rain in the last three weeks, onions could not be stored and hence farmers are bringing their produce to the market in large quantities leading to sharp decline in the prices. At present, the first-quality small onion was sold at Rs. 35 a kg, while the second quality onion was sold at Rs. 25 to Rs. 30 a kg. Onions that got wet in the rain were brought to the market at Rs. 10 a kg. “Due to rain and moisture content in the air, onion cannot be stored and hence farmers were forced to sell it at a lower price, even for Rs. 8 a kg,” said Murugan, a farmer from Modakkurichi. The shelf life of such onion is less than two days and hence it is sold for Rs. 10 a kg, he added. Harvesting of the onions cultivated as intercrop is in full swing in the district, particularly Perundurai block, leading to fresh arrivals every day. “Onion harvested this month cannot be stocked,” said a trader at the wholesale market. At the Uzhavar Sandhai in Sampath Nagar, the small onion was sold for Rs. 20 to Rs. 26 a kg, while the price of big onion was Rs. 55 to Rs. 60 a kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/small-onion-price-drops-due-to-fresh-arrivals/article37082243.ece
20 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||In view of maintenance work at the following sub-stations, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on October 22 in the following areas.  Thanneerpandal and Avalpoondurai : Avalpoondurai, Kanagapuram, Thuyyam Poondurai, Poondurai Semur, Palliyuthu, Pallapalayam, Thirumangalam, Sengattuvalasu, Velampalayam, Rattaisutri Palayam, Ashokapuram, Thanneerpandal, Nadupalayam, Gnanipalayam, Mayiladi, Ulagapuram, Anjurampalayam, Vellivalasu, Kudimiyampalayam, Mugasi Anumanpalli, Kulathur, Rayapalayam, Kotthumuttipalayam, Unjapalayam, Nanjampalayam, Sankarankadu, Vinayagapuram and Chennipaali.  Ingur: Perundurai South Region, Kongu College, Nandha College, Moolakarai, Vellode, Goundachipalayam, Anumanpalli, Avalpoondurai, Ingur, Palapalayam, Mukasipidariyur north, Velayuthampalayam, 1010 Weavers Colony and Perundurai Railway Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37082244.ece
20 October 2021||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal municipality seizes roaming cattle||Days after announcing that wandering cattle would be confiscated, Karaikal Municipality began cracking its whip on owners of the animals for causing disturbance to public on Tuesday. The warning was made to the effect that the owners of cattle, goats, horses and pigs would be subjected to legal action if they did not keep them under confinement. The local body shifted the wandering cattle from Kamaraj Road, PK Road and Market area in vehicles to its sheds and instructed their owners to pay a fine of Rs. 3,000 per head of cattle along with an apology in writing not to commit the offence again. The local body warned that repeated offence by the cattle owners would lead to auction of the animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karaikal-municipality-seizes-roaming-cattle/article37082202.ece
20 October 2021||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Ascertain antecedents of ‘Nidhi’ firms before making investments’||The district administration has cautioned the public against making investments in ‘Nidhi' companies, entities in the non-banking financial sector that are also called ‘mutual benefit societies'. “There are companies working as ‘Nidhi’ or Mutual Benefit Society and engaging in financial transactions, but have not applied for recognition in this category. It is therefore important for the general public to be cautious and watchful while investing in such companies,” Collector Arjun Sharma said in an advisory. The district administration has reached out to the public with the message after taking cognisance of the practice of some companies to accept deposits and investments despite rejection of the NDH-4 status (Every ‘Nidhi’ company, in keeping with Nidhi (Amendment) Rules, 2019, has to file this form for application for declaration as ‘Nidh’i Company) by the Central government. Companies whose NDH-4 forms have been rejected are barred from accepting money from the members or inviting general public to become members, Mr. Arjun Sharma said. The general public of Karaikal are advised to verify the antecedents of the ‘Nidhi’ companies and ensure that they had been declared so by the Central government before seeking membership or depositing their hard-earned money, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ascertain-antecedents-of-nidhi-firms-before-making-investments/article37082200.ece
20 October 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||1,295 kg of turmeric seized in Thoothukudi||The Ettaiyapuram police have arrested two persons from Madurai for taking 1,295 kg of turmeric in a van to Thoothukudi. They said a van, which was proceeding from Sinthalakkarai near Ettaiyapuram to Thoothukudi, was intercepted by the police even as it was crossing Ettaiyapuram police station on Tuesday. When the police checked the van, they found that turmeric had been packed in 37 bags, each weighing about 35 kg. The police seized the van with 1,295 kg turmeric and picked up van driver S. Hakkim Sultan, 31, of Ismayilpuram in Madurai and his associate N. Ibrahim Shah, 36, of Nelpettai, also in Madurai. It was found that the duo was taking the turmeric to Thoothukudi to be smuggled to Sri Lanka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1295-kg-of-turmeric-seized/article37082222.ece
20 October 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri Medical College awaits NMC approval||The National Medical Commission (NMC) has inspected the ongoing works for the Krishnagiri Medical College coming up at Polupalli. An approval is anticipated for intake of students for the current academic year, say official sources here. As of date, the works on the institution building, which is the college building, is inching towards completion, lending hope for intake this academic year. “Ninety percent of the works on the institution building is complete and an NMC team has concluded its inspection of the works. We hope to get the approval for the current academic year for intake of 150 students from the current NEET pass outs,” said the official source. However, the hospital infrastructure will take time, and the existing headquarters hospital will be used by the College until then. Works on the hostels will be expedited in time for admissions. The medical college hospital project is being implemented as three packages that include the college building, hospital building and residential quarters, which will include student hostels. As of date, 90% of the works on the institution building; 80% works on the hospital and 75% works on the hostel buildings have been completed. The project currently is spread over 25 acres at an administrative sanctioned cost of Rs. 338.95 crore. However, in 2020, an additional 21.31 acres was granted in anticipation of expansion works as the college was located on the national highway. The extension envisions compound wall, drainage, and other ancillary infrastructure to the main complex. The revised administrative sanction of Rs. 34.5 crore is awaited to start works on the additional land, said the official source. Once the additional revised amount is sanctioned, the entire project will be ready by March-end, according to the source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishnagiri-medical-college-awaits-nmc-approval/article37082253.ece
20 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Two of a family die in accident||Two members of a family were killed in an accident near Bargur here on Tuesday. Anil Kumar (49), his wife Aparna (39), their two daughters aged 10 and seven and a relative, Ramya, were driving from Chennai to Bengaluru in a car. While crossing Madepalli, another car from Bengaluru headed towards Chennai lost control and collided with Anil Kumar’s car. Ramya and the 10-year-old girl were killed on the spot. The three injured were admitted to Krishnagiri government hospital. Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-of-a-family-die-in-accident/article37082237.ece
20 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to improve green cover in urban spaces||In order to tackle the effects of climate change conditions, efforts have been taken to restore and protect the green cover in Madurai. Green covers are being introduced and developed in urban spaces. While Urban Grove has been introduced by DHAN Foundation, Madurai Corporation intends to use the road margins and vacant spaces by using Miyawaki method to increase the urban green cover in the city. The urban sacred grove (‘koil kaadugal), a community-based development initiative, was introduced in March 2020 in association with HCL Foundation. A total of 14 acres of urban green cover is being developed on Madurai Kamaraj University premises. The objective is to grow trees close to each other to achieve a dense green cover. The local self-help group has been drafted to grow and maintain the green cover. The emphasis is to grow only native trees. So far 5,000 saplings have been planted. Water channels, percolation ponds and trenches have been dug for water catchment purpose. The idea was to also use the space for educational purposes. Youngsters and children will benefit and learn about the native trees, said the members of DHAN Foundation. Similar to the grove on the University premises, another urban grove has been developed by the foundation in Tirupparankundram. A garbage dump has been completely transformed and it is an urban sacred grove now. It has improved the microclimate in the surrounding area. Madurai Corporation intends to develop the green cover in road margins and vacant spaces. As of now 200 saplings have been planted along the Airport road. More such saplings would be planted in the coming days, said Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan. Miyawaki method The Corporation is developing the green cover using Miyawaki method, a Japanese method of urban afforestation. The saplings will be planted and geotagged. Volunteers and students would also be involved in it. Residential associations, educational institutions and industrial establishments should come forward to increase the green cover. The proper space should be identified and the development and restoration should go hand in hand, said environmental activists. However, not just any sapling should be planted. Native trees should be identified. Citing an example, they said the Mitragyna parvifolia species of the ‘kadamda’ was a native. It should be used. Everyone should get together in this venture to improve the green cover, they said.  Madurai Corporation plans to develop green cover on road margins and vacant spaces K. P. Karthikeyan Corporation Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-improve-green-cover-in-urban-spaces/article37082397.ece
20 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Unfinished projects test patience of residents||Under Smart Cities Mission of the Central government, a slew of works have been undertaken in Madurai. On the one hand, these projects - be it renovated Periyar bus stand or multi-level parking, sprucing up Masi streets and the vicinity of Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple - give some hope to the city residents that Madurai would soon join the list of cities with top notch infrastructure. On the other hand, undue delay in execution of every project has left the people exasperated, due to dug-up roads, traffic diversions, pollution and other travails. People patiently suffered without complaining, with the hope that soon they will reap the gains. But the unfinished works across the city stand as mute witnesses to the tardy pace of every single project. It is all the more pronounced during this festival season when the whole Madurai is on a shopping spree after being let loose after the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdowns for so long. Of all the projects, Smart City or otherwise, the elevated corridor on New Natham Road was the most talked about. Just when it seemed it was going at a fast clip, death of a migrant worker from Uttar Pradesh due to a mishap in August put the spanner in the works. Mechanical failure of a hydraulic jack is alleged. A probe has been ordered and the work has been suspended on the entire 7.3-km-long elevated corridor project which connects Indian Oil roundabout in the city with Chettikulam in the outskirts with ramps in between at Narayanapuram and Tiruppalai. The project, which started in November 2018, was to have been completed in 24 months. However, the delay was first attributed to the COVID-19 pandemic, as migrant workers left for home en masse since March 2020. Now, but for a small stretch on the city side, the whole road underneath the elevated corridor is in shambles. A pell-mell Work on the take-off point of the elevated corridor near Vishal de Mall on Gokhale Road has shrunk the carriage space so much so that vehicles have to queue up on two rows and wait for their turn to wriggle through the narrow space. During peak hours, it takes 15 minutes to crawl out of the mess. As a fallout of traffic snarls, residents in Narayanapuram, Iyer Bungalow and Tiruppalai are hard-pressed to get a cab or autorickshaw as the drivers are unwilling to endure the ordeal. And it doesn’t make business sense for them. A Corporation official said that pipelines and sewage lines have been damaged on the elevated corridor stretch. When contacted, a National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) official said they have laid approach roads near Chettikulam and Oomachikulam junctions, and 70% of the work was over. Roads could not be laid near a minor bridge near Naganakulam side and a few other locations. “We will ensure that the roads are repaired before the rains start. Work on clearing debris is on. We hope to resume the work after Deepavali,” he said.  Talk of the town Death of a migrant worker due to a mishap has put the spanner in the works NHAI says 70% of the work is over and the project will resume after Deepavali||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unfinished-projects-test-patience-of-residents/article37082404.ece
20 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court sets aside dismissal order, directs payment of monetary benefits||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has quashed the dismissal order imposed on a government servant, now retired from service, and directed the State government to restore all monetary benefits to him. The court took into account the fact that the departmental inquiry was initiated against him based on a circular issued after the said incident. The court was hearing the petition filed by M. Chelliah. A charge memo was issued to him in 2007 when he was working as Sub-Registrar in Palayamkottai Sub-Registrar office. During a surprise inspection in the office in 2005, he was found with a bag containing Rs. 83,000. The second charge against him was that he was constructing a building without prior permission. An inquiry was conducted by the Commissioner of Disciplinary Proceedings, Tirunelveli and the charges against the petitioner were proved. Based on the inquiry, the Inspector General of Registration imposed the punishment of removal from service. On appeal, the Registration Department confirmed the order. The petitioner filed the petition before the High Court in 2014 challenging the order. He said that both he and his wife were government servants. He brought the money in a bag to the office to purchase jewels for his wife. He also said that he had obtained prior permission to construct the building. Justice S. S. Sundar took note of a government circular issued in 2009 that said that officials should not bring such large amounts of cash to office and if they did so, they should hand over the money in a sealed cover to the officer concerned. It should be recorded in the register maintained for the purpose. In the absence of a circular at the time of the incident, it was not known how the petition could be proceeded with. The inspection in the office was long before the circular came into force and the whole inquiry appeared to be based on the circular. There was no justification to presume that the money was ill-gotten, the judge said. At the time of the incident there was no specific rule or instruction given to the petitioner not to bring money to the office. He had given an explanation that he had brought the money to purchase jewels and that his wife was to join him after office hours. Merely because money was found from the petitioner, there cannot be a presumption, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-sets-aside-dismissal-order-directs-payment-of-monetary-benefits/article37082538.ece
20 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Fish symbol found on ring well at Keeladi||The only ring well with patterned twin coir bands, unearthed during the seventh phase of excavations in Keeladi three months ago, has thrown up another surprise — on the top most of its seven levels, a decorated fish symbol has been found incised. It appears above the first coir band, carved with thumb impressions. The shape of the fish, with tail, fins and scales, is clear. Only the part with its head is broken. The terracotta ring well, with rope design, was first exposed in July. As the seventh round of excavations drew to a closure last month-end, archaeologists traced it up to a depth of 140 cm, with six rings interlocked one below the other. The seventh layer was found broken. The trenches at the site have been left open because work for the on-site museum is on. The pits are covered with tarpaulin sheets when it rains. Towards September end, when the staff were taking drone photographs of the antiquities embedded on the walls of the eight quadrants, an outline of a fish was spotted on the outer surface of the ring well. “After brushing, the diagram became clear,” AO Ajay Kumar told The Hindu . “The excitement of unearthing things from the ancient past never ends with just digging them out,” he said, adding: “The significance of the decoration will have to be ascertained.” The announcement about finding the fish symbol was made when Archaeology Minister Thengam Thennarasu visited the site on Tuesday. He tweeted that Keeladi never ceased to fascinate one about the way people lived on the banks of the Vaigai river. Seven ring wells have been excavated so far in Keeladi, and of these, two were exposed in the seventh round. The fifth phase unearthed three, the highest so far. The ring wells found in Keeladi not only testify the science behind building the structures, but also their aesthetic sense, said deputy director of the Department R. Sivanandam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fish-symbol-found-on-ring-well-at-keeladi/article37081938.ece
20 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Low calcium intake widespread in Indians’||In a land of abundant sunshine, 50 million Indians are estimated to be affected by osteoporosis, that makes the bones brittle and fragile with age due to hormonal changes and lack of calcium and vitamin D in the body. Medical experts sounded alarm bells about the disease that shows no symptom but makes the older population vulnerable to fractures. “It is a public health threat but majority remain undiagnosed and untreated until they fall accidentally,” said U.T. Vassan, Head, Joint and Sports Injury Centre of Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC). He briefed mediapersons here on Tuesday about the importance of daily intake of calcium and Vitamin D from childhood to postpone osteoporosis. The World Health Organisation recommends daily calcium intake of 1,000 mg. “But Indians average less than 500 mg. It leads to low peak bone mass as years add on,” he said. Consultant P. Prabhu Vairavan emphasised on increased calcium intake with dairy products, green leafy vegetables and fish; adequate sunlight exposure to help in the formation of Vitamin D which regulates the body’s calcium absorption; and regular physical exercise to keep the bones strong. Spine surgeon R. Vetri Nallathambi said treatment cost for osteoporosis is quite high but because it is not life-threatening, people tend to be careless. “Osteoporotic fractures continue to be on the rise with the spine, hips, wrist and femur, the easiest to damage,” he said. According to UNICEF, 25% of Indian women in reproductive age are under-nourished. With low calcium and vitamin D levels and less and irregular food consumption, they are at a higher risk of osteoporosis post-menopause. The incidence of osteoporosis, however, equals among men and women after the age of 60. The incidence and severity of osteoporosis increased during COVID-19 lockdown, according to V. Sathya Narayana, Head, Orthopaedics and Traumatology, because people remained indoors with no exercise and their eating patterns changed. Osteoporosis can be managed with treatment but not cured, he said.  WHO recommends daily calcium intake of 1,000 mg. But Indians average less than 500 mg U.T. Vassan, Head, Joint and Sports Injury Centre, MMHRC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/low-calcium-intake-vitamin-d-deficiency-widespread-in-indians/article37082402.ece
20 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Milad-un-Nabi celebrated||Prayers were offered and sweets distributed among family members, relatives and the needy people on Tuesday in Madurai, on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi, the birth anniversary of Prophet Muhammad. Government Kazi of Madurai A. Syed Khaja Mueenudeen said that the prayers were offered by reading the verses from the Holy Quran. Volunteers distributed sweets to the needy people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/milad-un-nabi-celebrated/article37082400.ece
20 October 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||‘Rain damages 101 transformers in Kanniyakumari’||Asserting that the farmers affected by recent rain and floods in Kanniyakumari district would get due compensation, Minister for Revenue K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran said the downpour had badly damaged 101 transformers in the district. Speaking to reporters after visiting a few flood-hit areas along with Ministers T. Mano Thangaraj and V. Senthilbalaji and participating in a review meeting, he said the rains and floods had affected 101 transformers and snapped power connection to 3,661 houses. Even as the materials required for repairing the transformers and other infrastructure of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) were being rushed from Tirunelveli and Madurai regions, power connection to 2,922 houses had been restored. Since rainwater was yet to recede in some flood-affected areas, repairing of 45 transformers and restoring power supply to 739 houses were delayed. The rain had destroyed paddy cultivated on 35 acres while plantain and tapioca raised on 120 acres and 4.50 acres respectively had been submerged. Steps had been taken to drain the water stagnating in the plantain and tapioca fields. Vegetables cultivated on 2.50 acres had been badly damaged. “The flood-hit farmers will get appropriate compensation on an early note as any delay in this connection will seriously affect their already wounded families,” he said adding 337 persons had been shifted to relief camps from low-lying areas. Recalling the damages caused by the heavy downpour in the district in the last week of May, he said a report detailing the damages had been submitted to the State government. As per this report, Rs. 33 crore for Public Works Department, Rs. 27 crore for Highways Department, Rs. 99 crore for Nagercoil Corporation and Rs. 152 crore for Tangedco would be given shortly for carrying out repairs. All municipalities in the district would get special assistance for repairing the infrastructure damaged by the floods in last May, he said.  Collector M. Aravind, Monitoring Officer for Kanniyakumari district Jothi Nirmala, Superintendent of Police V. Badrinarayanan, Corporation Commissioner Asha Ajit, Member of Parliament Vijay Vasanth, MLAs J.G. Prince and S. Rajesh Kumar participated in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-damages-101-transformers-in-kanniyakumari-district/article37082221.ece
20 October 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Migrant worker killed in boiler blast||A migrant labourer was killed and five others suffered serious burns in a blast in the boiler of a rubber latex refining unit near here on Monday. Police said the blast occurred at unit at Sembonvilai near Thuckalay around 1.30 a.m. on Monday in which B. Mahato, 29, of Bihar was killed on the spot while five others including three migrant labourers suffered burns. They were rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-worker-killed-in-boiler-blast/article37082234.ece
20 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||DMK demands Deepavali bonus for government staff||Opposition leader and DMK convenor R. Siva has demanded an immediate announcement on disbursement of bonus for government employees. In a statement, Mr. Siva said the government employees were expecting a bonus for Deepavali. The government has not made its stand clear on whether it will be giving a bonus to the employees, he said adding the AINRC-led NDA government was trying to take advantage of the Model Code of Conduct for the local bodies polls for not to implement any programmes. The government cannot hide behind MCC for not fulfilling its poll promises, he added. Reminding the Chief Minister of the commitment given by him on the floor of the Assembly to provide five months pending salary to workers in government enterprises and cooperative societies, Mr. Siva said if the government was finding MCC an obstacle in fulfilling the promises it should approach the court. He also urged the State Election Commission to withdraw the MCC at the earliest.  The AINRC-led NDA government is trying to take advantage of the Model Code of Conduct for the polls||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-demands-deepavali-bonus-for-government-staff/article37082486.ece
20 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy flays AINRC-led NDA govt.||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has said that the All India N R Congress-led NDA was trying to hide its failure to implement schemes by citing the Model Code of Conduct (MCC). In a virtual statement issued to the media on Monday night, the senior Congress leader said the MCC was not a hindrance to implement already-announced schemes. “The Chief Minister has failed to implement any of the schemes announced in the Assembly. He has announced several schemes in the house without getting an actual picture of the financial situation. The Union Territory is facing severe funds crunch. The officials are not cooperating, so the administration has come to a standstill,” he said. Monsoon preparedness Criticising Chief Minister N. Rangasamy for not convening the Disaster Management Authority, Mr. Narayanasamy said, as Chairman of the Authority, he should have convened the body to assess preparedness for the northeast monsoon. Flaying the State Election Commissioner Roy P. Thomas for his style of functioning, the former Chief Minister said the SEC should have listened to the advice of legislators and withdrawn the MCC. Economic hardship On the rising prices of petroleum products, the senior Congress leader said the Prime Minister Modi-led Central government was unmindful of the sufferings of the people. The Prime Minister was not concerned about the economic hardship faced by the public due to the continuing rise in fuel prices. “It will soon come to a situation where people will have to pay Rs. 150 per litre for petrol and Rs. 140 for diesel,” Mr. Narayanasamy also added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narayanasamy-flays-ainrc-led-nda-govt/article37082485.ece
20 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records two deaths, 55 cases||The Union Territory recorded two COVID-19 deaths and 55 new cases even as active cases fell below the 500-mark on Tuesday. Both fatalities were reported in Puducherry taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,852. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,449), Karaikal (250), Yanam (107) and Mahe (46). Puducherry logged 24 of the new cases, which were detected from 4,217 tests, followed by Karaikal (18) and Mahe (13). No new case was reported from Yanam. With 86 patients recovering from Covid in the last 24 hours, the active cases aggregated to 490. Of this, 94 patients were in hospitals and 396 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.30%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.16%. The Union Territory has so far logged a total of 1,27,479 cases and 1,25,137 recovered patients. Of an estimated 18.76 lakh tests conducted so far, over 15.91 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 5,668 persons took the vaccine against Covid in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered 10,82,250 vaccine doses. No deaths in Cuddalore Cuddalore district recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Tuesday. As many as 23 persons tested positive for the infection, taking the district’s tally to 63,855. The district saw 62,721 recoveries and 270 were active cases. Villupuram district recorded one death and nine cases, taking the district’s tally to 45,720. A 58-year-old man died of the disease, taking the toll to 355. Kallakurichi district reported 15 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 31,246.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-two-deaths-even-as-active-cases-fall-below-500-mark/article37082217.ece
20 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Intensive vaccination camps to reach out to 2-lakh population||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday said intensive vaccination camps would be organised to reach out to an estimated 2 lakh population that remained unexposed to COVID-19 vaccination before the Deepavali festival. Addressing the media after visiting the vaccination camp at the Government Primary School, Melsathamangalam, the Lt. Governor said she had directed health authorities to target vaccinating at least one lakh persons across multiple session sites in each of two week-long drives. 100% coverage The Union Territory would attain 100% coverage of its population with at least single dose, if the remaining 2 lakh persons could be vaccinated with their first dose, she said. Ms. Soundararajan called upon those still unvaccinated against COVID-19 to get their jab immediately in the wake of experts suggesting that the virus could become endemic to some vulnerable regions. Ms. Soundararajan pointed to the view of some experts that COVID-19 was likely to transition from a pandemic to endemic which meant that it would remain active in certain pockets for years to come. “Those who are putting off getting a jab thinking that the virus was going away are mistaken and they can become a risk group that will keep spreading the infection in the community,” the Lt. Governor said. She emphasised the importance of heeding to the empirical evidence showing that over 97% of ICU admissions involved those patients who were unexposed to vaccines. She pointed out that Melsathamangalam was on the verge of getting its population vaccinated with at least one dose against COVID. Of the 33 persons yet to take a vaccine dose, about 15 had medical reasons while others were post-COVID patients who had deferred vaccination. The PHC area had about 250 persons who were yet to receive vaccination. “We have made arrangements to send teams to administer vaccines at their homes,” she said. The Lt. Governor said the government hoped to be granted some time for organising the local bodies elections with proper reservation norms when the Madras High Court takes up hearing on the related petition on October 21. Citing the difficulties to hold the election forthwith, the government has sought some time and if it was permitted by the Court, it would clear the way for getting the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) lifted to facilitate implementation of welfare schemes, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intensive-vaccination-camps-to-reach-out-to-2-lakh-population/article37082489.ece
20 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Awareness programme on legal services held||Legal Services Clinic-cum-Conciliation Cell held a sitting at the Ambedkar Government Law College. Officials from departments such as Public Works, Electricity, Industries, Revenue and Disaster Management, Pollution Control Committee, Oulgaret Municipality and police personnel attached to the Kalapet police station attended the meeting, a release from the College said. A legal services awareness programme on Alternate Dispute Resolution Mechanism was also conducted. A total of 75 students attended the programme, the college said. Justice K. Kannan, Judge (retired), Madras High Court, V. Sofana Devi, District Judge and Member Secretary of Legal Services Authority and the Principal of the College, S. Srinivasan, attended the awareness programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-programme-on-legal-services-held/article37082487.ece
20 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Prevent flow of treated water into tanks, ponds, says Minister||Siva. V. Meyyanathan, Minister for Environment, on Tuesday instructed officials to ensure that the treated water from the sewage treatment plant was used for agriculture and other purposes without flowing into the Maruppinikulam and Ottakulam in the town. The Minister gave the instructions after inspecting the treatment plant along with Collector Kavitha Ramu and senior officials of the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board and the Pudukottai Municipality following complaints of shortcomings in its functioning. The sewage treatment plant with a capacity to handle about 10.62 million litres a day (MLD) currently treats about eight MLA, according to TWAD officials. Speaking to reporters after the inspection, Mr.Meyyanathan said there were shortcomings in the implementation of the underground drainage scheme in the town over the past 10 years. Officials should take appropriate steps to prevent flow of the treated water into tanks and ponds. Steps would be taken towards this end within the next three months and the underground drainage scheme plant would be made fully operational. Steps would also be taken to prevent letting out of sewage transported by sullage tanker lorries at various places. The Minister also disclosed that steps would be taken to sewage treatment plants would be established wherever necessary including Pudukottai and Aranthangi in the district to prevent direct flow of sewage into water courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prevent-flow-of-treated-water-into-tanks-ponds-minister/article37082204.ece
20 October 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Sea cucumbers seized||Indian Coast Guard and Mandapam Wildlife Range officials have seized around 600 kg of sea cucumbers. The consignment was found on an unregistered boat and the total value of the consignment is said to be approximately Rs. 3 crore. Following an intelligence input received on Tuesday, the officials intercepted the boat in the Palk Bay area. After it was ascertained that the vessel was carrying illegally possessed sea cucumbers, the boat was seized. The boat was handed over to the Forest Department. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/600-kg-of-sea-cucumbers-seized/article37082219.ece
20 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Residents protest over delay in completion of sewerage works||Condemning the delay in completion of underground sewerage scheme works (UGSS), the residents of Ward 43 on Sanyasi Gundu Road staged a protest here on Tuesday. The residents said that the contractor engaged by the Corporation began the UGSS works by digging roads at various places two years ago. Though pits were dug for constructing chambers, no works were carried out. About four months ago, another pit was dug. As the pits were dug in the middle of the road, vehicles were prohibited from entering the stretch. Motorists had to take a circuitous route to reach the main road. In the absence of a councillor for the ward, they took up the issue with the officials concerned, but no action was taken so far, the residents alleged. Businesses hit Shopkeepers in the locality said that their business was affected for over two years due to the delay in completion of UGSS works. They urged the civic body to finish the works at the earliest and re-lay the road. Corporation officials held talks with the protesters and promised to expedite the works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-protest-over-delay-in-completion-of-sewerage-works/article37082248.ece
20 October 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Trains to run on diverted route||Since engineering works are being carried out for commissioning of double lines between Bhalwani – Washimbe railway stations in Daund – Kurduvadi section of Solapur Division in Central Railway, traffic blocks have been imposed and the following train services are diverted as given below. A press release from Salem Railway Division said that Train No. 06339 Mumbai CSMT – Nagercoil Junction special train, scheduled to leave Mumbai CSMT on October 19, 20, 21, 23, 26 and 27 and run through Thane, Pune, Solapur, Wadi, Guntakal, Katpadi, Tirupattur, Salem, Karur and Dindigul, will be diverted to run through Thane, Panvel, Madgaon, Mangalore Junction, Palakkad, Erode, Namakkal and Dindigul. Train No. 06352 Nagercoil Junction – Mumbai CSMT special train, scheduled to leave Nagercoil Junction on October 21 and 24 and run via Tiruchi, Villupuram, Renigunta, Wadi, Solapur and Thane, will be diverted to run via Tiruchi, Erode, Palakkad, Shoranur, Mangalore Junction, Madgaon, Panvel and Thane. Train No.01201 Lokmanya Tilak Terminus – Madurai special train, scheduled to leave Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on October 20 and 27 and run via Pune, Solapur, Wadi, Renigunta, Villupuram and Tiruchi, will be diverted to run via Roha, Madgaon, Mangalore Junction, Palakkad, Erode and Tiruchi. Train No.01202 Madurai – Lokmanya Tilak Terminus special train, scheduled to leave Madurai on October 22 and run via Tiruchi, Villupuram, Renigunta, Wadi, Solapur and Pune, will be diverted to run via Tiruchi, Erode, Palakkad, Mangalore Junction, Madgaon and Roha, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trains-to-run-on-diverted-route/article37082150.ece
20 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DMK govt. booking false cases: EPS||AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday said the DMK government was registering false cases against former AIADMK Ministers. At a meeting held as part of the golden jubilee celebrations of the party in Thalaivasal, Mr. Palaniswami said cases were being registered to cripple the party. He said that would not be possible. Many cases were registered against former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, but nothing could be done, he said. “Mr. Stalin is attempting to break the AIADMK and that will never happen,” he said. Taking a dig at Mr. Stalin for failing to get exemption for the State from NEET, as promised before the election, the former Chief Minister said, “The truth is that the DMK cannot cancel NEET.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-govt-booking-false-cases-eps/article37081934.ece
20 October 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Legal awareness programme held||A legal awareness programme on drug abuse and eradication of drug menace was conducted by Sivaganga District Legal Services Authority, in which the public were informed of the ill-effects of drugs. Secretary of Sivaganga District Legal Services Authority M. Parameswari said drug addiction had affected families and children. It was a serious offence, she said, adding students should acquire basic knowledge about laws. Following a direction from the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), the Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority (TNSLA) has directed District Legal Services Authorities (DLSA) to conduct legal awareness campaigns on various legal issues. As part of the legal awareness campaign, legal aid counsel, volunteers and students would visit the rural areas in the district to create awareness among the people of legal issues, particularly on rights, duties and the legal aid services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/legal-awareness-programme-held/article37082226.ece
20 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Prohibitory order at Thiruvaikkavur after group clash||Prohibitory order has been imposed at Thiruvaikkavur village panchayat after a clash between two communities over the erection of a political party flag mast and banners two days ago. Inquiries reveal that trouble brewed at the villages a few days ago when a group of people belonging to one community installed their party flag and put up flex banners near Manniyar river bridge in Thiruvaikkavur panchayat. The sudden installation of the party flag mast irked another group belonging to a different community and resulted in an open discussion among the people in the panchayat. Subsequently, a group of people staged a ‘road roko’ near the Manniyar river bridge on October 17 night terming the installation of the flag mast and erection of banners as an act carried out by a section of people to disturb public harmony in the panchayat limits. They withdrew their demonstration after revenue and police officials assured them that a tripartite meeting would be convened on October 18 to sort out the issue. Though the revenue and police officials managed to put off the issue temporarily at the tripartite meeting held on October 18 morning, a wordy duel ensued between the warring community groups at the Manniyar river bridge on the same night and culminated into a fiery fisticuffs between the men and women who had converged near the bridge. On seeing the situation escalating into a battle, policemen posted for bandobust duty following the ‘misunderstanding’ between the two groups in the panchayat attempted to pacify the warring groups. In the process, two police personnel, Murugesan (55), sub-inspector, Kabisthalam police station, and Suguna (37), sub-inspector, Melatur police station, sustained injuries. Eight villagers were also injured in the clash, police said. All of them were admitted in Government District Headquarters hospital at Kumbakonam. Additional police forces were rushed to Thiruvaikkavur and the entire panchayat was brought under their control. On October 19, around 50 people, including 10 women, were arrested in connection with the clash and Section 144 of Cr.PC was promulgated by revenue officials prohibiting public gatherings at Thiruvaikkavur village panchayat. Barricades were erected on all routes leading to the villages under the panchayat to prevent entry of people from other villages, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prohibitory-order-at-thiruvaikkavur-after-group-clash/article37082199.ece
20 October 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Administration’s help sought to get back money invested in bus services company||A group of persons from a minority community who had invested their hard earned money in an omni bus service company based at Thanjavur, submitted a petition to the District Administration on Monday requesting the administration to help get back their money from the company. The petitioners alleged that the omni bus service company owner, who was also hailing from the same minority religion, had accepted the money from the investors who had earned it through overseas employment. Of late, the company had failed to honour its commitment towards repayment of deposits and the interest on deposit presumably due to the COVID-19 pandemic situation. ‘No response’ Stating that the company had mobilised around Rs. 700 crore as deposits, the petitioners alleged that the family members of the company owner, who had expired recently, had failed to give convincing reply to the investors with respect to the deposit and the resumption of monthly interest payment assured by the company. Hence, they pleaded with the District Administration to intervene in this issue and ensure that their hard earned money returned to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/administrations-help-sought-to-get-back-money-invested-in-bus-services-company/article37082196.ece
20 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Central team visits delta to check moisture content in paddy||A central team comprising officials of the Department of Food and Public Distribution inspected the quality of paddy at various Direct Purchase Centres (DPCs) of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) in Thanjavur district on Tuesday. The visit came following a request from the State government to the Centre to increase the maximum limit on the moisture content in the paddy procured from farmers. At present, paddy with a moisture content of up to 17% is being procured from farmers as per the Centre’s specifications. However, with intermittent rain during the kuruvai paddy season, especially at the time of harvest, farmers of the delta region have been urging the government to relax the moisture content norm based on which the State government made the request to the Centre. The farmers have been demanding that paddy with moisture content of up to 22% be procured. Following this, the Centre deputed a team of officials from the Department of Food and Public Distribution. The team led by M.Z. Khan, Deputy Director (Storage and Research), Quality Control Cell, Hyderabad, comprised P. Prabhakaran and C. Yunus, Technical Officers, (S&R), Quality Control Cell. It inspected various direct purchase centres in the district including the DPC at Arasur near Thanjavur. Apart from checking the moisture content of the paddy, they also collected samples of the paddy for analysis. In a brief interaction with reporters, Mr. Khan said the team would submit a report to the Union government soon based on which a decision would be taken by the Centre on the demand. M.S. Sangeetha, Joint Managing Director, TNCSC, N. Uma Maheswari, Senior Regional Manager, TNCSC, Thanjavur, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver and other officials accompanied the team that also visited the direct purchase centres at Madigai, Thennamanadu and Orathandu Pudur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-visits-delta-to-check-moisture-content-in-paddy/article37082211.ece
20 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||State to hold excavations in Korkai||With the ancient port town of the Pandya kingdom, Korkai, yielding artefacts, proving its maritime trade connections with Rome, China and Egypt, the State government is taking steps to conduct archaeological excavations here, with guidance from oceanographic experts, Minister for Industries, Tamil Culture and Archaeology Thangam Thennarasu has said. Speaking to reporters in Korkai on Tuesday after reviewing the ongoing excavations, Mr. Thennarasu said excavations in Korkai, with guidance from oceanographic experts, was necessary to prove the town’s age and incomparable rich culture. The ancient port town had yielded several artefacts to prove its maritime business contacts with China, Rome and Egypt during the earlier excavations, he said. Remains of houses, drainage pipes, conch bangles, baked tiles, iron coins and pots, among other things, have been recovered from the site, revealing it to be the cradle of a rich civilisation even in 785 BCE. “Since Korkai was a harbour under the Pandya kings, we are in touch with experts from the Indian Oceanographic Research Institute for carrying out excavations with their guidance and technical expertise. We will start excavations once the strategies are finalised,” Mr. Thennarasu said. While promising that the artefacts of Korkai would be fittingly showcased in the Porunai (Tamirabharani) civilisation museum, which will come up in Tirunelveli, the Minister said the government would also consider the idea of creating an on-site museum in Korkai. The Minister inspected ongoing excavations in Sivakalai, where 3,200-year-old burial urns, with paddy, are on display for the first time. “We are also in the process of preparing an integrated document on Sivakalai, Korkai and Adichanallur civilisations,” Mr. Thennarasu said. Deputy Director of the Archaeology Department Sivanandam and field director Thangadurai were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-hold-excavations-in-korkai/article37081940.ece
20 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Youth electrocuted||A mentally challenged youth got electrocuted in a power transmission tower on Tuesday as he climbed atop the tower and came in contact with a live wire carrying high tension electricity. Police said an unidentified person, who climbed atop a high tension power transmission tower at Netaji Nagar near SIPCOT Industrial Complex, got electrocuted on Tuesday. As the electrocution triggered blast-like sound as the cables are carrying high tension power, those who happened to hear the sound, saw a body hanging on the cable. After the passers-by informed the SIPCOT Police, they in turn alerted the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation officials about the incident. Since the accident had occurred in 110 KV power transmission tower, which is part of the SIPCOT Industrial Complex power distribution system, the Tangedco informed their higher-ups in Chennai and sought permission to stop power supply for a while to retrieve the body. Power supply stopped After the permission was given, the power supply was stopped and the body was retrieved by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel. The SIPCOT Police found that the victim was P. Mani Bharathi, 18, a mentally challenged youth from Narippaiyoor in Ramanathapuram district. The SIPCOT police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-electrocuted/article37082228.ece
20 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Festival shoppers run short of parking space||The absence of sufficient designated parking lots in commercial streets has forced vehicle users to park on the roadsides, leading to traffic snarls at various areas in the city. With Deepavali just two weeks away, business streets such as NSB Road, Singarathope, Chinnakadai Street, Big Bazaar Street, Nandi Koil Street, Super Bazaar, Shastri Road and Karur Bypass Road are teeming with shoppers. They witnessed heavy crowds especially during the latter part of the week, giving a tough time to police. While shoppers found it extremely difficult to find vacant places to park their vehicles, police personnel too struggled to regulate the flow of vehicles. As the police closed all important roads that led to busy commercial streets due to overcrowding, the shoppers were forced to park their cars on both sides of West Boulevard Road, Madurai Road, Old Goodshed Road and others. Many could find vacant spots only beyond Devar Hall on West Boulevard Road. The cars were parked on roads in at least two rows, thereby encroaching nearly one-third of the road space. They had to walk for more than a km for shopping. The two-wheelers, who managed to sneak into the commercial streets, parked their vehicles at their will. Though the crowds and the number of vehicles were less on Monday and Tuesday when compared to the weekend, there was no let up in traffic snarls at Main Guard Gate and Madurai Road. Overflowing of parking lots by a couple of textile showrooms also added to the traffic blockade. As the police closed the entry point at Teppakulam post office, vehicles had to take a circuitous route to travel on West Boulevard Road. Car owners were seen arguing with the police and private security personnel employed by textile showrooms for disallowing their vehicles. “It is a nightmarish experience to find vacant spots to park vehicles. I spent about 30 minutes and had no option but to park on the ‘no parking zone’ on West Boulevard Road near Devar Hall,” says a shopper. Many felt that the police and the Corporation should have foreseen the heavy crowds and the vehicles well in advance to set up temporary parking facilities. R. Mutharasu, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Traffic, told The Hindu that arrangements had been made to set up temporary parking lots in the playgrounds of Holy Cross College Higher Secondary School and the Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School. The management of the schools had agreed to the plan. A two-wheeler parking had been created on Old Goodshed Road. No cars and two-wheelers were allowed on NSB Road, Chinnakadai Street and some parts of the Big Bazaar Street as they witnessed heavy crowds. Restricted vehicle entry was in force in Singarathope. Mr. Mutharasu said t the traffic situation was being monitored from 7 a.m. to 11.30 p.m. on busy roads. About 150 traffic policemen had been engaged to ensure free flow of vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festival-shoppers-run-short-of-parking-space/article37082216.ece
20 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Civilian defence staff flay altering of service conditions||Civilian defence employees in ordnance factories have raised apprehensions that their service conditions have been affected after formation of seven defence public sector undertakings in the place of Ordnance Factory Board. The Department of Defence Production had given repeated assurances that the service conditions of the employees will be protected, but the DPSUs have brought about unilateral change in weekly working hours, C. Srikumar, General Secretary of All India Defence Employees Federation said. “Overtime wages/ overtime allowance is an inseparable part of the wages of ordnance factory employees,” he said, and also questioned the ‘arbitrary’ withdrawal of piece work profit ceiling limit by TCL and Yantra India. The employees were also affected by restrictions on availing the utility of medical facilities and patient care services, difficulties caused in General Provident Fund withdrawals, appointments on compassionate ground, and impediments caused to inter-factory/ inter-directorate transfers, Mr. Srikumar said. On Tuesday, the AIDEF, Bhartiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh, and Confederation of Defence Recognised Associations made a written representation to The Secretary - Defence Production, complaining about ‘unilateral decisions’ taken by the corporations, despite the matter being sub-judice before High Courts. “The Federations cannot be mute spectators when the service conditions of the employees are altered without any authority and in violation of commitments of government in the matter. All this can have far-reaching consequences in the industrial relations in the factories, affecting production and productivity. Necessary instructions may be given to all concerned to desist from such activities,” the representation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civilian-defence-staff-flay-altering-of-service-conditions/article37082198.ece
20 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Residents of Kattur grapple with badly laid roads||Residents of Kattur complain that they struggle to travel to and from their homes as many of the streets in their locality lack proper roads. With the recent rain, the roads have gone from bad to worse causing several mishaps. Kailash Nagar is one such large residential area where residents find it difficult to navigate, forcing many to park their vehicles elsewhere and walk to their destination. The 7th to 16th streets in the locality are the worst hit. A resident, A. Raja Daniel Roy says the problem is not new. "While some streets used to have a tar road and were damaged over the years, others have never been laid properly. The roads are fairly manageable during summer. Come monsoon, the residents struggle every year." In Venkateshwara Nagar in Kottapattu, a similar problem prevails. Here, however, the roads have been dug up by the civic body recently to lay underground drainage pipelines. "No vehicles, not even two-wheelers, are able to travel on the roads. What if there is a medical emergency and an ambulance has to rush to take the person to hospital," a resident asks. Even a slight downpour turns the entire street into a large swamp. Ghouse Baig, a civic activist, says the civic body began the UGD work in the area just before the monsoon, which has made matters worse. It is yet to be completed and is progressing at a slow pace. The residents have written to the Chief Minister's Cell about the issue, and are awaiting a response. The petition highlightes the fact that there are senior citizens, students and pregnant women in the locality and need to travel on a daily basis. “Private vehicles like auto-rickshaws and cabs refuse to come to our area due to the bad condition of our roads,” it reads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-of-kattur-grapple-with-badly-laid-roads/article37082533.ece
20 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Funds in, but their woes continue||About two weeks after sanction of funds, guest lecturers in most of the government arts and science colleges are yet to receive their salary dues for five months. It was after repeated representations that the government sanctioned funds for guest lecturers in second shift initially and for those in first shift subsequently. However, barring a handful of colleges, guest lecturers in most of the 149 government arts and science colleges have not yet received their salaries, according to an affected teacher. Already in deep debts, the guest lecturers are now at the mercy of their respective principals who take their own time for disbursing the amounts, he rued. The problem could be rectified in the event of the Director of Collegiate Education instructing Regional Joint Directors to secure Action Taken Reports on salary disbursal from the principals of the government arts and science colleges, another teacher said. According to the teachers, the salary disbursal has not been carried out in more than 90 percent of the government arts and science colleges. The Bursar and Principal must be held responsible if the salary dues are not credited into the bank accounts of the guest lecturers in time such that the teachers can breathe free for the Deepavali festival, the affected teachers emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/funds-in-but-their-woes-continue/article37082197.ece
20 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cancellation of examinations a logical decision, say schoolteachers||Welcoming the cancellation of quarterly and half-yearly examinations, schoolteachers say the decision was inevitable in view of the late start of academic activities in the 2021-22 session. Not enough content could be covered over the last few months since substantial time had to be devoted for conducting refresher programmes after a lengthy hiatus due to the pandemic, school heads contended. The school education department is indeed justified in taking measured steps for revival of normal classroom teaching, but the scope does not exist for conducting exams with the sparse subject content covered so far, a senior teacher said. There are indeed concerns that students could turn complacent in the absence of term exams. Nevertheless, teachers by and large are optimistic about doing justice to the portions in the months to come, after the culmination of the festival season. In particular, teachers of primary and upper primary schools say they are able to breathe free, now that the commencement of physical classes for students from Class 1-8 is set to start from November 1. The teachers who have been engaging students so far through phone calls and WhatsApp groups have been struggling to cope up with the directives of the school education department on written assignments and maintenance of records of assignments. They found the task of monitoring the academic performance of students through phones and WhatsApp groups not just difficult, but also impractical. “It was all about writing work so far; there was no emphasis on the grasp of concepts. The going will be much better much better after the start of physical classes as the daily feedback is bound to be better," a upper primary teacher said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancellation-of-examinations-a-logical-decision-say-schoolteachers/article37082208.ece
20 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tip for organic farmers||The district administration has urged farmers who have adopted organic farming practices to obtain ‘organic farming’ certification. Farmers can apply for the certification with the Department of Seed Certification and Organic Certification. Obtaining the certification would be an authentication that the produce was organically grown and give confidence to customers to buy them with assurance, Collector S. Sivarasu said. This would help farmers to get better returns for their produce and also in exporting their produce through the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) either as individuals or groups. Organic farm products were in good demand both domestically and abroad. Mr. Sivarasu said it would help preserve the soil health and prevent pollution of water resources due to chemical residues of fertilizers and pesticides. Farmers adopting organic farming should completely avoid using chemical fertilizers, pesticides or weedicides. The farmers can file their applications with relevant supporting documents with the office of the Assistant Director of Seed Certification and Organic Certification at Mannarpuram in Tiruchi. More details can be had by dialling 0431-2420133.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tip-for-organic-farmers/article37082212.ece
20 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||191 fresh cases, four deaths in central region||The declining trend in fresh cases of COVID-19 continued in the central region with 191 people testing positive in the nine districts on Tuesday. Four more deaths due to complications arising out of the infection were recorded in the bulletin of the State Health Department. Among the four, two persons hailed from Tiruchi district and one each from Tiruvarur and Perambalur districts. A 56-year-old male patient, without any co-morbidities, died of COVID pneumonia at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Medical College Hospital here on Saturday after being admitted to the hospital on October 1. A 64 -year- old female from the district with Type2 Diabetes Mellitus/Systemic Hypertension died at Namakkal Medical College Hospital on Sunday. A 75-year-old woman of Perambalur and a 70-year-old male of Tiruvarur, both with co-morbid conditions, also died. Meanwhile, Thanjavur continued to report the maximum number of fresh cases in the region with 59 testing positive in the district on Tuesday. Tiruchi reported 45 fresh cases, Tiruvarur 22, Karur 17, Nagapattinam 15, Pudukottai 12, Mayiladuthurai 10, Perambalur six and Ariyalur five. Thanjavur continued to have the highest number of active cases in the region with 759 people undergoing treatment, including those under home treatment, in the district. Tiruvarur had 496 active cases, Tiruchi 495, Nagapattinam 213, Mayiladuthurai 174, Pudukottai 164, Karur 141, Ariyalur 74 and Perambalur 46.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/191-fresh-cases-four-deaths-in-central-region/article37082214.ece
20 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Speaker inspects sites for check dam, infiltration wells||Tamil Nadu Assembly Speaker M. Appavu on Tuesday inspected the sites identified for constructing a check dam and infiltration wells for supplying drinking water to eight town panchayats in Radhapuram Assembly constituency under a project to be implemented at a cost of Rs. 271 crore. Under the new combined drinking water project scheme, the check dam and the infiltration wells are to be built at Kannimar Thoppu near Panagudi. Later, he told reporters that the eight town panchayats would get 60 lakh litres of drinking water every day. The public, who had submitted applications for getting domestic drinking water connections, would get drinking water connection once this project was commissioned. Since Kuthapanjan Falls near Panagudi and Kannimar Thoppu stream, which would attract huge crowds during monsoons, were inaccessible to the public following the ban imposed by the Forest Department, the Speaker promised to make these spots tourist-friendly without violating norms. “As these scenic spots were located in the buffer zone of Kalakkad–Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve, the Forest Department has banned entry of the public. I have spoken to the officials concerned for allowing the public to visit these places again without violating the existing rules. Once the permission is obtained, dressing rooms and pavements will be created near these places,” he said. As 500 houses are to be constructed for homeless below poverty line families by Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board on 4.25 acres along with a park on two acres near Panagudi Mano College, he inspected the identified site and chaired a special camp at Panagudi for receiving applications for getting these houses, each costing about Rs. 10 lakh. While the beneficiaries’ contribution will be Rs. 1.50 lakh, Rs. 8.50 lakh will be subsidy to be borne by the government. “Since more than 2,000 applications have been received in the camp, the officials, under my direct supervision, will properly scrutinise them to identify the really needy beneficiaries,” he said. Tirunelveli MP S. Gnanathiraviam, District Forest Officer M. Ilaiyaraja and Superintending Engineer (Public Works Department - Tirunelveli) Gnanasekar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speaker-inspects-sites-for-check-dam-infiltration-wells/article37082230.ece
20 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Police introduces ‘Pink Brigade’ in Tiruppur||In an effort to monitor and prevent crimes against women, Tiruppur City Police have launched an all-women patrol team named ‘Pink Brigade’ dedicated to act on complaints concerning the safety of women. City Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha flagged off the ‘Pink Brigade’ at the Commissioner’s Office on Monday in the presence of Deputy Commissioners of Police S. Aravind (Law and Order) and P. Ravi (Crime and Traffic), a release said. All the women police personnel of the team were provided with two-wheelers for patrolling. A total of 10 women police personnel, comprising eight women head constables/subordinates (one from each of the eight police stations in the city police) and two women Sub-Inspectors, will be present in the Pink Brigade. The team will patrol the city with a focus on educational institutions, workplaces and public places to crack down on any crimes against women and girls such as eve-teasing and harassment. The team will be on patrol duty between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. and 2 p.m. to 8 p.m. Apart from patrolling, the Pink Brigade will also conduct awareness events for teenage girls and working women, according to the release. The Tiruppur City Police had also introduced a dedicated helpline for the ‘Pink Brigade’ – 94981 81209 – that was linked with the control room to receive complaints from the public, Ms. Vanitha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-introduce-pink-brigade-in-tiruppur/article37082166.ece
20 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||NDC submits suggestions for Nilgiris’ recovery||The Nilgiri Documentation Centre (NDC) called on Governor R.N. Ravi at the Raj Bhavan in Udhagamandalam during his visit and presented a copy of the speech of Lord Willingdon, the Governor of Madras, delivered on the occasion of the centenary celebration of Udhagamandalam on June 1, 1923. “The delegation requested the Governor to be the Patron of the Bicentenary Celebrations of Ootacamund which begins on June 1, 2022,” Venugopal Dharmalingam, honorary director of NDC said in a release. The NDC also presented the Governor with a list of suggestion for the post COVID-19 recovery of the Nilgiris with a request for the recommendations to be forwarded to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. “The suggestions included revision of the Master Plan for the holistic development-cum- conservation of the district, restoring the original purpose of Hill Area Conservation Authority for resolving inter-departmental conflicts of priorities, a futuristic plan for water and drainage, reconstruction of the Municipal Market,” among other suggestions. The delegation gave the Governor a list of long term opportunities for Public-Private Investments for promotion of tourism in the district. The opportunities covered investments in infrastructure, tourism, agriculture, sports, entertainment and education, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ndc-submits-suggestions-for-nilgiris-recovery/article37082170.ece
20 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||New pedestrian underpass on Bengaluru Highway opened||A new pedestrian underpass on the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway (NH-48) connecting Vellore and Katpadi was recently opened for vehicular traffic. The facility, built at a cost of Rs. 2 crore, connects key government offices and institutions like the Collectorate, the Superintendent of Police office, the sub-court, the RTO, the provident fund office, the taluk office and the district forest office with the rest of the town via the Green Circle. “Traffic on the subway along the highway has resumed, with minor works like installation of reflectors and warning signboards being done,” said a highways official. The new subway is 25 metres long, 5.5 metres wide and 3 metres high. The facility also has motor pumpsets to discharge excess rainwater, CCTV cameras and LED street lights. The subway is mainly meant to help cars, two-wheelers and pedestrians reach both sides of the highway. Earlier, motorists and walkers had to travel at least a kilometre to the Collectorate and take a 'U' turn to reach the opposite side of the highway.  The new subway has been developed by Larsen & Toubro Ltd (L&T) on behalf of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Officials said the existing traffic arrangements on the service lanes along the highway would remain unchanged to facilitate minor works in the new underpass. Accordingly, two-wheelers, autorickshaws and cars have to use the service lanes on either side of the highway to reach Vellore and Katpadi via the Green Circle and the bridge across the Palar. A police patrol team has been deployed at the new underpass to regulate traffic, especially during the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-pedestrian-underpass-on-bengaluru-highway-opened/article37082543.ece
20 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 15 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,686 with 15 new cases reported on Tuesday. While 48,356 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases stands at 201. In Ranipet district, 12 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,318. In Tirupattur district, eight new cases were reported on Tuesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,216. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 21, taking the total number of cases to 54,750.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-15-new-cases/article37082484.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fisher drowns after boat collides with SL vessel||“The information has been conveyed to his family members. Steps are under way to bring back his body as early as possible,” he said. However, the Sri Lankan Navy on Tuesday evening said the body had not been found, and the search operation was still on. Meanwhile, angered over the death of Rajkiran, the fishermen of Kottaipattinam resorted to a road blockade on the East Coast Road on Tuesday, holding the Sri Lankan Navy responsible for his death. They raised slogans against the Sri Lankan Navy. M. Asan Mohaideen, president, Mechanised Boat Fishermen Association, Kottaipattinam, who led the protest, alleged that the young fisherman had been beaten to death. Others who were fishing in the same location witnessed the boat sinking after being hit by a Sri Lankan vessel. The Sri Lankan Navy, which refrained from opening fire on fishermen for the last few years, was following “illegitimate methods” to kill fishermen, he claimed. He urged the Central and State Governments to take serious note of the issue. The Sri Lankan Navy on Tuesday said it had rescued two fishermen from an Indian vessel that was sinking, adding that it had been “poaching in Sri Lankan waters”. A search operation was under way to find another fisherman, who “went missing” following the incident, a statement said. The two “rescued fishermen” were detained in Kankesanthurai in Jaffna. When asked about the missing fisherman, the Sri Lankan Navy's media spokesman, Captain Indika De Silva, said the search was ongoing. “We are also in touch with an Indian naval vessel conducting a similar search operation on the Indian side of the IMBL,” he told The Hindu.  ‘Chasing away’ With regard to the incident, the Sri Lankan Navy said its patrol units were “chasing away” Indian trawlers when one vessel, with “aggressive manoeuvres”, resisted the chase, resulting in the collision. Tamil Nadu fishermen have repeatedly accused the Sri Lankan Navy of attacking them and their vessels — an allegation the island nation has denied. Following a similar incident in January, four Tamil Nadu fishermen, Samson Darwin, 28, A. Mesiya, 30, V. Nagaraj, 52, and S. Senthil Kumar, 32, from Ramanathapuram, died. There has been no official word so far on the investigation into their deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fisher-drowns-after-boat-collides-with-sl-vessel/article37081936.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Yellow love||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yellow-love/article37082173.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A tale of woe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-tale-of-woe/article37082225.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Safety measure||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-measure/article37082250.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||127 fresh COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore reported 127 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, causing the overall tally to touch 2,45,226. The Health Department reported one new death, taking the district’s toll to 2,384. The district had 1,506 active cases and 148 patients were discharged on Tuesday. The positivity rate of Coimbatore as per Monday’s data was 1.3%. Tiruppur reported 71 new cases, raising the tally to 94,529. The toll touched 970 as two new deaths were reported. The district had 823 active cases and 72 patients recovered from COVID-19 on Tuesday. The positivity rate of Tiruppur based on Monday’s data was 1.5%. In the Nilgiris, 18 persons tested positive and the district’s tally touched 33,304. The toll stood at 208 while 341 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/127-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article37082171.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust: Meet Coimbatore Artists 2021, Avinashi Road, 10 a.m.    KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Special lecture by Sridhar Vembu – Founder and CEO of Zoho Corporation, 12.30 p.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Seminar on ‘Digital Threats and Safety Measures’, 3.15 p.m.  KGiSL Institute of Technology: Lecture on ‘How Technology Improves Me’, 12.40 p.m.  Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education: Conference on ‘Role of Women in Literature’, 10 a.m.  PSG Institute of Technology and Applied Research: Inauguration of First Year Orientation Programme, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37082169.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE  Nandha Engineering College: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, hands-on-training using Node MCU for IoT applications, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37082239.ece
20 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Surjewala slams Kateel’s remark on Rahul Gandhi||Randeep Surjewala, AICC general secretary, has condemned Nalin Kumar Kateel, BJP State president, for calling Rahul Gandhi, Congress leader, a ‘drug peddler and addict’. “Mr. Kateel’s statement is imbecile, foolish, and irresponsible. The person who makes such statements is not in the right frame of mind. Mr Kateel seems to have lost his mental balance. He is either ill or is intoxicated. It seems he has consumed a part of the drugs that were seized at the Adani port in Gujarat. He should be sent to a rehabilitation centre,” Mr. Surjewala told journalists in Balaganoor village near Sindgi on Tuesday. He was here to campaign for Ashok Managuli, Congress candidate for the Sindagi bypoll. “The BJP is a party that is drunk with power and drugged with arrogance. Its leaders don’t seem to realise that,” he said. Later at a rally, he alleged that the JD(S) was trying to help the BJP indirectly by dividing the vote share of secular parties. “The JD(S) is fielding candidates not to win the bypolls, but to help the BJP,” he said. He also alleged that senior BJP leaders in New Delhi had finalised the names of the JD(S) candidates in Karnataka. “H.D. Deve Gowda keeps saying that the Congress should take regional parties into confidence in the process of forming an anti-BJP coalition. Most of the regional parties in the country are already with the Congress. But the JD(S) is siding with the BJP by its electoral and other acts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surjewala-slams-kateels-remark-on-rahul-gandhi/article37082263.ece
20 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||People should defeat BJP in Sindgi bypoll: Kharge||“People should display their disappointment with the State Government by defeating the BJP in the Sindgi bypoll,’’ M. Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, said on Tuesday. He was speaking at a rally for Congress nominee Ashok Managuli in Balaganur village near Sindgi. “People are suffering owing to the wrong policies and actions of the Union and the State Governments. The price rise of essential commodities is hurting everyone. The Centre has failed to manage the economy effectively and has also failed to handle the epidemic,” he said “This byelections are very important for the nation and Karnataka. The Congress will not come to power even if we win both the bypolls. But defeating the BJP will send a strong message against the anti-people administration,” he said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi government is a name changing government. It has only changed the names of most of our welfare and development schemes before relaunching them. The latest is the midday meal scheme,” he said. Mr. Kharge alleged that the BJP was dividing the society on communal lines, because it was its agenda, but also to divert the attention away from real issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-should-defeat-bjp-in-sindgi-bypoll-kharge/article37082264.ece
20 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Efforts on to make Kittur Utsav State-level festival’||Efforts are being made to get Kittur Utsav declared as a State-level festival, MLA and BJP leader from Kittur Mahantesh Dodagoudar said in Belagavi on Monday. He was speaking to journalists after releasing a brochure for Kittur Utsav, scheduled for October 23 and 24. “We are inviting Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to inaugurate the festival. We hope that he makes the announcement about the upgrade during his stay in Kittur,” he said. Mr. Dodagoudar said that while the State Government released Rs. 30 lakh for each district festival, it gave amounts in the range of Rs. 2 crore to Rs. 5 crore for State-level festivals. The Hampi Utsav and Mysuru Dasara are State-level festivals. They get additional funding. “We are seeking an upgrade as we want to celebrate Kittur Utsav in a grand manner from next year,” he said. He said that wrestling matches were cancelled for this year’s Kittur Utsav due to COVID-19 restrictions. “We have organised a series of lectures on the Kittur Channamma dynasty to commemorate the 25th year of the Kittur Utsav celebrations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/efforts-on-to-make-kittur-utsav-state-level-festival/article37082261.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Boy drowns in flooded cellar of under-construction building||Heavy rains and lack of basic safety precautions have claimed yet another life, this time at a construction site in HBR Layout 2nd stage near the BDA Complex. A 14-year-old boy who was playing with his friends drowned when he slipped and fell into a flooded cellar of an under-construction building on Tuesday afternoon. “The cellar which had a sump was filled with rainwater up to 10 ft,” said a police officer. His friend who jumped into the cellar to try to save him almost drowned but was rescued by a food delivery partner and three other adults in the area who heard the children crying for help. The deceased teenager, Chandru, had lost his mother to COVID-19 during the first wave, and lived with his father, a labourer from Tamil Nadu, in K.G Halli along with other family members. Chandru and five of his friends who resided in the area were playing football near the construction site early Tuesday evening, around 3.30 p.m. While they were playing, the ball rolled into the cellar, and Chandru ran to pick it up. According to the K.G. Halli police, the site was filled with water due to heavy rains. The building owner had not put in place any safety measures to secure the area, said a police officer. While retrieving the ball, Chandru slipped and fell into the flooded cellar. His friend, Vimal, 13, realised that he couldn’t swim and jumped in to rescue him. But he did not surface either. In panic, the four remaining children started shouting for help. Passers-by immediately ran to the site. “While they were able to rescue Vimal who was clinging to a pole, they could not find Chandru. His body was recovered later,” said a police officer. Adam Pasha, a food delivery boy who witnessed the incident said, “Four boys were screaming for help. I ran towards them along with three other people to see what had happened. I tied a rope around my waist and got down in knee-deep water to pull one of them out. We rescued the boy who was clinging to a pillar, and alerted the Fire and Emergency Services personnel and the police.,” said Mr. Pasha. K.G. Halli police have taken up a case of death due to negligence against building owner Firoz Ahmed.  Four boys were screaming for help. I ran towards them along with three other people to see what had happened. I tied a rope around my waist and got down in knee-deep water to pull one of them out. We rescued the boy who was clinging to a pillar, and alerted the Fire and Emergency Services personnel and the police. Adam Pasha food delivery executive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-drowns-in-flooded-cellar-of-under-construction-building/article37082068.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Amendments to Act will add to further degradation of ghats’||Opposition is mounting against the proposed amendments to the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, with environmentalists and activists arguing that it will lead to further degradation of forests, especially in ecologically sensitive areas such as the Western Ghats. Scientists and environmentalists have already flagged concerns regarding the degradation of this region, and they say further dilution of laws will only contribute further to this. Among the issues for consultation is that of private land in forest areas. “Considering any private area as forest would restrict the right of an individual to use his/her own land for any non-forestry activity. Many a time, the proposed change in land use is not considered by the government even under the provisions of the Act. Even if the same is allowed, the owner has to provide equivalent non-forest land and other compensatory levies, for use of his own land for intended non-forestry purpose. This has further led to the development of a tendency to keep most private land devoid of vegetation even the land has scope for planting activities,” a consultation paper on the proposed amendments said. It also speaks of “strong resentment in the Ministry of Railways, the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways, etc.” over the right of way. With the enactment of the Act, all such land requires prior approval of the government for non-forestry use. “The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change is now considering to exempt such land acquired before October 25, 1980, from the purview of the Act,” according to the paper. Environmentalists say this could sound the death knell for the biodiversity-rich Ghats. Shivamogga-based environmentalist Akhilesh Chipli alleged that the proposition is simply “out to sell the Western Ghats.” “There are so many amendments being brought out — first the draft EIA, now the Forest Act. All of these are aimed at benefitting the private sector. A lot of land is already gone. Western Ghats is as unique as the Amazon rainforests. But it looks like these amendments are aimed at ensuring that nothing should be left here,” he said. G. Veeresh, honorary wildlife warden, Chikkamagaluru also said with no forest clearance needed for road and other works, the amendments will help contractors and no one else. “The Western Ghats already has many non-forest activities and many wildlife corridors have already been cut off. If you are amending existing Acts on top of this in the name of development, forest areas will reduce further. Without requiring permission, you are handing over the advantage to those who want to open more forest areas and this will lead to more conflicts,” he said. He added that with many villages “upgrading” into towns and so on, these Acts are the only ones helping save forests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amendments-to-act-will-add-to-further-degradation-of-ghats/article37082072.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Had BMRCL met deadlines, 1.7 million could have benefited daily||In its annual report in 2013-14, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) claimed that by 2017, around 1.7 million people in the city would rely on Namma Metro. The report stated that the completion of Phase II alone – with four extensions and two new lines – would benefit 14.8 lakh people. Cut to a decade later: Phase II is nowhere near completion. Multiple deadlines have been missed and the robust transport system that citizens were promised has yet to become a reality. On October 21, 2011, BMRCL introduced metro services in the city for the first time between M.G. Road and Baiyappanahalli for a distance of 6.7 km. Bengaluru was the first city in South India to get a metro. However, BMRCL could not open the rest of the lines on schedule. Phase 1, covering a distance of 42 km including the Purple line (Baiyyappanahalli – Mysore Road) and the Green Line (Nagasandra – Yelachenahalli), became completely operational only mid-2017. Delays in land acquisition and change in plans to tunnel boring machines breaking down resulted in missed deadlines. Land acquisition woes Even while implementing the ongoing Phase II, BMRCL continues to face similar hurdles. Of the 72km metro network, only 13.5 km is operational. Inordinate delays in acquisition of NICE land at Electronic City, Tumakuru Road and other locations, and acquiring forest land at Kadugodi, etc. for years, and taking possession of defence land also considerably delayed the project. The corporation has now set 2025 as the deadline to complete the rest of the lines. “For the ongoing Phase II work, a total of 16 lakh sq m of land was identified. We faced several hurdles. Many property owners had approached the court. Acquisition of religious structures was a challenging task as there was a lot of local pressure. Even acquiring land belonging to government departments was a challenge. We acquired many properties only after the intervention of the chief secretary,” said a BMRLC official. Changes in alignment Changes in the plans especially construction of metro stations impacted the phase II of Namma Metro projects. For example, in 2018 after bidders quoted exorbitant prices for the tunnel network, BMRCL decided to reduce the length of the UG line by 3 km on either side of the alignment. A year later, the revised plan was found to be unfeasible, and the original alignment came back into play. After years of deliberation, public consultation and change in alignment, the State government approved the airport line from Silk Board to K.R. Puram via Hebbal. The Centre gave its nod of approval only in April 2021. Failure on the part of the contractors implementing the project also resulted in delays. On Bannerghatta Road, for instance, BMRCL was forced to end the contract given to Simplex Infrastructure Ltd. after it failed to implement the project. Urban mobility expert Ashish Verma said that Namma Metro will remain a key element of a sustainable mobility plan for Bengaluru. “However, its 10 year journey throws up a lot of possibilities for improvement on all aspects. This includes better and integrated planning of corridor alignments and stations, timely execution and completion, speedy network expansion, minimising ecological impacts (lakes, trees etc.) at the planning stage itself, and increasing the supply of services (frequency, train capacity, reliability etc.).” He pointed out that BMRCL needs to incorporate multi-modal integration in station planning and design more efficiently and integrate passenger information and ticketing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/had-bmrcl-met-deadlines-17-million-could-have-benefited-daily/article37082062.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All zones receive ‘large excess’ rainfall this month||Civic agencies have been caught unawares by the excess rainfall that Bengaluru has received this month. Data from the Karnataka State Natural Disasters Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) shows that from October 1-18, all eight zones in the city received ‘large excess’ of rain, where the percentage departure is above 60%. While the normal rainfall across the city during this period is 104 mm, the eight zones have together received 233 mm, which is a 125% departure from the normal rainfall. The maximum departure from normal rains was in West zone with 222%, followed by South zone with 168%, Rajarajeshwarinagar with 166% and Dasarahalli with 138%. The data also shows that during this period, West zone received maximum rains at 319 mm, followed by South (290 mm), Rajarajeshwarinagar (285 mm) and Dasarahalli (241 mm). Monsoon flooding KSNDMC director Manoj Rajan said during the monsoon months from June to October, Bengaluru is vulnerable to flooding. A study of the rainfall pattern in the city between 1960-1990 and 1991-2017 has shown that the average annual rainfall in the Bengaluru Urban district increased from 836 mm to 943 mm. The increase in the quantum of rains received by the city can also be attributed to climate change and the urban heat islands phenomenon, KSNDMC officials stated. Geeta Agnihotri, scientist and head, Indian Meteorological Department, Bengaluru, attributed the continued heavy spells to the development of low-pressure areas in both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal. These active systems have resulted in heavy rains in all the southern states. “The development of such systems is common when the South-West monsoon retreats,” she said. Meanwhile, as many as 14 districts in the state have recorded ‘large excess’ rains, with the departure from normal rainfall ranging between 150% and 63%. A total of 6 districts have recorded ‘excess’ rains, while rainfall was ‘normal’ in five districts and a ‘deficit’ in six districts. ‘We need one sunny day’ The unusually heavy rains have taken a toll on Bengaluru’s roads that are riddled with craters and potholes. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta told The Hindu that officials have been directed to take up pothole filling as soon as the rains abate. “We need at least one clear sunny day for the materials to be dry for the making of hot mix and for the road surfaces to be dry. If the road surface is wet, the wet mix will not bond to the surface,” he explained. The rains that have been lashing every day had hampered the pothole filling work, as well as manufacturing of wet mix at the hot mix plant in Kannur. While instructions have been given to send additional loads to different zones from the plant, officials have also been authorized to procure the hot mix from any other sources, including existing contractors. They may also utilize funds earmarked for each ward in the budget for filling potholes locally, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-zones-receive-large-excess-rainfall-this-month/article37082066.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||School reopening: Midday meals may take longer to resume||While primary classes across Karnataka are set to reopen on October 25 after a gap of nearly 20 months, teachers and Education Department officials foresee some hurdles before the functioning is back on track. Several schools across the State expressed anxiety over the logistics of restarting midday meals. Teachers are in a dilemma whether to ask students from Classes I to V to bring their own food or arrange for the meals in the schools. Presently, students from Classes VI to X who are attending classes for the whole day are bringing their own food, as they are also not being served the midday meal, said a teacher in Dakshina Kannada. At Mysuru too, while schools are ready to resume, they are seeking time for resuming midday meals or Askshara Dasoha from the same day. With school kitchens still not fully prepared to start cooking food in the absence of necessary inputs, especially groceries and cooking gas. “We have sought the postponement of midday meals for four days to one week. This will help us make preparations,” said Karnataka State Primary School Teachers’ Association’s Mysuru unit general secretary Mahesh H.S. The midday meal staff are supposed to be fully vaccinated to join their duties. There are some staff who are awaiting their second doses as they are yet to complete 84 days. Two sessions? The headmaster of another school in Bantwal in Dakshina Kannada said the directions by Chief Secretary Ravi Kumar state that offline classes for Classes I to V should be held for 50% of the capacity of each classroom. “Whether we have to hold classes in two sessions in a day or hold classes on alternate days has to be clarified,” he said. A teacher in the same school expressed anxiety over learning levels. “It will take a few days to assess the learning level of students and plan bridge courses for students,” she said. Monitoring issues Roopa R. Pai, Vice-Principal of Chetan Public School, Hubballi, said that although students of higher classes are already attending classes, it is a different case with younger children. “They need strict monitoring. This apart. we have put up signboards with pictures on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour throughout the campus. We have also circulated video clips of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour to the parents,” she told The Hindu . As per the protocol, arrangements have been made to accommodate only 15 to 20 students per class. And in order to check crowding, there would be two entries to the school, she explained. Consent letters Meanwhile, the department has issued instructions to teachers to collect letters from parents expressing their consent to send their children to schools. K.S. Prakash, DDPI of Hassan, told The Hindu , “We have issued instructions to schools to collect consent letters from the parents. The department will take measures necessary for the safety of children,” he said.  (With inputs from Mangaluru, Hubballi, Mysuru, and Hassan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-reopening-midday-meals-may-take-longer-to-resume/article37082074.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Karnataka reports 349 fresh cases, 14 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 349 new cases of COVID-19. With this, the total number of cases to date stands at 29,84,022. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of cases (161) and five deaths. Across the State, 14 people succumbed to the virus on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 37,967. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 399 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 29,36,926. The State now has 9,100 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day was 0.41%, the CFR touched 4.01%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-karnataka-reports-349-fresh-cases-14-deaths/article37082070.ece
20 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Campaign on Kannada to precede Rajyotsava||The State Government will launch a week-long campaign titled ‘Kannadakkaagi Naavu’ (We for Kannada) from October 24 to 30, the week preceding Kannada Rajyotsava which falls on November 1. This is aimed at creating a “Kannada ambience” by encouraging everyone to speak and transact in the language. The campaign, which goes with a logo and a catchline ( Maataad Maataad Kannada) , also seeks to teach Kannada to non-Kannadigas and encourage people working in the IT/BT sector to speak in the language at office, a release from the Department of Kannada and Culture said. The campaign also aims to promote the use of Kannada on social media and acquaint the public with the works of famous Kannada writers. The Kannada and Culture Department also plans to organise a ‘Kannada Samskrutika Utsava’ comprising theatre shows and dance and music programmes depicting the importance of Karnataka and Kannada. It will showcase cultural programmes in all the wards of Bengaluru city, on the premises of IT/BT firms, and at factories, metro stations, and the Vidhana Soudha. An event will be held at Ravindra Kalakshetra of Bengaluru from October 29 to 31. It will have a book exhibition, ethnic dress display, and food, art and sculpture melas. It will also include cultural programmes. Mass rendition The department plans to organise a mass rendition of three popular Kannada songs by one lakh people at 11.06 a.m. on October 28. The songs — Baarisu Kannada dindimava by Kumvempu, Jogada siri belakinalli by Nisar Ahmed, and Huttidare Kannada Nadalli Huttabeku by Hamsalekha — will be sung on the premises of government offices and educational institutions, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campaign-on-kannada-to-precede-rajyotsava/article37082085.ece
20 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||11 to get Maharshi Valmiki Award today||As many as 11 achievers have been chosen for the Maharshi Valmiki Award for 2020 and 2021 by the State Government. The awards will be presented by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai at Vidhana Soudha on Wednesday to mark Valmiki Jayanthi. The six personalities chosen for the 2021 award are K.C. Nagaraju (Social Service), Lakshmi Ganapathi Siddi (Social Service), S.R. Niranjana (Education), Bhatrahalli Goolappa (Social Service), T. Ashwatharamaiah (Social Service), and Jambaiah Nayaka (Social Service), according to Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu. The five chosen for the 2020 awards are K.R. Patil (Social Service), B.L. Venu (Literature), Gowri Koraga (Social Service), Marappa Nayaka (Organisation), and Thippeswamy H. (Social Service). The awards for 2020 were not presented owing to COVID-19. Each awardee will get a 20 gram gold medal and a cash prize of Rs. 5 lakh in addition to a certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/11-to-get-maharshi-valmiki-award-today/article37082419.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No Presents Please: Mumbai Stories wins translation award||No Presents Please: Mumbai Stories , a collection of short stories by Jayant Kaikini translated from Kannada by Tejaswini Niranjana, has won the American Literary Translators Association’s National Translation Award for 2021 for prose. The judges have said that the collection “deserves all the presents for its intimate and life-affirming portrayal of ordinary people in Mumbai... Each story is a perfectly crafted world where the unexpected suddenly expands the reader’s horizons in a single thrilling and affecting moment.” Ms. Niranjana is a cultural theorist and translator. Mr. Kaikini is best known for stories that look at mega-cities through the eyes of their ordinary, mostly lower-middle class, inhabitants. He is also a well-known film lyricist. Speaking on the award, Ms. Niranjana said she was particularly happy about this award as it is given by an association of translators. “The jury is also of translators, who independently make people read the original work and then the translation, which is rare. It is nice to be recognised by your equals,” she said. Ms. Niranjana plans to translate another volume of Mr. Kaikini’s short stories. “I plan to start work on that soon,” she said. Mr. Kaikini said the award was special since it was for the translation. “Translation is such a selfless endeavour and an award to recognise a translator’s work is such a nice gesture.” The winner will be awarded a $2,500 prize. The work had also won the DSC Prize for South Asian Literature in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-presents-please-mumbai-stories-wins-translation-award/article37082077.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. urged to cut sales tax, excise duty on fuel||The Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) has appealed to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to immediately cut the existing sales tax of 35%. It has also urged the Centre to reduce the excise duty of Rs. 32.9 charged by it per litre. The return of fuel consumption level to pre-COVID-19 times indicates that the economy is on the rebound, and therefore there is no need for the Government to delay its decision to reduce the duty on it, KASSIA stated. The trade body said the steep rise in prices has adversely impacted the lives of workers and operations of micro- and small-scale enterprises in the State. “The State, as well as the Centre, should act collectively to pare down the price rise, otherwise the situation will get out of control and inflationary conditions will be let into the economy,” it said. “This is leading to other complications such as demands by workers to increase their salary to meet their rising commuting cost as most use their own vehicles. Even in the case of those workers who use public transport for work, there is a real possibility that they too will be paying increased fare sooner rather than later,” KASSIA said in a press release. P. Shashidhar, administrator of KASSIA, said that on the other hand, many vendors have signed up contracts of one year or more with their purchasers, and now the increase in diesel price has effectively reduced their margin, which they cannot pass on to their customers.  The State, as well as the Centre, should act to pare down the price rise, otherwise the situation will get out of control KASSIA, in a press release||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-urged-to-cut-sales-tax-excise-duty-on-fuel/article37082087.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sanjjanaa files cheating complaint||Actor Sanjjanaa Galrani, an accused in the high-profile narcotics case, has filed a case against her friend – another accused in the case — for allegedly cheating her in a business deal. The actor’s friend Rahul Tonse had been arrested along with Galrani and others by the CCB police last year in connection with the alleged use and sale of drugs at parties. The actor alleged that Tonse lured her into investing money in his casino business and refused to give her the promised returns or the principal amount. She told the police that in November 2018, Tonse approached her and told her he was a managing director of casinos in Goa and Colombo, Sri Lanka. He asked her to invest in his casino business offering huge returns. The actress agreed and regularly transferred money into his account as well as the bank account of two of Tonse’s associates, Ramakrishna and Rajeshwari, who are also named accused in the FIR. She claimed that they refused to make good on the returns they promised. And despite repeated requests they did not return the money she had wired to them. “She further in her statement said that the accused had misused the money for illegal activities to make a profit and spread rumours to defame her,” said the police. Based on the directions of 4th Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate court, the Indiranagar police registered a case against Tonse and the two associates charging them under cheating, criminal intimation and outraging the modesty on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sanjjanaa-files-cheating-complaint/article37082069.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tax evasion scam unearthed||RTO officials uncovered an alleged road tax evasion scam where owners of high-end vehicles procure fake registration numbers from other states, forge documents and illegally access official records to alter details while applying for a transfer of vehicle to Karnataka. Based on a complaint filed by B.K. Nefanand, Regional Transport Officer, Bengaluru East, the Ramamurthy Nagar police arrested one person and registered a case against a vehicle owner for cheating and forgery. “Considering the inter-state ramification, the case has been transferred to the CCB police for a detailed probe,” said an official. The racket came to light when RTO officials were verifying the details of a high-end car, which originally had a West Bengal registration. They reached out to their counterparts in West Bengal to verify the vehicle tax records to find that the registration number in the document was not that of the car, but of a motorcycle . They checked the chassis and registration numbers of the vehicle on the central transport department official website to find that the car was actually registered in Himachal Pradesh. Someone had hacked into the State transport website to manipulate documents of the high-end card to evade taxes. The police suspect this was not a one-off incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tax-evasion-scam-unearthed/article37082078.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Helpdesk for those stranded at Uttarakhand||The Government of Karnataka has established a helpdesk to assist people from Karnataka stranded at various places in Uttarakhand. According to Revenue Minister R. Ashok, people who are stranded or relatives of the stranded can contact this helpdesk and give the information which will be flashed to Uttarakhand authorities for immediate action. Numbers The Karnataka State Emergency Operation Center numbers are 080-1070 (toll free) and 080-2234 0676, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/helpdesk-for-those-stranded-at-uttarakhand/article37082080.ece
20 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Speaking contest||How many people can speak in Kannada fluently without using words from English or other languages? A competition is being organised by the Kannada and Culture Department in which the participants have to speak only in Kannada. They have to send across a four-minute video selfie of themselves speaking fluently in the language. The winners at the district level will get cash rewards of Rs. 5,000 (first prize), Rs. 3,000 (second prize), and Rs. 2,000. The district-level winners will be chosen for the State-level contest, which will have cash prizes of Rs. 50,000, Rs. 30,000, and Rs. 20,000 for the top there. October 28 is the last date for receiving the video recordings. Details can be found on the website of the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/speaking-contest/article37082088.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||60 cr. footfall, Rs. 1,293 cr. revenue||Since Namma Metro became operational in Bengaluru, it saw a footfall of 60 crore passengers and generated fare box revenue of Rs. 1,293 crore till October 18, 2021. The network started with 6.7 km operations and now 55 km is operational. Prior to the pandemic, ridership touched up to 6.1 lakh in a single day. “When the services were launched between M.G. Road and Baiyappanahalli, on an average 20,000 people were travelling per day. In the last ten years, many changes were introduced. All the 50 trains were converted from three to six coaches. The first coach of the train is reserved for women and we have also allowed pedestrians to use metro stations to cross the busy roads,” said B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan, Chief PRO, BMRCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/60-cr-footfall-rs-1293-cr-revenue/article37082063.ece
20 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two policemen suspended||Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda suspended two policemen after a video showing them consuming liquor while on duty went viral on Tuesday. The suspended are S.J. Rame Gowda, assistant sub-inspector, and Rangaswamy, head constable attached to Pension Mohalla Police Station. A member of Karnataka Rashtra Samiti (KRS), a political party, had posted the video clip on social media. The two policemen in uniform were seen having liquor in a room, attached to a bar in the city. When the person who shot the video asked them if they were on duty, the policemen said yes. They also admitted that what they did was wrong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-policemen-suspended/article37082438.ece
20 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||13 new cases in Hassan||Hassan reported 13 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Among them, six were in Hassan taluk, three in Belur, one each in Alur, Arkalgud, Sakleshpur, and one more from outside the district. With that, the total number of cases reported in the district increased to 1,11,475. So far 1,368 people have died in the district. Shivamogga reported seven fresh cases on the day. Among them, three were in Hosanagar taluk, two in Sagar, one in Shivamogga, and one from out of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-new-cases-in-hassan/article37082442.ece
20 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||I resigned voluntarily, says Yediyurappa||Former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has maintained that he is not being sidelined in the BJP. “I have not been sidelined in the party. I am making it clear again, I resigned as CM voluntarily. There was no pressure on me,” he told presspersons in Shivamogga on Tuesday. “We are fortunate to have Narendra Modi as Prime Minister, who has been appreciated across the globe,” he said. He also criticised Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah for his recent comments on the BJP. “Neither the Centre nor the State discriminated against minorities. We have treated all sections of society equally. Mr. Siddaramaiah should have control over his words,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-resigned-voluntarily-says-yediyurappa/article37082445.ece
20 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Kateel draws flak for remarks on Rahul||Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel kicked up a controversy on Tuesday by saying that “according to some media reports” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is a “drug addict and drug peddler.” Speaking at the preparatory meeting on the forthcoming council polls in Hubballi on Tuesday, Mr. Kateel made these derogatory remarks, while attributing it to unspecified “media reports.” On Twitter Taking exception to this, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar took to Twitter on Tuesday seeking an apology. “Yesterday I said I believe we should be civil and respectful in politics, even to our opponents. I hope the BJP agrees with me and will apologise for their state President’s abusive and unparliamentary remarks against Mr. Rahul Gandhi.” On Monday, the Congress on Twitter called Prime Minister Narendra Modi “illiterate” but took it down after Mr. Shivakumar expressed regret over it and chastised his partymen for the tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kateel-draws-flak-for-remarks-on-rahul/article37082082.ece
20 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Rehabilitation in tremor-hit villages after NGRI report: Minister||Revenue Minister R. Ashok visited Gadikeshwar village in Chincholi taluk, Kalaburagi district, which has been hit by frequent tremors in the last couple of weeks, on Tuesday. Interacting with the people who were apparently frightened by the frequent tremors, the Minister assured them of discussing the issue of rehabilitation with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and taking a decision on constructing safe sheds for them. “Taking note of the frequent earthquakes in Gadikeshwar and surrounding villages in Chincholi and Kalagi taluks, scientists of National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) from Hyderabad have put up a seismometer in Gadikeshwar. The instrument will record the earth’s motion during earthquakes and send the information directly to the institute’s headquarters in Hyderabad. The scientists will then study data for a month and submit a report to the government. Based on their recommendations, the government will take steps for rehabilitation,” the Minister said. “Ours is a government that is sensitive to people’s problems. We take care of your requirements. The district administration has already opened relief centres and I have directed it to open more such centres, if required. We will pay compensation for the houses that have been damaged or destroyed. There is no dearth of funds for the purpose. Everything will be taken care of under the disaster management funds,” Mr. Ashok said. He handed over cheque for Rs. 50,000 to a few people whose houses were damaged in the tremors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rehabilitation-in-tremor-hit-villages-after-ngri-report-minister/article37082262.ece
20 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Siddaramiah started war of words: HDK||Responding to questions on his recent war of words with Congress leader Siddaramaiah, JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy said that it was Mr. Siddaramaiah who started it. “I never initiated the verbal clash. It is Mr. Siddaramaiah who started the clash and I am compelled to respond and close the matter,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said. He was speaking to reporters at Kalaburagi Airport on Tuesday. He was here on his way to Sindgi to campaign. To another question on Jameer Ahmad’s frequent criticisms against him, Mr. Kumaraswamy said that the former was not his friend and he was not interested to comment on him. On the byelection, Mr. Kumaraswamy said that the electoral fight was between the JD(S) and the BJP and the Congress was in third place. “They are in competition to grab more percentage. The people need to root out both the parties,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramiah-started-war-of-words-hdk/article37082265.ece
20 October 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi DD centre moves on from analogue||After contributing television transmission services for 44 years, Kalaburagi Dooradarshan Transmitter Centre, Karnataka’s first Analogue Terrestrial Transmitter established by Prasar Bharati, will cease its transmission operations from October 31. It is among the 152 analogue transmitters that will be closed across the country. Prasar Bharati authorities said that it was part of a technology upgrade initiative from the traditional analogue transmission to advanced digital transmission. Doordarshan is shifting from standard definition to high definition and the digital mode of transmission requires no regional centres and television antennas to transmit the content. The public broadcaster has also clarified that all of its television channels would be available on DTH platform at DD Free Dish. Following anxiety over the “closure” of the centre, the authorities clarified that the transmission part of the Kalaburagi centre would cease its operations, but the centre would continue to function and contribute a half-hour content a week to Chandana television. The Kalaburagi centre was established way back on September 3, 1977.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-dd-centre-moves-on-from-analogue/article37082083.ece
20 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Juvenile secured in assault case in Ullal||A 17-year-old boy was accused of assaulting a 42-year-old man in Uliya of Ullal on Tuesday. Harish Ganiga, who runs a gas accessories store, said that he had been facing nuisance by the boy near his house. After a complaint, the police had warned the boy. Angered over the complaint, the boy went to Ganiga’s shop on Tuesday evening and after a heated exchange of words, assaulted Ganiga with a knife on his chest and hand and ran away. Ganiga has been admitted at a private hospital. He is said to be out of danger. The boy has been secured and he will be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board, the Ullal Police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/juvenile-secured-in-assault-case-in-ullal/article37082416.ece
20 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mandatory combination system done away with under National Education Policy 2020||Undergraduate students of arts and science under the new National Education Policy 2020 at Mangalore University will have to select only two core subjects as optionals from the academic year 2021-22. In addition, they have to select one subject from the list of open electives. It enables a student to have multi-disciplinary study. With this, the erstwhile system of mandatory combinations has been done away with. While selecting the open electives science students can select subjects from arts and vice-versa. Sources in the university told The Hindu that as per the draft regulations, a student who enters the fourth year (honours) will have to study only one core subject. In addition to the two core subjects and an open elective subject, the undergraduate students will have to study environmental studies and gender equity and Constitution of India and human rights in the first two years. They are called ability enhancement subjects. Of them, one paper will have to be opted for in the second semester and another one will have to be studied in the fourth semester. Sources said that along with them, the students will also have to opt for valued based subjects like yoga, health and wellness, sports, NCC, NSS, and cultural activities in all semesters till three years. They need not opt for them in the fourth year (during honours). They said that students will have to opt for skill enhancement subjects in the first and third semesters. Some of such subjects are like cyber security, professional communication, artificial intelligence, and digital fluency. Sources said for all monodiscipline courses, like BCom, BBA, BCA, fashion design, interior design, their mandatory core subjects will continue. They said that while selecting the two core subjects under science, the university will make certain suggestions to students on which are the two core subjects can be selected together. But it is only an advice and students need not follow it. For example, a student opting for bio-technology as a core subject can select from among chemistry, biochemistry, micro biology, botany, zoology, home science as the second core subject. If a student opted for genetics as a core subject the second core subject can be selected from among botany, zoology, microbiology, biotechnology, sericulture, chemistry, and biotechnology. They said that the draft might undergo certain modifications while the decision making bodies of the university will finally approve the regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mandatory-combination-system-done-away-with-under-national-education-policy-2020/article37082422.ece
20 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Online quiz competition||The Department of Business Administration of Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management will organise Sahyadri Whiz Quiz, an online quiz competition for undergraduates. Prelims will be held on October 24 onwards, followed by the zonal final on October 29. The grand finale will be held on October 31. A total cash prize of Rs. 75,000 under various categories will be given. And, as a special recognition, the winners will get a scholarship for higher education in the same college. e-certificates will also be issued to all the participants. The last date for registration is October 22. The link for registration is,https://bit.ly/SahWQ21, a release from the college said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-quiz-competition/article37082415.ece
20 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Child exchange: Samples sent for DNA test||In a case related to what is being called a child exchange at the Government Lady Goschen Hospital here, the Mangaluru North Police collected blood samples of the parents from Kundapur taluk in Udupi and their newborn boy on Tuesday and sent them to Bengaluru for a DNA test. Mustafa Hamza, father of the child, filed a complaint against the staff of the Government Lady Goschen Hospital accusing them of abduction, stating that a different child was handed over to them on October 14. Denying the allegation, the hospital superintendent had said that because of serious health condition of Amreen, a premature caesarean section was done on September 28 and the 1.4 kg boy was immediately shifted to the neo natal intensive care unit. The baby was handed over to his parents on October 14. It was inadvertently mentioned in the records as a female child, he had said. The Mangaluru North Police registered a case of kidnapping. After permission from the jurisdictional court for a DNA test to confirm parentage of the child, the blood samples were collected and sent to Bengaluru on Tuesday, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/child-exchange-samples-sent-for-dna-test/article37082420.ece
20 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Subsidy for setting up fisheries micro units||The Fisheries Department has said that the Union Government will provide Rs. 10 lakh subsidy to those interested in setting up micro enterprises manufacturing value added products from fish. The subsidy will be provided under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat initiative. Interested entrepreneurs can contact the office of the Deputy Director of the department in the Zilla Panchayat office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/subsidy-for-setting-up-fisheries-micro-units/article37082417.ece
20 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Training||The Udupi district administration will provide training to candidates interested in appearing for the Union and State civil services examinations. Graduates or those in the final year can apply by October 21. Log on to udupi.nic.in, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao has said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training/article37082418.ece
20 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||SWR’s solar initiative to cover 20 more railway stations||South Western Railway is expanding its solar initiatives and proposes to install panels to tap renewable energy at 20 stations during 2021-22. This is part of Railways’ larger plan of tapping into renewable energy and to emerge as a ‘net zero carbon emission railway’ by 2030. The 20 new stations are in addition to the 108 across the SWR zone, which already have solar panels and is expected to further reduce the dependence on conventional energy. This will not only help meet power needs of all stations but also save expenditure, according to authorities. Zonal authorities said SWR has already provided solar panels at Hubballi, KSR Bengaluru, Mysuru, Yeshwantpur, Hosapet, Gadag, and Ballari, to name a few. In addition, Rail Soudha, Divisional Railway Manager’s Office — Hubballi, Railway Hospital — Hubballi, Divisional Railway Manager’s Office — Bengaluru, Parcel Office — Bengaluru, Railway Hospital — Bengaluru, Divisional Railway Manager’s Office — Mysuru, have also been provided with solar panels. The panels have also been set up at Hubballi workshop [1,000 kWp capacity] and Mysuru workshop [500 kWp capacity]. Panels have also been installed at the Krishnarajapuram Diesel Shed [240 kWp], the Hubballi EMD Shed [640 kWp], among others. In addition, 299 level-crossing gates have also got the panels, according to the authorities. As a result, the 100 kWp panels at Rail Soudha generated 1.008 lakh units of energy resulting in savings of Rs. 9.07 lakh during 2020-21. Similarly, the 320 kWp panels at the Hubballi Divisional Railway Manager’s Office generated 3.42 lakh units of electricity in the last financial year resulting in a saving of Rs. 11.37 lakh. Likewise, the 60 kWp panels at Bengaluru Divisional Railway Manager’s Office generated 78,934 units of energy during the last financial year resulting in savings of Rs. 2.62 lakh. The 100 kWp panels at the Mysuru Divisional Railway Manager’s Office generated 1.51 lakh units during 2020-21 resulting in savings of Rs. 6.08 lakh. During the last financial year, the 220 kWp panels at Hubballi station generated 2.14 lakh units of energy, the 80 kWp panels at Yeshwanthpur generated .99 lakh units, and the 110 kWp panels at Mysuru station generated 1.35 lakh units. The total solar power generation during last financial year was 49.41 lakh units resulting in savings of Rs. 2.09 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swrs-solar-initiative-to-cover-20-more-railway-stations/article37082444.ece
20 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Curbs sought on Beladakuppe jatra in Bandipur||Wildlife activists have urged the Forest Department authorities to regulate and place curbs on the Beladakuppe temple jatra, scheduled to take place within the next few weeks. The temple is located in the Hediyala range of Bandipur Tiger Reserve and the annual festival which falls close to Deepavali every year, draws tens of thousands of local devotees to the shrine much to the detriment of wildlife habitat. Though the department has introduced certain norms including ban on entry of private vehicles, there is growing resistance from the local community. There were curbs last year due to the pandemic but a section of the devotees kicked up a ruckus resulting in tension in the area. Activists say meals used to be cooked for a large gathering and the wastes left behind in the forest, would be consumed by wild animals forcing them to venture into human landscape in search of food. Conservationists have cautioned that such interactions were fraught with danger as wild animals would lose their fear of humans and venture outside forest boundaries aggravating human-wildlife conflict. Villages surrounding the Hediyala range bear the brunt of human-animal conflict and hence it is imperative to put curbs on the gathering, aver the activists. Meanwhile, Forest Department officials said they will introduce curbs this year as well and will not allow private vehicles to enter the national park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curbs-sought-on-beladakuppe-jatra-in-bandipur/article37082439.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vaccination at 65 centres||“Our social media network, pourakarmikas, and staff in the zonal offices are mobilising logistics so that the drive becomes successful with maximum vaccination coverage. We have a sufficient number of doses available that could cover the first and second doses,” he said. In view of schools reopening for classes I to V, it was important that parents are vaccinated. Parents yet to get their doses could make use of the drive, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-at-65-centres/article37082441.ece
20 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha heaves a sigh of relief as flood threat eases||After being on edge for the past couple of days, there were signs of flood threat easing in Alappuzha district on Tuesday. Though several houses, shops and roads remained inundated, floodwaters started receding, albeit slowly, at Neerattupuram, Thalavady, Kidangara, among other places in Upper Kuttanad. Local residents said there was a decrease in flow of water from the eastern side. Slight increase Meanwhile, water level, however, recorded a slight increase in Kainakary, Mankombu, Nedumudy, Kavalam and Pulinkunnu in Kuttanad. Parts of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road and the Ambalappuzha-Thiruvalla road remained submerged. Though District Collector A. Alexander issued an emergency evacuation order for people in Kuttanad on Monday night, several decided to stay put. Those willing to move were shifted to relief camps. Officials said the district, however, remained on high alert in view of the opening of the shutters of the Kakki and Pampa dams in Pathanamthitta and a forecast of heavy downpour in the coming days.  Chengannur, which was on its toes following the opening of the sluice gates of the Kakki dam, heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday. The floodwaters have begun to retreat from several places in the region. While the water level in the Pampa river decreased, the Achencoil river remained swollen. Spillway opened The Irrigation Department has opened 39 of the 40 shutters of the Thottappally spillway. As a result, the flow of floodwaters into the sea has increased. Aquatic plants and other waste that blocked the flow of water through the spillway were removed. Heavy downpours and floodwaters have destroyed paddy in a number of fields in Alappuzha district, especially in Kuttanad, while several fields with ready-to-harvest crops remain inundated. The weather agency has declared a yellow alert for moderate rain in the district on Wednesday. As of Tuesday evening, as many as 7,126 people belonging to 2,001 families took shelter at 100 relief camps in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-heaves-a-sigh-of-relief-as-flood-threat-eases/article37082352.ece
20 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Agri sector suffers Rs. 200-cr. loss: Minister||The agriculture sector in the State has suffered losses to the tune of Rs. 200 crore in the present rain fury, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has said. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, Mr. Prasad said the State Government would seek a special agriculture package from the Centre. “The estimated Rs. 200-crore loss is based on a preliminary assessment. Officials have been asked to complete the assessment and submit detailed reports soon. The loss in Kuttanad alone is estimated at Rs. 18 crore. The region has witnessed bund breaches at a number of places. The rain and waterlogging have destroyed harvest-ready paddy in large tracts,” the Minister said. A total of 60,519 farmers lost standing crops in 11,195 hectares, according to a preliminary report prepared by the Department of Agriculture. Kottayam district registered the worst crop loss of Rs. 36.51 crore across 1,936 hectares with 7,094 farmers affected.  Mr. Prasad visited flood-hit areas in Kuttanad and took stock of the situation.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agri-sector-suffers-rs-200-cr-loss-minister/article37082350.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,KERALA||Amruthavarshini migration sets off concern over local content||For classical music aficionados who keenly listened to ‘Amruthavarshini’ (100.10 FM) on Akashvani in Bengaluru, Monday came as a rude shock as their favourite radio show migrated to ‘Ragam’, a national channel. Local artists feel this means a declining chance to perform for the national broadcaster. For, as part of an effort to consolidate transmission and content, the All India Radio (AIR) Bengaluru has given up its more-than-a-decade-old FM channel Amruthavarshini, and the regional music programme is now part of the multilingual Ragam. Content for Ragam comes from 14 AIR stations across the country, including Bengaluru. Ragam 24/7 is being aired for about 17 hours on digital and satellite radio, and on the Internet streaming globally. Kannada content While Amruthavarshini had a regional Kannada flavour, listeners had sought even more Kannada content,  a senior AIR official said. “We are not sure about the strategy. Only channel shifting has happened now,” he said. He added, “Listeners are complaining about the disruption in a set music-listening habit. Some special programmes of Amruthavarshini will be brought slowly to the Ragam platform... The Amrithavarshini transmitter was old.” Acknowledging that there was a “cultural issue” in migration to a national multilingual channel, the official said that content producers also had challenges to bring about a balance between regional and national content. However, the official defended the move, saying that being a corporation (Prasar Bharati), it had the right to decide the course of functioning as a financially viable entity. “Production of half-an-hour content ranges from about Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 30,000, depending on the grading of artist. Though we broadcast a mix and match of fresh and old recordings, new concert production costs involve agreat deal of money annually,” he said. The change in the platform has come as a jolt to nearly 3,000 empanelled artists of AIR. Bengaluru AIR alone has about 1,500 empanelled artists. It is learnt that with the change, an artist who, on average, was getting a programme once in three months is unlikely to get even one chance ayear. “This is also because the number of artists is increasing by the day. How do you accommodate so many artists multiple times in a year?” a BengaluruAIR official asked. ‘Global audience’ Meanwhile, in an interview to DD Chandana channel, the CEO of Prasar Bharati, Shashi Shekhar Vempati, said that the merger had taken place to provide a “global audience” for the artists. “With limited resources, it made no sense to have two classical music channels. Streamlining of services was necessary. Nobody needs to be concerned that classical music will not be broadcast. Programmes unique to Amruthavarshini will be scrapped and Ragam will continue to carry this content. Local artists will continue to get their opportunities and they will get international audiences too,” he said. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy demanded that local programmes by Doordarshan and AIR should not be stopped at any cost. “It shows that the Centre is trying to ignore Kannada with the sole aim of imposing Hindi,” hesaid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amruthavarshini-migration-sets-off-concern-over-local-content/article37081883.ece
20 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||This time, quiet flows river at Cheruthoni||It was a rather peaceful day in Cheruthoni town on Tuesday and vehicles crossed the chappath (low-lying bridge) as usual. And quiet flew the Periyar under the bridge after three of the five shutters of the Cheruthoni dam were opened in the morning. A day before, it was perhaps just a trickle in the river close to the downstream of the Idukki arch dam. When the three shutters of the dam of the Idukki reservoir were opened, the water smoothly flowed down to the Periyar close to the arch dam that was constructed to connect the Kuravan and the Kurathi hills. The arch dam is one of the largest of its kind in Asia. While the water from the reservoir is released through the gates on the Cheruthoni dam, it is the Kulamavu dam that provides the discharge for power generation at the Moolamattom power station. In August 2018 when all the five shutters of the Cheruthoni dam were opened, traffic through the chappathu connecting the Puliyanmala-Thodupuzha State highway was blocked for days. Many shops were then washed away in Cheruthoni. “However, this time, the flow of water was smooth and there was no disruption to traffic or routine life in the town,” said Girijan Raman, a local resident and a wildlife photographer. He said people were initially anxious about the opening of shutters. However, they have since heaved a sigh of relief. Hundreds of local residents, in addition to mediapersons and photographers, thronged the dam area to witness the dam opening on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/this-time-quiet-flows-river-at-cheruthoni/article37082353.ece
20 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Death of ‘Maoist’: Collector to hold sitting||Wayanad District Collector A. Geetha, who is also the District Magistrate, will hold a sitting at the Collectorate here from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. on October 28 to collect evidence from the public in connection with the death of Velmurugan, a suspected Maoist. Velmurugan, 32, a suspected member of Kabanidalam-2 of the Western Ghats Special Zone Committee of the proscribed Communist Party of India (Maoist), was killed allegedly in a police encounter on the Banasura mountains in Wayanad on November 3, 2020. The kin of the deceased and the public may give evidence or raise grievances on the occasion as a part of the magisterial probe, said Ms. Geetha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-of-maoist-collector-to-hold-sitting/article37082318.ece
20 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Vigilance arrests MVD official on bribery charge||A Vigilance team on Monday arrested P.V. Prasad (43) of Karivellur, Assistant Motor Vehicle Inspector of the Payyannur Sub-Regional Transport Office, on the charge of taking bribes from applicants arriving at the office for various services. The AMVI was remanded in custody till November 1 after he was produced in the Thalassery Vigilance Court. Kannur Vigilance DySP Babu Peringeth, who led the investigation, said that the MVD office and AMVI were under surveillance following information that there was rampant corruption there and officials were demanding money from applicants for issuing vehicle certificates and other services. The team had set a trap, after receiving information that the AMVI had asked for Rs. 6,000 for issuing a certificate from an applicant. Mr. Babu claimed that there was information that every day, around Rs. 20,000 was being collected by the AMVI. Prasad has been working in the Motor Vehicles Department for seven years. During the raid on the officer’s house, Rs. 69,000 and incriminating documents, including those pertaining to purchase of the land, were allegedly recovered. The Vigilance team said the seized money would be confiscated by the government if sufficient documents could not be produced and other documents would be scrutinised in detail. The inspection was carried out by a team comprising Vigilance Inspector P.R. Manoj, SI K.P. Pankajakshan, ASIs P. Nijesh, M.V. Vinod, P. Biju, K.Sreejith, Jayasree, SCPOs M. Shaiju, and Sajith Kotheri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigilance-arrests-mvd-official-on-bribery-charge/article37082307.ece
20 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 1.5 crore seized||The Air Intelligence officers of Air Customs seized 2.948 kg of gold valued at Rs. 1.42 crore from two passengers at the Kannur airport on Tuesday. The gold was seized from Mohammed Shan, a resident of Mahe and Ashif Kalllil, a resident of Kozhikode, both of whom arrived from Sharjah on two different flights. The gold was concealed in compound form and they had hidden the contraband packed in polythene bags in their shoes. The operation was carried out under the leadership of Assistant Commissioner E.Vikas; Superintendents Baby V.P., K.P. Sethumadavan, Jyothi Lakshmi, and Inspectors Kooven Prakashan, Juber Khan, Santheep Kumar, Deepak, and Ramlal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-worth-rs-15-crore-seized/article37082321.ece
20 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam gears up to meet extreme weather events||The district administration has geared up to meet extreme weather situations in the wake of the orange alert sounded for Ernakulam. Weather experts have sounded the alert for October 20 and 21. The District Collector has issued orders to stop the functioning of all the rock quarries in the district till Sunday. While activating various government departments to handle extreme weather conditions, the District Collector has also clamped a ban on recreational activities in hilly areas and waterbodies. He has also banned taking selfies at river banks, bridges, beaches and hill areas too. The road transport authorities were asked to ensure the availability of cranes and excavators and the Public Works Department put its workforce on alert for the repair of roads and bridges. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation was asked to keep 14 buses ready for emergency evacuation operations in the seven taluks of the district. The Health Department was asked to make all the primary health centres of the district function round the clock and ensure the service of those trained in providing emergency life support. At least one medical emergency team will be readied in each taluk, said a communication issued by the Collector. The Collector has also banned all the fishing activities in inland waterbodies and rivers till further orders. Vehicular movement along the hilly terrain will be regulated. Instructions for ensuring uninterrupted power supply in hospitals handling COVID patients were also issued, the communication said. A 24X7 control room will be opened at the office of Cochin Smart Mission Limited for handling the possible heavy rain situation in the city. The facility is being set up as part of the disaster preparedness in the wake of the weather forecast of heavy rain for a couple of days from October 20. The control room, which will become operational from Wednesday afternoon, can be accessed at 94957 28516 and 94957 28416. The public can approach the control room to handle the rain and wind situation. The service of Engineering and Health departments of the civic body will also be available. The support of Revenue, Fire and Rescue and Irrigation departments will also be made available for the general public through the control room. Special Squads will be deployed to clear waterlogging that may develop in the city. Rehabilitation camps will be opened, if necessary. The decision to open the control room was taken at a meeting presided over by Mayor M. Anilkumar. S. Shanavas, Chief Executive Officer of the Mission, and officials from the Revenue Department and Engineering and Health departments of the civic body attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-gears-up-to-meet-extreme-weather-events/article37082338.ece
20 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||With no desilting, reservoir capacity takes a hit||Desiltation of major reservoirs is yet to happen in Kerala though the water-holding capacity of most of them has been reduced by the huge quantities of silt deposited by the 2018 floods. Though the previous Left Democratic Front government had mooted the idea of selling the clay and sand deposits removed from the reservoirs, the project did not make any headway. Of the 20 reservoirs owned by it, the Irrigation Department could initiate the project only at the Mangalam reservoir in Palakkad. The siltation has reduced the storage capacity of many dams significantly. Once these reservoirs are desilted, their storage could be enhanced and water need not be drained as done during the rainy season, point experts in irrigation civil engineering. New area Pranabjyothi Nath, Special Secretary, Water Resources Department, says the desilting of reservoirs is a relatively new area where there are not many agencies operating. Kerala is the first State to start the desilting of reservoirs. Studies conducted by the Kerala Engineering Research Institute, Thrissur, indicate that the siltation levels have gone up in the 14 reservoirs of the Irrigation Department since the 2018 floods, says N. Suprabha, director of the institute. The Rs. 17.70-crore pilot project at Mangalam is expected to enhance the storage capacity by 2.95 million metre cube. The additional quantities of water that could be stored would be used for agriculture needs of Vandazhi, Kizhankkanchery, Vadakkanchery, Kannambra of Alathoor taluk. It could also be used for meeting the drinking water demands of these panchayats, according to the department. Initial plan According to T.M. Thomas Isaac, former Finance Minister, the proposal for desilting has been mooted to improve the storage of reservoirs besides earning revenue for the Government. The initial plan was to earn at least Rs. 500 crore through the sales of sand and clay. However, the project did not make much progress, says Dr. Issac. The move by the Kerala State Electricity Board to desilt the Lower Periyar reservoir has been shelved after opposition from the State Forest Department. Idukki, Idamalayar, Kakki and Banasurasagar are the other reservoirs owned by the board. The board, it is understood, would soon come up with an action plan for desilting the dams in its possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-no-desilting-reservoir-capacity-takes-a-hit/article37082342.ece
20 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Controlled spill, lack of rain avert flooding along Periyar||Hundreds living on the banks of the Periyar river heaved a sigh of relief as controlled spill from the Cheruthoni and Edamalayar dams averted the flood threat on Tuesday. With rain staying away throughout the day and the river at low tide, the situation remained under control, even as the Ernakulam district administration warned the public against losing vigil. Water level rises The administration reported that the discharge following the opening of three shutters of the Cheruthoni dam in Idukki had caused the water level to rise by 1.2 metres on the district border in Karimanal at 5.30 p.m. District Collector Jafar Malik said the water level in the Periyar basin was 3.5 metres against the warning level of 7.1 metres and the danger level of 8.1 metres as of 6 p.m. on Tuesday. The water level at the Marthandavarma, Managalapuzha and Kalady stations located along the Periyar river remained below the flood warning levels despite the flow of water from the Cheruthoni and Edamalayar dams owing to the smooth discharge and lack of rain, said Mr. Malik. The water level at Kuttampuzha along the Periyar had increased by around 30 cm around 9 a.m after the two shutters of the Edamalayar dam were raised by 80 cm at 6 a.m on the day. All the shutters in the Bhoothatankettu barrage were kept open above the water level to regulate the water flow. The discharge from the Cheruthoni dam is expected to reach the Kalady-Aluva region by midnight. It had crossed Neriamangalam by 5.30 p.m. As per the tidal data of the Survey of India, high tide may be experienced from 5.10 p.m on Tuesday to 12.40 a.m on Wednesday. However, low tide will prevail from 12.40 a.m to 5.10 a.m on Wednesday and the spill from the dams is expected to cross the Kalady-Aluva region during this period. Scores shift The district administration has asked the people residing along the banks of the river to remain alert following the opening of dam shutters. Despite assurances that there would be no flooding compared to the deluge in 2018, many residents staying close to the river in Aluva and Kalady shifted their belongings to safer places. With the rain staying away in the morning, the authorities hope that the situation would not turn worse in the coming hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/controlled-spill-lack-of-rain-avert-flooding-along-periyar/article37082363.ece
20 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Fishers reach Aluva for rescue act||Fishermen from Kannamali, Njarakkal and Chellanam reached Aluva here by Tuesday afternoon to carry out rescue operations in their boats in the wake of a possible flood situation in the region following the opening of shutters of the Cheruthoni dam in the morning. The boats were transported to Pulinchodu in Aluva in heavy carriers arranged by the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD). Their presence rekindled memories of the ‘heroic warriors’ of the State, who had ventured into the narrow lanes and vulnerable locations that got submerged in the devastating floods in 2018. Ready for any situation The fishermen reiterated their commitment towards protecting people while saying that they were ready to face any situation. “We had braved all odds in the floods in 2018 and were successful in saving hundreds of lives,” they said. P.M. Shabeer, Regional Transport Officer, Ernakulam, said that they had arranged the transportation of nearly 25 boats for rescue operations in Aluva and North Paravur. Ten boats already deployed in Aluva were sourced from the fishing harbour in Chellanam. For rescue operations in North Paravur, boats will be arranged from Kalamukku fishing harbour in Vypeen, he said. The preparations were done in association with Fisheries and Revenue Departments. Rescue boats will also be deployed in Kalady and nearby areas along the banks of the Periyar after assessing the flood situation, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-all-set-for-rescue-operations/article37082309.ece
20 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||People in landslip-prone areas to be shifted||Ernakulam district administration has asked tahsildars concerned to shift people living in 43 landslip-prone regions to safer locations in view of the heavy rain predicted by the Indian Meteorological Department from October 20 to 24. The landslip-prone villages were identified based on reports prepared by the Geological Survey of India and the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority. An order issued by District Collector Jafar Malik on Tuesday afternoon directed officials of Revenue, Police and Local Self-Government departments to compulsorily ensure the relocation of people residing in these areas to safer destinations. Some of the landslip-prone villages include Ayampuzha, Choondi, Aluva East, Keezhmad, Karukutty, Neriamangalam, Kadavoor, Chembankuzhi, Mazhuvannoor, Chittanad, Kunnathunad, Rayamangalam, Mulavaloor, and Velloorkunnam, according to an official release. The district administration has banned all quarrying activities till October 24 in view of the flood situation and the possible heavy rain from Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/people-in-landslip-prone-areas-to-be-shifted/article37082335.ece
20 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||National Disaster Response Force team deployed in Aluva||A 22-member company of the National Disaster Response Force would camp in Aluva to meet any emergency situation in the wake of heavy rain forecast for four days from Wednesday, said K. Karthick, District Police Chief (Rural), here on Tuesday. The team, camping at the Aluva YMCA, visited areas that had witnessed flooding in the past. The team met people to discuss how they could be rehabilitated in case of any flooding in the coming days. Team commander Ram Babu and sub-inspector Pramod Kumar are leading the team. Mr. Karthick said that police personnel had been deployed in strength to meet any emergency situation in rural areas, which face the threat of floods. Police officials were camping in police stations and police headquarters to coordinate the efforts. An emergency response team had been formed under the ACP. These response teams would be deployed wherever they were needed. A communication from the police department said that the teams would help people make clarifications and share anxieties. People could contact the police stations on a 24-hour basis and all the 34 police stations had control rooms, which could be contacted. These facilities would be coordinated from the district police headquarters. Public announcements were being made to make people aware of the situation. Relief camp sites had been identified in case there was a case of flood in the low-lying areas. There would also be special camps for those affected by COVID 19, the communication said. Those wanting to shift to safer grounds or to relief camps in case of floods could seek police help. People had been advised to carry the medicines they required as well essential items. Any traffic congestion would be addressed by the police. Emergency lights, pump sets, torches, and life jackets had been arranged by the police. Small boats had been arranged to be used in emergency situations. Personnel from the Rapid Deployment Force had been stationed in Aluva, said Mr. Karthick.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/national-disaster-response-force-team-deployed-in-aluva/article37082339.ece
20 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Staff shortage hits State Pollution Control Board||The State Pollution Control Board is reeling under severe manpower shortage. Around 83 posts of Assistant Engineers and six Assistant Executive Engineer posts are remaining vacant. The recruitment has been done on contract and daily wage basis following the inordinate delay in filling up the vacancies. Only five permanent officials were available against the 66 posts of scientific staff in labs, according to the estimates by the State Pollution Control Board Engineering Staff Association. The permanent posts have been lying vacant from 2015 onwards. The National Green Tribunal had also asked the government to fill up nearly 160 posts in 2014-15. The last permanent postings were done in 2008, pointing towards the serious staff shortage in the board, said M.A. Baiju, president of the association. The association stated in a memorandum submitted to the government that those appointed on daily wage basis are handling crucial works in the engineering wing and the nearly 16 labs under the board. Even though the Public Service Commission (PSC) has invited applications for the post of Assistant Engineers, the authorities have not yet published the exam date saying that the preparation of syllabus is progressing. Moreover, the PSC is yet to invite applications for filling up the permanent posts in the labs, it said. Admitting that the board is facing severe staff crunch, A.B. Pradeep Kumar, Chairman of the board, hoped that the PSC would speed up the process of filling up the posts of Assistant Engineers. The posts of junior and scientific assistants in labs are also remaining vacant, he said. The tasks undertaken by the board have gone up considerably, especially in view of the industrial clearances, inspections and legal proceedings pending before the tribunal and other courts. Without adequate manpower, it would be a herculean task to ensure timely completion of these works, said Mr. Pradeep Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/staff-shortage-hits-state-pollution-control-board/article37082340.ece
20 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||817 test positive in Ernakulam; TPR 7.2%||As many as 817 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. A total of 789 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection was not ascertained in 12 cases. The test positivity rate was 7.2%. The regions that reported positive cases above 20 included Thripunithura (44), Kumbalanghi (29), Edappally (27), Thrikkakara (27), and Kaloor (22). Some of the places that had fewer than five cases were Kalady, Kuttampuzha, Chalikavattam, Njarakkal, Thevara, Mattancherry, Ayappankavu, Elanji, Nedumbassery, Paingottur, Parakadavu, Chellanam, Kumbalam, Panayappilli, and Sreemoolanagaram, according to an official release. The number of active cases in the district was 10,575 as on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/817-test-positive-in-ernakulam-tpr-72/article37082345.ece
20 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Concern over loss of fishing days||The continuous loss of fishing days has turned out to be a great threat to the economic welfare of fishers, especially along the coastal segment between Fort Kochi and Alappuzha, which faces the wrath of rough sea conditions, including heavy winds and rain, along the coast. “There are more than 200 traditional small boats that usually operate out of the Chellanam fishing harbour on a daily basis. But it is now more than a fortnight since they ventured out because of the weather conditions,” said P.A. Charles, formerly a fisherman but now working as an autorickshaw driver to make both ends meet. He said that a few of the traditional small boats that ventured out for short fishing trips were fined by the authorities and since then no small boats had set out even for brief periods. M. Majeed of All India Deep Sea Fishers’ Association said that the operations at the Thoppumpady fisheries harbour, one of the busiest fisheries landing centre in the State, had been hit and around 700 longline and gillnet boats remained stranded in the harbour because of the weather conditions. Though the situation is calm in the deep sea, there were issues close to the shore, where the sea was rough, not allowing either the launch of operations or the safe return of boats from the deep sea, he said. The virtual freezing of fishing operations has landed thousands of fishers in serious trouble. Seven people man longliners and deep sea fishing boats on an average. Nearly 5,000 people have been rendered jobless because of the weather conditions. There are hundreds of others who depend on fish landing operations that include transportation, cleaning and ice making. He said that the COVID-19 restrictions and bad weather conditions had resulted in serious loss of fishing days even as there was a steep fall in the traditional catch of shrimps and other fishes during the season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/loss-of-fishing-days-a-major-concern-for-coastal-community/article37082346.ece
20 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rain causes heavy damage to crops||Vast tracts of vegetable, paddy, tapioca and banana fields have been devastated by heavy rain during the week in different parts of the district. According to sources in the Agriculture Department, 50 hectares of banana cultivation, 50 hectares of paddy, 10 hectares of vegetables and five hectares of tapioca have been seriously damaged. They added that around 200 farmers had filed for compensation for the damage suffered during the week. The total damage is up to an extent of 115 hectares. Thomas Kallolil in Vazhakulam said that he had not been able to enter his tapioca field for two days because of the flood-like situation. He said floodwaters inundated the fields briefly and hoped that the crop would survive. Paddy farmers are the worst hit as the flooding of the fields has prevented field preparation activities for the second season, which sees most of the paddy production in the district. Bay John, a pineapple farmer in Muvattupuzha, said the situation had led to the price of the fruit going down because of the fall in demand as heavy rain had disrupted normal life. Most of the damage to rice paddy, tapioca and banana plantations had taken place in the eastern areas like Ramamangalam, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-causes-heavy-damage-to-crops/article37082347.ece
20 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||POCSO case registered against Monson||Monson Mavunkal, who is in police custody for selling fake antiques, has now been booked under a case of sexually abusing an under-aged girl in 2019. The Ernakulam North police have registered a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act after a complaint from a woman, who previously worked as a domestic help in Mr. Mavunkal’s residence in Kaloor, in the heart of Kochi. She alleged that he had sexually abused her daughter, at that time 17 years old, on several occasions. Police sources said that the Crime Branch would investigate case, which was registered on the basis of a complaint received by the District Police Chief (City). It has been alleged that the mother of the girl was promised support for her daughter’s education, who was seeking to pursue studies after her Plus Two qualification. She was allegedly abused by Monson in different locations, including his residence at Kaloor. The complainant said that she was afraid to make a complaint earlier because of the power Monson Mavunkal appeared to wield with the authorities. The police will also look into whether Monson has abused other minors during the past, when he passed for a dealer in antiques, drawing great attention from the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-register-pocso-case-against-monson/article37082323.ece
20 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Tahsildars can’t cancel community certificate: HC||The Kerala High Court has held that tahsildars have no power to cancel a community certificate issued by them under the Kerala Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Regulation of Issue of Community Certificate Act, 1996. The court observed that only the scrutiny committee constituted under the Act was empowered to cancel a community certificate if it was found that it had been obtained by fraud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tahsildars-cant-cancel-community-certificate-hc/article37082354.ece
20 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Acquisition authority must consider all inputs: HC||The Kerala High Court has observed that the competent authority for land acquisition (CALA) under the National Highway Act should take into account all germane inputs, including the classification of land in revenue records, while determining the market value of land available on the date of issue of acquisition notification. Justice Devan Ramachandran made the observation on Monday while disposing of a few writ petitions against the determination of land value based on the entries in the Basic Tax Register (BTR). The petitioners pointed out that CALA had illogically accepted the entries in the BTR solely while determining the compensation because of the Centre’s order mandating that the value of a land be assessed on the basis of its revenue records.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/acquisition-authority-must-consider-all-inputs-hc/article37082355.ece
20 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||14 relief camps opened in Kollam||More people will be shifted to relief camps from high-risk zones as rainfall is expected to continue in coming days, said District Collector Afsana Parveen on Tuesday. The district administration has already shifted a total of 797 people to 14 relief camps opened in various parts of Kollam during the last two days. At present 234 families that include 341 women, 296 men and 160 children are staying in these camps. Reluctant “It has been noticed that in some places people are reluctant to move. In order to avoid disasters, they will be shifted with the help of LSG officials,” she added. Since heavy rains are expected in Kollam district on October 20 and 21, flooding and water-logging are likely in urban and low-lying areas. “There is possibility of landslides in areas where it has rained continuously in the previous days. In this situation the banks of rivers including Kallada, Pallickal and Ithikkara are not safe. Therefore, those living in these areas should move to safer places and unwilling persons will be shifted with the help of police,” she said. While a total of nine houses were completely destroyed in the rains, the number of houses that suffered partial damage is 223. The district has incurred a loss of Rs. 8.57 crore so far that also includes Rs. 4.27 crore due to crop loss. Village officers have been asked to prepare a list of houses that have been completely or partially damaged and deputy Tahsildars are in charge of relief camps. The Collector has given instructions to prepare a detailed report on flooded areas and intensify preventive measures against waterborne diseases. While the public has been directed not to visit water-logged areas, police will be deployed to ensure law and order in high-risk areas and camps. The district administration has taken steps to cut down trees causing a threat and more precautionary measures will be taken depending on rainfall and the water level of dams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/14-relief-camps-opened-in-kollam/article37082382.ece
20 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Alert on leptospirosis outbreak||As the district expects another spell of rainfall from Wednesday, the Health Department has issued an alert urging the public to take precautions against possible outbreaks of leptospirosis and other water-borne diseases. Preventive medicines will be distributed through Primary Health Centres and all wells in the district will be chlorinated from October 21. Leptospirosis is caused by Leptospira, a bacteria transmitted by rodents, cattle, dogs, cats and other animals. If not detected and treated on time, it could lead to complications and death. In flood-hit areas, chances are high for contact with water or soil contaminated with the urine or excreta of the infected animals, putting residents, rescue workers and volunteers in the high-risk category. Doxycycline tablets “All persons who come into contact with contaminated water should take doxycycline tablets after consulting health workers. ,” said the District Medical Officer on Tuesday. In Kollam, places including Punalur, Kulathupuzha, Piravanthur and West Kallada had reported leptospirosis cases in the past. Sudden fever and chills, severe headache, muscle aches, pain below the knee, lower back pain, redness in the eyes, jaundice, yellowing of the skin and eyes, and yellowing of the urine are symptoms. If jaundice is accompanied by a strong fever, it can be leptospirosis. Other symptoms include loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, and red spots on the skin. When leptospirosis affects the liver, it causes jaundice, and when it affects the kidneys, it causes a decrease in urine output, bloody urine and swollen legs. Volunteers and sanitation workers have been advised to use personal protective equipment that include gloves, knee-length footwear and masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alert-on-leptospirosis-outbreak/article37082381.ece
20 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Programme||The District Khadi and Village Industries Office has invited applications for its training programme in beekeeping. Selected farmers will get beehive boxes at 50% subsidy. Call 0474 2743587 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/programme/article37082386.ece
20 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||521 new cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 521 new cases of COVID-19 and 541 recoveries on Tuesday. While 512 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include two NRIs, three persons from other States and four health workers. At present the district has 18,111 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 24,95,387. While 1,837 people completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 3,93,295 primary and 21,255 secondary contacts of the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/521-new-cases-in-kollam/article37082387.ece
20 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Entries invited||The Women and Child Development Department has invited entries for the Ujjwala Balyam Award from children in the 6-18 age group. The last date for accepting applications is October 30. For more details, contact 0474-2791597, 82818 99461 or visit www.wcd.kerala.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entries-invited/article37082482.ece
20 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Clean-up begins in Kottayam||As sunny skies returned to Kottayam for the second consecutive day, people in the flood-ravaged parts of Kottayam returned to their homes and business establishments to assess the damage Piles of debris Residents returned to Koottickal, Kanjirappally and Mundakkayam after the floodwaters receded to find piles of debris and mud-caked roads. People, assisted by volunteer groups equipped with gloves and pressure cleaners, pulled out soaked furniture and other debris from houses. Thick layers of mud, scooped up from houses using shovels, were carted off to dumping locations while some others used brooms made of tree branches to sweep away the debris. Vehicles damaged by the flash floods were placed under the sun with their doors and bonnets open .The clean-up initiatives were complicated by power cut and flood ravaged roads, which hampered the movement of men and machinery. The focus was on ferrying food, medical supplies and other essentials to isolated areas. Across the vast flood zone in the foothills of the Western Ghats, people still remained in relief camps and it was till unsafe for them to return in view of the heavy rain predicted over the next few days. Based on the reports by the Geological Survey of India in 2018 and the State disaster management Authority in 2019, the authorities have identified 33 landslip-prone locations in the district. District Collector P.K. Jayasree has directed people in flood or landslide prone areas to shift to safer places and entrusted the Tahsildar, village officer and local self-government secretary with the task. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation and the State Water Transport Department have been directed to provide transport facilities for shifting people to the camps. Deputy Collectors have been appointed in all the five taluks of the district to coordinate various departments and carry out relief work. Steps are also in place to open as many as 213 camps across these taluks with a facility to accommodate 16,890 people. The District Supply Officer has been tasked with supplying vegetables and food grains to the camps in coordination with the Supplyco, Horticorp and Consumer Fed. The Public Works Roads Executive Engineer has been assigned to remove the soil deposits on the Manimala, Erumeli Kuruvanazhi and Vellavoor bridges. The Major-Minor Irrigation Departments have been directed to remove trees and soil obstructing the flow of water in the rivers. 49 relief camps The total number of relief camps in the district, meanwhile, rose to 49, which together accommodated 2,883 people from 794 families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clean-up-begins-in-kottayam/article37082390.ece
20 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Accused man jumps into river, rescued||Personnel at the Gandhinagar police station were on tenterhooks for about an hour on Tuesday after a murder-attempt accused jumped into the swollen Meenachil river at Neelimangalam. He was later caught with the help of the Fire and Rescue Services personnel, sources said . The drama began to unfold by 11 a.m. on Tuesday when Ebin, an accused in several cases, hacked his neighbour Nazar following a dispute. By the time, the police reached the spot, the accused fled the scene and jumped into the Meenachil river. Ebin, who was trapped in the middle of the river for about an hour, was rescued by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel, sources said . He was later arrested by the police. Meanwhile, Nazar was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, where his condition remained critical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-man-jumps-into-river-rescued/article37082391.ece
20 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Restaurateur commits suicide in Kurichy||A 42-year-old restaurant owner committed suicide on Tuesday allegedly following loss in business triggered by the COVID-19-imposed lockdown. The deceased was identified as Sarin Mohan, a native of Kanakakkunnu, near Kurichy. Prior to taking the extreme step, the deceased levelled harsh criticism against the State Government for its alleged discriminatory treatment of the restaurant business while imposing the lockdown restrictions. In a Facebook post, Mr. Mohan said the State Government’s decision not to permit dining in in restaurants devastated his business. He also shared the details of his bank account with a request to help his family. Relatives said Mr. Mohan had been under severe duress for repaying the money he owed to several persons. His financial woes had been compounded by his inability to expand the business as planned earlier. He leaves behind his wife Radhu Mohan and children Karthika and Siddharth. (Suicide Prevention Helpline number - 1056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restaurateur-commits-suicide-in-kurichy/article37082388.ece
20 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut airport expansion may not be a smooth ride||The decision of a high-level meeting attended by two ministers to acquire 248.75 acres of land for the extension of the tabletop runway and the development of Calicut International Airport appears to be easier said than done as the same ambitious proposal suggested five years ago could not be implemented due to various reasons. The meeting, held on the basis of a directive of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at the Calicut airport on Monday, decided to acquire 96.5 acres for runway expansion, 137 acres for the construction of a new terminal, and 15.25 acres for car parking even as it rejected a recommendation of the Centre to look for another suitable plot of land for developing a new airport in Kozhikode district. Ministers P.A. Mohamed Riyas and V. Abdurahiman; MPs M.K. Raghavan, M.P. Abdussamad Samadani, and E.T. Mohammad Basheer; MLAs T.V. Ibrahim and P. Abdul Hameed; Malappuram District Collector V.R. Premkumar and Calicut Airport Director R. Mahalingam took part in the meeting. Sources said the meeting was held following a letter by Union Minister of Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia to the Chief Minister in September urging the State government to hand over 152.5 acres of land to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) for the expansion of the airport. Out of this, 137 acres would be used for development of apron, construction of new terminal building and cargo complex and remaining 15.25 acres would be used for car parking, according to the letter. Five years ago, the Centre and the State had come up with a plan with the AAI even committing to fund Rs. 1,000 crore for the development of the airport. Subsequently, the Government tasked the Collectors of Malappuram, Kozhikode and Palakkad to identify hills in those districts to be razed for filling the valley that surrounds the airport. However, the plans of the Government went awry with environmentalists decrying the decision to permit unbridled quarrying activities. Thus, following the floods in 2018, the order to raze hills had to be cancelled and the project failed to take off, said sources. The Calicut airport, located in 380 acres at Karipur, has a tabletop terrain with a steep fall on both sides. Filling the valley entailed a whopping amount of money and enormous manpower, added the sources. The immediate requirement is acquisition of land for setting up a multi-level parking in front of the old domestic terminal building. Another was the resumption of operation of wide-bodied aircraft which had been suspended after the Air India Express crash on August 7, 2020 that claimed the lives of 21 persons, said the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expansion-of-airport-may-not-be-a-smooth-ride/article37082313.ece
20 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Orange alert for two days||The district administration has geared up to meet any eventualities in the wake of an orange alert sounded in Kozhikode on Wednesday and Thursday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued an orange alert for the next two days, said District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy on Tuesday. He said round-the-clock control rooms were opened attached to the four taluk offices at Kozhikode, Koyilandy, Vadakara and Thamarassery as well as the local bodies. An emergency control room of the District Disaster Management Authority was also opened. The Police, Fire and Rescue Services, Irrigation, Electricity and BSNL departments had been activated, he added. Steps have been taken to monitor the water level in dams and rivers. In case of rising water level in rivers and waterlogging in any region, boats required for rescue operations have been arranged by the Fisheries Department. The Collector said entry to tourist spots, especially near river banks, waterbodies, cliffs and flood-prone areas, had been restricted. Access to waterfalls in hilly regions, where frequent accidents occur, was banned. The shutters of the Peruvannamuzhi dam have been opened and those of the Kakkayam dam remain closed. The following are the control room numbers: district control room - 0495 2371002, 1077; Kozhikode taluk - 0495-2372966; Koyilandy - 0496-2620235; Vadakara - 0496-2522361; and Thamarassery - 0495-2223088.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orange-alert-for-two-days/article37082314.ece
20 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Music director Vidyadharan selected for K. Raghavan award||Music director Vidyadharan has become the second recipient of the K. Raghavan Master Foundation Award instituted by the Kerala People’s Arts Club (KPAC) in memory of the late composer K. Raghavan. The award, which honours personalities for their comprehensive contribution to the field of art and music, carries Rs. 50,000 in cash, a memento and citation. ‘Enriched music culture’ The award jury comprising singer G.Venugopal, B. Arundhathi, and filmmaker Pramod Payyanur, noted that Vidyadharan enriched the music culture of Kerala with his soulful melodies and that he inculcated beliefs, lifestyle and hope in the minds of listeners through music. Vidyadharan’s music is a unique mix of the folk style, Carnatic, and Hindustani classical styles, the jury noted. The award will be presented at an event in Thrissur in the first week of November. The first edition of the award was presented to lyricist and composer Sreekumaran Thampi in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-raghavan-award-for-vidyadharan-master/article37082320.ece
20 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Teachers demand withdrawal of order||A meeting of the Kozhikode district committee of the Federation of Higher Secondary Teachers’ Associations (FHSTA) on Tuesday demanded the withdrawal of the circular issued by the Directorate of Public Instruction which it said would put the Plus One evaluation camp in crisis. ‘Reprehensible move’ It was termed as reprehensible the decision to reduce the number of officials from 10 to six for the running of the camps. The suggestion that the answer key should be presented by the teachers may affect the authenticity and uniformity of the evaluation, the meeting said. The order that other teachers in the group should evaluate the answer sheets of those teachers on leave was evidence of the authoritarian tendency of the Department of Public Instruction. The meeting also warned of strong protests if the teachers who opted for camps based on travel facilities were denied the opportunity to become chief examiners. Also, the wages for examination evaluation were not revised since 2012, it said. Protest The FHSTA will organise a protest in front of the Secretariat on October 27 seeking various demands including resolving the issue of junior teachers as well as doing away with participatory pensions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teachers-demand-withdrawal-of-order/article37082308.ece
20 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Burglaries in Kozhikode: police intensify surveillance||The Kozhikode City police have intensified surveillance, especially at night, following reports that the infamous ‘Kuruva’ thieves have entered the city. A recent meeting of Assistant Commissioners convened by District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) A.V. George decided to take action against anyone who was out in the city at night without sufficient reason. Recently, members of a ‘Kuruva’ gang had burgled a house under Elathur police station limits and were later arrested. But the police suspect another gang is also in the city at present.  The police plan to set up more CCTV cameras at key locations with the help of traders and residents’ associations. The public may contact the police control room on 0495-2721697.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/burglaries-in-kozhikode-police-intensify-surveillance/article37082315.ece
20 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Tribal hamlets near Nilambur marooned||Five tribal hamlets in the Government Seed Garden Complex at Munderi near Nilambur have been marooned across the river Chaliyar since the rain strengthened a few days ago. Although no casualty or damage was reported in the rain, the swollen Chaliyar has cut off the dozens of families living in Thandankallu, Iruttukuthi, Vaniyampuzha, Tharippapotti, and Kumbalappara hamlets from the rest of the world. The government is yet to reconstruct the three concrete bridges that had been destroyed in the floods three years ago. Without the bridges, the tribal hamlets are inaccessible for the people from outside. The tribespeople have been depending on bamboo rafts to cross the river for various purposes. When it rains heavily in the forests of Nilambur and Wayanad, the Chaliyar turns furious and renders the use of bamboorafts difficult. Whenever there is a medical emergency or an accident or an animal attack to any member from those hamlets when the river is in spate, the help of the Fire and Rescue Services or the National Disaster Response Force is sought. “Since we are not complaining, none cares for us. It is very sad,” said Babu, a youngster at Vaniyampuzha. His house had suffered extensive damage in the floods of 2019. Although the revenue staff of the collectorate had raised some funds under the leadership of the then Collector Jaffar Malik and built a temporary hanging bridge for the tribespeople to cross the river in 2019, the bridge did not last beyond the next year’s monsoon. The families are constantly exposed to the risk of wild animal attacks, especially elephants. Dozens of families of Vaniyampuzha hamlet have been living in makeshift tarpaulin sheds in elephant-infested jungle since their houses were destroyed in the floods of 2019. At night, none dares to sleep in those tents because of elephant scare. “We climb the trees with our children and sleep in the lofty tents to escape from elephant raids,” said Sudha V.K., a senior member of the tribespeople. According to her, those who visit the hamlet in the forest stand agape and admire the tarpaulin tree huts, but none bothers to rehabilitate them. “We are leading such a risky life without any care and protection,” she said. The tribespeople will have to cross the river if they want to buy groceries or to seek treatment for ailment or to go to school or work. “The bamboo raft we use to cross the river is not a riskless one. There is a certain amount of risk in crossing the river on the raft. And we become helpless when water in the river increases,” said S. Gireesh, a tribal youth. Mithra Jyothi Tribal Development Foundation chairman Aju Koloth said that the government was turning a blind eye to the miseries of the tribespeople. “Many young women are living in the hamlets without even a proper toilet, let alone any power connection to the hamlets,” he said.  There is a certain amount of risk in crossing the river on the raft. And we become helpless when water in the river increases S. Gireesh Tribal youth||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-tribal-hamlets-near-nilambur-marooned-in-rain/article37082311.ece
20 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Cooped up, retiree goes on a publishing spree||Sixty-nine-year-old V. Gangadharan Mankurissi, a former accountant with the Food Corporation of India, believes that one’s creativity blooms with superannuation. The number of books he published after his retirement from service seems to validate his theory. The COVID-19 outbreak necessitated a long stay at home and took his creative zest to another level. Whereas he had published six books between 2012 and 2019, Mr. Gangadharan brought out 16 works during the period. 11 anthologies Among the books published are 11 anthologies of Malayalam poems, four Malayalam ‘khandakavyas’ (shorter form of a narrative poem with an epic style), and a numerical analysis text. The poems he wrote were replete with imagery from the Mahabharatha. The titles Some of his works are named Vatika, Navadhalam, Agrasanam, Sravanikam, Agrathambulam, Agrapeetom, Kalharam, Uddarsham, Athiganthi, Pradeepakam, Darsakam and Gayathram. His deep knowledge in the epic Mahabharatha has found a natural vent through his poems. The book titled ‘Numerical Analysis’ stands apart, underscoring his passion for mathematics. Mr. Gangadharan claims to offer a special theory on natural numbers emphasising the unique properties of the numbers one and nine. Love for maths “I loved mathematics because I had such a wonderful teacher at Government Victoria College. But it was my daily pre-dawn strolls that opened my mind to the unique properties of the numbers,” he said. The book, according to him, can take a mathematics aficionado to newer levels of enrichment. “Anyone with a fascination for numbers will love it,” he said. An Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India (ICWA) degree-holder, Mr. Gangadharan said he was forced to publish his books under his own banner, V.G. Publishers, when the State’s top publishers displayed a cavalier attitude to him. He said he had been getting positive response to his books. “Reading habit is generally on the decline. However, serious readers appreciate books that give them something new,” says Mr. Gangadharan.  His deep knowledge in Mahabharatha has found a natural vent through his poems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cooped-up-retiree-goes-on-a-publishing-spree/article37082306.ece
20 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Col. Venugopalan passes away||Col. Venugopalan C.V., 87, who made a commendable service to the Indian Army’s educational wing, died here on Sunday. His knowledge in Chinese language had landed him a job in the Hong Kong Embassy. After retiring as commandant of the Rashtriya Indian Military College, Dehradun, Col. Venugopalan served in the Sports Authority of India (SAI) as principal and director of its training centre at Haryana. He was the first president of the Parivar, an organisation working for the welfare of people with intellectual impairment, in Palakkad. He is survived by wife and two daughters. The funeral took place in the evening at Chandranagar electric crematorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/col-venugopalan-passes-away/article37082479.ece
20 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Water level in Pampa recedes||The panic over raising the quantum of water discharge through the Pampa river from the Pampa and Kakki-Anathaodu reservoirs gave way to relief on Tuesday with the water level in all major rivers in Pathanamathitta finally beginning to fall. As announced earlier, two gates of the Pampa dam were opened by 5 a.m on Tuesday. The water level in the Pampa, however, did not rise alarmingly as feared in the absence of further rainfall and due to the release of water through the Thottappally spillway. Water level in the Manimala and Achencoil rivers, which had been flowing over the danger mark over the past three days, too reported a steady decline throughout the day. Health Minister Veena George, who on Tuesday visited the banks of the Pampa to review the flood situation, said the shutters of the Kakki and Pampa dams, which still remained on red alert, had been raised by 90 cm and 50 cm respectively while the water flow through the river stood between 175 and 250 cumecs. “The shutters have been raised in view of the warning of heavy rain over the next two days. Any further decision to raise the discharge level will be taken based on the recommendation of the Disaster Management Authority expert committee headed by the District Collector,” she said. The Minister, at the same time, also sought to warn the residents of relief camps against returning to their homes in view of the forecast of heavy rain over the next couple of days. With the water entering the low-lying reaches of Upper Kuttanad, more people were shifted to relief camps. The number of camps opened till Tuesday evening stood at 153, which accommodated 6,938 people. This is in addition to several families shifting to homes of their relatives. On Monday night, Deputy speaker Chittayam Gopakumar led a mission to rescue families affected by the swelling Achencoil river in Poozhikadu, Kadakkad and Cherikkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-in-pampa-recedes/article37082357.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Follow COVID protocol in relief camps: Veena||Health Minister Veena George has warned that COVID-appropriate behaviour should be followed in relief camps so that new outbreaks and case clusters do not happen. In a statement here on Tuesday, Ms. George said the State was not fully rid of COVID-19 and that the highly transmissible Delta virus variant continued to be the dominant strain in circulation in the State. In such a situation, those staying in relief camps and volunteers should follow all COVID-19 protocols strictly. Those coming from outside to the camps should minimise interaction with camp inmates. Antigen test The Health Department has already issued guidelines on the functioning of camps and antigen test facility will be arranged in the camps. Special care should be taken of the elderly, children and those with chronic diseases. The services of health workers would be ensured in the camps, she said. Those with any symptoms like fever or cold should not go into hiding and should seek immediate care. They would be isolated and their primary contacts would be asked to go in quarantine. Masks should be worn compulsorily by all in the camps and people should not eat together, as it poses the risk of disease transmission. Those with chronic lifestyle diseases would be provided their prescribed and regular medications so that their disease management did not fall short.  Special care to be taken of the elderly, children and those with chronic diseases in the camps||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/follow-covid-protocol-in-relief-camps-veena/article37082528.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||The blame game over floods plays out again||A repeat of the blame game that dominated the 2018 and 2019 post-flood political debate appears to be playing out in the State again. In the aftermath of the devastating floods of 2018, the Kerala Government had shot off a scathing letter to the Centre criticising the ''highly inadequate'' IMD network in Kerala. In 2020, the State said the IMD had not addressed its concerns and sought inputs from private weather agencies for disaster management. Revenue Minister K. Rajan has purportedly slammed the India Meteorological Department for “inaccurate” weather information. When contacted, Mr. Rajan’s office said the Minister had merely pointed out that Kottayam which the IMD had put under the green category bore the brunt of the rain havoc. The Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) appears poised to put the Government in the dock in the Assembly over its “shoddy” flood response. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said pointedly in Kannur: “The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) is a disaster in itself. It has failed the people three years in a row.” ‘Belated response’ The SDMA had on October 8 received a warning that the low pressure area over the Arabian Sea would make a landfall over Kochi and Kozhikode. “Its response was belated and, at best, knee-jerk.” Mr. Satheesan says said nothing has come of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s visit to the Netherlands to study flood mitigation. Mr. Satheesan finds an unlikely ally in his criticism of the Government in Left fellow traveller Cherian Philip. In a Facebook post, Mr. Philip says, “Nothing came of the visit to study the Netherland model of flood mitigation. Nobody knows of any follow-up action. Visiting relief camps, shedding tears for the displaced and penning laments for the dead alone won’t help,” Mr. Philip adds. The rain havoc has given the UDF additional impetus to mount a widespread campaign against the semi-high-speed SilverLine rail project. It has campaigned that the 300-km railway embankment for the semi-high speed railway would act as a barrier to natural drainage and exacerbate the intensity of floods and landslips. The LDF reportedly feels the UDF allegation that the Government is “missing in action” during the floods would find no traction. It believes the Government's “upfront role” during the floods, and its social welfare track record would help the ruling front easily deflect the Opposition criticism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-blame-game-over-floods-plays-out-again/article37082358.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Digital certificate for the differently abled||The Samagra Shiksha’s Thiruvananthapuram district project is piloting medical board certificate camps where children are being provided with digital disability certificates. Along with the digital certificates, centralised UDID cards (unique disability ID cards) are also being provided to students, including those to whom disability certificates had been issued earlier. This follows the Union Government making it mandatory for certificate of disability to be issued online with effect from June 1 this year. This allows pan-India validity of the certificates. A disability certificate is mandatory for people with disabilities to get government benefits, grants, and insurance such as Niramaya. During COVID-19, medical boards were not being constituted, and children faced a lot of difficulties in getting disability certificates. Five camps have been held so far in the district through the 12 block resource centres of the Samagra Shiksha for differently abled students studying in government and aided schools. Eighty-nine digital certificates and 385 UDID cards have been handed over in the camps that began in August. Seven more camps will be held by October 29 in which 420 children with locomotor disability, intellectual disability, and those who are hearing impaired, are expected to participate. Children in need of assistive devices such as hearing aid or wheelchairs, allowances, therapies, and academic support under Samagra’s various projects, are also identified at these camps. The District Medical Officer constitutes the disability boards for each of the Samagra’s camps. The boards are chaired by superintendents of district or taluk hospitals in the district and comprise doctors, psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, physical medicine and rehabilitation doctors, orthopaedicians, and audiologists from various hospitals and the Peroorkada Mental Health Centre, National Institute of Speech and Hearing, and Institute for Communicative and Cognitive Neuro Sciences. The Kerala Social Security Mission’s UDID wing is in charge of the UDID card distribution. Nearly 260 special educators are involved in identifying the differently abled children in schools through a survey, getting them to participate in the camps, and collecting their UDID details. These details are uploaded on the UDID portal—swavlambancard.gov.in—to generate the disability certificate and get the UDID cards after due process. Another advantage is that with the conduct of these camps through the Samagra Shiksha, government and aided school students registered on the UDID portal do not have to visit hospitals on days the medical boards are constituted as per their enrolment number.  Centralised UDID cards (unique disability ID cards) are also being provided to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-certificate-for-the-differently-abled/article37082516.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||70% Keralites may have acquired natural immunity||The third round of sero survey conducted across all districts in Kerala to assess the levels of COVID-19 antibodies in the population has reported that post second wave, at least 70% of the population may have achieved natural immunity against the pandemic. While the overall seroprevalence in adults is estimated at 82.61% (either Anti-spike IgG antibody or Anti-nucleocapsid IgG antibody), the Health Department’s report states the proportion of seropositivity in those who are unvaccinated is 70%. Mass vaccination This essentially means that even when the State is organising mass vaccination drives, natural infection has already penetrated to 70% of the population. “The seropositivity of 70% among the unvaccinated may be an indicator of the background infection rate in the population” is how the department has chosen to put it. The other side of the story is that since natural immunity has been found to be stronger and more long-lasting than the immune cover provided by the vaccine, Kerala is in a much better position now as far as population immunity is concerned than it had been in June this year. Fourth round In June, the fourth round of a serial sero survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research had estimated a seroprevalence of only 44.4% (42.7% for S1spike protein receptor binding domain (RBD) neutralising antibodies) in Kerala against a national average of 67.6%. Difference Seropositivity amongst those who are fully vaccinated has been pegged at 90% (89.92%). The difference in seropositivity amongst the unvaccinated (70%) and the vaccinated (90%) indicates that 20% of the population have only vaccine-derived immunity, among whom breakthrough infections may continue for some time. Given the heterogenous pattern of natural immunity (as seen in the variation in seroprevalence across districts) and waning vaccine immunity, these breakthrough infections are likely to occur in clusters in regions where vaccination coverage has been high but natural infection has been low COVID situation COVID-19 transmission had been active and sustained in the State since May. At the same time, the vaccination coverage with the first dose went up from approximately 30% in May to over 80% by September. Hence we would like to believe that a chunk of Kerala’s population now have hybrid immunity (combination of immunity from natural infection and vaccination), which is stronger and sustainable, said T. S. Anish, public health expert. Amongst children The fact that only 40.2% of the children (5-17 years) have natural immunity is quite concerning. The low seroprevalence in this group indicates that when schools reopen next month, large-scale clustering of cases could be expected. District wise, the seroprevalence among children ranged between 7.9% in Wayanad and 63.3% in Kasaragod. The State claims that “the low levels of seropositivity among children is a surrogate of flattening of the curve of natural COVID-19 infection of the State and an indicator of the State’s fight against the rapidly spreading infection”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/70-keralites-may-have-acquired-natural-immunity/article37082349.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KILE Civil Services regular batch begins||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty on Tuesday inaugurated the first regular batch of the Kerala Institute of Labour and Employment (KILE) Civil Services Academy to provide Civil Services coaching at low rates to children of workers in the State. The low representation of the children of workers in the State in the top echelons of the Civil Services led to the idea of setting up a coaching centre under KILE to prepare them to appear for the Civil Services examinations. Mr. Sivankutty was the chairperson of the KILE then. In February, the then Minister for Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan inaugurated the KILE Civil Services Academy. The next month, a four-month crash course got under way. Selected through test On Tuesday, the first regular batch appearing for the preliminary examinations was launched. As many as 183 aspirants had applied for entry into the batch. Of them, 132 appeared for a competitive examination, following which a rank-list was published. Of them, 63 aspirants who had secured 75% marks have been considered initially. Seven belong to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, 43 to Other Backward Classes, and 13 to forward communities. A fee of Rs. 15,000 is charged from children of workers in the unorganised sector, Rs. 25,000 from children of workers in organised sector, and Rs. 30,000 from others. The classes will be held online for now. The welfare boards concerned have been urged to bear the expenses for food and accommodation once direct classes start. Classes will be led by highly qualified and experienced teachers, many of them retired college teachers. A statement from the Minister’s office said the aim of the academy was to ensure the presence of maximum children of workers in organised and unorganised sectors in various cadres of the Civil Services. Even if they did not succeed in the Civil Services exam, they would become competent to appear in other exams to secure employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kile-civil-services-regular-batch-begins/article37082343.ece
20 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rainfall forecast for district||Faced with the possibility of heavy rainfall during the next few days, the district administration is taking precautionary measures to deal with exigencies. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded orange alert in the district for Wednesday and Thursday, and yellow alert for Friday. District Collector Navjot Khosa, who convened an emergency meeting on Tuesday, designated deputy collectors and the subcollector as charge officers to coordinate disaster mitigation activities in each taluk. They have been assigned the responsibility to convene meetings of the respective local body leaders, tahsildars, village officers, fire force officials and control room officials. They have also been ordered to visit taluk control rooms and camps. The availability of facilities, food, clothes and toilets must be ascertained in relief camps. Steps must be adopted to open additional camps if the need arose. Greater caution The Collector urged the charge officers of Neyyattinkara, Nedumangad and Kattakada taluks to exercise greater caution. In order to rescue stranded people during the eventuality of flooding, the availability of boats and Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses must also be ensured, the charge officers were directed. Adequate numbers of soil excavators and drivers must also be maintained. Revenue officials have been directed to remain in the district headquarters until October 25. Officials on leave have been directed to report for duty immediately. Taluk charge officers, tahsildars and officials representing various departments participated in the meeting.  IMD has sounded orange alert for the district on Wednesday and Thursday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rainfall-forecast-for-district/article37082527.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Need for permanent solution to avoid disasters: Governor||A permanent solution should be found to prevent repeated natural disasters, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has said. He was speaking after visiting a relief camp opened in Kalliyoor village in the district on Tuesday. The Governor said the State was with those who had lost everything in the recent natural disaster. Besides Kerala, heavy rain had been recorded in more than 20 States this season. These disasters were a reminder of the need to pay special care to nature conservation and caution in handling it. Mr. Khan interacted with those living at the relief camp at MN Lower Primary School, Kalliyoor. A. Vincent, MLA, and District Collector Navjot Khosa accompanied the Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/need-for-permanent-solution-to-avoid-disasters-governor/article37082523.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Missing child: police register case||The Peroorkada police have registered a case on the complaint of a young woman that her parents had forcibly taken away her newborn child. The woman Anupama has named her father Jayachandran, a CPI(M) local committee member; mother; sister and her husband; and two others in the complaint. She also alleged that she was kept in custody illegally by her parents. The police registered the case six months after she had filed a complaint. Anupama had alleged that her parents separated her from her child three days after she gave birth in October last. The police said the case was registered after seeking legal advice. The investigation was still in its preliminary stage, and the statements of all concerned would be verified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/missing-child-police-register-case/article37082384.ece
20 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Builders call for strike in construction sites today||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) and the Builders Association of India (BAI), umbrella organisations of builders, contractors and traders, will shut down construction sites and affiliated shops across the district on Wednesday. The token strike is in protest against the alleged assault on a builder by a trade unionist during a meeting convened by the District Labour Officer on Monday to finalise head-load rates in the district. CREDAI district secretary Arun A. Unnithan was purportedly assaulted by Chala Nazar, who represented the Indian National Trade Union Congress. The Museum police have registered a case. Trade unions and real estate developers have been at loggerheads over the due revision of the head-load rates, which the latter claimed were the highest in the State. Despite the builders’ plea to defer the biennial revision of the rates on account of the COVID-induced fiscal crisis, the Labour Department had decided to go ahead with the exercise. The trade unions that initially demanded a 40% hike offered to settle for a 25% increase. However, the builders remained firm on their stance that they could not afford any hike beyond 5%. Following eight rounds of discussions, both sides neared a settlement by agreeing upon a hike of 10% to 15%. However, the meeting (on Monday) went into disarray without a decision being taken when the irate trade union leader allegedly assaulted Mr. Unnithan. “This is not right for Kerala,” Trivandrum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TCCI) and CREDAI Kerala convener general S.N. Raghuchandran Nair said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/builders-call-for-strike-in-construction-sites-today/article37082518.ece
20 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2 suspected drug peddlers arrested||The City police arrested two persons, including a juvenile, during a crack down on a drug trafficking gang in a lodge on Tuesday. Two gang members managed to give the police the slip after hurling country bombs on them in broad daylight. The Karamana police arrested Rajeesh, 22, of Kunnumpuram and a 16-year-old teenager during an operation that was led by the City Narcotics Cell on the Killipalam Bund road. The raid was made against the backdrop of the police intensifying their drive to rein in the illegal sale and smuggling of narcotic substances. Special team A special team was also formed under Sheen Tharayil, Assistant Commissioner, Narcotics Cell, following instances of rival gangs operating in the city clashing against one another. On the basis of a tip-off, a shadow police team knocked on the doors of the lodge room that Rajeesh had booked in his name. On seeing the police, the gang hurled country bombs on them and slammed the door. By the time the police team opened the door, two members of the gang jumped outside from the balcony of the third-floor room and managed to escape. Rajeesh and the juvenile were, however, overpowered by the police personnel. MDMA seized They were allegedly found to possess five kg of ganja, synthetic drug MDMA, three air pistols, and two machetes. While the presence of weapons took the sleuths by surprise, the police officers have launched an inquiry into the criminal antecedents of the gang members. Efforts are also under way to bring the two absconding members of the gang to book.  The raid comes against the backdrop of the police intensifying their drive to rein in illegal sale and smuggling of narcotic substances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-suspected-drug-peddlers-arrested/article37082524.ece
20 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Social audit necessary in Civil Services: CM||Stressing the need to introduce social audit in Civil Services, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said corruption continues to affect service delivery and public welfare measures in the avenue. Inaugurating a State-level workshop organised jointly by Kerala NGO Union and Kerala Gazetted Officers’ Association on ‘Nava Kerala and Civil Services’ here on Tuesday, Mr. Vijayan said corruption was a ‘curse’ that the State had not succeeded in ridding itself totally from. He said the government maintained a zero-tolerance policy towards such practices. “While the State has been lauded for being among the least corrupt ones in the country, we must strive to become a corruption-free State. Service organisations had a crucial role to play in achieving the goal. Service delivery must remain the key priority for civil servants. Applicants must not be made to run from pillar to post,” he remarked. Mr. Vijayan also stressed on the need for accountability in Civil Services. “Civil servants must consider service delivery and scrutiny as equally important. There is a need to subject the sector to social audit to ascertain its efficiency,” he said, adding that outdated laws and rules would be reformed to ensure they did not adversely impact the society. A redeployment of government employees was on the cards in the State, he said, to address the issue of shortage in many offices and surplus staff in others. However, transfers would be effected on the basis of proper criteria. Contrasting policy According to him, Kerala pursued a starkly contrasting policy as opposed to the Centre by strengthening the Civil Service sector. While the Union Public Service Commission could make only around 16,000 placements in various sectors during the last five years, the Kerala PSC provided jobs to 1.6 lakh of people during the same period. “Such a strategy was part of the Centre’s attempts to downsize Civil Services. The sector was being rendered irrelevant through unchecked privatisation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/social-audit-necessary-in-civil-services-cm/article37082394.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Woman held on charge of murdering ailing husband||A 70-year-old woman has been taken into custody for allegedly murdering her husband in Neyyattinkara. The incident occurred at Manavari, Anavoor, on Tuesday morning. Gopi, 74, who had been bedridden for over a decade, and his wife Sumathi had been living in a one-room accommodation belonging to their son. The son had visited his parents at 7 a.m. When he returned two hours later, he found Gopi who had been paralysed following a stroke murdered. Sumathi was found unconscious near the house. They were taken to hospital but Gopi could not be saved. The police suspect Sumathi consumed poison and admitted her to a specially monitored cell at Government Medical College Hospital here. The police said the strain of taking care of Gopi for years could have led Sumathi to allegedly murder her husband. The son said his mother had said she could no longer carry on looking after Gopi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-held-for-murdering-husband/article37082393.ece
20 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||963 fresh cases in capital||The district recorded 963 fresh COVID-19 cases and 1,056 recoveries on Tuesday. The active caseload fell slightly to 10,427, as per district administration officials. The test positivity rate in the capital district stood at 9.2%. The district administration has placed 44,476 people in quarantine at various places. The death toll in the capital stood at 4,173, according to official statistics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/963-fresh-cases-in-capital/article37082526.ece
20 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Holiday for educational institutions until October 23||The Higher Education Department has declared holiday for all institutions functioning under it until October 23. The Government had deferred the reopening of colleges for junior batches to October 25 a day ago. Following an order by the Governor, university examinations that were scheduled for October 21, 22 and 23 have been postponed. As per schedule The ongoing admission process to courses will, however, continue as per schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holiday-for-educational-institutions-until-october-23/article37082344.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IMD warns of fresh rain spell||A special weather bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday evening indicated a fresh spell of rainfall activity over the State during the next four to five days. It said the easterly wave was likely to cause widespread rainfall from October 20 to 23 with isolated heavy spells on October 20 and 21. Orange alert The weather office issued orange alert (indicating heavy to very heavy rains from 6 cm to 20 cm over 24 hours) for 11 districts (all except Kollam, Alappuzha and Kasaragod) on Wednesday and 12 districts (except Kannur and Kasaragod) on Thursday. Squally weather with wind speed reaching 40 to 50 mmph is likely to prevail over the Kerala coast and Lakshadweep area from October 20 to 22. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into these sea areas during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/imd-warns-of-fresh-rain-spell/article37082359.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State reports 7,643 cases, 77 deaths||The State reported 7,643 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 82,408 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The active case pool shrunk to 80,262 patients, with 10,488 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health Department, only 10.4% of the active COVID-19 cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals such as COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres. The official cumulative case fatality in the State now stands at 27,002 with the State adding 77 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of COVID deaths on Tuesday. ICU occupancy ICU occupancy of patients in public and private hospitals in the State further declined to 1,414 on Tuesday. The number of patients requiring ventilator support was 590 on the day. On Tuesday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with the disease spiked to 854. Among districts, Thrissur recorded the highest number of new cases at 1,017, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 963, Ernakulam 817, Kozhikode 787, Kottayam 765, Palakkad 542, Kollam 521, Kannur 426, Pathanamthitta 424, Idukki 400, Malappuram 353, Alappuzha 302, Wayanad 185 and Kasaragod 141 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-reports-7643-cases-77-deaths/article37082361.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rain: no regular classes on Victers||There will be no First Bell regular classes on the KITE Victers channel from Wednesday to Friday owing to forecast of rain in the State. Instead of regular classes, classes from Saturday to Monday will be retelecast in the same order. These will be available later on the KITE Victers Plus channel. The timetable for classes after Saturday will be published later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-no-regular-classes-on-victers/article37082517.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Jharkhand native’s body sent back home||The body of Jharkhand native Nagardeep Mandal who had drowned in the Amayizhanjan Canal recently has been taken to his home State. The body was returned in an ambulance arranged by the Kerala Government, which bears the transportation expenses. Minister for General Education and Labour V. Sivankutty received the body from the mortuary of Government Medical College Hospital. District Collector Navjot Khosa, Labour Commissioner S. Chithra and Mayor Arya Rajendran also paid their respects to the deceased migrant worker. The Minister promised the brother of the deceased all support to his family. Financial assistance would be ensured to Nagardeep’s family from the Labour Department and the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund, said Mr. Sivankutty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jharkhand-natives-body-sent-back-home/article37082521.ece
20 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||More relief camps in high-range areas||More relief camps were opened in the high-range areas and in panchayats abutting riverbanks in the district on Tuesday even as life returned to normalcy in other areas. In all, 704 people from 216 families have been shifted to 26 camps in the district Red alert has been sounded for almost all the dams in the district. A portion of Pothankunnu, spread across Elavally and Kandanassery panchayats caved in on Tuesday. The landslip happened while the panchayat authorities were visiting the area as local people complained about the possibility of a landslip. Water got collected in deep pits formed following laterite-stone mining in the hillock. The area had huge laterite stone mines years ago. The mining was stopped following protests. Water gets collected in these pits in rainy season, posing threat of landslips in the area. The panchayat authorities have urged the District Collector to send an expert team to study further the threat of landslips in Pothankunnu. Meanwhile, Minister R. Bindu on Tuesday visited the KLDC (Kerala Land Development Corporation) bund that was breached near Padiyur. Urgent steps would be taken to rebuild the bund, she said. As Canoli canal is overflowing, 26 families on its banks have been evacuated. People have been evacuated from Mettippadam and Mavinchuvadu of Kodassery panchayat following landslip threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-relief-camps-in-thrissur/article37082322.ece
20 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Talks fail, CSB staff to go on three-day strike||As talks failed, Catholic Syrian Bank (CSB) employees will go on a three-day strike from Wednesday. All the 272 branches in the State will remain closed for three days, the Samyuktha Samara Samithi has said. “We decided to go on agitation as Managing Director C.V.R. Rajendran failed to come for a discussion with us to end the protest as directed by Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal,” the samithi said. Dharna will be organised in all 14 districts. Demands The samithi had called for the strike demanding implementation of the bilateral contract on wages and services; withdrawal of disciplinary action taken against agitating employees and to protect the customer-friendly culture of the bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talks-fail-csb-staff-to-go-on-strike/article37082312.ece
20 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||NH work: info panel to collect evidence||The State Information Commission will collect evidence on a petition that alleged that the police were protecting erring officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and contract company in the work of Mannuthy-Wadakkanchery National Highway. The commission will collect evidence on October 22. The unscientific and illegal work of the highway led to many accidents, petitioner P.B. Satheesh, chairman and director of Nerkazhcha Human Rights Association, has alleged. The police, who have to protect the lives of people, were discouraging and intimidating the people, who lodge complaints against the contract company and the NHAI, the petitioner alleged. He also alleged that the police even destroyed evidence, including CCTV visuals, of the accidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nh-work-info-panel-to-collect-evidence/article37082480.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Morning surprise||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/morning-surprise/article37082317.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A walk to remember||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-walk-to-remember/article37082520.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The onslaught||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-onslaught/article37082531.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relief for woman seeking maintenance after divorce||Getting married another time and having children from that marriage cannot be a reason for a Muslim man to resist the execution of maintenance decree obtained by his former wife from a court of law, said the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday. Giving relief to a divorced woman who had fought a legal battle on maintenance for two decades, the court said “a Muslim man hurriedly contracting another marriage after pronouncing talaq upon his first wife cannot be heard to say he has to maintain the new spouse and child and thus cannot discharge the maintenance decree”. “He ought to have known his responsibility towards the former wife who does not have anything to fall back upon. The said responsibility arose from his own act of talaq...,” observed Justice Krishna S. Dixit while dismissing of, with a cost of Rs. 25,000, a petition filed in 2015 by Ezazur Rehman of Bengaluru. The petitioner had challenged the 2011 decree of a civil court directing him to pay Rs. 3,000 monthly maintenance to his ex-wife, Saira Banu, whom he had divorced by way of talaq within eight months of marriage way back in 1991. He was put in civil prison in 2012 for non-payment of maintenance and he moved the High Court in 2014 after the civil court rejected his contentions of financial incapacity to pay maintenance.  Mahr and Iddat  On the petitioner’s claim that the maintenance amount cannot exceed the quantum of mahr and has to be restricted to iddat period of three months post-talaq, the court said it was difficult to sustain such contentions in law in the changing society in view of interpretation of laws on maintenance of divorced Muslim women by the apex court. Iddat refers to the period a woman must observe after the death of her husband or after divorce, while mahr is the obligation paid by the groom to the bride at the time of Islamic marriage. The petitioner had claimed he was not liable to pay anything beyond the Rs. 5,000 paid as mahr and the Rs. 900 paid as maintenance for three months in 1991. “It is a case of a hapless divorced woman who has secureda decree for her maintenance after years of struggle; she is relentlessly battling for its enforcement. It is a case involving the jural correlatives resting on the shoulders of ex-spouses by virtue of talaq,” thecourt said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/relief-for-woman-seeking-maintenance-after-divorce/article37081881.ece
20 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zomato comes under fire after customer flags staff’s behaviour||Online food aggregator Zomato was widely criticised on Tuesday after a support staff told a customer from Tamil Nadu that everyone should speak a little Hindi since it was the national language. Vikash, a customer, did not receive a food item he had ordered on the Zomato app, and wanted a refund. The customer care executive with whom he got in touch told him on chat that it was taking some time, and that language was a barrier in getting across to the restaurant that had left out the order. Mr. Vikash took to Twitter asking for a change in the attitude of the food aggregator and its staff. “Ordered food in Zomato and an item was missed. Customer care says amount can’t be refunded as I didn’t know Hindi. Also takes lesson that being an Indian I should know Hindi. Tagged me a liar as he didn’t know Tamil. @zomato not the way you talk to a customer. @zomatocare.” “Reject Zomato”, and “Hindi is not our National Language” trended for a few hours. A company spokesperson said the refund had been made, and the customer care agent had apologised to the customer. The company, too, issued an official apology. Responding on Twitter, Zomato said it had terminated the services of the agent, who was, however, reinstated after Mr. Vikash said training must be provided to customer care agents, and Tamils were not out for vengeance. Zomato also said it was building a Tamil version of its app. “We have already localised marketing communication in Tamil for the State, and we are in the process of building a local Tamil call/support centre in Coimbatore,” it said. DMK MP Kanimozhi tweeted: “Customer care of some companies operates only in select languages. It should be made mandatory for companies to serve their customers in their local language. A customer doesn’t necessarily need to know Hindi or English. #Hindi_Theriyathu_Poda.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zomato-comes-under-fire-after-customer-flags-staffs-behaviour/article37081891.ece
20 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s State-sponsored terrorism: Naidu||Criticising the attack on the Telugu Desam Party national office, TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday said the YSRCP government had unleashed a “State-sponsored terrorism,” against the TDP and its supporters. Addressing a media conference after visiting the TDP national office, Mr. Naidu said that it was unfortunate that the police colluded with the YSRCP in instigating the miscreants against the party. The TDP had called for a bandh on Wednesday protesting against the assault on its party cadres. Mr. Naidu remarked that he had tried to get in touch with the Governor and the DGP. “I tried in vain to get in touch with the DGP, but he did not pick the call. I never call him, but only in emergency conditions. I usually refrain from talking on issues like Article 356, but I am forced to react now. I even spoke to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and he promised to get the Intelligence feedback on the incident. There is a complete breakdown of law and order in the State,” Mr. Naidu said. Continuing the tirade against YSRCP, Mr. Naidu said that attacks on the party offices were never heard of in the State. “Party offices are like temples in democracy and never before in my 40 years of public life, have I witnessed attacks of this scale. I am wondering what is the DGP doing in such times. The DGP draws his salary and allowances from the tax payers and is answerable to them. Isn’t it? The TDP office is located just beside the DGP office and I am wondering what the police intelligence was doing?” said Mr. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-inciting-attacks-against-tdp-naidu/article37081878.ece
20 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu resorting to smear campaign’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu stooped to a new low in politics and was unleashing a vitriolic campaign against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, YSRCP legislator T.J.R. Sudhakar Babu alleged on Tuesday. Mr. Sudhakar Babu was reacting to the violent protests over the remarks allegedly made by TDP leader K. Pattabhi Ram against the Chief Minister and the YSRCP. “There are no written rules, but there is a limit in politics. The TDP leader has been unleashing a campaign to smear the personality of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The TDP leaders have stooped to a new low by targeting the office of the Chief Minister. We will teach a befitting lesson to the TDP in a democratic manner,” he said. “Mr. Naidu is unable to digest the drubbing at the hands of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” he said. “We can understand the frustration of Mr. Naidu as he could not ensure the win of his son in Mangalagiri. We can understand his frustration as he is unable to take up any issue pertaining to people,” he said. “Mr. Jagan has ensured financial aid through DBT to 1.30 crore people even during the pandemic. Did Mr. Naidu ever question about the schemes?” he questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-resorting-to-smear-campaign/article37082553.ece
20 October 2021||HUBBALLI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Christian leaders hold meeting after man is held for conversion||Consequent to high drama over what is said to be a case of forced conversion and the subsequent arrest on Monday of a man accused by right wing groups of carrying out forcible conversion, members of Christian organisations held a meeting on Tuesday to decide their next course of action. Members of Hindutva outfits during their protest on Sunday night said that the accused was carrying out forcible conversion by offering money. They also said that the accused, Somu Avaradi, had abused complainant Vishwanath on caste lines. Avaradi has been arrested now under the provisions of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities ) Act. However, the members of the Christian community and pastors said that the victims were actually members of the Christian community and the pastor and the police had taken action against the victims, while sparing the members of the Hindutva outfits which had manhandled members of the Christian community. When contacted, executive member of the Hubballi Taluk Pastors Association Reverend Cedric Jacob said that the members of the association and community leaders held a meeting on Tuesday to decide their next course of action. “Our community members are the victims in this case. We have not yet approached the Police Commissioner. We plan to meet him, along with our counsel,” he added. Meanwhile, in a video that has gone viral on social media, Avaradi, who the Christian community recognises as pastor of the Prayer House of All People’s Church at Bhairidevarakoppa, is seen clarifying that he had met the complainant for the first time and that no such conversion attempts had taken place in the prayer hall. He is also heard saying that he is a Lingayat by birth and that he has not converted to Christianity but he has faith in Jesus Christ. And, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram said that the police have not received any complaint from the Christian community so far. He said that he will investigate and take action, if a complaint is filed. On Monday, a few leaders of the Christian community also met Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/christian-leaders-hold-meeting-after-man-is-held-for-conversion/article37082039.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP and Congress have colluded, says KTR||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) working president K.T. Rama Rao has alleged collusion of the Congress with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Huzurabad byelection and it was reflected in the Congress fielding an ‘unknown’ candidate. He said this collusion was part of a larger plan of ensuring BJP candidate Eatala Rajender’s win and later inviting him to the Congress party along with some other leaders. He also named former MP and senior BJP leader Vivek Venkatswamy and alleged that he would accompany Mr. Rajender into the Congress fold. Former MP Konda Vishweshwer Reddy writing an open letter seeking support to Mr. Eatala Rajender in Huzurabad was a part of this conspiracy, he claimed. Mr. Rama Rao termed the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka as a soft spoken person and good individual and added that unfortunately he has no say in his party under the new Congress team. When asked if it was an invitation for him to join the TRS, he replied: “All I am saying is he is a good person and his voice is ignored in the Congress.” By choosing a novice Balmuri Venkat, who hails from the neighbouring Peddapalli district, the Congress has made its intentions clear, he said and challenged Telangana Congress chief A. Revanth Reddy to secure deposit for his party. “They are nowhere in the picture as of now,” he said. Stating that he won’t be campaigning in Huzurabad, the Minister asked the media not to read too much into it. He pointed out that he neither campaigned in Dubbaka nor in Nagarjunsagar where bypolls were held. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao might hold a meeting in Huzurabad but nothing is finalised as of now. Targeting BJP candidate Eatala Rajender, he asked him to explain what the BJP or he would contribute with his win. Mr. Rajender is uncomfortable in the BJP as he was afraid of asking votes in the name of the party. On the Election Commission asking Dalita Bandhu to be stopped till the elections, he said: “They can’t stop it after the bypoll is held.” He also dismissed rumours on social media that KCR would opt to be the next Vice President of India saying its a creation of “WhatsApp University.” Tamil Nadu visit A delegation of the the TRS would soon tour Tamil Nadu to study the organisational structure of the DMK and AIADMK that have kept the national parties at bay in the State politics. “It was not easy to sustain regional parties and we want to study how the DMK and the AIADMK have created their party structure and continue to hold a sway over the Tamil Nadu people relegating the national parties to the background.” In combined Andhra Pradesh only two regional parties — the Telugu Desam Party and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi — could survive for 20 years, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-and-congress-colluded/article37082294.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sharmila’s record-breaking padayatra to begin today||YSR Telangana party chief Sharmila will seek to break all records in padayatras by walking 4,000 km in 400 days when she sets on her second walkathon to mobilise public support for a welfare State through her nascent political party from Chevella on Wednesday. She will look to better her own record of walking 3,112 km in 230 days through her `Maro Praja Prasthanam’ yatra in 2012-13 and that of her brother and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy who created history with his 341-day Praja Sankalpa Yatra that covered 3,648 km and billed as the longest in the country. The twin yatras by Ms. Sharmila and Mr. Jagan overshadowed their father Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s Praja Prasthanam of 1,500 km in the scorching summer of 2003 and Telugu Desam president N. Chandrababu Naidu’s 2,000 km yatra in 2012. Ms. Sharmila fractured her leg duing the yatra and required a surgery, which interrupted the yatra for several days. An 11-day bus yatra by Ms. Sharmila in support of YSR Congress of Jagan prior to 2019 Assembly and Parliamentary elections in 2019 had also received good response. Ms. Sharmila has adopted the same name of her late father’s yatra and also the same centre -- Chevella -- to kickstart the walkathon that will cover 90 Assembly and 14 Parliamentary constituencies of Telangana. She will walk for four hours in the morning and three in the evening everyday. She will also undertake hunger strike every Tuesday in the interval between her walking spells to highlight the unemployment problem in the State. She is launching the padayatra within one hundred days of launching her party. She held hunger strikes across the State to highlight unemployment and visited families that lost breadwinners due to the indifference of government to resolve the problem. While both Ms. Sharmila and Mr. Jagan commenced the padayatra in the past from Idupulapaya in Khammam district after paying homage at the grave of their father, the former chose Chevella as the venue to reminisce YSR yatra. A public meeting will be held before she sets off on walk. Ms. Sharmila will walk 10 km on first day and gradually increased the distance. She had walked 13 km and addressed several interactions with village communities to know public pulse. Party leaders said she would hold similar meetings with local leaders and public this time round also in the evenings. Accompanied by her mother, Ms. Sharmila visited the grave of her father on Tuesday to pay tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sharmilas-record-breaking-padayatra-to-begin-today/article37081885.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Owaisi flays Centre for allowing India-Pak T20 match||All India Majlis-e-Ittahedul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi criticised the Centre for allowing the upcoming India Vs Pakistan T20 World Cup match to go ahead, even as he pointed out that as many as nine Indian Army soldiers were martyred in Kashmir. Soldiers martyred Mr Owaisi was speaking at Jalsa Rahmatullil Aalameen, a public meeting organised to coincide with Prophet Muhammad’s birth anniversary, at the party headquarters in Darussalaam late on Monday night. “We want to ask the Prime Minister of India: Modiji, nine brave soldiers have been killed. How many? Nine. Nine soldiers were killed and on 24th there will be an India – Pakistan T20 match? Modiji, did you not say that soldiers are dying and Manmohan Singh’s government is feeding biryani? Nine soldiers were killed, and you will play T20? Pakistan is playing T20 with the lives of Indian citizens. Bihar’s poor workers are being murdered. There are targeted killings. What is the IB doing, Amit Shah?” Mr Owaisi said. Mr Owaisi criticised the Centre for stating that abrogation of Article 370 would change the situation in Kashmir even as he added that this was far from the truth. “Nothing has ended. Targeted killings are happening. What is happening in Kashmir is a failure of the Modi government. You have no policy on terrorism,” the Hyderabad parliamentarian said. The AIMIM leader said that the Prime Minister does not speak on the ‘skyrocketing’ fuel prices and China. “China is now sitting in our house, he is not saying anything. China is sitting in Demchok, Depsang, Hot Springs. In Uttarakhand it is strolling as if it were in a garden. It comes in Arunachal, and the PM of India is not doing anything. He is afraid of talking about China,” the AIMIM president said.  China is now sitting in our house, the Prime Minister is not saying anything. It comes in Arunachal, and he is not doing anything. Asaduddin Owaisi,AIMIM president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/owaisi-flays-centre-for-allowing-india-pak-t20-match/article37081888.ece
20 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ahead of padayatra, Sharmila takes YSR’s blessings||YSR Telangana Party (YSRTP) president Y.S. Sharmila, who has announced a 4,000-km long ‘padayatra’ across Telangana, came to Idupulapaya in her native Kadapa district to take the blessings of her father and former Chief Minister of combined Andhra Pradesh the late Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. After alighting a flight at the Kadapa airport, she reached the ‘YSR Ghat’ along with her mother Vijayamma and other family members on Tuesday afternoon. She paid tributes at the ‘samadhi’. The entourage sat at the spot for a while, immersed in prayers. Ms. Sharmila had announced an arduous trek across Telangana, covering 10 to 12 km a day to cover the entire State, barring Hyderabad city, in a year. Similar to Dr. Rajasekhara Reddy’s walkathon of 2003 that catapulted him to power, Ms. Sharmila had also chosen the same Chevella constituency in Ranga Reddy district, hoping that the sentiment would work. After Dr. Reddy’s 1,475 km-long padayatra covered the State, his son and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy embarked on a similar feat for 3,648 km that went on for 13 months. In contrast, Ms. Sharmila’s will be the longest padayatra in terms of the distance covered, at least in the YSR family. She had announced to listen to the woes of the public throughout the walkathon and bring them to the notice of the incumbent TRS government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ahead-of-padayatra-sharmila-takes-ysrs-blessings/article37082471.ece
20 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Study explores anthropometric features of ancient Indian art||Ancient Indian sculptures are admired for its grandiosity. But, their adherence to scientific principles in terms of anthropometric parameters is hardly a point of discussion. Here is a study that has comprehensively unravelled the features of idols etched on the walls of temples that have not only achieved the perfect symmetry, but also excelled in adherence to the scale and proportion. The artists of this era extensively depend on technological devices and software tools, but imagine the perfection achieved in those days when sculptors had the only option of open eye measurement. “Scale and proportion are among the most important principles in art and design that have been followed since the time immemorial. The parameters also tell about of an artist’s philosophy. Apart from its mythological significance, iconography in the form of relief sculpture (wall-etched) is used to narrate a story,” says Barun Mandal, a faculty member of painting at the College of Fine Arts of the Dr. YSR Architecture and Fine Arts University (YSRAFU), Kadapa. Mr. Mandal, who is studying the sculptures from the Vijayanagara era at Siddavatam Fort, Pushpagiri and Vontimitta temples, lays emphasis on the scale and proportion, not just as an artist, but as a product designer too. Referring to the Ganga and Yamuna icons etched on the west gate of the Pushpagiri temple, he finds those perfectly in 1:2 ratio with the average height of an Indian. “Ganga is a high relief (deeply-etched) sculpture shown as a young woman adorned with jewellery, standing in the Tribhanga pose on a Makara. As per the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), the average height of Indian man and woman has been revised to 5 feet and 8 inches, and 5 feet and 3 inches respectively, which was 5 feet and 6 inches, and 5 feet and 2 inches earlier. When computational measurement is applied to the art, the proportion is perfect in terms of the total height and the size of the body organs,” explains Mr. Mandal. According to him, the Indian images are portrayed as ‘healthy and happy figures’ when compared to the western art. Even as the study is at the personal level, Mr. Mandal intends to bring students of art to such sites including Gandikota, other places of artistic significance in Kadapa district, to explain the art history and its evolution with a reference to the change of dynasties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/study-explores-anthropometric-features-of-ancient-indian-art/article37082457.ece
20 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solid waste collection to begin in East Godavari villages from today||Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das has said that collection of solid waste will begin in 155 panchayats in East Godavari district from Wednesday, under the ‘Clean Andhra Pradesh’ (CLAP) programme. Mr. Krishna Das, who is also the in-charge Minister for East Godavari district, along with his agriculture and BC welfare counterparts K. Kannababu and Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna respectively, handed over 155 garbage collection vehicles to the panchayats on Tuesday. The Swachh Andhra Corporation has providing a vehicle to the each panchayat, as a part of the CLAP initiative. First phase “In the first phase, 155 vehicles worth Rs. 11.20 crore have been handed over to the panchayats. The 100-day CLAP programme aims at making the panchayats cleaner and encouraging solid waste management practices,” said Mr. Krishna Das. ‘Keep villages clean’ Addressing a gathering at the Zilla Parishad Centre here, Mr. Kannababu and Mr.Venu Gopala Krishna appealed to the local bodies and village secretariats to strive for keeping the villages clean. According to Zilla Parishad Chairman Vipparthi Venu Gopal, the Swachh Andhra Corporation has sanctioned 49 vehicles to Rajamahendravaram revenue division, 39 to Amalapuram division and 35 to Kakinada division. The Peddapuram division has got 31 vehicles, while the Rampachodavaram division has received one vehicle in the first phase. Kakinada MP Vanga Geetha, Joint Collector (Revenue) G. Lakshmisha, Zilla Parishad Chief Executive Officer N.V.V. Satyanarayana and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solid-waste-collection-to-begin-in-e-godavari-villages-from-today/article37082463.ece
20 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fix compensation for failed paddy variety, Kannababu tells officials||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu has directed the Agriculture Department officials to finalise compensation to the farmers who witnessed the failure of the ‘Amulya’ paddy variety in the East Godavari district. East Godavari Joint Director (Agriculture) N. Vijaya Kumar has apprised Mr. Kannababu of the failure of the paddy variety in the present kharif season in 14 mandals. A total of 1,545 farmers have witnessed the failure of the paddy variety which was cultivated in about 5,180 acres, according to the Agriculture Department. The early flowering and harvesting stages of the paddy variety were the reasons for the failure, the affected farmers said. Mahendra Seeds and Warangal Seed companies have supplied the seeds in the 14 mandals. In a review meeting with the Agriculture Department officials here on Tuesday, Mr. Kannababu said that the enumeration of the land under the paddy variety has been completed and the affected farmers have been identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fix-compensation-for-failed-paddy-variety-kannababu-tells-officials/article37082490.ece
20 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four held, gutkha seized||Four persons were arrested when they were transporting 58 bags of gutkha worth of Rs. 28 lakh in a van on the National Highway near Annavaram in East Godavari district on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as K. Nanaji Rao, the kingpin of the racket, N. Venkata Buchi Raju, P. Siva Ganesh and A. Suribabu, all hailing from Kakinada city and rural mandals. The gang reportedly procured the gutkha from Bhubaneswar in Odisha. East Godavari SP M. Ravindranath Babu said that the gang was caught during a vehicle check-up. The police have registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-held-gutkha-seized/article37082458.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI/AHMEDABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central Vista architect may be hired by A.P. for tri-city spread||The Andhra Pradesh Government is likely to rope in Bimal Patel, the architect of the Central Vista in New Delhi, for its tri-city spread of government offices and Assembly buildings, with the executive branch in the port city of Visakhapatnam. “The Andhra Pradesh Government plans to shift its executive wing, including the Chief Minister’s Office, to Visakhapatnam. There is a court case with regard to some plans that need to be sorted out, but the tri-city plans are still on,” said a senior State official. The land acquired in Amaravati would be used to set up Assembly buildings, and the Andhra Pradesh High Court would come up in Kurnool. “The Andhra Pradesh Government has shortlisted Mr. Patel’s firm for the project as the company’s experience in public buildings is commendable,” said the source. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Patel said, “As of now, we are doing a guest house project for Andhra Pradesh. Government officials said court cases needed to be settled before anything could go ahead formally.” Mr. Patel is the man behind the Central Vista project redrawing the Parliament building and much of the office space of the Central Ministries. He designed the Ahmedabad riverfront project, and is currently involved in the redevelopment of Sabarmati Ashram, established by Mahatma Gandhi. Amaravati was earlier finalised as the capital of Andhra Pradesh, and extensive land acquisition was done. The election of Jagan Mohan Reddy as CM in 2019, however, led to a change of plans. On the question of why Visakhapatnam was chosen by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government as the site of a new capital, a senior YSRCP leader said the city had “both an airport and a seaport, offices of major PSUs and a potential to become a metropolis.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/central-vista-architect-may-be-hired-by-ap-for-tri-city-spread/article37081890.ece
20 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala braces for another bout of rain from today||With the India Meteorology Department (IMD) warning of another bout of heavy rainfall in the run-up to the northeast monsoon, the Kerala Government sounded an alert on Tuesday on landslips and flooding. It mobilised the administration for emergency response and disaster relief. A press note from the Chief Minister’s Office directed people residing in high ranges and riverbanks to be extremely cautious, considering the possibility of heavy rain from October 20 to 23. Noting that many parts of the State were especially prone to landslips, mudslides and overflowing rivers during the last phase of the southwest monsoon, it said intense spells of rain could unleash havoc. As many as 11 National Disaster Response Force  (NDRF) teams have been deployed in various districts to assist the administration, along with two teams each of the Indian Army and the Defence Security Corps. Besides, two helicopters of the Indian Air Force and one of the Navy are on standby. The Civil Defence Force and volunteer corps have also been alerted. An official press note said the State Emergency Operations Centre had been augmented, with representatives of the Kerala State Electricity Board, Irrigation and Motor Vehicles Departments and the Army functioning round the clock. Taluk control rooms had been opened in all districts. As many as 3,071 buildings had been identified for setting up relief camps to accommodate more than 4,00,000 people. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said directions had been issued to relocate families from dwellings categorised as unsafe by experts from the Geological Survey of India and the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) and those living dangerously close to riverbanks. Idukki dam opened Three shutters of the Cheruthoni dam of the Idukki reservoir were opened on Tuesday. Sixty-four families in five villages of the downstream area were shifted prior to the dam opening. The water level reached 2,398.08 ft at 10 a.m. (red alert level at 2,397.86 ft). Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty and Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine held a top-level meeting with Kerala State Electricity Board officials and reviewed the situation in the downstream before the shutters were opened. At 10.55 a.m. a siren was sounded and the third shutter was opened first. The second shutter was opened at 12 noon and the fourth shutter at 12.30 p.m. All the shutters were opened by 35 cm to release 0.331 mcm (million cubic metres) of water an hour into the Periyar. After opening the first shutter, the flow of water close to the Cheruthoni town was monitored. Prior to the opening of the Cheruthoni dam, water from the Edamalayar dam was released from 6 a.m. raising three shutters by 85 cm. This was the fourth time the Idukki dam, one of the largest in Asia, was opened. The gates of the Cheruthoni dam were opened in 1981, 1992 and 2018. Mullaperiyar dam The water level at the Mullaperiyar dam, in the upstream of the Idukki dam, was 134.10 ft at 5 p.m. on Tuesday. While there was an inflow of 2,929 cubic feet per second (cfs), Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 1,750 cfs. The maximum storage level is 142 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-braces-for-another-bout-of-rain-from-today/article37081877.ece
20 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD board member Prashanti Reddy is LAC chief||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) board member Vemi Reddy Prashanti Reddy has been appointed as the president of the New Delhi Local Advisory Committee (LAC). Ms. Reddy is given the responsibility of strengthening the administration of all the TTD temples in northern India and further develop the SV temple in New Delhi. A press release issued by TTD stated that Ms. Reddy accepted the responsibilities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-board-member-prashanti-reddy-is-lac-chief/article37082459.ece
20 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leaders express ire over remarks made by TDP against CM||As part of a State-wide agitation condemning the TDP leaders’ criticism and remarks against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, YSR Congress activists staged a sit-in in front of the residential premises of senior TDP leaders across Rayalaseema on Tuesday. In Kadapa, the party cadre reacted strongly to TDP senior leader V.S. Ameer Babu when he called the government ‘minority drohi’ and Muslim leaders representing the YSR Congress mobbed the residence of Mr. Ameer Babu and staged a protest against what they called a ‘meaningless remark’. “Minorities are getting a lot under this regime and this allegation is unfounded,” they said, demanding Mr. Ameer Babu to withdraw his comment and tender an unconditional apology to the government. As the situation appeared to go out of hand, police personnel removed the protesters from the scene. Chaos in Chittoor In Chittoor district, YSRC cadre reportedly attacked the car belonging to TDP in-charge for Srikalahasti constituency Bojjala Venkata Sudheer Reddy, when he was returning after staging a protest in Renigunta against the rising prices of essential commodities. In a complaint filed to Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, Mr. Sudheer claimed that YSRC leaders gheraoed him and attacked his vehicle with footwear, brooms and sticks, apart from manhandling him and Tirupati parliamentary constituency in-charge G. Narasimha Yadav. The agitators also allegedly damaged the windscreens of his car. TDP protest Staging a silent protest at the District Police Office later, the TDP leaders blamed the Renigunta sub-divisional police of having failed to provide them security, despite knowing that their protest could come under attack by ‘unruly mobs’ belonging to the ruling party. TDP Tirupati in-charge M. Sugunamma called the spate of attacks on party offices as ‘undemocratic’. YSRC cadre staged a demonstration in front of the TDP office in Kurnool. While condemning the unparliamentary language used by TDP spokesperson K. Pattabhiram, Kurnool MLA Hafeez Khan compared the TDP members as ‘pet dogs’ of the party supremo N. Chandrababu Naidu, stoking yet another controversy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-leaders-express-ire-over-remarks-made-by-tdp-against-cm/article37082462.ece
20 October 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed in road accident near Allagadda||Three persons were killed in a road mishap at Kasinthala on NH-40, close to Allagadda in Kurnool district, on Tuesday when an SUV coming from the opposite direction reportedly hit their motorcycle. According to Deputy Superintendent of Police (Allagadda) A. Rajendra, the SUV reportedly shot past the divider after one of its tyres burst and rammed into the two-wheeler coming in the opposite direction, before coming to a halt upon veering off the road. The deceased were identified as Afzal, Kalam and Javed, all from Srivella. The bodies were shifted to the Government General Hospital in Allagadda for postmortem. Another person, Sulaiman, escaped with serious injuries, though it was not clear if he was travelling in the car. He was rushed to the same hospital for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-killed-in-road-accident-near-allagadda/article37082460.ece
20 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC rakes in the moolah during Dasara||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) generated a good revenue from the special buses plied during the Dasara festival. “As many as 1.40 lakh additional passengers utilised the special services during the festival. The APSRTC realised a revenue of Rs. 17.05 crore on October 18 only, a record given the COVID-19 scenario,” said APSRTC Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, adding that people preferred to travel by RTC buses during the festival. In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Tirumala Rao thanked people of Andhra Pradesh and neighbouring States such as Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka for extending their patronage to the APSRTC services during the festival period. On October 17, the APSRTC ran 303 special services from the State to Hyderabad, 152 buses from Vijayawada, 122 from Visakhapatnam, 95 from Bengaluru, 89 from Rajamahendravaram, 41 from Tirupati, 12 from Chennai and 93 buses from other places, in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocols at the bus stations and inside the buses. Fifty officers and 250 supervisors were deployed at major bus stations and important traffic pick-up points such as Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Vijayawada to guide the passengers for a hassle-free boarding into the buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-rakes-in-the-moolah-during-dasara/article37081924.ece
20 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High drama as police visit Ananda Babu’s house||High drama was witnessed at the house of former Minister and TDP Polit Bureau member Nakka Ananda Babu, when a police team descended from Narsipatnam town in Visakhapatnam district late on Monday night to serve a notice on him for his remarks made on ganja smuggling in the State, at a press conference he had addressed in the afternoon. The former Minister had said that cultivation and smuggling of ganja was rampant in the State and youth were becoming slaves to drugs. He urged the State government and the Centre to initiate measures to check the illegal activity. Tension gripped the area as a large number of TDP cadres rushed to the Minister’s house on knowing about the police presence there and raised slogans against the police and the Chief Minister, demanding that the police leave immediately. Mr. Anand Babu refused to take the notice demanding to know if questioning the government’s failure to check illegal trade of drugs was wrong. The police however, returned saying they would return on Tuesday morning. Earlier, TDP leader Dhulipalla Narendra Kumar was also served notice by the Kakinada police for speaking on the drugs issue. Harassment alleged The incident has evoked strong criticism by TDP leaders who called it “harassment of a Dalit leader” for questioning the government’s failure on a key issue like drugs smuggling. At a press conference on Tuesday, Mr. Anand Babu called the police act “ridiculous” and said the Agency areas in Visakhapatnam had turned into a hub of illegal ganja cultivation. Reports indicated that Rs. 8,000 crore worth ganja was being cultivated here, and the value of the contraband in the international market was said to be close to Rs. 25,000 crore. He said a police team had visited his house again on Tuesday morning and had recorded his statement after he refused to take the notice again. In a separate press meet, the party’s national spokesperson K. Pattabhiram slammed the YSRCP government’s “jungle raj” and criticised the “over-zealous” police who “travelled all the way from Narsipatnam to Guntur” to serve notice on Mr. Anand Babu on the same night. “Despite such swift police teams, cases of rapes and attacks on Dalits are on the rise in the State,” he said sarcastically. Citing media reports on attacks by ganja smugglers on police teams visiting parts of the State to nab them, the TDP spokesperson dared the YSRCP government to issue notices on all of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-drama-as-police-visit-ananda-babus-house/article37082476.ece
20 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu takes it up with Amit Shah||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday complained to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan against the “vandalism by the ruling YSRCP at the TDP’s head office and district units.” Many party cadres were injured in the “mob attacks,” Mr. Naidu alleged in his complaint. Mr. Naidu requested Mr. Shah to deploy Central forces to ensure adequate security to the TDP offices and the cadre in the wake of “politically motivated attacks.” He reportedly told the Union Minister that law and order had completely collapsed in the State. Complaint to Governor In a telephonic conversation with the Governor, Mr. Naidu complained that the YSRCP “gangs,” armed with sticks and rods, barged into the party’s central office at Mangalagiri and went on a rampage beating up the TDP activists and damaging furniture and window panes. They even attacked a media person and snatched his phone, he alleged. Meanwhile, TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh condemned the attacks, and accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of unleashing a reign of terror in the State. “The YSRCP leaders are digging their own grave by resorting to such violence. The TDP will not be afraid of such oppressive forces and will continue its fight for justice,” Mr. Lokesh said. “The rampaging mob has been mobilised by ruling party leader Lella Appi Reddy. The objective is to shake the morale of the Opposition cadres,” he alleged. ‘Fascist regime’ TDP State president K. Atchannaidu called the YSRCP rule as a “fascist regime fraught with lawlessness and mindless violence against those who tried to question its failures.” “Mr. Jagan and his party leaders have given a quiet burial to democracy,” he said. The TDP leaders demanded the resignation of DGP D. Goutam Sawang, owning moral responsibility for “his failure to ensure law and order in the State.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-takes-it-up-with-amit-shah/article37082474.ece
20 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Populist policies of CM pushed State into financial mess: IYR||Bharatiya Janata Party Political Affairs Committee (PAC) chairman I.Y.R. Krishna Rao on Tuesday said that the populist policies of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had pushed the State into deep financial crisis. “Financial discipline has gone for a toss and the fact that the government is asking companies to supply sand, cement and other construction material on concessional rates to complete the housing projects tells it all about the magnitude of the problem. Immediate and effective measures are needed, otherwise the State would slip into an irrevocable crisis,” Mr.Krishna Rao told the media. Mr. Rao said the YSR Congress Party had normalised the delayed payment of salaries and pensions. Hospitals, educational institutions and other service sectors lack basic amenities. The government is raising loans by mortgaging properties in Visakhapatnam,” he said. The BJP leader attributed the existing crisis to absence of efficient leaders post bifurcation. “The TDP government had borrowed Rs. 1.53 lakh crore, in addition to the Rs. 86 lakh crore it had inherited as the residual State of Andhra Pradesh. The YSRCP government has raised loans of Rs. 1.45 lakh crore in a span of two years. This is in addition to an additional unaccounted for loans worth Rs. 2 lakh crore, thrusting a burden of Rs. 5 lakh crore on the State,” he said. The BJP leader alleged that both Mr. Naidu and Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had failed in financial discipline, as raising loans to implement welfare schemes was bound to result in a crisis of this magnitude, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/populist-policies-of-cm-pushed-state-into-financial-mess-iyr/article37081922.ece
20 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu urges Centre to take up census of BCs||The TDP has urged the Union government to take up a census of the Backward Classes (BCs). In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu said inclusion of the BCs in census was essential for their welfare and progress. Pointing out that the BCs constituted the majority of the population in the country but were a neglected lot, Mr. Naidu said the Kaka Kalelkar Commission, the first Backward Classes Commission constituted in 1953, and other subsequent commissions, including the ones constituted by the State governments, had recommended enumeration of the BCs in the census. Referring to the speculation that a caste census would further deepen the existing social divisions and promote discrimination, Mr. Naidu maintained that exclusion of caste data would be as unjust as the caste-based discrimination itself. “Lack of data will only result in inefficient policies and weak implementation of schemes meant for the welfare and development of the BCs,” he said. The previous data was almost 90 years old and, therefore, outdated, and the welfare schemes could not be implemented based on it, he observed, and sought “right steps towards creating an egalitarian society.” Mr. Naidu said effective implementation of Articles 15 (4) and 16 (4) of the Constitution dealing with reservation for the BCs in educational institutions and State services was not possible without estimating the population of the BCs. He said the AP Assembly, under the TDP rule, had passed a resolution on BCs’ caste census and had sent it for Centre’s consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-urges-centre-to-take-up-census-of-bcs/article37082473.ece
20 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties, Jana Sena condemn attack on Telugu Desam offices||Left parties and Jana Sena Party have criticised the attacks on the Telugu Desam Party central office and other offices across the State on Tuesday. In a release, Communist Party of India State secretary K. Ramakrishna said that the attack by alleged YSRCP activists on the offices of the Opposition party and its activists was highly condemnable. He said such an attack on a political party office never occurred in the past. He called upon all the advocates of democracy to come forward and condemn the attacks. Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary P. Madhu sought the intervention of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to ensure law and order in the State. He said the CPI(M) strongly condemned the attacks on the TDP offices. He said TDP leaders should also avoid making personal comments against rivals. ‘A blot on democracy’ Jana Sena Party chief Pawan Kalyan also condemned the attacks allegedly by YSRCP activists. He said never in the history of the State were party offices attacked until now. He said the Central government and Union Home Ministry should keep a watch on the developments in the State. Mr. Pawan Kalyan also demanded that the police act swiftly and book all the persons behind the attacks. He said preliminary information revealed that the attackers were the supporters of the YSRCP and it was a blot on democracy if it was true. Mr. Pawan Kalyan also said that criticism by political parties should be only constructive but not lead to tension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-jana-sena-condemn-attack-on-telugu-desam-offices/article37081919.ece
20 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||In-principle nod to Sileru project||The State government has given in-principle approval to the APGenco to execute the upper Sileru pumped storage hydroelectric project in Visakhapatnam district. In a release, Secretary to Government (Energy) Srikant Nagulapalli said the government had directed APGenco to take steps for installing reversible pumps in the Sileru system and integrating with solar and wind power for grid stabilisation, providing round the clock power to consumers and meeting future energy demand in the State. The objective of the project is to generate 1,350 megawatts (MW) of power during peak hours by utilising 1.70 tmcft of water from Guntawada Reservoir (Upper) at Upper Sileru and pump 1.70 tmcft of water from Donkarayi Reservoir (Lower) back to Guntawada Reservoir by utilising the surplus of peak low-cost power available in the grid. The project would also help to maintain grid stability due to sudden fluctuations.APGenco Managing Director B. Sreedhar said the project required 410 hectares of land and topographical and hydrographic surveys and 76.9 % of geotechnical investigations were completed. The prestigious upper Sileru pumped storage hydro project was considered to be the biggest in the State after Srisailam and Polavaram hydro projects, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-principle-nod-to-sileru-project/article37082469.ece
20 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only two districts report COVID-19 deaths||The State reported four more deaths due to COVID-19 and 483 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative tally and toll reached 20,61,287  and 14,317 respectively. The number of active cases came down to 5,654 as 534 patients recovered in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stood at 20,41,316 and 99.03% respectively. The daily test positivity rate of the 40,191 samples tested was 1.20% and that of the 2.905 crore samples tested so far remained at 7.09%. Krishna and Prakasam districts reported two deaths each in the past day while no other district reported deaths. Chittoor reported 120 more infections in the past day. It was followed by Krishna (81), Guntur (61), Prakasam (55), West Godavari (53), Nellore (32), Visakhapatnam (32), East Godavari (25), Srikakulam (15), Kurnool (3), Anantapur (2), Kadapa (2) and Vizianagaram (2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/only-two-districts-report-covid-19-deaths/article37082468.ece
20 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to pay tributes to police martyrs tomorrow||Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will participate in the Police Martyrs’ Commemoration Day programme at the Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium on Thursday. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, along with Home Minister M. Sucharitha, Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang, Ministers, MLAs, MLCs and MPs, will pay homage to the police martyrs. Chief Minister’s programme coordinator Talasila Raghuram, Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, Krishna in-charge Collector K. Madhavi Latha, Sub-Collector G.S.S. Praveenchand and other officials inspected the stadium on Tuesday and reviewed the arrangements for the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-pay-tributes-to-police-martyrs-tomorrow/article37081918.ece
20 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Promote municipal school HMs as civic chiefs’||Leaders of the Municipal Teachers’ Federation demanded that the government revert to the old system in which headmasters of municipal schools were promoted as Municipal Commissioners. Federation president S. Ramakrishna said when municipal schools were set up, headmasters were promoted as civic chiefs, but the practice was stopped after 1956.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/promote-municipal-school-hms-as-civic-chiefs/article37081925.ece
20 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waive ‘true-up’ charges, CPI(M) tells APERC||The CPI(M) has demanded that the State government waive off the ‘true-up’ charges levied on the power consumers immediately and return the amount collected so far. Speaking at a public hearing conducted by the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) in virtual mode on Tuesday, CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Babu Rao said that the government had imposed a burden of Rs. 3,699 crore on the public for the power consumed between 2014 and 2019, instead of offering subsidies in view of the economic downturn triggered by the coronavirus pandemic. “Nowhere in the world, consumers are charged additionally for the power consumed several years ago. It is an irrational practice,” said Mr. Babu Rao and urged the APERC to conduct the public hearing in person instead of conducting it online so that more consumers could take part in it. He said that the people would ‘revolt’ if the ‘true-up’ charges were not waived off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waive-true-up-charges-cpim-tells-aperc/article37081926.ece
20 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District witnessing steep rise in cases of malaria and dengue||The Visakhapatnam district is witnessing an increase in cases of malaria and dengue. While the dengue cases are rampant in the urban limits, Agency areas are reporting more number of malaria cases. While the officials attribute the rise to increase in testing, the Opposition and Left parties blame on poor sanitation and apathy from the officials in taking steps to control the vector-borne diseases. In this year (till October second week), 762 malaria cases are reported compared to 1,194 in 2020. Out of the 762 cases, 672 cases, which is almost 88%, were reported from the tribal areas alone. Similarly, 68 cases were reported from the rural and 22 cases were reported from the urban areas. During the year 2020 (By October-end), the district had reported 146 dengue cases. However, by October 6 this year, the district recorded 757 cases. Out of the 757 cases, as many as 424 cases, which is almost 56% of cases, were reported from the urban and peri-urban limits. A total of 291 dengue cases were reported from rural areas. “In the year 2020, we had tested 690 samples out of which 146 tested dengue positive. But this year, we have tested 4,844 blood samples in which 757 turned positive,” said District Malaria Officer D. Mani. Fortunately, no deaths have occurred. Similarly, the district has recorded 26 chikungunya cases in 2021 (by October 6), as against 21 in the last year by the end of October. According to a few Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders, only the samples which were tested in King George Hospital and other regional government hospitals are being shown in the statistics of the Health Department. But hundreds of people are approaching the private hospitals for dengue and malaria tests. Those reports are not being taken into consideration, they alleged. “If the positive cases from private labs are taken, the cases would increase further,” a senior TDP leader said. CPI(M) leader and Corporator of Ward 78, B. Ganga Rao, said that the corporation has failed to take steps to tackle mosquitoes breeding. Precautionary measures were not taken keeping in view the rise in seasonal diseases, due to which the rate of cases is alarming, he said. A number of deaths due to seasonal diseases occurred, but the Health Department is not admitting, he alleged. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna said that the coming three months are going to be very crucial and the administration is taking all steps to control the seasonal diseases. After Cyclone Gulab, the Health Department, Sachivalayam wing and the municipal corporation were alerted to create awareness about the dos and don’ts and possible breeding places of mosquitoes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-witnessing-steep-rise-in-cases-of-malaria-and-dengue/article37082464.ece
20 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work on third railway line likely to commence soon||The construction of the third line between Visakhapatnam Junction and Gopalapatnam, the survey for which was completed long ago, is likely to commence soon, with the Railway Board giving its nod for the project. The project, which involves construction of the 8-km railway line, would be taken up at an estimated cost of Rs. 106 crore. This information was obtained by K. Eswar, Secretary, Duvvada Railway Users’ Association, from the Railway Board under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. “We are yet to get an official communication in this regard,” Divisional Railway Manager Anil Satpathy told The Hindu , when contacted on Tuesday evening. The third line will help in quick turnaround of trains at the Visakhapatnam Junction and minimise the detention of trains at the outer signal near Kancharapalem, Gopalapatnam, Duvvada and Anakapalle during the peak hours due to non-availability of platforms in the Visakahaptnam Railway station. In February, 2020, N. Gajapathi Rao, who was then a Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee (ZRUCC) member, had written to the then Railway Minister Piyush Goyal for allocation of funds for construction of the third line to prevent important long distance trains bypassing the Visakhapatnam Junction due to traffic bottlenecks due to criss-crossing of incoming and outgoing trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-on-third-railway-line-likely-to-commence-soon/article37082561.ece
20 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Muslims take out peace rally||A peace rally was taken out by devout Muslims, under the aegis of the Seerath Committee, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Prophet Muhammad, from the Old Jail Road Junction to the Ishaq Madina Dargah at Kota Veedhi in Old Town area here on Tuesday. The objective of the peace rally is to create awareness among the people on the teachings of Prophet Muhammad, which foster universal brotherhood, unity, humanity and social responsibility. The day is celebrated as Milad-Un-Nabi, on the occasion of the birthday of the Prophet of Islam, Hazrat Mohammad Saheb, by the Muslim brethren. Hundreds of Muslims, carrying religious flags, participated in the rally. Muslim religious leaders and representatives of political parties also participated in the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/muslims-take-out-peace-rally-in-vizag/article37082494.ece
20 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna Patrudu, Bandaru too may be questioned||Deputy Inspector General (DIG), Visakha Range, L.K.V. Ranga Rao, has not ruled out the possibility of questioning TDP leaders Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu and Bandaru Satyanarayana over their reported statements on alleged links of the YSRCP with the ganja smugglers. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Ranga Rao, while responding to a question, said, “It is just a matter of time before the police question them. If anyone provides information on the alleged smuggling links, the police will question them.” The DIG addressed the media to give clarification on the questioning of TDP leader Nakka Ananda Babu on his statements on ‘ganja mafia’. “For the last two to three weeks, the Telangana police have been taking the help of the Vizag police to arrest any accused having links with ganja smugglers. But in the incident at Lambasingi in Visakha Agency, the Telangana police have not taken the Vizag police into confidence,” Mr. Raga Rao said. A police team from Nalgonda in Telangana had opened fire reportedly in self-defence near Lambasingi on Sunday when it was allegedly attacked by locals. The police team was reportedly leading an accused to a smuggling den. Reacting to the incident, Mr. Ananda Babu, while addressing the media, had alleged a bigger conspiracy and links with the ganja mafia. “To seek clarification, the district police had gone to the house of Mr. Ananda Babu last night (on Monday). Mr. Babu had asked the police to visit him in the morning. The police have questioned him regarding his statements as a witness and not as an accused. However, the TDP leader was unable to give any information,” Mr. Ranga Rao said. “We have served notices on him under the relevant sections of the CrPC and asked him to cooperate by giving information on the alleged ganja smuggling,” the DIG said. Sucharitha’s ‘remarks’ However, when the media personnel asked the DIG whether the police would also question Home Minister M. Sucharitha for her alleged remarks that Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu was a ganja smuggler, the DIG said he was not aware of any such statement and that he would not comment without knowing facts. Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayyanna-patrudu-bandaru-too-may-be-questioned/article37082477.ece
20 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eye hospital bags NABH accreditation||Sankar Foundation Eye Hospital and Institute, Visakhapatnam, has been conferred with the “National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH), for its quality eye care services. KBN Manimala, Managing Trustee and CEO of the foundation, congratulated the staff for their collective efforts in getting the recognition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eye-hospital-bags-nabh-accreditation/article37082559.ece
20 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu is a political terrorist, says MLA||Terming Telugu Desam Party(TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu a ‘political terrorist’ Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath said that if required YSRCP cadres would march into Mr. Naidu’s house and beat him up and all those who would come to his rescue, including his son Nara Lokesh. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, after the political heat picked up in the State following the alleged attacks by YSRCP workers on the TDP offices across the State, he said, “Next time any TDP leaders tries to tarnish the image of the government without obtaining substantial proof or evidences, the same treatment will be delivered.” He accused the TDP government of doing nothing during its rule for about 21 year. Mr. Amarnath called Mr. Naidu an opportunist, who is now trying to woo the SC/ST and BC segments for his political gains. Referring to the State Bandh call given by the TDP president on Wednesday, he said, “The TDP has already lost its base and who will support the bandh. The time has come for the party to close all its offices across the State.” He termed Jana Sena Party chief Pawan Kalyan as a freelance politician for his condemning the attack on TDP offices. “He (Pawan) has no political affiliation. He will support any political party for his personal gains,” said Mr. Amarnath. Mr. Amarnath also said that the raking up of ganja issue was a diversionary tactics by Mr. Naidu. Anita stopped Tension prevailed at the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) office near Daspalla Hills, as a large number of women supporters of YSR Congress Party stopped the vehicle of TDP Mahila wing president V. Anitha, when she was about to reach the office, after the attack. Heated words were exchanged between the members of both the parties. Speaking to the media, Ms Anitha condemned the attack on the party office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-is-a-political-terrorist-says-mla/article37082564.ece
20 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workers firm on saving Vizag steel plant||Hundreds of workers of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VP), representatives of trade unions and people’s organisations gathered at Kurmannapalem and expressed their resolve to prevent privatisation of the plant, even as the relay hunger strike being organised by the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee continued for the 250th day on Tuesday. To mark the occasion, 250 members sat on a 25-hour hunger strike that began at 8 a.m. VSP’s former Director (Operations) K.K. Rao visited the protest camp and recalled his participation in the agitation seeking establishment of the steel plant in 1966. Commending the steadfast commitment of the workers to save VSP, Mr. Rao hoped that they would succeed ultimately. Vice-Chancellor of Centurion University G.S.N. Raju said the slogan ‘Visakha Ukku – Andhrula Hakku’ had struck a chord when the agitation was at its peak. “VSP, the only shore-based steel plant in the country, can compete with other plants if captive mines are allocated to it,” he said. Rally on November 1 CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao, while recalling the police firing on the agitators near the Old Head Post Office area on November 1, 1966, said a rally would be taken out from Mrs. A.V.N. College to the Old Head Post Office junction to mark the 55th anniversary of the incident on November 1. As a part of intensifying the agitation, all panchayats, municipalities and corporations would adopt a resolution against the Centre’s decision, Mr. Narasinga Rao said. “If the BJP-led government at the Centre is allowed to have its way, the day is not far off when other PSUs will be handed over to the corporates,” he said. MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy, porata committee chairmen Adinarayana and Mantri Rajasekhar, and CPI(M) corporator B. Ganga Rao spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workers-firm-on-saving-vizag-steel-plant/article37081886.ece
20 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 GVMC projects likely to be inaugurated on Oct. 23||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) officials are planning to organise inauguration of projects worth Rs. 330 crore on October 23, during the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s proposed visit to Visakhapatnam. The Chief Minister is likely to visit the city to attend a private function on October 23. The GVMC officials are planning to officially inaugurate three projects – Waste-to-Energy Plant at Kapuluppada worth Rs. 280 crore, Multi Level Car Parking Project (MLCP) at Jagadamba Junction worth Rs. 11 crore and renovated VUDA Park, near Beach Road, worth Rs. 33 crore. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana has informed the Engineering Department to make necessary arrangements and also inform the higher authorities concerned to check the possibilities of arranging inaugural event, if the Chief Minister’s programme is confirmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-gvmc-projects-likely-to-be-inaugurated-on-oct-23/article37082563.ece
20 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||31-year-old man ‘ends’ life||A 31-year-old man reportedly ended his life by consuming a soft drink laced with some poisonous substance suspected to be pesticide, at Beach Road here on Tuesday. By the time, locals and police noticed him, he was dead. According to the police, the victim was identified as Dinesh Reddy, a native of Vizianagaram and resident of Gajuwaka. The body was shifted to King George Hospital (KGH) for post-mortem. The III town police have registered a case. Further investigation is on. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/31-year-old-man-ends-life/article37082495.ece
20 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 33 new COVID cases, 48 recoveries||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 33 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative tally of cases to 1,57,854. During the same time period, 48 persons recovered from the coronavirus. No COVID-19 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Active cases have come below the 800-mark and stand at 793. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,55,967, which is approximately 98.8% of the total cases. On October 18, the district recorded the lowest single-day tally of 11 cases, since March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-33-new-covid-cases-48-recoveries/article37082560.ece
20 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Body of drowned girl retrieved||The body of 15-year-old girl O. Deepika, who had gone missing at Appikonda Beach on Monday was traced on Tuesday morning. Deepika, a native of Kakinada, along with two of her friends had ventured into the sea for playing, on Monday evening. They were allegedly dragged into the sea by strong tides. A few locals immediately rushed into the sea and rescued two girls, but Deepika had gone missing. The body was sent for post-mortem. The Duvvada police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/body-of-drowned-girl-retrieved/article37082496.ece
20 October 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP trying to foment trouble in State: Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has alleged that the TDP has been trying to create ‘unrest’ in the State for the past two-and-a-half years. The followers of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu had made provocative statements, which led to the problem, he alleged. He alleged that Mr. Naidu was facing problems at home and in a bid to divert the issue, he had asked his men to issue the provocative statements. He said that Mr. Naidu wanted to make his son Lokesh as the leader of the party but the TDP leaders were opposed to it. The Minister said that ganja transportation was not new in the State and has been happening for several years. The TDP was trying to politicise it like they had done in the case of the decision on three capitals and the Aasara scheme to provide assistance to Self-Help Groups (SHGs), Mr. Srinivasa Rao alleged.  ‘Political terrorist’ Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath termed Mr. Naidu a ‘political terrorist’ and said that if required the YSRCP cadres would march into Mr. Naidu’s house and beat him up and all those who would come to his rescue, including Nara Lokesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-trying-to-foment-trouble-in-state-minister/article37082555.ece
20 October 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sirimanotsavam’ remains a low-key affair||The ‘Sirimanotsavam’ of the Sri Pydithalli Ammavari temple was celebrated on a low-key note here on Tuesday. With a view to checking the spread of COVID-19, the authorities did not allow people to participate in the celebrations and the ‘Sirimanu’ procession. The procession is one of the highlights of the festival that usually draws huge crowds. The ‘Sirimanu’ on which the hereditary priest of the temple is mounted makes three trips between the temple and the Fort. The priest, who is revered as the Goddess on the occasion, blesses the devotees from atop the ‘Sirimanu’. The procession, which usually takes several hours, was over in about an hour following the restrictions on the participation of devotees. The customs associated with the festival were being followed since 1757 when Vizianagaram had been ruled by the Pusapati kings. Temple hereditary trustee P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju and his family members watched the Sirimanotsavam from the Fort. They also had darshan of Goddess Pydithalli in the morning. Deputy Chief Minister P. Pushpa Srivani, and Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana and M. Srinivasa Rao were among others who watched the procession . Sans the devotees, the festival had lost its sheen. The roads wore a deserted look till the commencement of the procession at about 4 p.m. Except for public representatives, temple authorities, police personnel and government officials, others were not allowed to come close to the temple. Lok Satta leader Bhisetti Babji criticised the government for hurting the sentiments of the devotees. “The government, which cited COVID-19 as the reason to keep the devotees at bay, failed to make several public representatives and their family members wear mask and follow the social distancing norm. All rules and regulations have been imposed only on the devotees,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sirimanotsavam-remains-a-low-key-affair/article37081921.ece
20 October 2021||YADAGIRGUTTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rededication of Yadadri temple on March 28: CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced on Tuesday that the re-dedication of the renovated Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple would be held on March 28 next year. “Maha Kumbha Samprokshanam,” as the CM described, will be held along with a Maha Sudarshana yagam, which would witness the participation of 10,000 Vaishnava pontiffs and pundits from India and abroad. Ankurarpana, or the auspicious beginning, of the mega event, will start on March 21, he informed. Mr. Rao, addressing the media on the lawns of the Devasathanam executive office in the annexe of the main temple, said pontiff Chinna Jeeyar Swamy had arrived at the muhurtham after deliberations with various committees. He said preparations such as acquiring puja material, auspicious time as per Aagama shastra and availability of religious leaders were the reasons behind fixing a date in March. Incidentally, the inaugural of the ‘Statue of Equality’, the 216-foot high statue of Ramanujacharya, the brain child of Chinna Jeeyar Swamy, is scheduled for February next, Mr. Rao said. Proposing gold plating of the Vimana Gopuram, the structure which rests above the sanctum sanctorum, akin to Tirumala temple,with 125 kg of gold, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao urged people of Telangana to own the temple and said all villages in the State could donate for the exercise. The gold plating work are estimated to cost Rs. 65 crore and will be assigned to experts who had worked on the Tirumala temple. “Even if it is a contribution of Rs. 11 per village, all villages should participate,” he said, announcing donation of rupees equivalent for one kilogram and 16 tolas of gold as his family’s contribution. Mr. Rao informed that several Ministers and leaders have already announced their donations for the temple. Gold would be purchased from the Reserve Bank of India and the complete exercise would be performed under the supervision of a designated committee. The Chief Minister said free bus service for devotees and a separate bus stand at a cost of Rs. 6.90 crore, re-allocations for shopkeepers who lost their businesses, underground drainage and storm water management as a special project will be taken up immediately. Work to build 250 cottages with four suites each, with donations of up to Rs. 2 crore each, as part of the phase-I layout in the temple town are also being taken up, Mr. Rao added. Donations started pouring in for the proposed gold plating of the Vimana Gopuram. Chairman of Hetero Group C Parthasarathy Reddy announced a donation of 5kg of gold and Chevella MP G. Ranjith Reddy, MLAs A. Gandhi, M. Hanumantha Rao, M. Krishna Rao and K.P. Vivekananda and MLCs Shambipur Raju and K Navin promised to give 1 kg gold each. Industrialist and ZPTC from Kadapa district in AP Modem Jayamma also promised to donate 1kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rededication-of-yadadri-temple-on-march-28-cm/article37082042.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam leaders’ houses attacked||Condemning the attacks, the TDP cadres organised dharnas and protests. They demanded that the police take action against the attackers immediately. YSRCP activists staged dharnas against Mr. Pattabhi’s comments against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. They raised slogans demanding that the police book a case against the TDP leaders immediately. Security was also stepped up at YSRCP offices, and at the houses of Ministers, MLCs, Members of Parliament across the State. TDP workers manhandled A few suspects were taken into custody and patrolling had been intensified. Security had been was enhanced to all the VIPs, a police officer said. In Visakhapatnam, about 50 women cadres of YSRCP barged into the TDP office and allegedly manhandled TDP workers present on the premises. TDP Visakhapatnam parliamentary constituency president Palla Srinivasa Rao said the YSRCP women workers trespassed into the TDP office and beat up a few TDP workers present. They came in by breaking open the gate, he said. “We are lodging an official complaint with the Commissioner of Police,” he said. He criticised the police for not reacting appropriately in preventing the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-leaders-houses-attacked/article37082472.ece
20 October 2021||HUZURABAD (Karimnagar District),TELANGANA||Castes call the shots in Huzurabad bypoll||Some may not agree that caste plays crucial role in deciding winner in an election. Irrespective of one’s opinion, candidates and their ‘behind-the-scene’ strategists are concentrating on how to secure maximum votes from castes that have large number of voters in Huzurabad byelection. While contestants of main political parties are occupied with door-to-door campaign as curtains will be drawn on canvassing in eight days, persons ‘in-charge’ of their victory and strategists are completely engaged catching leaders of the castes that matter. For them, castes with more voters are most important now. Leaders of communities that can influence people of other sections are even more important. To approach voters of these communities, parties are picking up leaders from those castes and sending them to convince ‘voters of their respective castes’. Naturally, ruling parties are at an advantage on this point. These parties are sending their leaders ‘for talks’ with people of their communities. “A powerful politician of my caste asked me to find out with my community voters if they are facing problems from any government officials connected to our profession,” Sitaram Goud (name changed) of erstwhile Karimnagar district said. The politician was given a car with driver to move in the constituency. Food and accommodation was also taken care of by the party. The ‘issues raised in the talks’ were conveyed by the party leaders to Excise officials concerned. They would ‘solve the matters’ ‘then and there’ by giving clear assurances. Internal caste meetings are being organised exhorting voters to cast their votes en mass to a particular candidate, Sometimes this is being done openly with politicians themselves releasing photos of a local community leaders pledging entire community support to their respective nominees. Going a step ahead, conventions of different castes like Reddy Garjana, Gouda Garjana, Kapu Garjana, Erukala Garjana were already held. During Reddy Garjana meeting attended by ministers Sabitha Indra Reddy and Prashanth Reddy along with Speaker P. Srinivas Reddy, the participants were assured of creation of a Reddy corporation to extend financial assistance to the poorest in the community. “What is wrong in it? There are poor people in forward communities as well. So we too are asking a share in government’s assistance,” said Srinivas Reddy (name changed), a farmer from Challuru, who attended the meeting. While such meetings of castes having considerable strength were already held separately, a BCs meeting is scheduled for Thursday. Curiously, all these meetings are held at a centre in Penchikalapet on outskirts of Huzurabad town coming under Hanamkonda district. Organisers chose this place since it would not attract election code. “In fact, Dalit Bandhu is planned with sole purpose of securing dalit voters in Huzurabad bypoll. Nothing can be more glaring,” said some BJP leaders. There are different surveys conducted by individuals and organisations on each community in Huzurabad constituency. In addition to information collated from socio-economic survey conducted by government earlier, some agencies have been engaged to collect caste data and analyse it. “Wooing voters on caste basis is a bad precedent. Such strategies would further divide society,” said retired government official Padmanabha Reddy of Forum for Good Good Governance.  Voteshare matters Number of voters of some of the numerically significant castes in Huzurabad Madiga — 33,257 Mala — 11,256 Goud — 21,000 Yadav — 25,565 Reddy — 20,506 Vaddera — 4,200 Source: Mission Chanakya - an electioneering and political management company||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/castes-call-the-shots-in-huzurabad-bypoll/article37082292.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No concrete progress in CC road works||Broken roads, uncleared rubble and difficulty in commuting are problems faced by people of several localities in the city, especially residential colonies. At almost all the locations, the broken roads are of cement-concrete, which renders commuting next to impossible due to the rubble left behind. Even where the rubble is cleared, the roads are left unlaid for weeks, leaving the residents wondering if the road would be re-carpeted at all. “They started breaking the road about 10 days ago, with long gaps between sessions. They didn’t even inform us about the work, so that we could take out our vehicles. Now, the road is completely broken, but they are yet to clear the rubble,” Rajeshwari, resident of Gautam Nagar, Malkajgiri shared. As the internal road is not in motorable condition, residents are forced to find parking sites for their vehicles out on the main road. Same is the condition of several internal roads in Dilsukhnagar area. “Two streets in our colony have been dug up a month ago and rubble has been cleared. They laid the entire path with road metal, due to which there have been quite a few falls and accidents. Now even the metal is dissipating, but there is no trace of the contractor,” said Phani Kumar, resident of Hanuman Nagar in Chaitanyapuri. Besides, water stagnation in the pits formed on the road is resulting in mosquito menace, he says. While maintenance of a large number of major thoroughfares has been handed over to private agencies, internal roads are still GHMC’s responsibility. Tenders are called for and awarded at zonal level for works with less than Rs. 2 crore estimated expenditure. Officials under the condition of anonymity blame pending works of various utilities, and intermittent rains for the tardy progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-concrete-progress-in-cc-road-works/article37082286.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM inspects progress of Yadadri works||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao gave detailed instructions to the agencies engaged in renovation and beautification of Yadadri temple on Tuesday as the date decided by pontiff Chinna Jeeyar Swamy for inauguration of the renovated and beautified temple is approaching fast. The Chief Minister visited the Yadadri temple complex and examined the re-construction works on the temple premises and the sanctum sanctorum. He conducted an aerial inspection of the temple complex to ascertain the progress of the works. Entering the main temple through VIP entrance, he inspected the entrances created by Pembarthy artisans. He stopped at all the viewpoints that were aesthetically designed to show the beautified temple complex. He discussed with the officials construction of Gandi Cheruvu, Pushkarini, Kalyana Katta, Deekshaparula Mandapam, and Satyanarayana Vrata Mandapam and explained to his Cabinet colleagues and MLAs how the water bodies were specially designed. He took a detailed view of the queue lines adorned with Sankhu and Chakram symbols that were made in Indore as well as the gold covering of the main entrance to the sanctum sanctorum. The Narasimha Swamy Kalyana episode was a major feature in the main temple drawn in the Tanjore style of painting. The Chief Minister went round the comlex, looking at the carvings, relating to Prahlada Charitramu and examined every sculpture of Alwar Mandapam besides inspecting the space for Dhwaja Stambham. Responding to a request from archakas about sanctioning of house sites to them, the Chief Minister instructed the district incharge Minister and the District Collector to allot plots to priests and employees in line with the decision taken in the past. Steps should also be taken to ensure that 1,000 sq.ft shops were given free of cost to all those who lost their shops, facilitating construction of the ring road. A Sudarshana Yaga involving 1,000 ritwiks would be performed under the supervision of Chinna Jeeyar Swamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-cm-inspects-works-at-yadadri-temple/article37081884.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP govt. fanning communal passions in country, says Moily||Veteran Congress leader and former chief minister of Karnataka M. Veerappa Moily has alleged that BJP-led NDA government at the Centre was fanning communal passions in the country for its political ends to remain in power. Speaking after receiving the ‘Rajiv Sadbhavana Award’ on the Rajiv Sadbhavana Yatra Commemoration Day here on Tuesday, Mr. Moily said the BJP was in power in 12 States with the help of its allies and with the help of defections and large-scale corruption in politics. Stating that the Narendra Modi government at the Centre was pitting communities against each other just for staying in power and as a result people of different communities were suspecting each other. “We have driven out the British from the country and there’s no reason why we can’t do the same with the communal forces. All the Congress leaders have to unite for the cause and in the process can not only return to power at the Centre but also in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. I know the pulse of the Telugu people and what’s required is unity among the Congress leaders,” Mr. Moily said. Sadbhavana Yatra goals Stating that Sadbhavana Yatra was launched to promote the values of peace, harmony and national integration and being continued in the memory of Rajiv Gandhi, Mr. Moily said stability was provided to the country under the leadership of Rajiv Gandhi. He had restored normalcy in relations with China, Pakistan and Sri Lanka and also strengthened relations with all countries of the South Asian Region. Rajiv Gandhi had also played a key role in the peace accords of Assam, Mizoram and Tripura, Mr. Moily said. However, the policies of the BJP-led Government at the Centre were leading to conflict with all the neighbouring countries, he observed. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and MP A. Revanth Reddy, AICC in-charge of party affairs in Telangana and MP Manickam Tagore, Andhra Pradesh PCC president S. Sailajanath, former PCC presidents N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Ponnala Lakshmaiah and V. Hanumantha Rao, former ministers J. Geetha Reddy, Md. Ali Shabbir and G. Vinod, Bose Raju, Ch. Vamshichand Reddy, Madhu Yashki, Malreddy Ranga Reddy, G. Niranjan and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-govt-fanning-communal-passions-in-country-says-moily/article37082270.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Processions, sermons mark Milad-un-Nabi celebrations||Milad-un-Nabi, the birth anniversary of Prophet Muhammad, was celebrated on Tuesday with processions, and sermons, and a feeling of religiosity. Tuesday corresponded to the 12th day of the month of Rabi al Awaal of the Islamic calendar. The young and old joined in one of the oldest and biggest Milad processions in the city, organised by the Sunni United Forum of India (SUFI), a gathering of faith leaders cutting across organisations. A large number of people took part in the procession carrying flags, standards and buntings which bore religious inscriptions and symbols. The procession began from Charminar and ended at Moghalpura. Smaller processions were witnessed in other parts of the city as well, in areas such as Banjara Hills, Masab Tank, and Ameerpet. While lectures were organised in several mosques, much larger gatherings were seen late on Monday night with All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen-organised Jalsa Rahmatullil Aalameen where a galaxy of religious scholars and faith leaders spoke. The other important public meeting was organised by the Majlis-e-Tameer-e-Millat, a socio-religious organisation, on Tuesday which was founded decades ago by Syed Khaleelullah Hussaini. Philanthropic activity, including a blood donation drive, was organised at the Asafiya Library.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/processions-sermons-mark-milad-un-nabi-celebrations/article37082278.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dramatic drop in seizure of LSD blots||The highest number of LSD blots seized by Telangana Prohibition and Excise officials was in 2017, when a series of drug busts in and around Hyderabad sent shock waves across the city. Thereafter, a massive dip in seizure of the contraband has been observed. According to details provided by sources in the Excise department, a little over 800 blots of Lysergic Acid Diethylamide (LSD) were seized in 2017 alone. And only half of it — around 400 LSD blots — were seized in the next four years (from 2018 to mid-October 2021). In case of ganja seizure in the past five years, the highest of over 4,000 kgs each was seized in 2019 and 2020, and the lowest of 2,291 kgs this year (till mid-October). The sale, transport, and other aspects of drugs and narcotics would be discussed at a meeting scheduled to be held on Wednesday. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will chair the meeting with senior official of the Home and Excise departments. From Monday, officials and staff in the Excise department have been involved in gathering data of the narcotics seizures, and jotting down the methods used to control the transport, sale, and peddling of the contraband in the State. “All of us have been involved in recalling the strategies used to control the menace of narcotics in the State. Seizure of the drugs would improve if technological resources to get call data record (CDR) and mobile phone tracking are provided to the Excise department. Currently, after we get a tip-off from a peddler or a source, we have to rely on the police department to get CDR or other information which can be gathered using technological means,” sources in the department said. They added that more funds are needed to cultivate the network of informers. Request for postings Issuing posting orders would also help in better control over narcotics supply, feel officials. “Currently, some of us are holding two to four additional posts. In a few cases, two people of same cadre are posted in the same Excise station. Each district can be closely monitored by distributing all of us evenly,” sources said. Around 50 officials from the Excise department received promotions in mid-July this year. But the posting orders have not been issued yet. They were elevated to the posts of Additional Commissioner, Joint Commissioners, Deputy Commissioners, Assistant Commissioner, Excise Superintendents, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dramatic-drop-in-seizure-of-lsd-blots-in-last-4-years/article37082272.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court issues notices over school fee regulatory mechanism||Telangana High Court had issued notices to the State government in a PIL petition seeking creation of a mechanism to regulate fee structure in private schools in the State. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajashekar Reddy instructed the Principal Secretary of Education and the Director of School Education to explain the government stand on the matter. The plea was filed by Hyderabad School Parents Association represented by its joint secretary K. Venkat Sainath. ‘No system in place’ The petitioner contended that there was no system in the State to regulate fixation and collection of fees for students by the private schools. Due to this, owners of private schools were fixing tuition and other fees at their will and without any justification, he contended. The private school managements were introducing several components of fees in the absence of a system to regulate them. This was in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution and the Right to Education, he said in the affidavit. This arbitrary fixation and collection fees was in conflict with the provisions of Telangana Educational Institutions Regulation of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitations Fee Act, the petitioner argued. Plea to modify GO He sought a direction to the government to modify GO Rt No. 75 of June 28, 2021 instructing private schools to collect only 40% of tuition fee for 2021-22 academic year as a relief to parents due to COVID-19 pandemic. The petitioner also wanted the government to make public the report of Tirupathi Rao Committee which was constituted under GO Rt. No. 31 issued in year 2017. The bench also issued notices to the government in another PIL petition filed by Medipally Satyam seeking appointment of Commission for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-notices-over-school-fee-regulatory-mechanism/article37082273.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dr. Reddy’s gets USFDA nod for generic anti-cancer drug||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories has received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) approval for a generic version of anti-cancer drug Revlimid (lenalidomide) capsules. The health regulator gave final approval for the company’s ANDA (abbreviated new drug application for Lenalidomide capsules), 2.5 mg and 20 mg strengths and tentative approval for 5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg and 25 mg strengths. With the approval, the company will be eligible for 180 days of generic drug exclusivity for Lenalidomide capsules 2.5 mg and 20 mg, Dr. Reddy’s said in a release on Tuesday. “We are pleased with the approval of Lenalidomide capsules, 2.5 mg and 20 mg and being eligible for 180-day market exclusivity... look forward to bringing a more affordable generic version of this drug to market,” said Marc Kikuchi, CEO-North America Generics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/usfda-nod-for-generic-anti-cancer-drug/article37082274.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Real estate scene looks up in Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s real estate sector showed growth in demand and supply in July-Sept. 2021 with 1,100-1,300 sq ft for 2BHK and 1,500- 2,500 sq ft for 3BHK units remaining popular regardless of the second wave of COVID-19 and other challenges, according to ‘Insite’ – a quarterly real estate report by property portal 99acres.com on Tuesday. Western corridor New residential projects received a decent response from the buyers and they majorly remained confined to the western corridor of areas such as Nanakramguda, Kokapet, Narsingi, and Kondapur. These ruled the roost in terms of buyer enquiries, new launches, and residential sales. The region accounted for the largest share in new launches, growing by over 250% with mid and high-income budget segments witnessing the launch of a number of projects in this period. Healthy demand from potential buyers helped lift the sales that had initially witnessed a dip amid the resurgence of COVID-19 cases in April 2021. Latent demand for real estate facilitated the consumption of existing inventory, which was recorded at around 12,000 units in first quarter of the year. Due to the increase in land prices, the demand for budget homes has increased in the fringes of the city, particularly for houses in the price range of Rs. 60 lakh to Rs. 80 lakh. In general, 2 and 3 BHK accommodations are in demand, particularly in areas such as Manikonda, Kukatpally, Gachibowli in case of rental properties.  “The first two quarters of the year recorded the sale of almost one lakh residential units across the country, with July-September contributing most of it. Mumbai and Pune led the pack with maximum property registrations of up to 60%,” said 99acres.com chief business officer Maneesh Upadhyaya  The first two quarters of the year recorded the sale of almost one lakh residential units across the country, with July- September contributing most of it. Maneesh Upadhyaya, Chief Business officer, 99acres.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/real-estate-scene-looks-up/article37082276.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AP ganja peddler with inter-State contacts held||An alleged inter-State ganja peddler from Andhra Pradesh, who had contacts with the contraband traders from Telangana, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, and other States was apprehended by Hyderabad Police Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) team along with Afzalgunj police on Tuesday. The police have seized around 40 kgs of ganja from the accused Vanapalli Naga Sai (24) while he was waiting near Central Bus Station, Afzalgunj, to deliver it to a trader, said the City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar. Naga Sai is a native of Narsipatnam, Visakhapatnam, AP, who has a catering business. The Police Commissioner said that the accused came into contact with local ganja suppliers, its cultivators in the limits of Vizag rural area and supplied to known local agents from Hyderabad and other States. During the course of investigation, police noticed that he had contacts with ganja traders from from Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, UP, and other States. Mr Anjani said that the accused formed a Whatsapp group with the local agents, other State drug peddlers. Upon placing requirement for the contraband, Naga Sai contacted cultivators, local agents, and arranged the required ganja on commission basis. “He used to purchase ganja at Rs. 1,500 per kg from cultivators, local agents and sold the same to traders for Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000 or depending on customers demand,” the Police Commissioner said. Recently, a trader Prem Singh from Narayankhed had set a deal of 40 kgs of ganja for two lakh rupees. As per the plan, Naga Sai procured about 40 kg of the contraband, kept it in plastic bags, and boarded a private transport vehicle from Narsipatnam. He got down at the Central Bus Station and was waiting to deliver the same to the drug trader. Based on a tip-off, the Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) team and Afzalgunj police apprehended the accused Naga Sai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ap-ganja-peddler-with-inter-state-contacts-held/article37082280.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three held for threatening Public Prosecutors and witnesses||Three persons accused of threatening Public Prosecutors and witnesses in the trial of Dr Chigurupati Jayaram’s murder case were arrested by the Jubilee Hills police and Hyderabad Police Commissioner’s Task Force (West Zone) team on Monday. The three accused are Mohd Akber Ali (35), who is a male nurse at Chanchalguda Jail, Kurapati Mangaiah Gupta (58), real estate and aqua trading businessman, and Kattula Srinivas (38),a civil contractor. The main accused Rakesh Reddy was involved in the murder case and has been lodged in the Chanchalguda Central jail from February 21, 2019. “The accused Rakesh Reddy, with an intent to get acquitted from the case, hatched a plan to threaten the Government Public Prosecutors and witnesses,” said City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar. Rakesh Reddy induced the accused Akber and two others by offering huge amounts to cooperate with him. They agreed to the deal. As per Rakesh’s plan, Akber, Mangaiah, and Srinivas forwarded some written letters containing life-threating messages to the Special Public Prosecutors and witness, said the police. Jubilee Hills police registered cases based on the complaint from Special Public Prosecutor. Based on information, the police under the supervision of West Zone DCP AR Srinivas, and Task Force DCP Radha Kishan Rao have formed a team and apprehended the three accused on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-held-for-threatening-public-prosecutors-witnesses/article37082281.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No-liquor zone||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao directed officials of the Yadadri temple to strictly prohibit consumption of liquor and smoking on the temple premises. Steps should be taken to ensure supply of only vegetarian food on premises to maintain the religious sanctity of the place that would become one of the best spots for religious tourism in the country. The Chief Minister who went round the ring road being developed around the hill shrine suggested several alterations/modifications. Inspecting the ongoing works of the integrated temple city being developed on a sprawling 250-acre land, he said construction of cottages would be taken up on 200 acres and 50 acres would be left for development of greenery. In all, 250 cottages, each spread over 800 to 1,000 sq.yds, would be constructed and the cottages would have four suites each. The Yadadri Tourism Development Authority would utilise donations from pilgrims and philanthropists for construction of these cottages. With 1,000 families expected to stay in these cottages at any point, he wanted steps to be taken to ensure uninterrupted water and power supply, besides underground sewerage in the temple city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-liquor-zone/article37082298.ece
20 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth meets CEO, seeks action against TRS leaders||Congress chief, A. Revanth Reddy met Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel and lodged a complaint against the police for harassing a Pharmacy student, Nirosha, who had questioned Finance Minister T. Harish Rao on employment issues. Mr. Revanth Reddy said the girl student was picked up by the police and beaten indiscriminately for asking the Minister to release notification for the jobs during the Minister’s campaign in Veenavanka in Huzurabad. Instead of saving the girl from threats of TRS leaders police have chosen to harass her for exercising her right. He said this was not an isolated incident and atrocities against women have increased under the TRS rule. Mr. Reddy also alleged that she was stopped from filing nomination for the Huzurabad election and the CEO must take action against the people concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-meets-ceo-seeks-action-against-trs-leaders/article37082507.ece
20 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth challenges KTR to debate||Telangana Congress committee president A. Revanth Reddy has alleged that BJP and the TRS had colluded to stop Dalit Bandhu scheme and it would remain a mirage once the bypoll was over. Mr. Reddy said the Election Commission was forced to stop the scheme. He said when Rythu Bandhu could be implemented during the election time why was Dalit Bandhu stopped and why were BJP and TRS leaders not meeting the Election Commission for restoration of the scheme, he asked. Mr. Reddy challenged Minister K.T. Rama Rao to a debate on his political journey from an MPTC to Lok Sabha member. On the ‘unsavoury’ remarks by the Minister against him Mr. Reddy asked what was his locus standi. “I have won as an MPTC, MLC, MLA and also as an MP and KTR, despite being a Minister, could not get his sister Kavitha elected from Nizamabad,” he said. “And he has the gall to comment on my political journey.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-challenges-ktr-to-debate/article37082295.ece
20 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||202 new COVID cases detected in the State||Telangana recorded 202 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the total to 6,69,365. While 46,808 samples were examined, results of 1,769 were awaited. The new infections include 52 from Greater Hyderabad region, 19 from Karimnagar, 18 from Rangareddy, 16 from Nalgonda, and 11 each from Pedapalli and Warangal Urban. No infection was detected in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad. One more patient succumbed to the virus, putting the death toll at 3,941. As of Tuesday evening, there were 3,940 active cases in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/202-new-covid-cases-detected-in-the-state/article37082271.ece
20 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Khammam police to expand CCTV network||The CCTV camera network in the Khammam Police Commissionerate limits is set to be expanded manifold to further strengthen video surveillance, a vital tool to effectively prevent crimes and check traffic violations. A proposal was made to install more than 10,000 CCTV cameras at vantage points to bring more areas, mainly busy traffic junctions, under video surveillance soon, sources said. Around 1864 CCTV cameras were already functioning under various police station limits in the Khammam commissionerate limits. Most of these surveillance cameras were installed under the community policing initiative - "Nenu Saitham" in recent past. These include around 10 Pan Tilt Zoom (PTZ) cameras. Sources said the new CCTV cameras would be integrated with the fully equipped Unified Command and Control Centre at the commissionerate office in the town for round the clock monitoring of the video surveillance system to keep tabs on the movement of criminals and anti-social elements. The digital technology-aided enhanced surveillance system would help in traffic regulation, crime prevention and detection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khammam-police-to-expand-cctv-network/article37082514.ece
20 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Khammam police campaign against cyber crimes||To create awareness on cyber security, the Khammam police have launched an awareness campaign christened ‘Cyber Friend’ on social media to prevent people from falling prey to cyber crimes. The novel campaign is being vigorously spearheaded under the aegis of the Khammam Police Commissioner Vishnu S Warrier to spread awareness on the cyber security tips and also the helpline number 155260 and the National Cybercrime Reporting Portal (www.cybercrime.gov.in) of Ministry of Home Affairs. The Cyber Crime Wing of the Khammam Police Commissionerate has launched a WhatsApp number 7901144702 to raise awareness among all sections of people on cyber security and help them protect themselves from various cybercrimes including online financial frauds, scams and phishing. A host of important cyber security tips such as avoiding sharing of confidential details like passwords, PIN and OTP numbers with anyone are being prominently highlighted in Telugu language through the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khammam-police-campaign-against-cyber-crimes/article37082509.ece
20 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Spurt in dengue cases||The district has so far this year recorded a little over 700 confirmed cases of dengue, with more than 70% of these cases reported in the past two and a half months, registering a sudden spurt in dengue cases in the past couple of weeks. The total number of dengue cases this year has increased multifold when compared to 23 cases reported last year, when the district grappled with the outbreak of COVID-19. A staggering number of 1972 dengue cases were reported in the district in 2019. The district recorded the highest number of dengue cases in the entire State during 2019, triggering demands for declaration of health emergency from various quarters, sources said. Bonakal, Chintakani, Khammam rural and Kallur mandals reeled under the grip of dengue for several weeks during 2019. Unconfirmed reports put the death toll from dengue during 2019 at 10, which the health department officials refused to acknowledge. This year, dengue cases were mainly reported from Kallur and Raghunadhapalem mandals and Khammam townsince August.Around 120 dengue cases were reported from the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits spanning 60 divisions, sources added. The COVID-19 daily positivity rate continued to remain well below 1% in the district, much to the relief of frontline functionaries of health and related departments. However, the spurt in dengue cases in several mandals triggered public health concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spurt-in-dengue-cases/article37082297.ece
20 October 2021||Mysuru,TELANGANA||Leopardess released back into the wild||A leopardess which entered a poultry farm near Jayapura was tranquillised and released back into the forest on Tuesday. The animal, around 3 years old, was noticed by local villagers who informed the Forest Department. Range Forest Officer Girish and other staff reached the spot and tranquillised the leopardess, which was later released back into the wild in the Veeranahosahalli range of Nagarahole National Park. The area around Jayapura as also the rural hinterland in Mysuru district is suitable for leopards and hence their presence and sighting is common. The agricultural fields abut reserve forests and shrubs jungles which provide the vegetation cover required for the leopards to move from one place to another. The landscape is also dotted with wildlife sanctuaries and national parks and hence the frequency with which leopards are trapped and released back into the wild is high in the district. Meanwhile, there were reports of the presence of a leopard between Brahmarambha Choultry and Madhuvana Layout close to Vivekananda Circle. Senior department officials visited the spot and it is suspected that the leopard may have strayed from Lingambudhi Lake and nearby region. Deputy Conservation of Forests (Territorial) Kamala Karikalan said a cage will be placed to trap the leopard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/leopardess-released-back-into-the-wild/article37082290.ece
20 October 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||We will not surrender our land: farmers||It was a massive expression of a firm ‘no’ to surrender their lands to the government for establishment of National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) that has been coming up at Zaheerabad. Hundreds of farmers from three villages – Mamidgi, Ganeshpur and Rejintal — along with families arrived here on Monday afternoon to present individual memorandums to the Collector as it was the day for receiving representations from the public. However, they were not allowed inside by security personnel. “We are not ready to hand over our land for NIMZ. Many of us are small and marginal farmers with half acre, one or two acres. By surrendering our lands we will slip into the category of landless farmers, who will finally become labourers from farmers. The compensation being offered by the government was so little that we cannot buy lands in the nearby areas with that amount. How can we survive and what will be our future?” asked K. Mallikarjun, one of the farmers from Mamdgi village in Nyalakal mandal. He claimed that he is a postgraduate with B.Ed. qualification and dependent on farming as he could not get a government job. The family owns about 24 acres. The farmers carried their lunch and had it in front of the collectorate. “My livelihood is completely dependent on the 1.39 acres of land I own at Mamidgi village. The notification issued by your authority on October 2nd in Namaste Telangana seeking our land for the NIMZ will harm our family. The public purpose stated in the notification is very perfunctory and does not provide any statement on the nature of public purpose involved. I feel that the extent of lands sought is also very huge for the requirements of the projects, and it leads to the doubt whether excess lands are sought to be acquired with the intention of transferring lands from the poor farmers to the resourceful industrialists with the State becoming a middleman and also benefiting from the transactions in terms of huge revenues by sale/ lease of land to industrialists,” said P. Nagappa, a farmer from the same village in the memorandum submitted to the officials. Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) president M. Kodandaram participated in the protest held by farmers and extended his support to their agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/we-will-not-surrender-our-land-farmers/article37082511.ece
20 October 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Regular millet consumption can help combat anaemia, shows study||A new study has shown that regular consumption of millets can improve haemoglobin and serum ferritin levels to reduce iron deficiency anaemia, which is rising globally. The recently published research, a meta-analysis of 22 studies on humans and eight laboratory studies on millets consumption and anaemia, was undertaken by seven organisations across four countries and was led by the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT). “The study concluded that millets can provide all or most of the daily dietary iron requirements of an average person. Although the amount of iron provided depends on the millet variety and its form of processing, the research clearly shows that millets can play a promising role in preventing and reducing high levels of iron deficiency anaemia,” highlighted S. Anitha, the study’s lead author and senior nutritionist at ICRISAT. The researchers found that millets increased haemoglobin levels by as much as 13.2%. Four studies in the review also showed serum ferritin increasing by an average of 54.7%. Ferritin is an iron containing protein in the blood and is a clinical marker for iron deficiency. The studies in the analysis involved nearly 1,000 children, adolescents and adults, and six different millet types – finger millet, pearl millet, sorghum and a mixture of kodo, foxtail and little millets. The participants in the studies were found to have consumed millets for anywhere between 21 days and 4.5 years. The findings were published on October 14 in ‘Frontiers in Nutrition’. “Around 1.74 billion people were anaemic in 2019. That number is rising,” said Jacqueline Hughes, director general of ICRISAT, adding, “It has been proven that iron deficiency anaemia affects cognitive and physical development in children and reduces productivity in adults. The need for a solution is critical, and therefore bringing millets into mainstream and government programs is highly recommended.” National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) director Hemalatha said, “Contrary to the belief that micronutrients in millets are not bioavailable, the findings have shown that when millets are included as part of a balanced diet, the iron from millets is bioavailable and improves the hemoglobin status of the participants.” This study is part of a series of the largest studies ever collated on the impacts of consuming millets, said Joanna Kane-Potaka, former Assistant Director General, ICRISAT, and executive director of the Smart Food initiative, and a co-author of the study. “The scientific evidence gathered has surpassed our expectations showing that millets have a significant positive impact on reducing the risks of diabetes which is increasing at dangerous levels and cardiovascular disease which is the number one cause of deaths globally,” she added. The research also showed that processing can significantly increase the amount of iron bioavailable. For example, millet snacks made by expansion (extrusion) increased bioavailable iron 5.4 times, while fermentation, popping and malting more than tripled the iron bioavailable. Germination (sprouting) and decortication (dehulling) more than doubled the bioavailable iron.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/regular-millet-consumption-can-help-combat-anaemia-shows-study/article37082503.ece
20 October 2021||sangareddy,TELANGANA||Ganja seized||The police seized about 240 kg of ganja from a four-wheeler at Kankol toll plaza late on Monday night. According to DSP A. Balaji, the ganja was being transported from Visakhapatnam to Mumbai, hiding it under fruits. It was packed in 120 packets each containing about 2 kg. One person was arrested and he was identified as Raja Stalin, driver of the vehicle and Rs. 1,200 was seized from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ganja-seized/article37082512.ece
20 October 2021||YADAGIRIGUTTA,TELANGANA||How many days can EC stop us, asks KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao described the Election Commission of India’s instructions to stop ‘Telangana Dalit Bandhu’ in Huzurabad, in the wake of the bypoll, as “a small barrier”. “How many days can the EC stop us? Nothing to be disappointed about,” he said, when a reporter asked for his reaction on the development. Although Mr. Rao, who visibly viewed the question irrelevant to the temple, while addressing press persons on Tuesday, replied with a disclaimer: “If I don't answer now, you would later point it, saying I skipped it.” KCR reiterated that he would resume the scheme starting November 2, the day of bypoll result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/how-many-days-can-ec-stop-us-asks-kcr/article37082291.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Sparkling celebrations||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sparkling-celebrations/article37082505.ece
20 October 2021||Bhopal,||‘163 oxygen plants set up in M.P. after second wave’||Madhya Pradesh has set up 163 oxygen plants, generating over 182 metric tonnes (MT) of the life saving gas per day so far, after facing scarcity during the second wave of coronavirus, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said. In March 2020 (before the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak), oxygen generation plants were not available in any of the government hospitals in the State, the CM noted. “Now, 163 oxygen plants with a generation capacity of 182 MT per day have been started in different districts of the State,” Mr. Chouhan said in an official statement on Monday. About 230 MT of medical oxygen will be generated daily when all 202 plants will become operational in the State, he said. “The work on these plants was started after experiencing scarcity of the life saving gas during the second wave of coronavirus. The completion of the remaining 39 oxygen plants will be ensured by the end of this month,” the Chief Minister said. At present, a collective storage facility of 360 MT liquid oxygen is available in government medical colleges of the State. Apart from this, liquid oxygen tanks, having a capacity of 6 kilo litres each and collective capacity of 248 MT, are being set up in 34 district hospitals of the State, he said. Also, 13,956 oxygen concentrators has been made available in government hospitals and 1,350 in medical colleges of the State, Mr. Chouhan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/163-oxygen-plants-set-up-in-mp-after-second-wave/article37082373.ece
20 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha Oppn. demands Minister’s dismissal in missing woman’s case||A political controversy erupted in Odisha after the Opposition — the BJP and the Congress — demanded the removal of Dibya Shankar Mishra, Minister of State for Home, accused of having close links with the main suspect in the mysterious disappearance of a woman teacher. The accused, Gobinda Sahu, president of the managing committee of a school in Kalahandi’s Mahaling where the teacher Mamita Meher was working, escaped from a police station on Monday. The next day, a half-burnt human corpse was exhumed from an under-construction stadium in the school. Mamita’s family members identified the hand bag and gold chain found near the body. The police may go for a DNA test. According to Mamita’s brother Banti Meher, she was called to the school to attend a meeting on October 9. She had taken a bus to the school on October 8. “However, Gobinda Sahu picked her up midway. Since then we have not had any information about her,” Mr. Meher said. The accused was summoned to the police station on October 14 for questioning. On October 17 evening, he escaped from the police station.Mr. Sahu was nabbed after the police raised the reward money on Tuesday. Mamita’s family and locals accuse the Minister, who was said to be a regular visitor to the school. The family also alleged sexual exploitation on the school premises and claimed Mamita had threatened to expose those involved. The Congress and the BJP accused Mr. Mishra of orchestrating Mr. Sahu’s escape. “Mr. Sahu used to brag about his high connections. Video clips of present Ministers attending functions in the school are doing the rounds on social media. Though these are privately managed institutions, the State has spent government funds for its development. It establishes the link,” alleged Congress leader Santosh Singh Saluja. He demanded that the case be handed over to the CBI and the Minister step down immediately. The State BJP took out a procession demanding the Minister’s ouster. Party activists burnt the effigies of the Chief Minister and the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/odisha-oppn-demands-ministers-dismissal-in-missing-womans-case/article37082379.ece
20 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Drones to keep close watch in Odisha jails||The Odisha government would deploy drone cameras and equip jail personnel with body worn cameras to keep tab on activities inside in sensitive jails. “We will procure drone cameras to have better inside-surveillance in sensitive jails. Besides, video walls are being planned like other States in different jails,” said Santosh Upadhyay, Director of Directorate of Prison and Correctional Services. About 20 body worn cameras were being procured as part of a pilot project in Bhubaneswar and Choudwar jails, said Mr. Upadhyay. The body worn cameras would be used during searches when inmates come back from the court and hospital to correctional homes and during surprise check of cells or barracks by teams of correctional homes to detect illegal items like mobile phones, contraband, currency, weapons and cigarette. Designated senior officer of the jails with the in-charge of the control room would analyse the recorded data on regular basis for monitoring and supervision of the staff. In case of any allegations or complaints, the recorded data may be analysed immediately and copies preserved with due authentication, says the Standard Operating Procedure issued for body-worn cameras. Calling facility “We are also starting prisoners calling system as pilot projects in Bhubaneswar and Choudwar jails. Each prisoner can get access to two pre-fixed phones only for 5 minutes duration. Four booths, including one exclusively for women, will be installed at each jail,” he said. The calling system will be initially experimented in Bhubaneswar and Choudwar jails and later it will be extended to other jails, said Director of Prison adding that it would help curb unauthorised calls as calls would have recording facility too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/drones-to-keep-close-watch-in-odisha-jails/article37082374.ece
20 October 2021||Ghaziabad,||NH-9 to remain shut till Nov. 10||The police have announced traffic diversions on NH 9 that will remain closed till November 10 in the wake of Ganga water pipeline repair works. The vehicles would be permitted to ply from Tigri round about to Noida and Ghaziabad and vice versa. The repair work would be carried out by the NHAI between Tigri cut under pass and Rahul Vihar underpass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nh-9-to-remain-shut-till-nov-10/article37082192.ece
20 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||4 years after surviving attack by miners, activists threatened again||Four years after surviving a near-fatal assault by people involved in illegal coal mining, two Meghalaya-based activists have been threatened again. Agnes Kharshiing and Amita Sangma have lodged an FIR with a police station in Shillong after receiving threat calls from a person on October 17. The duo has been under police protection since the 2018 attack on them near an illegal coal mine in the East Jaintia Hills district. The caller, who identified himself as Nick Nongkhlaw, had threatened the duo for reporting a case of two illegal coal-laden trucks found releasing acidic water. According to the FIR, Nongkhlaw had called both Ms. Kharshiing and Ms. Sangma and that he intimidated the latter by asking her to have the trucks released. “He said that he is a friend of my son. By taking my son’s name, he basically wanted to threaten me and weaken me,” Ms. Sangma, a 46-year-old widow and mother of seven, stated. The person also asked her to facilitate the release of the two coal trucks, claiming that their owner was his friend, she said. Fear for children “I am afraid that my children might be targeted as they are not protected like me. If something happens to my children, the National People’s Party-led government in Meghalaya will be held solely responsible,” she observed. Ms. Kharshiing, who heads NGO Civil Society Women Organisation, noted that they shared the caller’s phone number with the police. “If they want, they can easily nab him,” she pointed out, adding that the “coal mafia” involved the youth and groomed them. The 61-year-old activist remarked that it was frustrating that the government had been turning a blind eye to rat-hole coal mining despite a ban by the National Green Tribunal since April 2014. “All the coal extracted before the NGT ban is exhausted but about 50 coke plants are operating in the East Jaintia Hills district. They obviously are being fed with freshly-mined coal,” she disclosed. Coal-rich Meghalaya has had several mine tragedies. At least 17 labourers, mostly from Assam, were killed in a submerged coal mine in December 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/4-years-after-surviving-attack-by-miners-activists-threatened-again/article37082427.ece
20 October 2021||Korba,||Baby elephant dies after falling into nullah in Chhattisgarh||A 3-year-old elephant died on Tuesday after it fell into a nullah while trying to cross it in Chhattisgarh’s Surajpur district, an official said. The incident took place at 7.30 a.m. when a herd of 24 elephants was crossing Madai Jhorikha nullah in Kudargarh forest range, 350 kms from Raipur, the official said. “As per preliminary information, the baby elephant fell into the nullah and could not come out of it and died. A team under Divisional Forest Officer (Surajpur division) B.S. Bhagat rushed to the place and the carcass was taken out,” he said. “A post-mortem revealed an infection in its stomach,” Mr. Bhagat said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/baby-elephant-dies-after-falling-into-nullah-in-chhattisgarh/article37082193.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aspiring model stabbed to death||The dreams of a 24-year-old woman aspiring to become a make-up artist and model were shattered when she was stabbed to death allegedly by a man suspected to be in unrequited love with her. The incident occurred late on Monday night in Dwarka’s Bindapur area. Dolly Babbar, who was fondly called Kishu by her family and friends, was stabbed at least three times, barely a few metres away from her house. At Om Vihar crematorium, recalling the events of Monday night, Dolly’s father Sudarshan Kumar Babbar, an auto driver, said that around 11.30 p.m., Dolly told her grandmother that she was leaving for her friend’s cake-cutting function in Uttam Nagar’s Om Vihar and would be back in an hour. However, the police woke the family up around 2.30 a.m. and took them to the spot. “I saw my daughter bleeding and sitting on the road face down. I don’t know whether she was alive or dead but the police called for an ambulance, which came an hour late and we just kept sitting there looking at her body from a distance,” said Mr. Babbar, criticising the police for keeping them in the dark. “What if she was alive and the police didn’t call the ambulance on time?” he asked. Later, neighbours narrated the incident to the family, which the CCTV corroborated. “In the CCTV footage, three men are visible. We know all of them as they stay in the same area and have been friends with Kishu. One of them attacked her with a knife after which she ran towards our street, bleeding from her arm. She then called her friend for help. Within minutes, this man returned and struck her again. The three of them then fled,” Mr. Babbar said. According to the family, the two men, who were seen with the prime suspect, were close to Dolly and she used to tie rakhis on their wrists. When the man attacked her, she was hiding behind the other two, the family said. Neighbours have also told them that she was fighting with someone over the phone. “When people saw her crying for help, no one came out of their house,” her father said. “She called her friend for help, who then immediately alerted us. But my wife was half asleep and didn’t take it seriously,” Mr. Babbar said, crying. “Now, she [mother] will not be able to forgive herself,” he said. Dolly was declared brought dead at the hospital. Motive unclear DCP (Dwarka) Shankar Chaudhary said the motive remained unclear and they could ascertain it only after the three suspects are in their custody. However, it is suspected that the victim and the prime accused were in a relationship and he was upset that she wasn’t with him anymore. The police said they are yet to ascertain whether the murder was planned or happened on the spur of the moment. Dolly’s family said they had planned to get her married to the man she liked, in less than a year. “He was the one she had called for help. He has also given his statement,” Mr. Babbar said.  I saw my daughter bleeding and sitting on the road face down. I don’t know whether she was alive at that time Sudarshan Kumar Babbar Victim’s father||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aspiring-model-stabbed-to-death/article37082187.ece
20 October 2021||New Delhi,||AAP blames corporations’ ‘criminal negligence’ for rising dengue cases||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that the criminal negligence of the BJP-ruled municipal corporations was responsible for the rising dengue cases in the city. It also accused BJP leaders of pocketing the money meant for purchasing medicines and machines to fight the vector-borne disease. “The BJP-ruled corporations have the responsibility to prevent malaria and dengue under the DMC Act. But they have washed their hands of that responsibility. Not a single step has been taken in time to arrest the spread of dengue, and as a result, cases are on the rise in Delhi,” AAP MLA Atishi said. The AAP leader said it is mandatory to have 10-15 breeding checkers for every ward. “More than 70% posts are vacant in the anti-malaria department of the corporations due to misgovernance and corruption by the BJP,” she said. Ms. Atishi further said that at least one fogging machine is required in every ward, but the corporations do not have adequate machines. “Where did the money allocated for the machines in the budget go? The South Delhi civic body has 104 wards, but there are only 16 fogging machines” she said. Reacting to the allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said “nothing can be more shameful” than Ms. Atishi’s statement that the corporations are not doing anything to check the spread of dengue and malaria in the city. Mr. Kapoor urged the AAP leader to ask the CM to “stop wasting money on advertising” and instead help the corporations financially to better control the spread of dengue and malaria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-blames-corporations-criminal-negligence-for-rising-dengue-cases/article37082184.ece
20 October 2021||New Delhi,||DPCC imposes Rs. 90L fine on 286 construction sites||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has imposed Rs. 90 lakh penalty on 286 construction sites, which were found violating dust control norms since October 7, according to authorities. The government has also warned of serious repercussions if rules to control dust are not followed. “DPCC teams have visited 1,105 construction sites so far and norms are being followed at most sites. Citizens are actively bolstering our efforts,” said Environment Minister Gopal Rai, adding that all teams have been instructed to submit daily reports. “Instructions have also been given that strict action should be taken against every single agency causing dust pollution, so that it can be controlled,” he added. The Delhi government has been running an anti-dust campaign since October 7. Thirty-one teams have been formed and they are working in different areas to monitor whether construction agencies are following guidelines issued by the government. “The Delhi government has also launched the Green Delhi app so that if people see any kind of pollution, then they can complain to the government through it. Immediate action is taken on the complaints received. It is an appeal to all the people to download the app on their mobile phones,” Mr. Rai said.  Instructions have also been given that strict action should be taken against every single agency causing dust pollution Gopal Rai Enviornment Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dpcc-imposes-rs-90l-fine-on-286-construction-sites/article37082190.ece
20 October 2021||New Delhi,||Five held for siphoning off Rs. 1.35 cr. from NRI’s account||Five people, including a bank employee, have been arrested for allegedly siphoning off Rs. 1.35 crore from the account of a Germany-based NRI, the police said on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Sumit Pandey (24), Shailenda Pratap Singh (42), Neelam (32), Jagdamba Prasad Pandey (22), and Adarsh Jaiswal (23). According to the police, in November last year, Kanika Girdhar, an NRI residing in Germany, approached them saying that Rs. 1.35 crore had been siphoned off from her account with a private bank in Rajindar Nagar. When she approached the bank, she was told that a person who introduced himself as Vishal, her brother, had collected her fresh cheque book and ATM card, but she had never requested the bank to issue anything. During investigation, the involvement of Mr. Sumit Pandey, an employee of the bank, was revealed following which he was arrested. He told the police that after he got to know about the amount in Ms. Girdhar’s account, he shared this with Mr. Singh. Mr. Singh set up a fake construction company in Faridabad and hired 10 labourers, and got their accounts opened in different banks. “He got the mobile number registered with Ms. Girdhar’s account reissued in that of a labourer and installed the internet banking app on this SIM,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Shweta Chauhan said. Ms. Neelam, posing as Ms. Girdhar, then requested the bank’s customer care to reissue the cheque book and ATM card.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/five-held-for-siphoning-off-rs-135-cr-from-nris-account/article37082183.ece
20 October 2021||New Delhi,||After 8 days, city sees first virus death||The city reported one new COVID-19 death in 24 hours — first death in nine days — and the total number of deaths stood at 25,090, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Thirty-six new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,39,441. A total of 58,729 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.06%. Of the total cases, 14,14,029 people have recovered and there are 322 active cases. The number of people under home isolation stands at 103.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/after-8-days-city-sees-first-virus-death/article37082185.ece
20 October 2021||New Delhi,||Capital’s air quality deteriorates||The air quality of the city slightly deteriorated to “satisfactory” level on Tuesday, from “good” category on Monday and is expected to remain in the same level for a day, as per official data. “Local land surfaces are wet and so dust re-suspension is the minimum, which leads to low PM10 [one of the major pollutants]. Presence of western disturbance has led to scattered rainfall over north India and related low biomass burning. This condition improved AQI with low PM2.5 [another pollutant],” government-run monitoring agency SAFAR said. The AQI of Delhi was 69 on Tuesday, up from 46 on Monday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours and considered the day’s AQI. Air pollution spikes during the winter chiefly due to a combined effect of stubble burning and climatic conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capitals-air-quality-deteriorates/article37082188.ece
20 October 2021||Pune,||COVID-19: No signs of third wave in Maharashtra, says Minister||While there was no trend yet to indicate a third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in Maharashtra, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday cautioned of a possibility of a spike in cases post-Deepavali and urged the public to strictly adhere to safety protocols. Mr. Tope informed that the State’s COVID-19 task force authorities had predicted a marginal rise in cases after Deepavali. “While the second wave has not completely receded, the case positivity rate has certainly been declining in the last few months and the cases have plateaued to an average 2,000-2,500 per day…we have not reduced the sample testing, with the State testing an average two lakh samples a day,” the Health Minister said. He also noted that a rise in cases was seen in some tehsils of Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. However, the surge till now was incremental and not indicative of any long-term spike, Mr. Tope reassured. “While there has been a marginal spike in Yeola, Niphad, Sinnar and Sangamner tehsils in Nashik and Ahmednagar, it is not alarming. We are only worried about a new variant…fortunately, such a variant has not yet emerged in the National Institute of Virology (NIV) sample tests. The Delta virus is still the dominant variant and I think the rapid vaccination in the State is taking care of that,” Mr. Tope said. Nashik reported around 130-odd cases while Ahmednagar reported more than 150 cases on Monday. Mr. Tope said 9.5 crore people in the State had received at least one dose of vaccine so far. He said a major pending task was that of vaccinating children below 18 years of age. “We are told that the vaccine from Zydus Cadilla is suitable for young adults between 12-18 years. We are awaiting the Centre’s nod,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-19-no-signs-of-third-wave-in-maharashtra-says-minister/article37082378.ece
20 October 2021||Pune,||Cases continue to decline||The trend of declining COVID-19 cases continued in Maharashtra with the State reporting 2,791 recoveries on Tuesday as against 1,638 cases. The number of active cases dipped to 26,805. Tuesday’s case surge is one of the lowest single-day figures recorded in more than 15 months. An even lower surge of 1,485 cases had been reported on Monday. While 49 deaths took the cumulative fatalities to 1,39,865, the fatality rate remains constant at 2.12%. The cases now stand at 65,27,629 while the cumulative recoveries have risen to 64,24,547. Mumbai reported 314 cases to take its tally to 7,52,344.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cases-continue-to-decline/article37082372.ece
20 October 2021||Thane,||RPF jawan saves pregnant woman from falling between train, platform||A pregnant woman fell at a railway station in Maharashtra while trying to alight from a moving train, but was saved from slipping into the gap between the train and the platform by an alert RPF jawan, an official said on Tuesday. The incident took place at Kalyan railway station on Monday, he said. The woman along with her husband and son apparently boarded a wrong train. Later, as the train started moving, the woman tried to deboard, but fell on the platform. An RPF jawan immediately rushed there and saved the woman from slipping into the gap between the moving train and the platform, the official said. Later, Central Railway’s Chief PRO Shivaji Sutar in a tweet praised the RPF jawan, S.R. Khandkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jawan-saves-pregnant-woman-from-falling-between-train-platform/article37082380.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Holy day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/holy-day/article37082431.ece
20 October 2021||Seoul,||N. Korea fired ‘ballistic missile’: Seoul||North Korea fired a submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM) from off its East Coast on Tuesday, South Korea’s military said, pulling Japan’s new Prime Minister off the campaign trail and overshadowing the opening of a major arms fair in Seoul. The launch, reported by officials in South Korea and Japan, came after U.S. and South Korean envoys met in Washington to discuss the nuclear standoff with North Korea on Monday. Meanwhile, the intelligence chiefs of the U.S., South Korea, and Japan were due to meet in Seoul to discuss the standoff with North Korea, amid other issues, Yonhap news agency reported, citing a government source. The North Korean launch would be the latest weapons test by the country, which has pressed ahead with military development in the face of international sanctions imposed over its nuclear weapons and missile programmes. The missile was launched about 10:17 a.m. local time from the sea in the vicinity of Sinpo, South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) said. It was not immediately clear whether the missile was fired from a submarine or from a submersible test barge, as in most previous tests. “Our military is closely monitoring the situation and maintaining readiness posture in close cooperation with the U.S., to prepare for possible additional launches,” JCS said in a statement. The missile flew about 430-450 km to a maximum altitude of 60 km, Yonhap reported. Kim Dong-yup, a former South Korea Navy officer who is a professor at Kyungnam University’s Far East Institute in Seoul, said the latest test likely involved one of the SLBMs recently unveiled by North Korea. The North displayed new missiles during its military parades in October and January, respectively, and a previously unseen, smaller missile was spotted at last week’s defence fair in Pyongyang. North Korea has also been working on what would be its first operational submarine capable of launching an SLBM, according to South Korean officials. It currently has an experimental ballistic missile submarine it claims was used in a 2016 test, though some analysts say that may have used a barge. Japanese PM Fumio Kishida cancelled his campaign plans, and the deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary said that Mr. Kishida was planning to return to Tokyo to deal with the missile situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/n-korea-fired-ballistic-missile-seoul/article37081820.ece
20 October 2021||Washington,||Steve Bannon faces criminal contempt vote||Far-right Trump ally and former senior adviser, Steven Bannon, is likely to be held in criminal contempt of the House of Representatives for defying a subpoena, as a Democrat-led ‘Select Committee’ looking into the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol is expected, on Tuesday, to vote to send the matter to the full House. The Democrat-controlled legislative chamber is highly likely to approve sending the contempt charges to the Justice Department as early as this week. Mr. Bannon has refused to comply with a subpoena seeking documents and his presence for a deposition, on the grounds that former President Donald Trump has said information sought is protected by ‘executive privilege’ and that former staffers need not therefore comply with subpoenas. Mr. Trump filed a suit against the Committee and the National Archives in a District Court in Washington DC on Monday. The lawsuit called the Committee’s request a “vexatious, illegal fishing expedition”. The House is investigating Mr. Bannon’s role in the January 6 attack, when a far-right mob stormed the Capitol in order to disrupt the certification of the 2020 election, which Mr. Biden won. In his War Room podcast episode of January 5, Mr. Bannon had said, “All hell is going to break loose tomorrow.” He also spoke with Mr. Trump on December 30, the Committee said, suggesting that Mr. Trump focus his efforts on January 6, the New York Times had reported. Other Trump administration officials who were subpoenaed by the Select Committee are Indian American Kash Patel, a former Chief of Staff to the Acting Defense Secretary, and White House officials Mark Meadows and Dan Scavino. The Biden administration has declined to apply ‘executive privilege’ as sought by Mr. Trump, over the White House documents in question and has approved an initial 125 pages for release. Mr. Bannon left the White House in 2017, after which he became a private citizen — it is therefore not clear if Mr. Trump’s conversations with Mr. Bannon are covered by executive privilege. “The Select Committee believes that this willful refusal to comply with the Subpoena constitutes a violation of federal law,” Chairman of the Select Committee, Bennie Thompson, reportedly said in a letter to Mr. Bannon’s lawyer, Robert Costello. Mr. Costello has told the Committee that Mr. Bannon will not produce documents until a court orders him to do so or an arrangement is reached with Mr. Trump, as per reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/steve-bannon-faces-criminal-contempt-vote/article37081821.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Israel clears residency for Palestinians||Israel granted approval on Tuesday for 4,000 Palestinians to register as residents of the West Bank, the first such move in the Israeli-occupied territory in 12 years. The newly regularised residents had already been living in the West Bank, including 1,200 people considered “undocumented” because they had not been registered with the Palestinian Population Registry and another 2,800 who had previously been identified as residents of the blockaded Gaza Strip. Boosting ties Israeli Defence Minister Benny Gantz said he had approved the new registrations on “humanitarian” grounds as part of his “policy to strengthen the economy and improve the lives of Palestinians in Judea and Samaria,” using the biblical terms for the southern and northern West Bank. Mr. Gantz in August made the first visit in several years by an Israeli Cabinet member to Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas for talks aimed at boosting ties with the Palestinian Authority, which suffered during former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s 2009-2021 tenure. Senior PA official Hussein Al Sheikh tweeted on Tuesday that 4,000 people had “obtained their right to citizenship”, will be granted Palestinian identity documents and changes to their residential address. Israel has occupied the West Bank since the Six Day War of 1967 and exercises full administrative control across much of the territory. The branch of the Israeli military responsible for civil affairs in the occupied Palestinian territories, COGAT, said that Israel had not approved a new batch of Palestinian registrations in the West Bank since 2009. Israel’s governing coalition, which ended Mr. Netanyahu’s 12 straight years in office in June, has said it is committed to boosting livelihoods in the West Bank. Some 4,75,000 Israeli Jews live in settlements in the West Bank considered illegal under international law on land Palestinians claim as part of their future state. Prime Minister Naftali Bennett opposes Palestinian statehood and has ruled out formal peace talks with the Palestinian Authority during his tenure, saying he prefers to focus on economic improvements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-clears-residency-for-palestinians/article37081823.ece
20 October 2021||Washington,||Zalmay Khalilzad, U.S. envoy for Afghanistan, steps down||Some two months after the U.S.’s chaotic troop withdrawal from Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, America’s chief negotiator in what was meant to be an Afghan peace settlement, has resigned. Mr. Khalilzad, an Afghan American, was appointed in 2018 by former U.S. President Donald Trump and continued to hold the position in the Biden administration. Thomas West, who has been Deputy Special Representative for Afghan Reconciliation since January this year, will replace Mr Khalilzad , U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said via a statement. In his role as deputy, Mr. West had already met Taliban representatives in Doha after the American departure. He also made a trip to Kabul with CIA Director William Burns, as per a CNN report. “Thank you to Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad for decades of tireless service to the United States,” Mr. Blnken said on Twitter, shortly after the official announcement went out. Mr. Khalilzad, a former diplomat, was Ambassador to Afghanistan during the Bush administration. He had also served as Ambassador to Iraq and the U.S. Permanent Representative to the UN. Taliban deal Mr. Khalilzad has been criticised for orchestrating a February 2020 deal with the Taliban, details of which were mostly hammered out in Doha, cutting out the former Afghan government. The U.S. agreed to withdraw its troops by May 2021 (originally) with the Taliban refraining from attacking the troops in return. Mr. Biden extended the withdrawal deadline to August 31. After the U.S. departure, Mr. Khalilzad had helped get Americans and vulnerable Afghans out of the country, the New York Times reported. As the U.S. was entering a new phase” in its Afghanistan policy, this was the right time to resign, Mr. Khalilzad says in his resignation letter, a copy of which The Hindu was able to access. “The political arrangement between the Afghan government and the Taliban did not go forward as envisaged. The reasons for this are too complex and I will share my thoughts in the coming day and weeks,” Mr. Khalilzad writes. Earlier, he had dismissed the notion that the Afghan forces would surrender to the Taliban. “I personally believe that the statements that their forces will disintegrate and the Talibs will take over in short order are mistaken,” Mr. Khalilzad had told the House of Representatives in May this year. Mr. Khalilzad had said in May last year,in an interview to The Hindu , that the U.S. could not see a “better alternative” to the deal it had struck with the Taliban and that India should directly engage with the outfit. In his resignation letter, he says, “We also engaged our allies and other major players, including China, Russia, India and Pakistan.” However, India was left out of the ‘extended troika’ talks (Russia, China, the U.S. and Pakistan) on Afghanistan and was not privy , as per recent remarks by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, to the details of what was negotiated between the U.S. and the Taliban in Doha. Host of challenges The U.S., along with the international community, is now faced with challenges of negotiating with the Taliban on human rights, especially the rights of women, while getting assistance to Afghanistan, which is fast descending into a humanitarian crisis. These issues are likely to occupy Mr West’s agenda. “At the top of the list of the challenges he will face include how to support the humanitarian and development needs of the Afghan people while the Taliban government is in power; what the future of human rights in Afghanistan will be; and whether and how the international community can make a difference to regional security,” Alyssa Ayres, Dean of the Elliot School of International Affairs at George Washington University and a former high ranking diplomat , told The Hindu . (With inputs from Suhasini Haidar in New Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/zalmay-khalilzad-us-envoy-for-afghanistan-steps-down/article37081828.ece
20 October 2021||Johannesburg,||Turkish President promises ‘win-win’ pacts with Africa||Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Tuesday wound up a visit to Angola, the first leg of a three-nation African tour, where he accused the West of ignoring calls for change on the continent. Since taking office nearly two decades ago, first as Prime Minister, Mr. Erdogan has been fostering ties with Africa, presenting Turkey as a fairer player than the continent’s former colonial powers and China. “We as Turkey attach great importance and value to our close cooperation with the continent of Africa,” he told business leaders in Luanda on Monday evening, according to a statement from his AK party. “We desire to advance our relations on the basis of win-win and equal partnership while observing mutual respect”. In an earlier address to the Angolan Parliament posted on the Turkish presidency website, he said “the fate of the humanity cannot and should not be left to the mercy of a handful of countries that were the victors of the Second World War”. “Ignoring the demands for change is an injustice to Africa,” he added. He noted that Turkey bore “no stain” of imperialism or colonialism and rejected “Western-centric Orientalist approaches” to the continent. In talks with his Angolan counterpart Joao Lourenco, he touted Turkey’s natural gas reserves and distribution network, which he said “would be pleased to share our experiences”. His next stop is Togo, followed by Africa’s economic powerhouse Nigeria. Before travelling to Angola, Mr. Erdogan boasted 38 visits to 28 countries since he became Prime Minister in 2003 and later as President. Turkey has 43 Embassies on the continent and its national airline is now serving more than 60 African cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/turkish-president-promises-win-win-pacts-with-africa/article37081831.ece
20 October 2021||Strasbourg,||Polish PM clashes with EU chief over supremacy of bloc’s laws||The European Union’s top official locked horns on Tuesday with Poland’s Prime Minister, arguing that a recent ruling from the country’s constitutional court challenging the supremacy of EU laws is a threat to the bloc’s foundations and won’t be left unanswered. European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen and Mateusz Morawiecki laid bare their differences of opinion on rule-of-law principles during a heated debate with EU lawmakers. Ms. Von der Leyen accused Mr. Morawiecki of trying to run away and escape the debate on the primacy of European law. He, in turn, insisted that Poles are in favour of the “power of the rule of law” and “don’t believe in blackmail or paternalistic attitudes” toward their country. Relations between Poland and the EU have been rocky for years and reached a new low this month after the tribunal ruled that Polish laws take precedence over those of the 27-nation bloc — which Poland joined in 2004 — escalating lingering tensions over democratic standards between the country’s right-wing nationalist government and EU institutions. In her introduction, Ms. Von der Leyen said the Polish ruling challenges “the unity of the European legal order” and undermines the protection of judicial independence.  At the heart of the dispute is the question of who should have the most power within the 27-nation bloc — each individual nation over its citizens or the EU institutions over the member nations. It was the prime mover behind the exit of Britain from the EU, and it has stirred passions in several eastern and central European nations like Poland and Hungary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/polish-pm-clashes-with-eu-chief-over-supremacy-of-blocs-laws/article37081826.ece
20 October 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar protesters reunited with families||Newly released anti-coup protesters in Myanmar were reunited with their families outside a Yangon prison on Tuesday in tearful scenes on the second day of a junta amnesty as international pressure mounts on the regime. The Southeast Asian country has been in chaos since a coup in February, with more than 1,100 civilians killed in a bloody crackdown on dissent and more than 8,000 arrested, according to a local monitoring group. On Monday, the military said it would free more than 5,000 people to mark the three-day Buddhist Thadingyut festival, sending anxious families rushing to prisons, joyful at the prospect of reunions after months apart. “I’ve missed you so much,” said a mother, who wept over her newly released son. “I’m so proud of you.” She was among hundreds who had gathered again on Tuesday morning outside the colonial-era Insein prison in Yangon, some carrying flowers and placards bearing the names of their relatives. Meanwhile, Nwet Nwet San said he was hoping his son, a soldier who had run away from the army, would be freed soon. The amnesty was “a tactical response to a hostile domestic and international environment,” Richard Horsey of the International Crisis Group said. “These kinds of cynical moves may have worked 20 years ago... but it will do nothing to improve the standing of this regime.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-protesters-reunited-with-families/article37081824.ece
20 October 2021||Geneva,||‘10,000 children killed, maimed in Yemen’||Seven years of conflict in Yemen has killed or injured at least 10,000 children, UNICEF said on Tuesday after a mission to the country. “The Yemen conflict has just hit another shameful milestone: 10,000 children have been killed or maimed since fighting started in March 2015. That’s the equivalent of four children every day,” spokesman James Elder told a UN briefing in Geneva. The figure only included child victims whose fates were known to the organisation and there were countless others, he said. “UNICEF urgently needs more than $235 million to continue its life-saving work in Yemen till mid-2022,” Mr. Elder said. “Otherwise the agency will be forced to scale down or stop its vital assistance for vulnerable children. Funding is critical. We can draw a clear line between donor support and lives saved. But even with increased support, the war must come to an end.” “At the current funding levels, and without an end to fighting, UNICEF cannot reach all these children. There is no other way to say this — without more international support, more children will die,” he warned. “Four out of every five children need humanitarian assistance. That’s more than 11 million children.” In addition, “4,00,000 children suffer from severe acute malnutrition. More than two million children are out-of-school. Another four million are at risk of dropping out,” said Mr. Elder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/10000-children-killed-maimed-in-yemen/article37081829.ece
20 October 2021||Kabul,||Taliban offers cash, land to kin of suicide bombers||The Taliban have promised plots of land to relatives of suicide bombers who attacked U.S. and Afghan soldiers, in a provocative gesture that seems to run counter to their efforts to court international support. The Taliban’s acting Interior Minister, Sirajuddin Haqqani, offered the reward to dozens of family members of bombers gathered at a Kabul hotel, Interior Ministry spokesman Saeed Khosty tweeted on Tuesday. Addressing the gathering on Monday evening, Haqqani praised the sacrifices of “martyrs and fidayeen,” referring to fighters killed in suicide attacks, Khosty tweeted. Haqqani called them “heroes of Islam and the country,” according to the spokesman. At the end of the meeting, he distributed 10,000 afghanis ($112) per family and promised each a plot of land. Khosty posted photos of Haqqani, his face blurred, embracing the relatives in a packed auditorium. The event comes as the Taliban attempt to open diplomatic channels with an international community largely reluctant to formally recognise their rule in Afghanistan. The event signals conflicting approaches within the Taliban leadership. They are trying to position themselves as responsible rulers, who promise security for all and have condemned suicide attacks by their rivals, the militant Islamic State group. On the other hand, they praise such tactics when it comes to their followers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-offers-cash-land-to-kin-of-suicide-bombers/article37082032.ece
20 October 2021||Washington,||U.S. may allow mix and match of booster jabs||The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is preparing to allow “mix and match” coronavirus vaccine boosting, in which people get a different additional shot to the dose they initially received, U.S. media reported. Citing sources familiar with the situation, the New York Times said the FDA might make the announcement on Wednesday when it is also expected to authorise boosters for the Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines. A preliminary study showed that people who have received the J&J vaccine may benefit from a booster dose of a different, messenger-RNA vaccine such as Pfizer or Moderna. But multiple reports quoted people familiar with the discussions as saying one shot may not be recommended over another. “People should generally get the same vaccine as their initial series,” a federal official told the Washington Post.  Proponents of mixing and matching point to its benefits in terms of simplifying vaccine rollout, and ensuring those who need boosters can get them regardless of which jab they initially had. “From a public health perspective, there’s a clear need in some situations for individuals to receive a different vaccine,” Amanda Cohn, a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention official, told the New York Times.  In July, the World Health Organization’s chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said mixing and matching vaccines was “a bit of a data-free, evidence-free zone.” The U.S. study on boosters has several limitations. The number of participants was small, and the immune response could evolve beyond the 15 days observed during the study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-may-allow-mix-and-match-of-booster-jabs/article37081832.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting to the heart of causality||Does the entry of immigrants reduce employment and lower the wages of native workers? Does the introduction of minimum wage, designed to protect workers, end up harming them by reducing employment? Does compulsory schooling affect schooling and earnings? If people got a basic income, would they stop working for a living? Graduates of private universities earn more than graduates of public universities in the U.S. Does this mean that attending private universities bestows a wage premium? Drawing causal inference These are among the many significant and deep questions that the three Economics Nobel Laureates for 2021 — David Card, Joshua Angrist and Guido Imbens — have investigated. Answering such questions involves establishing causality accurately. One way to draw causal inference is through experiments or randomised controlled trials (RCTs), the predominance of which in the field of empirical economics was recognised by the Nobel Committee in 2019. However, several big-picture and urgent questions cannot be evaluated through RCTs because of ethical, logistical or financial reasons. Outside of experiments, researchers have to rely on real-world data which is messy. Drawing the correct causal inference entails comparisons between groups (those who stayed longer in school compared to those who did not, or States where the minimum wage increased compared to States where it did not increase, and so forth). But since individuals or States differ along many dimensions, comparison needs to be done carefully to avoid comparing apples with oranges. Additionally, adjustments need to be made for self-selection and omitted variables that might confound causal inference. The 2021 Nobel Laureates have been justly recognised for their pioneering contribution to the methodologies to uncover causality using real-world observational data. In doing so, their path-breaking studies have successfully questioned established orthodoxy and upturned received wisdom in mainstream economics. Professor Card and Alan Krueger’s most influential 1992 study estimated the effect of minimum wage increases. The two economists utilised a ‘natural experiment’ (in which individuals are randomly exposed to a change caused by nature, institutions, or policy changes): in this case, a policy change in New Jersey that raised minimum wages for its low-skilled workers. Instead of comparing change in employment in New Jersey before and after the wage increase, as that could be affected by several other factors, they compared a double difference (‘difference-in-differences’): employment in New Jersey before and after the policy change compared to neighbouring Pennsylvania, where wages did not change, over the same period. Contrary to established wisdom, they found that an increase in minimum wages did not lead to a reduction in employment. This study has been replicated since by other researchers across several rounds of minimum wage increase and each time, the result has been the same, viz., no adverse impact on employment. Why is the textbook prediction not borne out by data? There are many reasons: one is that the mythical perfectly competitive labour market, where firms are price-takers, i.e. they have no autonomy in wage setting, does not exist in reality. It turns out that monopsonistic firms (very large employers with market power) can set wages lower than the competitive wage and earn a surplus. Therefore, when the government imposes a minimum wage, the number of workers employed does not necessarily decrease but a part of the surplus now gets transferred to the workers. A source of great anxiety in the contemporary world is the apprehension that entry of immigrants will adversely affect employment and wages of non-immigrant residents. Prof. Card’s analysis of another natural experiment — the Mariel boat lift that brought 1,25,000 Cubans to the U.S. in 1980, half of whom settled in Miami — showed this anxiety to be invalid. As a result of the boat lift, the Miami workforce increased by 7% but this had no adverse impact on the wages or employment of the non-Cuban native workforce. Both Prof. Imbens and Prof. Angrist have made innovative methodological contributions to causal inference that have enabled explorations of big-picture questions. For example, in the U.S., private university graduates earn 14% higher wages than public university graduates. Does that mean private universities cause wages to go up? Prof. Angrist’s research corrected for ‘selection bias’, i.e. adjusted for the fact that SAT scores and family incomes are higher for private university entrants. Comparing like with like, the study finds that attending private universities does not confer a wage premium. These causal techniques are based on a comparison of observed outcomes with counterfactuals: the ‘what if’ scenarios or ‘potential outcomes’ that are not observed. Such comparisons are logically compelling, and these methods have been replicated by hundreds of researchers across a variety of contexts, validating their effectiveness in disentangling causal effects from messy observational data. Making metrics fun, relevant The Nobel Laureates have also contributed to transforming pedagogy. Learning econometric techniques through the body of their work has made econometrics less abstract, more relatable and interesting. Prof. Angrist, through his immensely popular textbooks (co-authored with Steve Pischke) and short videos in the Marginal Revolution University series on ‘Mastering Econometrics’ (as Master Joshway), is an excellent communicator. He starts with a real-world problem and takes us through techniques of analysis, thereby inverting the approach of the standard econometrics textbooks that begin with dry, math-heavy abstract proofs, losing students along the way by the time the chapters end with examples. In the age of big data and machine learning, are econometric techniques of causal inference increasingly redundant? Prof. Angrist argues that while data science helps ‘curve fitting’, i.e. it illustrates a pattern, it does not provide insights into causation. In other words, it neither enables an understanding of why we see a particular pattern, nor does it allow us to evaluate counterfactual scenarios. For that, we need econometrics, which does not rely on big data but on innovative ways of analysing data. Prof. Angrist believes that econometrics will continue to be relevant regardless of any advances in data sciences. The work of the three Nobel Laureates demonstrates the immense power of good, rigorous empirical work and reminds us that rigour need not be seen in opposition to relevance, and that careful analysis can successfully challenge existing orthodoxy. Ashwini Deshpande is Professor of Economics and Director, Centre for Economic Data and Analysis, Ashoka University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/getting-to-the-heart-of-causality/article37081819.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||In the cross hairs, civilians and Kashmiri harmony||Over the past two weeks, more than 11 civilians and nine Army troops have been killed by militants in the Kashmir Valley. Most of the targeted civilians have been Hindus, though there have also been Muslims, and a Sikh. The Hindus killed include Kashmiri Pandits and migrant labour. Wave of fear, insecurity The immediate reaction to these killings has been a flight of Pandits who had returned to the Valley under the 2006 Prime Minister’s programme for the return and rehabilitation of migrants, which offered jobs in the Valley to Pandit teachers. Pandit organisations say that as many as a third of the returnees have left; even those of the 800 families that stayed through the insurgency years have begun to leave. Though Kashmiri political parties and civil society, as well as Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha’s administration, have pleaded with them to stay, their pleas are unconvincing given the very real insecurity created by the killings. The plight of migrant labour is equally grave. Most are attempting to leave the Valley and return to their home States. The administration has ordered that those who are not able to immediately return be sheltered in police stations and guarded camps. In other words, like refugees. Whether they will then be aided to return to their homes remains to be seen; likely they will. These two groups are not alone in wishing to flee. A fresh wave of fear has gripped the Valley, with most residents fearing they may be caught between the militants and the administration. Allegedly, over 700 people have been taken into detention by the police, under suspicion of supporting militancy. Meantime, according to intelligence agencies, potential militant targets include religious leaders, panches and the media. It was widely anticipated that Pakistani armed groups would be emboldened to revive cross-border infiltration following the Taliban’s takeover in Afghanistan. Now it seems that their strategy repeats elements of the insurgency of the 1990s. As happened then, the insurgency was prefigured by attacks on Pandits who were seen by Islamist militants as an arm of India because they were Hindus, and Muslims who worked in the State administration or central Indian agencies such as Doordarshan. Attacks and the aim The attacks were intended to both communalise the Valley and paralyse its administration, and over time succeeded in doing so, albeit only partially. The Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s ceasefire negotiations with cross-border armed groups in 2000 were shattered by the killing of over 100 Bihari labourers, but the years of peace building that followed, from 2002-2014, restored a large degree of administration and created conditions for the return of Pandits — sadly at far too gradual a pace — and of migrant labour. Whether cross-border and local militant groups succeed in once again communalising the Valley is debatable. Much depends on the policy the Union administration adopts in response. There are two quite separate issues involved: one, reassuring the minorities in Kashmir as well as the wider public of the Valley; two, a rethink on counter-insurgency strategy, including its cross-border tentacles. Some reassurance Hearteningly, every single opinion group in Kashmir has condemned the killings. Mosques have broadcast their criticism. Kashmiri political parties have voiced their opposition to such militancy, as have political leaders, including the Hurriyat and Mirwaiz Umar Farooq. Civil society groups have issued statements of protest. Local community leaders and neighbours have visited Pandit homes to offer aid and support. This wave at the ground level can provide a strong base for reassurance, if encouraged. Encouragement can begin with the Lieutenant-Governor. Thus far, Mr. Sinha’s administration does not appear to have consulted either the Kashmiri Pandit organisations, or the various groups that have condemned the killings, on which steps can be taken to restore a degree of confidence. This is surprising, given that these groups, added together, comprise a formidable cross-section of public opinion, and with their support, militancy can once again be socially marginalised, as it was during the peace-building years. From available information, it appears that the bulk of the recent civilian killings have been carried out by what the Army calls ‘hybrid militants’, because they are locally recruited and trained, have regular jobs and are part-time militants using basic weapons such as country pistols. The implications are that the field of militancy has grown more dispersed, with wider public support, despite counter-insurgency successes in degrading large armed groups such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Jaish-e-Mohamed. In this context, any opportunity to marginalise militancy is vital. Setback for Kashmiri Pandits Many have begun asking whether Kashmiri Pandits will ever be able to return to the Valley, as the Narendra Modi administration had promised in August 2019. There is no doubt that the recent civilian killings have been a major setback to prospects of return. It is also the case that Kashmiri Pandit organisations have increasingly complained of administrative neglect on returns over the past year. A recurring point that is made by some of them is that the administration, while focusing on returns, needs to simultaneously pay attention to securing Pandit families that never left. Their condition has worsened as their numbers have shrunk; though less covered by the media, the same problem has begun to affect the Sikh minority too, whose numbers have shrunk over the past decade-plus. The Kashmiri Pandit tragedy has continued for 30 years now, and like all compounded tragedies requires a range of actions, from security to justice to reconciliation. Beginning with security, which is the first requirement to enable justice and reconciliation to follow, it is a mistake to imagine that gated enclaves alone will provide it, or even that stepped up counter-insurgency operations will minimise the risk. Each measure is useful if accompanied by community support, but neither is a solution to the security dilemma by itself. True, targeted killings will only cease when insurgency does. But peace-making combined with counter-insurgency has proved more efficient in ending insurgency in democratic countries than counter-insurgency alone, in our own experience as well as across the world. Thus far, the Union administration has not held out any olive branches; on the contrary, its implementation of the August 2019 decisions has added one cause for resentment after another, the latest being the multiple use of Article 311(2) to dismiss government employees without an enquiry or hearing. A policy for Pandit property recovery that had not been thought through did not help either; apparently it has now been corrected. Political science and sociology both tell us that an insecure majority is unlikely to protect vulnerable minorities; it is focused on its own survival. The arrest of over 700 people in the aftermath of the recent civilian killings has added to the majority’s sense of insecurity, because it raises questions about why police intelligence has not narrowed the field of suspects as should, surely, be professionally required. Approach to Pakistan The Narendra Modi administration appears to have adopted a multi-pronged approach to Pakistan recently, beginning with a ceasefire and extending to an invitation to the Pakistani National Security Adviser for a regional meeting on Afghanistan, while giving the Army a free hand on cross-border infiltration. Why then is it not adopting a similarly multi-pronged approach in the Valley, where civil and human rights remain severely restricted and the administration lacks the transparency that oversight and grievance-redress commissions provided? Without overall civil and human rights, how can minority rights be protected or minority returns be encouraged? Radha Kumar is a writer and policy analyst||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-the-cross-hairs-civilians-and-kashmiri-harmony/article37081809.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||No excuses please, India awaits a full caste headcount||The Narendra Modi government has finally elaborated on its reasons for not disclosing the caste data collated in the Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011. The Government’s affidavit filed in the Supreme Court of India last month by the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment — in response to a writ petition by the Maharashtra government — has also tried to explain away the exclusion of full caste enumeration in the forthcoming Census exercise, which is expected to resume in 2022 after the COVID-19 pandemic-induced interruption. The official arguments focus on the impracticability of full caste enumeration, suggesting that operational difficulties are simply too overwhelming. Overstating ‘mistakes’, ‘flaws’ As detailed in the affidavit, while the total number of castes counted in the 1931 Census was 4,147, the SECC of 2011 returned over 46 lakh caste names. Such a humongous number of castes were returned partly because Indian people use the names of their caste, sub-caste, clan, gotra and surnames interchangeably. Moreover, the enumerators also got confused over the spellings and classification of the castes. The question is, if the 46 lakh caste names that were returned in the SECC 2011 were the results of “mistakes by the enumerators” or “inherent flaws in the manner of conducting census” as alleged in the official affidavit, why could not those mistakes and flaws be rectified in a decade? The Union Cabinet had appointed an Expert Committee headed by the then NITI Aayog Vice-Chairman Arvind Panagariya in July 2015, charging it with the classification of caste names returned in SECC 2011. The Government’s affidavit admits that no other member was appointed to the committee. Therefore, neither did the committee ever meet nor did it fulfil its mandate in six years. Who is responsible for this negligence? The extent of errors in caste enumeration is also being exaggerated. The affidavit cites the example of Maharashtra to show that while the aggregate number of castes enlisted in the central lists of Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) and the State list of Other Backward Classes (OBC) is 494, the caste names returned by the SECC 2011 for the State stood at 4.28 lakh. But the affidavit also states that “99% of the castes enumerated had [a] population of less than 100 persons”. Out of the total population of 10.3 crore in the State, 8.8 crore people could be classified under 2,440 castes, each having a population of over 1,000. Therefore, the proliferation of caste names and the consequent difficulty in their classification have arisen not because of the majority, but a tiny proportion of the total population. This is further corroborated by an action taken report on the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Rural Development on “BPL Survey (currently Socio Economic & Caste Census, 2011)”. In this report dated August 31, 2016, the Union government is quoted as categorically stating that the data errors on caste and religion in SECC 2011 accounted for 1.34 crore out of 118.64 crore people, i.e., only around 1% of the total enumerated population. How can the same government now characterise the entire findings of the caste census as “fraught with mistakes and inaccuracies”? Complex, yet feasible Population census in a vast and uniquely diverse country such as India cannot but be a complex exercise. Over the decades, the census machinery has moved on a learning curve, credibly enumerating complicated categories such as language and religion, which also display considerable diversity. For instance, as per Paper 1 of 2018 on the Language Census of 2011, the number of initial raw returns of mother tongues had totalled 19,569 for the entire country. Following scrutiny, editing and linguistic grouping, these raw returns were first rationalised into 1,369 mother tongues and subsequently classified on the basis of at least 10,000 or more speakers for 22 scheduled and 99 non-scheduled languages, i.e., 121 languages at the all-India level. While caste appears to be an even more complex category than language in the Indian context, technologies to enumerate and analyse complex big data have become easily accessible today. Yet, the affidavit cites the absence of an all-India Registry of Castes to rule out the conduct of full caste enumeration in the forthcoming census. Why could such a registry of castes and tribes not be created till date by the Union and State governments, acting together, by combining the central lists of SCs and STs and the State lists of OBCs? The aggregate number of castes and tribes included in those lists would currently be around 5,000 at the all-India level. For any individual State, the maximum number of castes cannot be above 500. Rationalisation and classification of the numerous raw caste returns into a maximum of 500 castes at the State level or around 5,000 castes at the all-India level, is eminently feasible. Training manuals for the enumerators can also be drawn up on the basis of a single, consolidated caste list for each State. This could have been attained by the expert committee appointed by the Union cabinet by now, but for its innate dysfunctionality. Rather than rectifying its administrative failings, the Union government is now citing it as evidence to construct a theorem of logistical impossibility. Within the framework The Government’s affidavit also cites the absence of categorical constitutional or statutory requirements to count castes other than SCs and STs in the Census. However, Articles 15(4) and 15(5) of the Indian Constitution have explicitly recognised “socially and educationally backward classes of citizens” as a category distinct from SCs and STs and enabled the State to make special provisions for their advancement. Counting the population of these Backward Classes would therefore be very much within the constitutional framework. Yet, the official affidavit alleges that full caste enumeration may compromise the basic integrity of the Census exercise, distorting the fundamental population count itself. If enumeration of individual castes under the “SC”, “ST” and “Other” categories in all censuses since 1951 have not led to such perverse outcomes, why should the additional enumeration under another “OBC” category cause such a catastrophe? Such deliberate scaremongering has no basis in the laws or the Constitution. The logistical or legal justifications of the Union government to not disclose caste census data and refuse to conduct a full caste enumeration in the forthcoming Census do not stand scrutiny. Rather, it creates ground for suspicion whether the establishment has vested interests in concealing the real numbers and proportions of various castes in the Indian population. Such subterfuge would not be acceptable to a wide spectrum of social movements and political parties, who are demanding full caste enumeration. Prasenjit Bose is an economist and activist based in Kolkata||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-excuses-please-india-awaits-a-full-caste-headcount/article37081811.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A global player in solar power||Large-scale solar projects in Tamil Nadu have seen rapid growth in recent years. In the past five years, the cumulative installed capacity witnessed a four-fold increase to 4.4 GW, as of March 2021. Aiding this capacity addition is the State’s reasonably high insolation levels and matching solar potential, estimated at 279GW. The sharp decline in the prices for solar and resulting cost competitiveness is another factor. Types of technologies Tamil Nadu released the Solar Policy of 2019, aiming for 9GW of solar installations by 2023. To meet this target, the current capacity would need to be more than doubled. To do this, Tamil Nadu must keep up with market trends and incorporate innovations in the sector. ‘First-generation’ solar cells use mono-crystalline and multi-crystalline silicon wafers. While the former is made from a single crystal of silicon (of higher purity), the latter is made by combining several fragments. The efficiency of mono-crystalline panels is about 24%, while for multi-crystalline panels it is about 20%. Crystalline silicon technologies are one of the oldest in the market and occupy 95% of the global photovoltaic (PV) market. Mono-crystalline cells are dominant today. Although mono-crystalline panels are priced higher than multi-crystalline ones, the difference is diminishing and will soon attain parity. This would result in mono panels being preferred over multi due to their higher efficiency, greater energy yield and lower cost of energy. Newer technologies incorporating crystalline silicon focus on bifacial solar cells, capable of harvesting energy from both sides of the panel. Bifacials can augment the power output by 10-20%. Within this, the Passive Emitter and Rear Contact technology is predicted to gain popularity. However, it is yet to achieve price parity for large-scale deployment. The thin film technologies developed later are classified as the ‘second generation’ of solar PVs. They are manufactured by depositing single or multiple layers of PV material on a substrate, typically plastic or glass. In addition to being used in solar farms and rooftops, thin films with their low thickness, light weight and flexibility are also placed on electronic devices and vehicles. Mainstream thin films utilise semiconductor chemistries like Cadmium Telluride. However, the efficiency of thin films is lower than that of crystalline silicon. This has affected their popularity and market share. New and upcoming solar cells are grouped as ‘third generation’ and contain technologies such as perovskite, nanocrystal and dye-sensitised solar cells. Perovskites have seen rapid advances in recent years, achieving cell efficiency of 18%. They have the highest potential to replace silicon and disrupt the solar PV market, due to factors such as ease of manufacture, low production costs and potential for higher efficiencies. Nanocrystal and dye-sensitised solar cells are variants of the thin film technology. These are in early stages for large-scale commercial deployment. There is also interest in the use of Graphene Quantum-dots for solar PVs. Graphene is made of a single layer of carbon atoms bonded together as hexagons. Solar cells made of graphene are of interest due to high theoretical efficiency of 60% and its super capacitating nature. Quantum-dot PVs use semiconductor nano crystals exhibiting quantum mechanical properties capable of high efficiency of about 66%. However, both these are in the early stages of research. Considerable advances have also been made in developing solutions that better integrate solar PVs into the grid. These include weather forecasting and power output prediction systems; operation monitoring and control systems; and scheduling and optimisation systems. Additionally, automatic systems have been developed for the smooth resolution of output fluctuations. These technologies must be considered. Policy support Policy support is essential to fast-track adoption of new technologies. A portion of the budget for renewable energy targets should be set aside exclusively for new technologies. Grants and subsidies can also be provided for their adoption. This can mitigate the higher initial costs of such technologies and help establish the market. Efforts must be taken to address gaps in research, development, and manufacturing capabilities in the solar sector through sector-specific investment and incentives. There must also be greater industry-academia collaborations and funding opportunities for startups. A comprehensive sector-specific skilling programme is also required for workers. All these efforts would help Tamil Nadu become a global player in the solar power sector. Vaisakh Suresh Kumar (vaisakh.kumar@wri.org) and Kajol (kajol@wri.org ) are researchers at the World Resources Institute||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-global-player-in-solar-power/article37081815.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Trouble in Bangladesh||The UN, the U.S. and India have condemned incidents of majoritarian violence against Bangladesh’s Hindu minority community during Durga Puja in the past few days. What is particularly worrying is that the attacks which have left at least six people dead and dozens injured, have followed, according to the Government, fake news reports shared over social media, indicating a conspiracy to instigate the violence. The mob violence appears to have begun in Comilla, in Chittagong district, where an image allegedly showing disrespect to the Koran was circulated, and resulted in several major mob attacks on Hindu temples and homes belonging to the minority community. The Narendra Modi government, which has sought to preserve good relations with Bangladesh’s Sheikh Hasina government, has also praised the authorities for moving quickly to take control of the situation. According to the police, more than 450 people have been arrested over the past week of violence and more than 70 cases filed in different parts of Bangladesh. Prime Minister Hasina has promised strict action and sought to reassure minorities during an address via videoconference to Hindu devotees at the Dhakeshwari national temple. In a message for New Delhi, she also said that Bangladesh’s big neighbour must be sensitive to the situation, and alluding to violence against minorities in India, asked that “nothing is done there [India] that affects our country [Bangladesh]”. The Indian High Commission in Dhaka, which was in touch with law and order officials at the Centre, also stepped in to meet with members of the Bangladeshi Hindu community, including representatives from the ISKCON group that was attacked. The ISKCON headquarters in West Bengal as well as BJP leaders also called on Mr. Modi to personally intervene. Given the seriousness of the attacks and the fear that has gripped the Hindu minority in Bangladesh, the international and Indian concern is not surprising. However, New Delhi will have to act cautiously in light of all the various links between India and Bangladesh. While the Indian High Commission’s act of meeting local minorities comes from a sense of compassion, it could be read as an act of interference. The impact of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in 2019 had a widespread effect in Bangladesh, and at least 12 people were killed in protests against Mr. Modi’s visit to Dhaka earlier this year. As a regional leader, India has every right to be concerned about the plight of communities in the subcontinent. However, it must ensure that its domestic drivers do not upset carefully built foreign relations. And any act that is seen as religiously partisan is bound to destabilise the otherwise close and productive relations between the two countries, which have a shared history of cooperation over much of the past 50 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/trouble-in-bangladesh/article37081803.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The other Quad||The virtual meet of the Foreign Ministers of India, the U.S., Israel and the UAE is a strong manifestation of the changes in West Asian geopolitics. If Israel and the UAE did not even have formal diplomatic relations a year ago, their growing economic and strategic cooperation is opening up opportunities for other powers, including India. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, now in Israel, joined the quadrilateral conference after meeting his Israeli counterpart Yair Lapid, where they had agreed to launch talks for a free trade agreement. The four-nation meeting also points to India’s strategic desire to adopt a regional foreign policy strategy towards West Asia, transcending its bilateralism. Over the years, India has built vibrant bilateral ties with all the countries in the grouping. It is a member of the Quad with the U.S., Australia and Japan, which have common concerns and shared interests on East Asia. Israel is one of India’s top defence suppliers. The UAE is vital for India’s energy security. The Gulf country, which hosts millions of Indian workers, has also shown interest to mediate between India and Pakistan. In the past, there were three pillars to India’s West Asia policy — the Sunni Gulf monarchies, Israel and Iran. Now that the gulf between the Sunni kingdoms and Israel is being narrowed, especially after the Abraham Accords, the normalisation agreements signed between Israel and the UAE and Bahrain under the tutelage of the Trump administration, India faces fewer challenges to a regionalist approach. Mr. Jaishankar has hinted that there would be more meetings among the four countries. While it is too early to speak of the strategic significance of such a grouping, there are areas where it can deepen its engagement — trade, energy ties, fighting climate change and enhancing maritime security. But India should also be mindful of the challenges in the region. The U.S. is clearly seeking to lessen its footprint here as part of its pivot to East Asia to tackle China’s rise, which is redrawing West Asia’s traditional equations. India should be careful not to get sucked into the many conflicts of West Asia that could intensify amid growing regional rivalries. While the Abraham Accords made it easier for India to find common ground with the Israelis and the Emiratis, the contradiction between this emerging bloc and Iran remains as intense as ever. India, which sees itself aligned with the U.S. in the Indo-Pacific, faces deepening insecurities in continental Asia after the American withdrawal from Afghanistan. And it will have to work closely with countries such as Iran to deal with the challenges emanating from a post-American Afghanistan. So the challenge before New Delhi is to retain a healthy relationship with Iran even as it seeks to build a stronger regional partnership with the U.S.-Israel-UAE bloc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-other-quad/article37081804.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The many burdens of U.S. Congress||People say getting a Bill through U.S. Congress is like herding cats. It is not. It is like loading a herd of camels. I have visited India 29 times, but the most interesting of those trips was to the annual camel fair in Pushkar. Finding the right balance Members of Congress are much like camels. They will not move if they feel the weight they are being asked to carry is too much. A good leader in a congressional setting knows how much the members are willing to carry and shifts the workload from camel to camel in order to find the right balance so the caravan can leave for its destination. The present Congress is precariously balanced. The Senate is split 50-50 between Democrats and Republicans. The House of Representatives has 212 Republicans and 220 Democrats. So, Nancy Pelosi, Speaker of the House of Representatives, has a delicate job to do, only somewhat less difficult than that of Democratic (majority) leader, Chuck Schumer. Congress is trying to pass three important bills now: one on infrastructure, one related to climate change and the one related to voting rights. Democratic Socialists insist on fixing all the ills of the social safety net at once. This will not happen. In 1935, the President was Franklin D. Roosevelt and his camel driver was Frances Perkins. Roosevelt charged the Committee on Economic Security, chaired by Perkins, who was Secretary of Labour, to develop a pension programme, a national health programme, and an unemployment insurance programme. But the camels would not move and so Roosevelt decided that the law would provide unemployment insurance; aid for dependent mothers and children, the blind and the physically handicapped; and old-age benefits for workers. He left the national health programme on the table. Roosevelt, passionate about mandatory health insurance, still intended to have the national health programme passed. But when World War II loomed ahead, national health was placed at the sidelines. Roosevelt died at the end of the war. In 1945, President Harry Truman proposed a ‘universal’ national health insurance programme to Congress. His plan that all Americans would pay a certain amount in fees and taxes each month to cover the healthcare programme’s costs was shot down in Congress. President Bill Clinton delivered an ambitious and complex proposal for universal health insurance for all Americans. Unfortunately, it had been designed by someone who had never been near a camel-loading yard. He had no experience in dealing with the camels of Congress. The effort to get the plan passed was spearheaded by Hillary Clinton. The plan was perfect but it failed. When Barack Obama came on the scene, he announced that he was going to try to bring healthcare coverage for everyone. He got the camels moving again. But after him came a leader who knew nothing or just didn’t care about social benefits for the ordinary working people. Crucial days ahead The 2020 presidential election created the situation which we are now facing. President Joe Biden knows about camels. His climate change bill, which includes an expansion in tax credits for clean energy, restrictions on methane, etc., is hanging by a thread. The Senate is set to vote on the voting rights bill. The bill is backed by the whole Democratic caucus but doesn’t have the 60 votes it needs to overcome a Republican filibuster. Ms. Pelosi has said “it’s about time” the Democrats, who are divided on the infrastructure bill, pass it. It is getting delayed as progressives first want the full $3.5 trillion that Mr. Biden promised for new and expanded social programmes and other initiatives. All these bills face the possibility of being left on the table. Some of my old colleagues believe that they can load the camel and if they beat it enough, it will finally get up and move. I hope they don’t lose the opportunity to move forward this time. They will get no credit for wanting everything and getting nothing. James McDermott served in the U.S. Congress in the House of Representatives between 1989 and 2017 for Washington’s 7th Congressional District||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-many-burdens-of-us-congress/article37081816.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||P.M. rules out dialogue with Pak.||The Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, said here to-day [New Delhi, Oct. 19] that India did not want to provoke a war or create a war-like situation, but it could not shake hands with the clenched fist of Pakistan. Though it was impossible to prophesy whether there would be a war between India and Pakistan, Mrs. Gandhi said India would continue to exercise the utmost restraint while taking all precautions to safeguard its interests. Addressing a crowded press conference, the Prime Minister said that as a first step towards any purposeful dialogue with India, the Yahya regime should stop the terrible atrocities in East Bengal and enter into substantive negotiations with its elected representatives to find a speedy solution to the Bangla Desh problem. She warned that the massing of Pakistani troops all along the borders had created a grave situation and the sooner the Bangla Desh problem was solved the better the chances of averting an Indo-Pakistan conflagration. The Pakistani war threats and the hysterical “Hate India” campaign in Pakistan were intended to cloud the Bangla Desh issue by projecting it as an Indo-Pakistan problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pm-rules-out-dialogue-with-pak/article37081812.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Domestic air traffic rebounds to highest since second wave||Domestic aviation has been making a steady recovery from the brutal impact of the second wave of COVID-19. Indian airlines together ferried a little more than 70 lakh passengers in September, registering a growth of 5.4% over the previous month, according to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s monthly report. Second wave impact The last time passenger traffic figures exceeded 70 lakh was in March, following which they saw a sharp drop — 57.25 lakh in April, 21.15 lakh in May — before starting to recover to 31.13 lakh in June, 50.07 lakh in July and 67.01 lakh in August. However, domestic passenger traffic still continues to lag behind levels seen prior to the second wave. During the best months so far since the outbreak of COVID-19, these numbers hovered between 73 lakh and 78 lakh between December 2020 and March 2021. In February 2020, before the pandemic hit air travel, India’s monthly domestic passenger traffic was at 1.23 crore, indicating that last month’s figures were only at 57% of pre-COVID levels. The recently-improved passenger numbers mean that most airlines witnessed flights with about two-thirds of the seats sold. ‘More seats filled’ SpiceJet had the highest passenger load factor (or seat occupancy) at 78.8%, followed by GoAir at 74.1%, IndiGo at 73.6%, Vistara at 72.4% and AirAsia at 68%. Air India, set to be acquired by the Tata group, had a load factor of 63.7%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/domestic-air-traffic-rebounds-to-highest-since-second-wave/article37081797.ece
20 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Gross NPAs of banks to rise to 8-9% from 7.5%: Crisil||Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks are expected to rise to 8-9% this fiscal from 7.5% as on March 31, but they would still remain below the peak of 11.2% seen at the end of fiscal 2018, Crisil Ratings said in a report. COVID-19 relief measures, such as the restructuring dispensation and the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS), would help limit the rise, it said. “With 2% of bank credit expected under restructuring by the end of this fiscal, stressed assets — comprising gross NPAs and loan book under restructuring — should touch 10-11%,” the ratings agency said. “The retail and MSME segments, which together form 40% of bank credit, are expected to see higher accretion of NPAs and stressed assets this time around,” said Krishnan Sitaraman, senior director and deputy chief ratings officer. ‘Write-off effect’ “Stressed assets in these segments are seen rising to 4-5% and 17-18%, respectively, by this fiscal end. The numbers would have trended even higher but for write-offs, primarily in the unsecured segment,” he added. The rural segment, which was hit harder during the second wave of the pandemic, has also seen a strong recovery. Therefore, stressed assets in the agriculture segment are expected to remain relatively stable, the ratings agency pointed out. ‘Base-case scenario’ It said the estimates were predicated on a base-case scenario of 9.5% GDP growth this fiscal and continued improvement in corporate credit quality. A virulent third wave and significant deceleration in demand growth could pose significant downside risks to these estimates, it added.  As the rural segment has seen strong recovery, stressed assets in agri are expected to remain stable||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gross-npas-of-banks-to-rise-to-8-9-from-75-crisil/article37081791.ece
20 October 2021||MUMBAI,||HUL Q2 net profit rises 9% to Rs. 2,187 cr. as sales increases 11%||Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUL) reported net profit for the second quarter ended September 30 grew 9% to Rs. 2,187 crore, compared with the year-earlier period, on the back of a ‘robust broad-based performance in a challenging environment’. HUL also reported a domestic consumer growth of 11% during the quarter. “The performance was broad-based, with all three divisions — home care, beauty and personal care, and foods and refreshment — growing competitively,” it said in a filing. “Business fundamentals remained strong with more than three-fourths of the business gaining market share,” it added. ‘Input cost inflation’ “September quarter witnessed a sequential improvement in trading conditions, albeit remained challenging with unprecedented levels of input cost inflation and subdued consumer sentiments,” said CMD Sanjiv Mehta. “In this backdrop, we have delivered a strong performance, growing top-line in double digits and stepping up profitability sequentially,” he added. The board declared an interim dividend of Rs. 15 for the year ending March 31. “Looking forward, we remain cautiously optimistic about demand recovery,” Mr. Mehta said. “In these times of uncertainty and unprecedented input cost inflation, we continue to firmly focus on delivering consistent, competitive, profitable and responsible growth.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hul-q2-net-profit-rises-9-to-rs-2187-cr-as-sales-increases-11/article37081793.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Services exports may cross $240 bn in 2021-22’||Seeking incentives from the government, SEPC on Tuesday said the country’s services exports are expected to reach over $240 billion during 2021-22 on account of healthy performance by segments such as professional and management consulting services, audio- visual, freight-transport services, and telecommunications. Services Export Promotion Council (SEPC) chairman Maneck Davar said during the first five months of the current fiscal year, exports from the sector increased 14% to $95 billion. “Total services exports for 2021-22 are expected to touch over $240 billion and may increase even further when the tourism sector is opened up later in the year,” Mr. Davar said. In 2020-21, services exports dipped by 3% to $206 billion. He added that the recovery of services is largely based on the performance of sectors such as professional and management consulting services. He also said the target of $1 trillion in services exports by 2030 set by the government is feasible but there is a need to look at sectors other than IT and ITeS for growth. The need of the hour is to provide a level-playing field with manufacturing and incentives to tide over the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/services-exports-may-cross-240-bn-in-2021-22/article37081786.ece
20 October 2021||New Delhi,||Moody’s raises banking system outlook to ‘stable’||Moody’s Investors Service on Tuesday raised the outlook for the Indian banking system to ‘stable’ from ‘negative’ citing moderate deterioration of asset quality since the onset of the pandemic and a likely pick-up in credit growth with economic recovery. Moody’s expects India’s economy to continue to recover in the next 12-18 months, with GDP growing 9.3% in the fiscal year ending March 2022 and 7.9% in the following year. “The pick-up in economic activity will drive credit growth, which we expect to be 10-13% annually. Weak corporate financials and funding constraints at finance companies have been key negative factors for banks but these risks have receded,” Moody’s said in its ‘Banking system outlook — India’ report. The quality of corporate loans has improved, indicating that banks have provisioned for all legacy problem loans in this segment. The quality of retail loans has deteriorated, but to a limited degree because large-scale job losses have not occurred, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/moodys-raises-banking-system-outlook-to-stable/article37081802.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bharti offers ‘IQ Video’ as service to tap OTT players||Bharti Airtel on Tuesday unveiled its video platform as a service offering as the telco looks to cash in on the over-the-top (OTT) video market in the country. The solution ‘Airtel IQ Video’ already has three customers — Raj TV, Eros Now and CG Telecom of Nepal — and will allow businesses to build world-class video streaming products for large and small screens with minimal investment in infrastructure and technology, the company said. Bharti expects to onboard more than 50 brands on the platform in the coming year. “Airtel IQ Video is an end-to-end managed solution that brings convenience along with cost benefits,” Bharti said. According to RBSA Advisors, India’s video OTT market is expected to touch $12.5 billion by 2030, from $1.5 billion, currently. The report also highlighted that the next wave of growth in the OTT landscape would come from tier II, III and IV cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-offers-iq-video-as-service-to-tap-ott-players/article37081799.ece
20 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Gati boosts network capacity, staff||Express distribution firm Gati has ramped up its network capacity by 20-25% by adding 100 line haul trucks to its flexi network to connect locations besides scaling up workforce by at least 15%, a release said on Tuesday The move is aimed at cutting down the dwell time further in view of the huge spike in demand during the festival season, which is considered a stress-test time for supply- chain players, it said. Moreover, to cater to the festive demand more efficiently, Gati Air has bolstered its network by partnering leading airlines, providing direct connections to 28 commercial airports in India. This is the third direct airline engagement this yea, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gati-boosts-network-capacity-staff/article37081782.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nestle India Q3 net rises 5% to Rs. 617 cr.||FMCG major Nestle India Ltd on Tuesday reported a 5.15% rise in net profit to Rs. 617.37 crore for the third quarter ended September, driven largely by a high single-digit volume and mix growth in the domestic market across brands. Net sales rose 9.63% to Rs. 3,864.97, Nestle India said in a BSE filing. In a separate filing, Nestle India said its board on Tuesday approved a second interim dividend of Rs. 110 per equity share of Rs. 10 each for the year 2021. The company said the e-commerce channel is expected to continue its growth journey and is gaining increasing traction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nestle-india-q3-net-rises-5-to-rs-617-cr/article37081784.ece
20 October 2021||MUMBAI,||CAD to hit 1.3% on commodity price rise: BofA||Rising global commodity prices will shave a lot off the current account leading to higher imports and a rise in current account deficit, which is likely to print at 1.3% of the GDP, according to a report by Bank of America Securities (BofA).  Given the sharp increase in global commodity prices, particularly oil, concerns about current account deficit (CAD) and its serviceability have resurfaced, the report said. “But, we see FY22 CAD at 1.3% of GDP or $40 billion, up from a 0.9% surplus in FY21, but still well-contained under the threshold of 2.5% of GDP,” BofA said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cad-to-hit-13-on-commodity-price-rise-bofa/article37081790.ece
20 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Godrej urges firms to step up ESG efforts||The industry should do much more than compliance towards meeting Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) goals, said Jamshyd N. Godrej, CMD, Godrej & Boyce Mfg. Co. Ltd. He said this while reiterating the firm’s commitment towards ESG for larger benefit of the all stakeholders. The firm had announced ESG goals with specific targets to achieve in 10 years. He said the entire transportation system should be electrified to achieve the goals. In the last 10 years, the firm had invested more than Rs. 500 crore in ESG initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/godrej-urges-firms-to-step-up-esg-efforts/article37081794.ece
20 October 2021||New Delhi,||Policybazaar's parent firm PB Fintech gets Sebi's nod to raise over Rs 6,017 cr via IPO||PB Fintech Ltd., that operates online insurance platform Policybazaar and credit-comparison portal Paisabazaar, has received SEBI's approval to raise Rs. 6,017.50 crore through an initial share-sale. The initial public offer (IPO) comprises a fresh issue of Rs. 3,750 crore worth of equity shares and an offer for sale of Rs. 2,267.50 crore, as per DRHP.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/policybazaars-parent-firm-pb-fintech-gets-sebis-nod-to-raise-over-rs-6017-cr-via-ipo/article37081783.ece
20 October 2021||Mumbai,||Gold demand likely to be robust in 2022: WGC||The demand for gold is likely to remain subdued this year following COVID-related disruptions that continues in India, the World Gold Council (WGC) said in a report. However, in 2022, the impact of pent-up demand for the precious metal is likely to herald a period of robust demand, the council said in the report titled ‘The Drivers of Indian Gold.’PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gold-demand-likely-to-be-robust-in-2022-wgc/article37081787.ece
20 October 2021||New Delhi,||Coal supply prioritised temporarily to power sector to replenish dwindling stock: CIL||State-owned CIL said the supply of coal was prioritised temporarily to power producers to replenish their dwindling stock of the dry fuel. The statement assumes significance in the wake of the country’s power plants grappling with fuel shortages. “This was a highly transitory measure and normalcy will be restored soon,” CIL said in a filing.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/coal-supply-prioritised-temporarily-to-power-sector-to-replenish-dwindling-stock-cil/article37081789.ece
20 October 2021||Mumbai,||P&G India unveils Rs. 500-cr. rural growth fund||Procter & Gamble (P&G) India has announced a Rs. 500-crore ‘P&G Rural Growth Fund’ to accelerate inclusive growth in rural market. “This fund will provide external partners an opportunity to collaborate with P&G on business solutions customised for meeting the needs of rural consumers. This will include solutions like tech-enabled selling,” the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pg-india-unveils-rs-500-cr-rural-growth-fund/article37081795.ece
20 October 2021||Odense,||Sindhu makes winning return||Returning to action after a break, double Olympic medallist P.V. Sindhu saw off Turkey’s Neslihan Yigit in straight games to join compatriots K. Srikanth and Sameer Verma in the second round of the Denmark Open here on Tuesday. Sindhu, the reigning world champion, took 30 minutes to get across Yigit, ranked 29th, 21-12, 21-10 in her women’s singles opener of the BWF World Tour Super 1000 tournament. She will next face Thailand’s Busanan Ongbamrungphan. Former champion Srikanth and Sameer also made winning starts to their men’s singles campaigns at the $850,000 event. Short work While Srikanth outsmarted compatriot B. Sai Praneeth 21-14, 21-11 in 30 minutes, Sameer, ranked 28th, prevailed over Thailand’s World No. 21 Kunlavut Vitidsarn 21-17, 21-14 in a 42-minute clash. World No. 14 Srikanth will meet World No. 1 and top seeded Japanese Kento Momota in the second round, while Sameer is likely to face Denmark’s third seed Anders Antonsen in the next round. Indian men’s doubles players, however, had a mixed day in office. Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty defeated English pair of Callum Hemming and Steven Stallwood 23-21, 21-15 in their opener and M.R. Arjun and Dhruv Kapila stunned England’s World No. 17 pair of Ben Lane and Sean Vendy 21-19, 21-15 to make a positive start to their campaign. However, Manu Attri and B. Sumeeth Reddy lost 21-18, 21-11 to Malaysia’s Goh Sze Fei and Nur Izzuddin in the opening round to bow out of the competition.  The results: First round: Men: K. Srikanth bt B. Sai Praneeth 21-14, 21-11; Sameer Verma bt Kunlavut Vitidsarn (Tha) 21-17, 21-14.   Doubles: Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Chirag Shetty bt Callum Hemming & Steven Stallwood (Eng) 23-21, 21-15; M.R. Arjun & Dhruv Kapila bt Ben Lane & Sean Vendy (Eng) 21-19, 21-15; Manu Attri & B. Sumeeth Reddy lost to Goh Sze Fei & Nur Izzuddin (Mas) 21-18, 21-11.   Women: P.V. Sindhu bt Neslihan Yigit (Tur) 21-12, 21-10   Mixed Doubles: Dhruv & Sikki bt Pang Ron Hoo & Yee See Cheah (Kor) 14-21, 21-17, 21-18 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-makes-winning-return/article37081943.ece
20 October 2021||DUBAI,||India will look to freeze its batting order||With its preparations for the T20 World Cup off to a smooth start, India would look to finalise its batting order for the tournament-proper when it takes on Australia in its second and final warm-up game here on Wednesday. As pointed out by skipper Virat Kohli before the warm-up game against England on Monday, India’s top three is settled with K.L. Rahul and Rohit Sharma opening the batting and he coming in at No. 3. Rohit didn’t bat against England and come Wednesday, the right-hander is expected to get a go against the Australians. Having made a stroke-filled 70, before retiring in the seven-wicket win over England, Ishan Kishan has staked his claim for a place in the playing eleven. Fitting in Suryakumar Rishabh Pant (29 not out) was promoted ahead of Surya Kumar Yadav and it remains to be seen where the latter bats on Wednesday. It remains to be seen if Hardik Pandya, who is not bowling and didn’t look comfortable in his brief stay against England, will play purely as a batter. Sans his bowling, India will also miss the sixth bowling option in case one of the five-strong attack has an off day. Bhuvneshwar Kumar had one against England, but Jasprit Bumrah was at his best. Mohammed Shami claimed three wickets but went for runs, while Rahul Chahar was taken to task by the English batters. Ravindra Jadeja, Shardul Thakur and Varun Chakravarthy are expected to get a look in. On recent form, since losing the home series against Australia 2-0 before the 2019 ODI World Cup, India was unbeaten in eight series in a row. Australia’s batting blues There was mixed news for Australia in its first warm-up as David Warner’s horror run continued after he was dismissed for a first-ball duck. Adam Zampa and Kane Richardson impressed with the ball, but a middle-order collapse meant the Australians needed late cameos to secure a win over New Zealand. All-rounder Marcus Stoinis has said his hamstring is on the mend and he may be ready to bowl in the match. Stoinis, who was sidelined with the strain in the IPL, has only batted since returning to competition. He scored 28 against New Zealand.  The teams (from):   India: Virat Kohli (capt.), Rohit Sharma, KL Rahul, Suryakumar Yadav, Rishabh Pant, Ishan Kishan, Hardik Pandya, Ravindra Jadeja, Rahul Chahar, R. Ashwin, Varun Chakravarthy, Jasprit Bumrah, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Mohammed Shami, and Shardul Thakur.   Australia: Aaron Finch (capt.), Ashton Agar, Pat Cummins, Josh Hazlewood, Josh Inglis, Mitchell Marsh, Glenn Maxwell, Kane Richardson, Steve Smith, Mitchell Starc, Marcus Stoinis, Mitchell Swepson, Matthew Wade, David Warner, and Adam Zampa.   Match starts at 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-will-look-to-fix-its-batting-order/article37081899.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Doing it for Virat Kohli might involve some serious six-hitting||Why haven’t India won the World T20 since their first, unexpected, win in 2007? Fourteen years is a long time. In 2011, they won the 50-over World Cup at home, “doing it for Sachin.” It was Sachin Tendulkar’s sixth and last tournament, and the team was determined to give him a memorable send-off. Already, in an echo of that, there is talk of doing this one “for Virat”. Virat Kohli is stepping down from captaincy in the format after this. That year, 2007, was a strange one for Indian cricket. In March, they bowed out of the 50-over World Cup in the early stages. The photograph following that defeat, of the senior cricketers with eyes swollen, emotions on every muscle was a moving one. Six months later came the World T20, a new World Cup in a new format and the seniors withdrew from the team. There were two reasons for this. India didn’t then think much of T20, echoing the historical lack of initial interest in the 50-over format. No one gave India a chance and although the seniors didn’t think it might be emotionally as draining, they figured it was a young man’s game. So India went in with a team whose average age was 23, and whose new captain, Mahendra Singh Dhoni was 26. And it worked. In the final, with Pakistan needing 13 in the last over, Dhoni called up the inexperienced Joginder Sharma to bowl. Misbah-ul-Haq hit a six and then overreached himself in trying to scoop to leg. A nation held its breath while the ball descended into the hands of S. Sreesanth. Watching India’s progress was an 18-year old boy named Virat Kohli. “It had a huge impact on my career,” he said recently, echoing the sentiment expressed by the previous generation of Tendulkar, Rahul Dravid, Sourav Ganguly, Anil Kumble and V.V.S. Laxman who had been inspired by India’s win in the 1983 World Cup. IPL was established India’s win changed the face of cricket. The IPL was established the following year, further consolidating India’s position as the centre of the cricketing universe. At the time, the promoter expressed as many positives of the IPL as he could dream up. And one of them was the way it would train Indian teams for the World T20, providing players ready made for the world stage. It sounded plausible then, but where have India fallen short? The first and obvious answer is that with domestic T20 series being played around the world, every country now has both the players and the experience. The fact that the first six tournaments were won by five different countries seems to suggest that there has been a levelling off of relative strengths. The fewer the overs, the more open the tournament. In 2016, India tried to upend the fundamental theory of batting in T20 — that hitting sixes matters. They lost to the West Indies in the semifinals despite Kohli’s unbeaten 89 off 47 balls (one six) because the West Indies hit nearly three times as many sixes. India’s bowlers bowled crucial no-balls (twice taking wickets off them) and the West Indies needing 109 in the last 10 overs made it comfortably. Carlos Brathwaite’s four successive sixes in the final over (off Ben Stokes) that gave the West Indies their second title was further confirmation of the theory. In T20 cricket, sixes win matches. In the last World Cup, the West Indies hit a six every 16.3 balls against the Top 7 teams; the rate for the other teams in the top seven was a six every 22.5 balls. Increasingly, boundaries, and particularly sixes decide the result. This is an area India need to work on. Since the 2016 T20 World Cup, India have been striking a six every 17.4 balls, the West Indies at the rate of 13.5. The story of T20 cricket is the story of the steady drop in balls-per-sixes, from 28 in 2009 to 20 in 2018. Not a chancy shot The six is no longer viewed as a chancy shot, but fundamental to success in the format. It is a great percentage shot, something that Chris Gayle was probably the first to realise and act upon. Training in power-hitting is routine in T20 cricket now. As statistics show, India have realised the importance of six-hitting, but need to work on the frequency. A three-ball 18 can often be the difference between teams, often superior even to a 35-ball 50. T20 is the game for ‘sixialists’, the specialists whose job it is to only hit sixes. India go into the tournament as favourites. It is not a position they are unaccustomed to. And they have in their corner the man who took them to victory in 2007, Dhoni, now in the team as ‘mentor’. All bases are probably covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/doing-it-for-virat-kohli-might-involve-some-serious-six-hitting/article37081894.ece
20 October 2021||Mumbai,||Prakash Padukone and NSCI launch coaching programme||Prakash Padukone’s sports management company, in partnership with the National Sports Club of India (NSCI), launched a badminton coaching program here on Tuesday. The coaching and playing facility at the NSCI was inaugurated by Padukone, a former All England Open champion, in the presence of club secretary Atul Maru and veteran badminton player Pradeep Gandhe. The partnership between PSM and NSCI will aim to make Prakash Padukone Badminton Coaching Program a ‘Centre of Excellence’ in the future for this part of India. The NSCI has revamped its existing infrastructure with state-of-the art badminton courts and other related facilities for this program. Speaking on the occasion, Padukone said, “Badminton has been a very popular sport, not just in Mumbai but in Maharashtra as well. “Initially we will start off with three levels of coaching, which is the beginner, intermediate and advance and then the main aim of PSM is to standardise coaching across centres,” he said. “We have already started a coach education programme and we have trained more than 450 coaches, both online and offline in the last two years,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prakash-padukone-and-nsci-launch-coaching-programme/article37082425.ece
20 October 2021||KOCHI,||Ernakulam and Alappuzha enter the semifinals||Defending champion Ernakulam blanked Wayanad 3-0 and entered the semifinals of the State junior inter-district mixed team badminton championship at the Rajiv Gandhi indoor stadium here on Tuesday. Later Nayana S. Oasis, who won all the matches she featured in, helped last year’s runner-up Kozhikode defeat Thiruvananthapuram 3-2 and make the semifinal. Also entering the last-four stage were Alappuzha and Kannur.  The results (junior inter-district mixed team championship):   Quarterfinals: Ernakulam bt Wayanad 3-0 (Sanjay S. Nair bt Joel K. Saji 21-3, 21-6; Diya Arun bt Khadeeja Nizah 21-6, 21-17; Adhin K. Ajay & Dain Maxen bt T.M. Abhinand & Joel K. Saji 21-19, 21-15).   Kozhikode bt Thiruvananthapuram 3-2 (Uday Prakash lost to S.D. Aadithyan 20-22, 7-21; Nayana S. Oasis bt Nanda Ghosh 21-13, 21-14; Abhishek Rupesh & Vimal Kumar Pullanhi lost to R. Arryan Aji & Dhruv Manghat 8-21, 9-21; Gayathri Nambiar & Nayana Oasis bt Dhwany Krishna & Manjari Roy 21-16, 16-21, 21-13; Nayana Oasis & Uday Prakash bt R. Arryan Aji & Manjari Roy 21-19, 18-21, 21-14).   Alappuzha bt Idukki 3-0 (S. Akshit bt Alby Mathew Shiju 21-10, 21-8; Pavithra Jayaraj bt Sredha Sunny 21-5, 21-7; Akshit & Robens V. Roney bt Alby Mathew Shiju & Arun Mohanan 21-18, 21-18).   Kannur bt Pathanamthitta 3-0 (Shehil Muhammed bt Ayush Binoj 21-11, 21-8; C.H. Keerthika bt T.R. Gowri Krishna 21-13, 21-14; C.H. Chandrajith & Shehil Muhammed bt Adersh V. Kumar & Felix Sunil Punnose 21-5, 21-17).   Pre-quarterfinals: Wayanad bt Kollam 3-2; Alappuzha bt Thrissur 3-0; Idukki bt Malappuram 3-0; Kannur bt Palakkad 3-2; Pathanamthitta bt Kasargod 3-1; Thiruvananthapuram bt Kottayam 3-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ernakulam-and-alappuzha-enter-the-semifinals/article37082324.ece
20 October 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Ireland test for Sri Lanka||Former champion Sri Lanka takes on a confident Ireland in a tricky first round group match of the T20 World Cup here on Wednesday, with the winning side moving closer to a Super 12 spot. Both Sri Lanka and Ireland have come into the match high on confidence after convincing seven-wicket wins against Namibia and the Netherlands respectively in their lung openers. Sri Lanka brushed aside Namibia's challenge with the bowlers rising to the occasion while Ireland was far superior to the Netherlands as seamer Curtis Campher set up victory by sensationally picking up four wickets off four balls. Sri Lanka skipper Dasun Shanaka will be aware that a stiffer test awaits it when it squares off against Ireland and it can't afford any slip-ups. The team will be expecting more from the openers — Kusal Perera and Pathum Nissanka — as well as from the experienced Dinesh Chandimal. The spinners, Maheesh Theekshana and Wanindu Hasaranga in particular, proved more than a handful for the Namibia batters and will be vital to Sri Lanka's performance as the tournament goes on. Ireland, on the other hand, will be wary of the Sri Lankan threat after having made short work of the Dutch, riding on Campher's heroics. It is the batting which faces a stiffer test against a varied Sri Lankan attack, especially the spinners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ireland-test-for-sri-lanka/article37081903.ece
20 October 2021||London,||Barcelona, United face the heat||Barcelona and Manchester United, two clubs with a storied history in the Champions League, face daunting times ahead as they restart their continental campaign on Wednesday after the international break. Losing at Young Boys last month created new doubts over Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s suitability to manage United. A 4-2 loss at Leicester on Saturday only magnified them, with United unable to benefit significantly yet from the return of Cristiano Ronaldo by picking up only one point in nine in the Premier League. Things do not get any easier for United, which hasn’t won a trophy since the Europa League in 2017, as Atalanta arrives at Old Trafford for the Group F game on Wednesday before Liverpool visits on Sunday. Sitting in last place in Group E, Barcelona needs a home win against Dynamo Kyiv to have a realistic chance of advancing to the knockout stage. The Catalan club has made it past the group stage every season since 2001-02. Barcelona opened with 3-0 losses to both Bayern Munich and Benfica. It is a point behind third-place Dynamo. and four behind second-place Benfica. Bayern leads with six points from two matches. Bayern Munich returned to form with a 5-1 win over Bayer Leverkusen in the Bundesliga on Sunday. Next up is Benfica away on Wednesday in Group E. Many of Europe’s prestigious clubs have recently endured outings in Europe’s secondary competition. Manchester United, Chelsea, Arsenal, Liverpool, Atletico Madrid and Juventus have all featured in the Europa League over the last decade. But for Barcelona, relegation would be particularly deflating, especially coming after the departure of Lionel Messi.  Wednesday’s fixtures:   RB Salzburg vs Wolfsburg, Barcelona vs Dynamo Kyiv (10.15 p.m.); Lille vs Sevilla, Manchester United vs Atalanta, Zenit vs Juventus, Benfica vs Bayern Munich, Chelsea vs Malmo, Young Boys vs Villarreal (12.30 a.m. Thursday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barcelona-united-face-the-heat/article37081897.ece
20 October 2021||Bruges (France),||Manchester City crushes Brugge||Manchester City delivered a dominant Champions League performance to sweep past Club Brugge 5-1 on Tuesday. Joao Cancelo gave City a deserved lead on the half-hour and Riyad Mahrez converted a penalty just before the break. Kyle Walker added a third early in the second half and 19-year-old Cole Palmer bagged his first Champions League goal minutes after coming on as a substitute. Hans Vanaken pulled a goal back to great delight from the home supporters but Mahrez capped a thumping City victory with his second of the night. Meanwhile, Barcelona and Manchester United face daunting times ahead as they restart their continental campaign on Wednesday after the international break. Losing at Young Boys last month created new doubts over Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s suitability to manage United. Things do not get any easier for United, which hasn’t won a trophy since the Europa League in 2017, as Atalanta arrives at Old Trafford for the Group F game. Needing a win Sitting in last place in Group E, Barcelona needs a home win against Dynamo Kyiv to have a realistic chance of advancing to the knockout stage. The Catalan club has made it past the group stage every season since 2001-02. Barcelona opened with 3-0 losses to both Bayern Munich and Benfica. It is a point behind third-place Dynamo and four behind second-place Benfica.  The results: Besiktas 1 (Larin 24) lost to Sporting CP 4 (Coates 15, 27, Pablo Sarabia 44-pen, Paulinho 89); Club Brugge 1 (Vanaken 81) lost to Manchester City 5 (Cancelo 30, R. Mahrez 43-pen, 84, Walker 53, Palmer 67).   Wednesday’s fixtures: RB Salzburg vs Wolfsburg, Barcelona vs Dynamo Kyiv (10.15 p.m.); Lille vs Sevilla, Manchester United vs Atalanta, Zenit vs Juventus, Benfica vs Bayern Munich, Chelsea vs Malmo, Young Boys vs Villarreal (12.30 a.m. Thursday) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manchester-city-crushes-brugge/article37082046.ece
20 October 2021||KOLKATA,||‘We are ready for the next level’||The senior men’s National football team has found a strong spine of technically competent players, and is now ready for the next level of competitiveness, feels head coach Igor Stimac, following India’s triumphant outing in the recent SAFF Championship. “We can now say that for each position we have three players with similar qualities. So, we are not afraid of losing anyone because there are enough candidates in each position. We are now in the position to go one step forward, which is playing good football in the third round of Asian Cup qualifiers (in February) and ensuring a berth in the final stage of the qualifying process,” Stimac said at a media conference on Tuesday. “Now, after two and half years of development process, we can say that we could create a spine for the team with players who have the right technical knowledge and ability,” he added. Most impressive Remarking on the way India preserved its dominant status in the South Asian region, Stimac said the team showed good physical and mental attributes that speak a lot about its merit. “What impressed me most were the qualities like togetherness, energy, positive attitude and great mindset of the team. “We had very little time to prepare with players coming from the off-season period. Despite these difficulties, the lads managed to fight together and showed amazing positivity and energy,” Stimac said. When asked to comment about the fact that — despite having many talented youngsters — the best player of the team (captain Sunil Chhetri) is 37-years-old, Stimac said: he judges his players by performance and not by age. “I never look at the age of the players. If I looked at the age of the players then I would not have allowed the 18-year-olds in the side,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-are-ready-for-the-next-level/article37082053.ece
20 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sharath eases into the third round||Within a few hours of landing here, favourite Sharath Kamal warmed up with an expected victory over one of his practice-partners, S. Karthikeyan, for a place in the men’s third round of National ranking table tennis championship on Tuesday. Looking keen to gain some extra on-court time, Sharath was in no hurry to neither finish a point nor the match. As is his wont, Sharath was considerate to his younger rival before posting a 12-10, 12-10, 11-8, 11-4 result at Panchkula’s Devi Lal Stadium. “Since the table was playing too fast, I had to find a way to keep the ball in play. You keep finding ways to adjust to the faster pace of these tables. I will have to find practice time to get better for the matches ahead,” revealed the nine-time National champion who next plays qualifier Shivam Das. On a day when the qualifying phase sent 64 men and 40 women into the main draws, Payas Jain celebrated the news of becoming World No. 1 spot in the under-17 section by posting a confidence-boosting 13-11, 11-7, 11-8, 12-10 triumph over 23-year-old Sarthak Gandhi. He will take on left-handed 13th seed Jubin Kumar in the third round. Rosario stuns Nandi Though most matches produced expected winners, Haryana’s Wesley Do Rosario knocked out seasoned Railway campaigner Anirban Nandi 9-11, 2-11, 11-8, 12-10, 11-9, 11-9. Second seed Manav Thakkar, former National champions Soumyajit Ghosh and Sanil Shetty, seeded three and four, along with lower seeds Jeet Chandra, Sudhanshu Grover, Abhishek Yadav, Arjun Ghosh, defending champion Anthony Amalraj, Ronit Bhanja, Sourav Saha and F.R. Snehit advanced as anticipated. Mudit Dani, who got a walkover against Parth Virmani to reach the main draw, won against Uttarakhand's Gautam Dhruvansh in five sets and set up a third-round clash against 14th seed Manush Shah. In the women’s section, where the seeded players join the action on Wednesday morning, young Yashaswini Ghorpade took out Bengal’s Munmun Ghosh for a place against Lakshita Narang in the second round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-eases-into-the-third-round/article37082051.ece
20 October 2021||London,||Arsenal escapes with a draw against Palace||Patrick Vieira nearly enjoyed a dream return to Arsenal but Alexandre Lacazette’s 96th minute equaliser salvaged a 2-2 draw for the Gunners against Crystal Palace on Monday. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang’s seventh-minute strike gave the hosts the perfect start. But a five-game unbeaten stretch that had lifted the mood around the Emirates looked set to be punctured as Christian Benteke and Odsonne Edouard struck in the second-half to give the Eagles a deserved lead. Vieira’s men failed to hold out, though, as with seconds to spare Lacazette scrambled home from a corner. “It was so close but we have been saying that a little bit too often,” said Vieira, whose side has drawn five of its eight league games this season. A share of the spoils moves Arsenal up to 12th, but the performance did little to suggest it will trouble the contenders for places in next season’s Champions League come the end of the season. Promoted Venezia earned its first Serie A home win in nearly two decades after beating Fiorentina 1-0 on Monday. Mattia Aramu scored into an empty net late in the first half after a perfect set up from Gianluca Busio and Thomas Henry left the goalkeeper out of position. Fiorentina, which had won three of four away matches, was reduced to 10 men when Riccardo Sottil picked up his second yellow card in the 77th minute. Espanyol followed up its shock win against Spanish league leader Real Madrid with a 2-0 victory over Cadiz on Monday. Raul de Tomas and Nico Melamed scored in each half to give Espanyol its third win in four matches. It was coming off a 2-1 win over Madrid before the international break. The home victory moved the Barcelona club to 11th place. Borja Iglesias scored in the 89th to give Real Betis a 1-0 win over Alaves for its fourth victory in five matches in all competitions.  The results: Premier League: Arsenal 2 (Aubameyang 7, Lacazette 90+5) drew with Crystal Palace 2 (Benteke 50, Edouard 73).   La Liga: Alaves 0 lost to Real Betis 1 (Iglesias 89); Espanyol 2 (de Tomas 45+2, Melamed 65) bt Cadiz 0.   Serie A: Venezia 1 (Aramu 36) bt Fiorentina 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arsenal-manages-a-draw-with-palace/article37082056.ece
20 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Mondal starts off with two new records||Bengal’s Swadesh Mondal set two new junior National records on the opening day of the sub-junior and junior National Aquatic Championships at the Basavanagudi Aquatic Centre on Tuesday. In Group I boys’ category, Mondal bettered S.P. Likhith’s 100m breaststroke mark by nearly three-hundredth of a second, coming home in 1:05.47s. For his second new best timing of the day, he shaved more than a second off Neel Roy’s record in 200m IM, touching the pad in 2:08.88s. In Group III girls’ category, Dhinidhi Desinghu set a new 200m freestyle record, winning in 2:14.94s, more than two-and-a-half seconds faster than Monique Gandhi’s timing from 2010. There were also records for R. Sambhavv (Group I boys, 200m freestyle) and Apeksha Fernandes (Group I girls, 200m IM).  The results (winners all): Boys: Group I: 200m freestyle: R. Sambhavv (Kar), 1:53.41s (NMR; OR: 1:53.54, Srihari Nataraj (Kar), 2018); 100m breaststroke: Swadesh Mondal (WB), 1:05.47 (NMR; OR: 1:05.75, S.P. Likhith (Kar), Pune 2015); 200m IM: Mondal, 2:08.88 (NMR; OR: 2:10.26, Neel Roy (Mah), 2018).   Group II: 200m freestyle: Pranjal Pandey (MP), 2:04.82; 200m IM: Pavan Dhananjaya (Kar), 2:19.30.   Group III: 200m freestyle: M. Yagna Sai (AP), 2:20.71; 100m breaststroke: M.S. Nitheesh (TN), 1:17.46.   Group IV: 200m freestyle: Sharan Sridhara (Kar), 2:24.39; 100m breaststroke: Shabarish Vishwanathan (TN), 1:29.68.   Group V: 100m breaststroke: Jas Singh (Kar), 1:33.78; 200m IM: Jas, 2:52.65.   Girls: Group I: 200m freestyle: Aanya Wala (Mah), 2:09.86s; 200m IM: Apeksha Fernandes (Mah), 2:26.57 (NMR; OR: 2:27.34, A.V. Jayaveena (TN), 2014).   Group II: 200m freestyle: Hashika Ramachandra (Kar), 2:11.37; 200m IM: Manavi Varma (Kar), 2:29.77.   Group III: 200m freestyle: Dhinidhi Desinghu (Kar), 2:14.94 (NMR; OR: 2:17.52, Monique Gandhi (Mah), 2010); 100m breaststroke: Tisya Sonar (Kar), 1:27.14.   Group IV: 200m freestyle: Alyssa Sweedal Rego (Kar), 2:33.65; 100m breaststroke: Zeal Malani (Mah), 1:32.34.   Group V: 100m breaststroke: Adriza Chetia (Asm), 1:33.87; 200m IM: Adriza, 3:05.04 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mondal-sets-two-new-records/article37082058.ece
20 October 2021||Al Amerat (Oman),||Oman restricts Bangladesh to 153||Opener Mohammad Naim struck a fine half-cetury before co-host Oman bowled out Bangladesh for 153 in their Group B match here on Tuesday. Opting to bat in a must-win game, Bangladesh, which had lost its tournament opener to Scotland, struggled to 29 for the loss of two wickets in PowerPlay. With their backs up against the wall, Naim, who hit 64 (5b1, 4x6, 3x4) , and star all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan (42, 29b, 6x4 ) shared an 81-run stand to give the side the momentum. Fielding lapses Dropped catches and sloppy fielding added to the two batters’ increasing confidence. While Fayyaz Butt, who played U-19 cricket for Pakistan, pulled off a stunning catch of his bowling to get rid of Mahedi Hasan for a duck, Oman was guilty of dropping as many as three catches. However, a brilliant piece of fielding that saw Shakib being run out that saw the spring return in Oman’s step. It seized the momentum, snaring six wickets for 41 runs in the last five overs.  The scores: Bangladesh 153 in 20 overs (Mohd. Naim 64, Shakib Al Hasan 42, Fayyaz Butt 3/30, Bilal Khan 3/18) vs. Oman. Toss: Bangladesh .   Oman 104 for five Oman was 104 for five in 16 overs, chasing Bangladesh’s 153||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/oman-restricts-bangladesh-to-153/article37081895.ece
20 October 2021||Al Amerat,||Shakib’s all-round show takes Bangladesh home||Star all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan took three wickets and scored 42 as Bangladesh hammered host Oman by 26 runs on Tuesday to win its first match of the Twenty20 World Cup and stay alive in the competition. World No. 6 Bangladesh came into the contest needing a win to stay in the hunt for the Super 12 stage and was bowled out for 153 after electing to bat. Bouncing back Mustafizur Rahman, who returned figures of four for 36, and Shakib then shared seven wickets between them to keep down Oman to 127 for nine and help Bangladesh bounce back from the opening Group B loss to Scotland. Oman opener Jatinder Singh smashed 40 off 33 balls before falling to Shakib’s left-arm spin. Left-handed opener Mohammad Naim, who smashed 64 off 50 balls, and Shakib set up the victory for Bangladesh with a key third-wicket stand of 80 after the Tigers lost two early wickets. Oman fast bowlers Bilal Khan and Fayyaz Butt took three wickets each to peg back Bangladesh after the big partnership. Naim, who replaced Soumya Sarkar for the key match, survived two dropped catches on 18 and 26 to go on and raise his third T20 half-century.  The scores:   Bangladesh 153 in 20 overs (Mohd. Naim 64, Shakib Al Hasan 42, Bilal Khan 3/18, Fayyaz Butt 3/30) bt Oman 127/9 in 20 overs (Jatinder Singh 40, Mustafizur Rahman 4/36, Shakib Al Hasan 3/28).   Toss: Bangladesh. Bangladesh won by 26 runs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shakibs-all-round-show-takes-bangladesh-home/article37082044.ece
20 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Payas Jain becomes u-17 World No. 1||Payas Jain became the World No. 1 in boys’ under-17 rankings released by the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) on Tuesday. The reigning National youth and junior champion surpassed his previous best of World No. 2 after winning three titles — in Otocec, Tunis and Muscat — this season. Even in the u-19 section, Payas climbed to seventh spot — a jump of five places from last week. Among the girls, there were quite a few Indians in single-digit world rankings. Swastika Ghosh and Yashaswini Ghorpade held the seventh and eighth spots in the u-19 rankings. Yashaswini is also placed fifth in the u-17 section. Suhana Saini, winner of titles in Slovenia, Tunisia and Oman in the WTT youth series this season, is placed fourth in u-15, Hansini Mathan Rajan is ranked third in u-13 and Dhani Jain is second in u-11.  World youth rankings (top-two Indians): Boys:, u-19: 7. Payas Jain, 36. Yashansh Malik; U-17: 1. Payas Jain, 30. Preyash Raj; U-15: 8. Preyash Raj, 27. Ankur Bhattacharya; U-13: 11. P.B. Abhinandh, 15. Atherva Gupta; U-11: 6. Vishruth Ramakrishnan, 19. Aarnav Chandra.   Girls, u-19: 7. Swastika Ghosh, 8. Yashaswini Ghorpade; U-17: 5. Yashaswini Ghorpade, 12. Suhana Saini; U-15: 4. Suhana Saini, 21. Hansini Mathan Rajan; U-13: 3. Hansini Mathan Rajan, 11. Dhaani Jain; U-11: 2. Dhaani Jain, 9. Ananya Muralidharan .   Surpasses his previous best of World No. 2 after winning three titles this season||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/payas-jain-becomes-u-17-world-no-1/article37082055.ece
20 October 2021||KOLKATA,||Relief for Timir Chanda||The Tripura High Court has dismissed a petition challenging a lower court order which asked not to give effect to the Tripura Cricket Association Apex Council resolution, dated March 13, 2021, of no-confidence against its secretary Timir Chanda. TCA president Manik Saha, in a letter dated March 15, 2021, had asked Chanda not to continue as the secretary. The letter claimed that the no-confidence motion was placed “on the basis of activities which restrict the ongoing development and not within the interest of TCA.” “My removal was illegal as they never followed the TCA constitution. So, I had to go to the court. I continue to be the secretary of TCA,” said Chanda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/relief-for-timir-chanda/article37082448.ece
20 October 2021||MUMBAI,||CM to attend Mantri centenary function||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will attend the Mumbai Cricket Association’s (MCA’s) special function to mark the birth centenary of former Mumbai captain, India wicketkeeper and MCA president Madhav Mantri on October 29. Milind Narvekar, the chairman of Mumbai T20 League, proposed Thackeray to be invited during Tuesday’s MCA apex council meeting. The meeting passed the proposal and Narvekar confirmed with Thackeray about his availability. As a result, the function will witness a political jugalbandi besides cricketing legends. Sharad Pawar, the former MCA, BCCI and ICC president, had already been confirmed as the chief guest for the function that will also unveil the Sunil Gavaskar Hospitality Box and the Dilip Vengsarkar North Stand. Former India batter G. Viswanath, also Gavaskar’s brother-in-law, will be the Guest of Honour for the function, which will be attended by Gavaskar and Vengsarkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cm-to-attend-mantri-centenary-function/article37082423.ece
20 October 2021||LONDON,||MCC honour for Srinath, Harbhajan||Harbhajan Singh and Javagal Srinath were among 18 cricketers who where awarded honorary life memberships by the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) here on Tuesday. Harbhajan has 417 Test wickets and more than 700 international wickets. Srinath took 315 and 236 ODI and Test wickets respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mcc-honour-for-srinath-harbhajan/article37081900.ece
20 October 2021||Abu Dhabi,||The Dutch will look to bounce back||The Netherlands would look to regroup after a comprehensive loss to Ireland and open its account when it takes on tournament debutants Namibia in a must-win match of the T20 World Cup's first round here on Wednesday. Blown away The Dutch were simply blown away by the stunning four wickets in four-balls by Ireland pacer Curtis Campher and they would hope to quickly forget the loss and post a win against Namibia in the Group-A game.  The likes of Ryan ten Doeschate, best remembered for his incredible century against England in the 2011 World Cup, would look to score big against the Namibian bowlers and help the side win its first match.  For the inexperienced Namibians, skipper Gerhard Erasmus and all-rounder David Wiese, who has earlier played 24 T20Is for South Africa, hold the key.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-dutch-will-look-to-bounce-back/article37081901.ece
20 October 2021||London,||Livingstone doubtful after finger injury||England all-rounder Liam Livingstone is doubtful for the T20 World Cup after suffering a finger injury in his side’s first practice game against India in Dubai. According to a report in Sky Sports , England will assess Livingstone’s injury in the next 24 hours and take a call on his availability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/livingstone-doubtful-after-finger-injury/article37081904.ece
20 October 2021||AL AMERAT (OMAN),||Berrington stars for Scotland||Richie Berrington smashed 70 to set up Scotland’s second successive victory at the T20 World Cup as it defeated Papua New Guinea by 17 runs on Tuesday. Scotland is now on the verge of making the Super 12 stage. Scotland rode on a crucial 92-run third-wicket stand between Berrington and Matthew Cross, who hit 45, to post 165 for nine after electing to bat. Fast bowler Josh Davey returned career-best figures of four for 18 to help bowl out Papua New Guinea for 148 in 19.3 overs despite a 37-ball 47 from Norman Vanua. Berrington stood out with his attacking batting to lift Scotland from 26 for two. Berrington hit three sixes including one which was measured at 97 metres — the longest in the tournament so far — and six fours in his 49-ball knock.   The scores: Scotland 165/9 in 20 overs (Matthew Cross 45, Richie Berrington 70, Kabua Morea 4/31, Chad Soper 3/24) bt Papua New Guinea 148 in 19.3 overs (Norman Vanua 47, Sese Bau 24, Josh Davey 4/18). Toss: Scotland.   Scotland won by 17 runs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/berrington-stars-for-scotland/article37081906.ece
20 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Natl. shooting at three centres||The 64th National shooting championship will be staged in Delhi, Bhopal and Patiala over the next two months.  The schedule: Pistol: Nov. 18 to Dec. 6 (Dr. Karni Singh Range, Tughlakabad); Rifle: Nov. 25 to Dec. 10 (M.P. State shooting academy, Goregaon, Bhopal); Shotgun (trap, double trap and skeet): Nov. 22 to Dec. 14 (New Moti Bagh Gun Cub, Patiala) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/natl-shooting-at-three-centres/article37082049.ece
20 October 2021||MOSCOW,||Ramkumar falters||Ramkumar Ramanathan was beaten 6-3, 6-4 by top seed Egor Gerasimov of Russia in the first qualifying round of the $779,515 ATP tennis here. In the WTA event in Tenerife, Spain, Ankita Raina was beaten 6-3, 6-2 in the first qualifying round by Mandy Minella of Luxembourg.  The results: $779,515 ATP, Moscow: Qualifying (first round): Egor Gerasimov (Rus) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-3, 6-4.   $235,238 WTA, Tenerife, Spain: Qualifying (first round): Mandy Minella (Lux) bt Ankita Raina 6-3, 6-2.   €44,820 Challenger, Veli Losinj, Croatia: First round: Filip Misolic (Aut) bt Arjun Kadhe 6-3, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, Girona, Spain: First round: Alexander Weis (Ita) bt Manish Sureshkumar 2-6, 7-6(2), 6-2.   $15,000 ITF, Monastir: Men: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Niki Poonacha & Sidharth Rawat bt Zakai Stone (US) & Matas Vasiliauskas (Ltu) 6-4, 6-3.   Women: First round: Jennifer Luikham bt Naoko Eto (Jpn) 6-3, 6-4.   $25,000 ITF women, Seville: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Sapfo Sakellaridi (Gre) & Sathwika Sama bt Beatrice Laura Pirtac (Irl) & Sowjanya Bavisetti 6-0, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF women, Sharm El Sheikh: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Divine Dasam Nweke (Den) & Shreya Tatavarthy bt Sumin Kim (Kor) & Tatiana Zelenko (Rus) 6-2, 6-1; Maria Lota Kaul (Est) & Emily Welker (Ger) bt Xichen Zhao (Chn) & Kaaviya Balasubramanian 6-2, 7-5; Man Ying Maggie Ng (Hkg) & Demi Tran (Ned) bt Zhuoxuan Bai (Chn) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-3, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-falters/article37082050.ece
20 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Veda Krishnamurthy to lead Karnataka||Veda Krishnamurthy will lead Karnataka in the BCCI senior women’s one day trophy, which commences at Nagpur on October 31.  The squad: Veda Krishnamurthy (captain), G. Divya (vice captain), K. Rakshitha, Shubha Sateesh, C. Prathyusha, Monica Patel, G. Rameshwari, Akanksha Kohli, Prathyoosha Kumar, B. Sanjana, Sahana Pawar, Shreyanka Patil, V. Chandu, Vrinda Dinesh, Aditi Rajesh, Anagha Murali, Niki Prasad, Sowmya Gowda, Shishira Gowda, Ashmera Banu. Coach: Mamatha Maben .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/veda-krishnamurthy-to-lead-karnataka/article37082406.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Different angles||It is said that the Vedas took an avatara as Valmiki’s Ramayana. Vedanta Desika says that Ramayana is superior to the Vedas. This is because it highlights the Lord’s qualities much better than the Vedas do. In fact, the purpose of the Ramayana itself is to throw light on His qualities. Vashnava Acharyas have looked at the Ramayana from a Vedantic angle, said Navalpakkam Vasudevachariar in a discourse. We understand saranagati, Para Tattva, Parama purushartha etc by reading the Ramayana. The Ramayana can also be looked at from other angles. It tells us the dharma to be followed by each one of us. It is of use to us as we carry out our day-to-day activities. It is like reading the purva bhaga of the Vedas. And of course, it can be looked at as literature, and enjoyed by everyone. It is a pleasing kavya, and we can admire the choice of words, and Valmiki’s presentation. Vedanta Desika says that no poet was born to equal Valmiki. As a story too, the Ramayana has something for everyone, from child to adult. Valmiki gives us nothing but the truth. That is because every conversation in the Ramayana is an accurate reporting by Valmiki. Brahma gave him the boon of being able to see and hear all that happened during the Rama avatara. So his work is a truthful account of what happened. And the entire work of 24,000 slokas has come down to us intact. It is seldom that a work is handed down from generation to generation, without even a small portion being lost. The Ramyana is an ocean, which contains many gems. In the case of an ocean, one must get to the depths to obtain the gems. In the same way, one must study the Ramayana deeply to get to the gems it holds inside it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/different-angles/article37081862.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 07:25 IST,||Sudoku — October 20, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-20-2021/article37082596.ece
20 October 2021||October 20 2021 00:00 IST,||New goals for Indian NFTs||Known as the ‘NFT-Punk’, Raghava KK is riding the non-fungible token wave. At Boundless Space, the group charity auction by Sotheby’s and Burning Man, he made a $94,500 splash as his NFT, La Petite Mort (part of The Orgasm Project ) went under the digital hammer, after a starting bid of just $100! The ‘phygital’ piece (with a digital as well as a physical artwork, both of which belongs to the bidder) was created in collaboration with data scientist Harshit Agrawal, neuroscientist Abhijeet Satani and material scientist Ben Tritt — to explore how humans contend with love, loss, boundaries, introspection and the like. The online auction featured over 150 artists and Raghava’s was among the top five bids. (The highest bid was $1,08,000 for photographer Peter Ruprecht’s work.) When I first met Raghava in Mumbai, at the Ashish Balram Nagpal Gallery at Radio Club way back in 2003-’04, he told me that he ‘loves painting with his hands and sometimes his feet’. I remember being sceptical. Yes, he was witty and clever, an upwardly mobile toon-gen artist, but was he someone to look out for, who would set new trends? This was right after he had made a big splash as a droll newspaper cartoonist known for his bold line and an eye for ‘telling it like it is’. When he established himself in the US in 2012, he was collected by the likes of Paul Simon, Jeff Bezos and Shah Rukh Khan. Now, as he cracks the Indian presence in the world of NFTs with a mammoth sale, the art world is sitting up and taking notice of the boy from Bengaluru who has made it big in New York, once again.  Down, but never out  “I want the world to have a bit of disruptive India in their collections. This disruptive technology has the potential to create utopias and dystopias — as with any technology,” says Raghava, adding, “Exclusivity is rare in a capitalistic economy, but crypto investors, typically libertarian, look to break out of this. It’s an anti-political statement to re-establish the real-world art system.” Working with curatorial advisor Myna Mukherjee, who advised Sotheby’s on the project — and who is also featuring his work at Artissima, with co-curator Davide Quadrio, in Turin, Italy, next month — Raghava, 41, can finally say he is a ‘trendsetter’. This, given that he had an uphill task shushing naysayers with his grit and dedication to his work, especially since he does not come from a ‘typical art background’. Many took umbrage with his blurring of high art and popular art. His oeuvre spans painting, sculpture, installation, film and iPad art, always linked by his challenging opinions on identity, conformity, gender. Raghava even viewed his lavish wedding — in 2007 to actor-musician Netra — as a piece of performance art. Here is an artist who once said, “Be a dude before you can become an ascetic, be a rock star even if it is in your own house!” However, it was not just in his own house that Raghava was practising his larger-than-life style. A decade ago, he was known for his 9/11 caricature of Osama Bin Laden that raked up enough of its share of controversy. “After the 9/11 incident, I swore I would never do cartoons but, of course, I could not stick to my promise — to stay away from being creative. I cherish change the most; it gives me the opportunity to reinvent myself,” he says. So, when he got divorced a few years ago, he “went on a new journey of reinventing myself and exploring new experiences. The minute I feel comfortable, I begin to itch, and I try to throw myself into the midst of anarchy”, he quips, adding, “The only times you learn is when you feel vulnerable, because you're forced to do something different. You develop new skills when you're down.”  Constantly challenging himself  Raghava has collaborated with American singer Erykah Badu to design T-shirts for her charity, Blind, curated India’s first AI art show in 2018, created artwork for musician Paul Simon’s concert tour, even participated in an education initiative at NuVu Studios, an offshoot of Harvard and MIT, where he helped develop a new form of participatory art (enabling paintings to become touch screens within picture frames). Art has helped him be relevant. “I’m always rethinking my idea of what the role of art in the world is.” He acknowledges that technology, because of the “endless possibilities it offers”, is important to his work — especially since it can bring artists, technologists and scientists from around the globe together, to create. “It is essential for artists to think like scientists and be rigorous in their perception and thought process. At the same time, scientists need to be more creative in how they look at the world. I think it is very important to bring these worlds together for a better tomorrow.”  Will the bubble burst soon?  However, not everyone is as keen about jumping into tech pixel. After the big splash made by Beeple’s NFT Everydays: the First 5000 Days , which sold for $69 million at the beginning of March this year, the raised eyebrows persist, as does the chitter-chatter in art circuits about whether this is a bubble that will burst soon. But with Raghava’s collaborative work setting a new record for NFTs by Indian artists, it looks like the bubble is far from bursting. He is excited to première a work from his new body of work, Edges , at Artissima in Italy next month. He is also featuring Strange Genders — created using AI — a collaborative piece with Harshit Agrawal and 64/1, that talks about the gender spectrum. “[64/1] is an art collective started by my brother Karthik and me that focusses on blurring art, art criticism and art education. The work is going to be featured at Classical Radical, a museum show associated with Artissima. I’m also looking forward to more shows with Le Petit Mort series. [There will be] a major exhibition and projects that I’ll be bringing over in collaboration with [Myna Mukherjee’s] Engendered early next year,” he concludes.  Continued on page 6 Known as the ‘NFT-Punk’, Raghava KK is riding the non-fungible token wave. At Boundless Space, the group charity auction by Sotheby’s and Burning Man, he made a $94,500 splash as his NFT, La Petite Mort (part of The Orgasm Project ) went under the digital hammer, after a starting bid of just $100! The ‘phygital’ piece (with a digital as well as a physical artwork, both of which belongs to the bidder) was created in collaboration with data scientist Harshit Agrawal, neuroscientist Abhijeet Satani and material scientist Ben Tritt — to explore how humans contend with love, loss, boundaries, introspection and the like. The online auction featured over 150 artists and Raghava’s was among the top five bids. (The highest bid was $1,08,000 for photographer Peter Ruprecht’s work.) When I first met Raghava in Mumbai, at the Ashish Balram Nagpal Gallery at Radio Club way back in 2003-’04, he told me that he ‘loves painting with his hands and sometimes his feet’. I remember being sceptical. Yes, he was witty and clever, an upwardly mobile toon-gen artist, but was he someone to look out for, who would set new trends? This was right after he had made a big splash as a droll newspaper cartoonist known for his bold line and an eye for ‘telling it like it is’. When he established himself in the US in 2012, he was collected by the likes of Paul Simon, Jeff Bezos and Shah Rukh Khan. Now, as he cracks the Indian presence in the world of NFTs with a mammoth sale, the art world is sitting up and taking notice of the boy from Bengaluru who has made it big in New York, once again.  Down, but never out  “I want the world to have a bit of disruptive India in their collections. This disruptive technology has the potential to create utopias and dystopias — as with any technology,” says Raghava, adding, “Exclusivity is rare in a capitalistic economy, but crypto investors, typically libertarian, look to break out of this. It’s an anti-political statement to re-establish the real-world art system.” Working with curatorial advisor Myna Mukherjee, who advised Sotheby’s on the project — and who is also featuring his work at Artissima, with co-curator Davide Quadrio, in Turin, Italy, next month — Raghava, 41, can finally say he is a ‘trendsetter’. This, given that he had an uphill task shushing naysayers with his grit and dedication to his work, especially since he does not come from a ‘typical art background’. Many took umbrage with his blurring of high art and popular art. His oeuvre spans painting, sculpture, installation, film and iPad art, always linked by his challenging opinions on identity, conformity, gender. Raghava even viewed his lavish wedding — in 2007 to actor-musician Netra — as a piece of performance art. Here is an artist who once said, “Be a dude before you can become an ascetic, be a rock star even if it is in your own house!” However, it was not just in his own house that Raghava was practising his larger-than-life style. A decade ago, he was known for his 9/11 caricature of Osama Bin Laden that raked up enough of its share of controversy. “After the 9/11 incident, I swore I would never do cartoons but, of course, I could not stick to my promise — to stay away from being creative. I cherish change the most; it gives me the opportunity to reinvent myself,” he says. So, when he got divorced a few years ago, he “went on a new journey of reinventing myself and exploring new experiences. The minute I feel comfortable, I begin to itch, and I try to throw myself into the midst of anarchy”, he quips, adding, “The only times you learn is when you feel vulnerable, because you're forced to do something different. You develop new skills when you're down.”  Constantly challenging himself  Raghava has collaborated with American singer Erykah Badu to design T-shirts for her charity, Blind, curated India’s first AI art show in 2018, created artwork for musician Paul Simon’s concert tour, even participated in an education initiative at NuVu Studios, an offshoot of Harvard and MIT, where he helped develop a new form of participatory art (enabling paintings to become touch screens within picture frames). Art has helped him be relevant. “I’m always rethinking my idea of what the role of art in the world is.” He acknowledges that technology, because of the “endless possibilities it offers”, is important to his work — especially since it can bring artists, technologists and scientists from around the globe together, to create. “It is essential for artists to think like scientists and be rigorous in their perception and thought process. At the same time, scientists need to be more creative in how they look at the world. I think it is very important to bring these worlds together for a better tomorrow.” However, not everyone is as keen about jumping into tech pixel. After the big splash made by Beeple’s NFT Everydays: the First 5000 Days , which sold for $69 million at the beginning of March this year, the raised eyebrows persist, as does the chitter-chatter in art circuits about whether this is a bubble that will burst soon. But with Raghava’s collaborative work setting a new record for NFTs by Indian artists, it looks like the bubble is far from bursting. He is excited to première a work from his new body of work, Edges , at Artissima in Italy next month. He is also featuring Strange Genders — created using AI — a collaborative piece with Harshit Agrawal and 64/1, that talks about the gender spectrum. “[64/1] is an art collective started by my brother Karthik and me that focusses on blurring art, art criticism and art education. The work is going to be featured at Classical Radical, a museum show associated with Artissima. I’m also looking forward to more shows with Le Petit Mort series. [There will be] a major exhibition and projects that I’ll be bringing over in collaboration with [Myna Mukherjee’s] Engendered early next year,” he concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-goals-for-indian-nfts/article37082369.ece
