21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.P. ‘dragging its feet’ in Lakhimpur case: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday found it hard to dispel the impression that the Uttar Pradesh Government is “dragging its feet” in the Lakhimpur Kheri case, in which a Union Minister’s son is accused of mowing down protesting farmers with an SUV. A three-judge Bench, led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, discovered from a status report filed by the Government just minutes before the hearing that only four of the 44 witnesses to the brutal incident had given their statements to the judicial magistrate so far. The incident, which allegedly involves the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni, occurred on October 3. A statement recorded by a magistrate under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) is valuable later during trial as corroborative evidence. It can be used to bolster the prosecution case against the accused. Any delay in recording statements under Section 164 of the CrPC creates room for influencing the witnesses. ‘Festival delay’ Senior advocate Harish Salve, for Uttar Pradesh, said he was instructed that the delay occurred due to the Dasara holidays. The courts were closed for the festival. “What is the connection between Dasara vacation and criminal courts?” Chief Justice Ramana shot back. Justice Surya Kant said, “Why have the statements of only four witnesses been recorded out of 44? Your Special Investigation Team is the best person to know who can be browbeaten.” The State’s Additional Advocate-General, Garima Parshad, said the police had not wasted time and, in the meanwhile, “reconstructed the crime scene”. Chief Justice Ramana addressed Ms. Parshad, “The reconstruction of the crime is different from recording the Section 164 CrPC statements of witnesses. Our question is why were they not taken all this while?” Justice Hima Kohli, on the Bench, told the State, “We think you are dragging your feet... Please dispel the impression.” Chief Justice Ramana told Mr. Salve, “Please tell them to start on the Section 164 statements... ” The senior lawyer urged the court to adjourn the case to next week. He promised that things would be cleared up by then. He said that in the last hearing on October 8, the court voiced doubts whether the State was “going soft” on the accused. “How many of the accused have been arrested?” the CJI asked. Mr. Salve said 10 have been arrested in the case of the farmers’ deaths. He highlighted that there were two crimes involved. One was regarding the running over of farmers and the other concerning the lynching of three people in the ensuing violence. He submitted that the second incident was “more difficult to investigate” as it was a mob that was involved. The court observed that the case needed to be bifurcated. The Bench, which had taken suo motu cognisance of the Lakhimpur Kheri events, said it would first focus on the farmers deaths. The court finally adjourned the hearing to October 26, giving time for U.P. to provide more information about their investigation. “You gave the status report at the last minute... How are we supposed to read it? Last night, we waited till 1 o’clock for the material... Nothing. Please file the reports early,” the CJI addressed the State side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-feels-up-is-dragging-its-feet-on-lakhimpur-kheri-probe/article37101610.ece
21 October 2021||Palakkad,||Landslips cause heavy damage in Palakkad||Heavy rain caused landslips and destruction in four places at Mangalam Dam and Palakkuzhi in the district on Wednesday evening. As many as 50 families were shifted to safer places even as the rain continued through the night. Roads, houses damaged Several roads were destroyed in the rain and the landslip. Over a dozen houses were damaged and crops were destroyed. Landslips were spotted at Odamthodu, Padangittathodu, VRT Kava, Kalkuzhi and Viranganpara. However, the exact gravity of the landslips could not be measured as they took place deep inside the forests. It rained torrentially after 4 p.m. and continued for over an hour, causing the destruction. Streams and canals were flooded. People living on the banks were asked to evacuate. A few families living on the hills of Odamthodu had already evacuated following warnings from the authorities. Over two dozen families living in VRT Kava were shifted to a church. The police, revenue and forest authorities joined hands with the local people in the rescue work. As the inflow into the Mangalam reservoir increased, the dam’s shutters were raised to 40 cm. Seven camps As many as 273 people were shifted to seven relief camps functioning in four taluks in the district. While 103 people from 36 families were in Holy Family Convent Upper Primary School at Pottassery in Kanjirapuzha panchayat, 10 were in GVHSS at Koonathara, six in Karattukurissi LP School, 33 in Kizhur Upper Primary School, and 10 in PTM Higher Secondary School, Thrikkaderi. As many as 79 people were in Holy Family School at Malampuzha, and 32 in Pre-Matric Hostel at Ayilur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/landslips-cause-heavy-damage-in-palakkad/article37101981.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian team meets Taliban Dy. PM||India joined a 10-nation statement recognising the “new reality” of the Taliban in power in Afghanistan at the Moscow format meeting on Wednesday, as Indian officials reportedly met Taliban Deputy Prime Minister Abdul Salam Hanafi and offered humanitarian aid to the regime in Kabul. News of the meeting between the Taliban delegation and J.P. Singh, Joint Secretary for Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran, Ministry of External Affairs, was reported over the Twitter handle of the Taliban Deputy Information and Broadcasting Minister and spokesperson, Zabihullah Mujahid. The MEA made no immediate comment, but Government sources confirmed to The Hindu that the meeting had taken place, and India was considering donation of a large consignment of wheat and other aid to Afghanistan. “Both sides considered it necessary to take into account each other’s concerns and improve diplomatic and economic relations. The Indian side finally expressed readiness to provide a wide range of humanitarian assistance to the Afghans,” Mr. Mujahid said in a series of tweets announcing the meeting between “the Special Representative of India for Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan” and Mr. Hanafi in Moscow. This would be the first time India has officially announced aid for Afghanistan after the August 15 takeover of Kabul by the Taliban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indian-team-meets-taliban-dy-pm/article37101662.ece
21 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Accused in illegal sand transportation crash into police barricade, arrested||The police on Wednesday arrested two persons said to be involved in illegal sand transportation and also gatecrashing their vehicles into a police barricade at Farangipet in the morning and endangering lives of personnel at the check-post. They gave the names of the arrested persons as Abdul Isaq and Mohiuddin Apsar. A lorry filled with sand and a car, which was trailing the lorry, were seized. On a tip-off, a team of policemen was waiting on National Highway 73 near Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management to check vehicles said to be involved in illegal sand transportation. The team saw the lorry coming from Arafa Dakke, which is on the banks of the Netravathi, towards the National Highway at around 2 a.m. Then, the police asked the driver of the lorry to stop. But the drivers of the sand-laden lorry and the car that was trailing the lorry did not stop but drove away. Soon the police team followed the two vehicles. As the two vehicles approached Farangipet Check-post, police constable Shekar Chowgala and a Home Guard, who were on duty, asked the drivers of the two vehicles to stop, the police said. But the drivers crashed their vehicles against the barricade. The police constable and the Home Guard, who escaped from being hit by the two vehicles, tried giving a chase to the two vehicles. Then, the lorry driver and the car driver stopped the vehicles, abused the two personnel and went towards Brahamara Kudlu. The Bantwal Rural Police, later, traced the two vehicles and arrested the drivers. The Mangaluru Rural Police registered a case under Section 353 of Indian Penal Code. The Bantwal Rural Police registered a case under Sections 307, 353, 279 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code. In another incident, the Ullal Police arrested on Wednesday two persons and seized two lorries filled with sand. The police team raided an illegal sand yard near the Uchhila sea shore and seized the lorries at around 1 a.m. They also seized three motorcycles that belonged to the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/accused-in-illegal-sand-transportation-crash-into-police-barricade-arrested/article37102223.ece
21 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Will resettle people from disaster-prone areas: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the Government will resettle people living in natural disaster-prone localities in the State. Climate risk mitigation topped the Government’s agenda. Kerala could ill afford to lose lives to extreme weather every rainy season. People were loath to leave their land and resettle elsewhere. Hard choice The Government faced the hard choice of persuading them to put their roots down in safer localities. The administration would provide them modern housing and ensure their rehabilitation. Mr. Vijayan, at a press briefing here on Wednesday, dispelled the criticism that the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) weather warning for Kerala was inaccurate. The IMD works with the scientific tools at its disposal. It had some limitations. It could not, for instance, predict how much rain would fall in a specific area. Margin of error “It is not as if the agency has deliberately misled the government. There is always a margin of error in any micro-level weather model,” Mr. Vijayan said. On Tuesday, Revenue Minister K. Rajan’s had said the IMD had predicted moderate weather (green alert) in Kottayam on October 17. However, heavy rain, mudslip and floods had ravaged the district. Mr. Vijayan also rebutted Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan’s criticism that nothing had come of his high-profile visit to the Netherlands to study flood mitigation. Left fellow traveller Cheriyan Philip had also echoed a similar sentiment.Mr. Vijayan said cleaning up choked rivers and restoring water flow could not be solved at a stroke. The Government would achieve the target incrementally. "Room for the River" had already become a people's campaign, he said. When pressed about Mr. Philip’s criticism of the government flood response, Mr. Vijayan said: “Mr. Cheriyan had left the Congress and cooperated with the CPI(M). We had given due accommodation. I do not know the cause for his current anxiety,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Satheesan’s portrayal of the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority as a "disaster in itself" had no factual backing. Mr. Vijayan said Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyaz had merely echoed the party line when he told MLAs should not meet Ministers in the company of contractors. He had taken a similar stance when he was Power Minister in 1996. He declared a moratorium on loan recovery till December 31, given the economic downturn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-resettle-people-living-in-disaster-prone-areas-cm/article37101976.ece
21 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Sufficient warning was given: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had provided sufficient warning to the State regarding heavy rainfall activity, IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra has said. The weather agency had issued orange alerts for heavy to very heavy rainfall five days in advance. Orange-level alerts were upgraded to red on October 16 when the rainfall activity peaked, said Dr. Mohapatra on Wednesday. “District-level warnings were issued by the Meteorological Centre there (Thiruvananthapuram). The IMD Headquarters was providing the subdivision-level warnings,”' he said, adding that Nowcast warnings, for every three hours, were being issued as well. Short, intense spells such as the ones reported in parts of the State on October 16 cannot be predicted three or five days in advance. Nowcast warnings were issued for this purpose, according to him. Significant improvement Dr. Mohapatra said weather forecasting had improved significantly over the past decade, but there was always scope for improvement. “It is an ongoing process. The IMD and the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) are trying to improve it. We are now able to provide district-level alerts, which are also impact-based warnings, three to five days in advance for heavy rainfall. We have reached that stage now. That was not there 10 years ago,”' he pointed out. Overall, there is an increase in the number of days with very heavy rainfall activity. “And this is not a phenomenon restricted to India,” he said. The term ‘mini-cloud burst’ (5 cm of rainfall in two consecutive hours) which has been widely used in connection with the October 16 rainfall in Kerala is not part of the IMD glossary. The IMD defines cloud bursts as rainfall events of 10 cm in one hour reported by a station. Such weather events, he noted, are more frequent in Himalayan foothill regions. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused the delay in deploying more Automatic Weather Stations (AWS) in Kerala, he said. “We have issued the supply order,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sufficient-warning-was-given-says-imd/article37101979.ece
21 October 2021||Belagavi,||Rajyotsava processions only after opinion from health experts: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Wednesday that a decision on allowing processions on Rajyotsava Day would be taken after consulting health experts. He was reacting to demands by Kannada organisations that the State Government allow large processions in Belagavi and other towns in the State. Organisations had argued that the government had not allowed public Rajyotsava processions since 2019. However, they could be allowed now, as the State Government had allowed the Mysuru Dasara and other celebrations.  These organisations argue that the government had not allowed public Rajyotsava processions since 2019 and that they could be allowed now, as it had allowed the Mysuru Dasara and other celebrations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajyotsava-processions-only-after-opinion-from-health-experts-cm/article37101921.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,||TANFINET signs pact for BharatNet packages||The Tamil Nadu FibreNet Corporation Limited (TANFINET) on Wednesday signed a master service agreement with L&T, ITI Ltd. and BECIL for implementing two packages under BharatNet in the State. Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj was present at the event that was conducted here. TANFINET, a special purpose vehicle, is implementing BharatNet at a cost of Rs. 1,815.32 crore to provide all village panchayats with 1 gbps bandwidth connectivity. The ‘C’ and ‘D’ packages will cover over 6,400 village panchayatsin 19 districts of the State . The ‘C’ package will cover 3,326 village panchayats in Coimbatore, Karur, Nagapattinam, Namakkal, Pudukkottai, Thanjavur, Tiruchi, Tiruppur and Tiruvarur districts. The ‘D’ package will cover 3,103 village panchayats in Dindigul, Kanniyakumari, Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Theni, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar, an official release said. “After the disposal of the pending litigation over the ‘A’ and ‘B’ packages, the project will be implemented in all 12,525 village panchayats,” the officials release said. Four packages — A, B, C and D — were designed to implement the project, and four system integrators were identified, one for each package, along with a third-party agency to inspect and audit the implementation. BharatNet aims to provide quality digital services, e-education, telemedicine and triple-play services to all village panchayats. Secretary of the Department of Information Technology Neeraj Mittal; TANFINET Managing Director A.K. Kamal Kishore; Chief General Manager of Bharat Broadband Network Limited (BBNL) G. Kalaivani; BBNL Principal General Manager M. Chandrasekhar; and representatives of the companies involved in the implementation were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tanfinet-signs-pact-for-bharatnet-packages/article37101688.ece
21 October 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra varsities restart physical classes||Colleges and universities reopened across Maharashtra on Wednesday after being closed for over 18 months due to the pandemic. State Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant had earlier said that students must be fully vaccinated to attend classes. ‘Full vaccination’ rule Most colleges are continuing with online lectures or for students unable to attend physical classes because they have not fulfilled the ‘full vaccination’ criterion. The State Government has allowed all non-agricultural colleges and State-run, deemed and self-financed universities and colleges affiliated to them to resume physical classes. Mr. Samant had last week mandated the varsities to issue the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to colleges affiliated to it. As per the SOPs, classrooms should have only 50% students of the total capacity, while colleges should give students the option to attend online or offline sessions. The institutes should keep a record of vaccination certificates of every student and staff attending the physical sessions. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope has urged colleges and universities to think of setting up vaccination camps after discussions with the local administration to increase the pace of vaccination. “Students must get inoculated. Special drives can be set up by varsity authorities in collaboration with the local administration. Care will also have to be taken in the post-vaccination stage, in the event students experience any discomfort,” Mr. Tope had said. The Government’s decision to resume physical classes follows its phased reopening of educational institutions. On October 4, physical sessions for students of Classes V to XII in rural areas and VIII to XII in urban pockets resumed after more than a year and a half.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/colleges-reopen-in-maharashtra/article37101819.ece
21 October 2021||Belagavi,||Yediyurappa says he disagrees with Kateel on remark against Rahul||Amid increasing personal attacks mounted by leaders on their political opponents ahead of bypolls, the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday expressed disagreement with BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel’s disparaging remarks against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as a “drug addict and drug peddler”. “That kind of language should not be used against anyone. There is no need for it,” he said at Moratagi village in Vijayapura district on Wednesday, where he was campaigning for bypolls. “We should respect Mr. Rahul Gandhi and other political adversaries. We should make sure we don’t insult them when we make comments about them,” he said. The day also saw the BJP State unit taking to Twitter to launch a personal attack on Janata Dal(S) leader and the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy. Mr. Kumaraswamy, however, warned the saffron party leaders not to make personal attacks and said that there were enough murky details in their personal lives that he could expose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsy-disagrees-with-kateel-on-rahul-remark/article37101655.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Judge lauds govt. for reducing size of CM’s convoy||Justice N. Anand Venkatesh of the Madras High Court on Wednesday appreciated the State government for having decided to cause least inconvenience to the people when Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s convoy passes through public roads. The judge expressed his appreciation after being informed that the Chief Minister himself had instructed the police not to cause hardship to anyone. A security review meeting was held by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu. In the review, it was decided to reduce the number of vehicles in the Chief Minister’s convoy from 12 to six. The meeting was held after the judge on October 1 got caught in a traffic jam caused due to a government event to celebrate the 93rd birthday anniversary of actor Sivaji Ganesan. After reaching the court late, the judge had summoned the Home Secretary through video call and expressed his displeasure over the general public as well as the public servants being prevented from reaching their workplace on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/judge-lauds-govt-action/article37101746.ece
21 October 2021||KUSHINAGAR,||Modi inaugurates Kushinagar International Airport||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated the Kushinagar International Airport in Uttar Pradesh, which will help connect key Buddhist pilgrimage sites. Kushinagar is an important Buddhist pilgrim destination, and is believed to be the final resting place of Gautam Buddha. It is also at the centre of a Buddhist tourist circuit, which includes Lumbini (Nepal), Sarnath and Bodhgaya. Other Buddhist destinations nearby include Nalanda, Sravasti and Kapilavastu. An inaugural flight of Sri Lankan Airlines landed at the airport earlier in the day, bringing a large contingent of Buddhist monks and Sri Lankan Ministers, including Sports Minister Namal Rajapaksa, nephew of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and son of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa. They met Mr. Modi at an event at the Mahaparinirvana Temple here. Diplomats attend Diplomats from 12 countries where Buddhism is practised, including Mongolia, Myanmar, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Bhutan, Republic of Korea, Nepal and Japan, were also present. “There is a special focus on the development of places associated with Lord Buddha through better connectivity, and creation of facilities for devotees. Lumbini, the birth place of Lord Buddha, is not far from here. Sarnath, where Lord Buddha gave the first sermon, is also within a radius of 100-250 km. Bodh Gaya, where Buddha attained enlightenment, is also a few hours away. With the launch of this airport, I, as a representative of Poorvanchal, have also fulfilled one of my commitments to this region,” Mr. Modi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-inaugurates-kushinagar-international-airport/article37101609.ece
21 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Pattabhiram arrested||The Governorpet police on Wednesday arrested TDP official spokesman K. Pattabhiram from his residence here. He was booked under criminal conspiracy, promoting disharmony, enmity or hatred between different groups and other charges. A team of police personnel went to Mr. Pattabhiram’s houseand arrested him late in the evening. The police registered a case against the TDP leader under Sections 120 (B), 153 (a) and others. He allegedly made objectionable comments and used vulgar language against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at a press conference on drugs and ganja smuggling on Tuesday, which triggered protests. He would be produced in court after medical examination, the police said. Mr. Pattabhiram’s wife Chandana alleged that the police forcibly entered the house and picked up her husband. The government was responsible for further consequences, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-arrest-pattabhiram/article37101603.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maharashtra firm sold ‘GM-contaminated’ rice||The Centre has identified a Maharashtra-based exporter as the source of the broken rice flagged in Europe as contaminated with genetic modifications (GM) earlier this year, the Commerce Ministry said on Wednesday. It added that the 500-tonne consignment was given a non-GMO certification by an independent agency before it was shipped to France. While reiterating that GM rice is not grown commercially in India, the Ministry asked genetic and rice experts, including the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), to investigate. ‘Share details’ IARI Director A.K. Singh told The Hindu that the European Commission must share details of specific genetic markers found in the consignment, so that it could be tracked to ascertain whether there were any linkages to any of the approved field trials of GM rice in India. The European Commission’s contamination alert prompted the recall of tonnes of confectionery items and baked goods throughout Europe this summer, and provoked concerns that India’s Rs. 65,000 crore worth of annual rice exports could be hurt by the allegations, as The Hindu reported on Wednesday. “The GMO contamination is suspected to have been found in rice flour which was processed in the EU, and they themselves are not sure of the exact source of the contaminant. The broken white rice exported from India, which is allegedly one of the possibilities, has passed through many hands before reaching the actual processors in the EU,” said a Commerce Ministry statement. Ministry spokesperson D.J. Narain told The Hindu that the exporter had been identified as wholesale trader Omprakash Shivprakash of Akola in Maharashtra, who said the exported rice was non-GM. ‘Cross contamination’ The Ministry suggested that cross contamination could have taken place while the broken rice was being processed into final products in Europe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-firm-sold-rice-feared-to-be-gm-contaminated/article37101611.ece
21 October 2021||Belagavi,||Four injured in group clash in Belagavi||Four persons were injured in a group clash in Ranakunde village near Belagavi late on Wednesday night. Trouble began when four persons from the city tried to stop the construction of a place of worship in the village. A crowd gathered and there was a street fight. All the injured were admitted to the district hospital. They are all out of danger. Assistant Commissioner of Police and other officers visited the spot. The situation is peaceful now. The Rural Police said that they are in the process of registering a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-injured-in-group-clash/article37101694.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||In protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-protest/article37102221.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,||NCHRO for CB-CID probe into encounter killing||The National Confederation of Human Rights Organisation (NCHRO) is demanding a CB-CID inquiry into the encounter death of Murtaza Sheikh of Jharkhand, who was gunned down by the Kancheepuram police near Sriperumbudur on October 11. The 28-year-old, along with his accomplice Naeem Akthar, was accused of snatching a gold chain from R. Indrani of Pennalur village on October 10. The NCHRO set up a committee of human rights activists and organised a fact-finding tour to go into the encounter death of the accused person. The fact-finding report has been sent to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and top police officials. The fact-finding team, headed by A. Marx, has reasons to believe that the accused did not pose any danger, and there was no need for the police team to gun him down as his gun had been broken. The information about the state of his gun has been recorded in the first information report (FIR). When this was the case, the accused could have been easily caught by a strong police team of more than 300 people. However, senior police officials claimed the accused was in possession of a gun and had three bullets. In this situation, the State government should order an inquiry by the CB-CID, and not by the Kancheepuram police. The committee wanted the State government to give solatium to the family of the victim. Mr. Marx said the committee, comprising nine human rights activists, visited the village where the victim stayed and the place where the chain was snatched, and the village where the accused was gunned down and spoke to senior police officials to get to the bottom of the encounter killing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nchro-demands-cb-cid-inquiry-into-encounter/article37101761.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to the movies||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/back-to-the-movies/article37102245.ece
21 October 2021||Mumbai,||Denied bail, Aryan Khan moves HC||Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan on Wednesday moved the Bombay High Court after a special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act rejected his bail in the case of the busting of a drug racket on a cruise ship on October 2. The appeal of Aryan Khan, 23, is expected to be heard in the High Court on Thursday. He was arrested on October 3 by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after the cruise raid. Special Judge V.V. Patil also rejected the bail pleas of Arbaaz Merchant, 26, and Munmun Dhamecha, 39 arrested with him. Mr. Khan had sought bail through senior advocate Amit Desai on the grounds that there has been no recovery of possession of contraband found from him. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, for the NCB, has opposed Mr. Khan’s bail, saying: “Mr. Khan has a role in illicit procurement and consumption of contraband.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/denied-bail-aryan-khan-moves-hc/article37101612.ece
21 October 2021||Chennai,||TNSEC reviews arrangements||Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner V. Palanikumar on Wednesday chaired a meeting to review the arrangements being made for conducting the urban local bodies elections, in view of the orders issued by the Supreme Court. The collection of details about the local bodies for which the posts have to be filled, the appointment of returning and polling officers and the preparation of electoral rolls were among the issues discussed at the meeting. TNSEC Secretary V. Amuthavalli, Commissioner of Town Panchayats R. Selvaraj, Director of Municipal Administration P. Ponniah, Deputy Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation Vishu Mahajan and senior officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tnsec-reviews-arrangements/article37101751.ece
21 October 2021||Kochi,||Facilities upgraded at liquor outlets, Govt. tells HC||The Excise Department on Wednesday told the Kerala High Court that several of the liquor outlets which were under scrutiny to ascertain whether they were customer friendly have been shifted to new buildings and facilities in many others have been upgraded. Besides, online booking had also been introduced in 29 outlets to reduce crowding, the department said in a memo filed in the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/facilities-upgraded-at-liquor-outlets-govt-tells-hc/article37102197.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP open to an alliance with Amarinder Singh||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday appeared open to an alliance with the yet to be formed political party of former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.), a day after the latter made an overture. BJP general secretary and party’s Punjab in charge Dushyant Gautam said Capt. Singh was a “patriot” and the BJP was open to tie-ups with “nationalist forces”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-open-to-an-alliance-with-amarinder-singh/article37101813.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. announces compensation for farmers||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced Rs. 50,000 per hectare as compensation for farmers whose crops have been damaged in the unseasonal rain. Mr. Kejriwal claimed that this amount was the highest in the country and that efforts were on to ensure that farmers receive it within two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-announces-compensation-for-farmers/article37101815.ece
21 October 2021||Belagavi,||Meat trader alleges hit and run||Hassan Saab Khureshi, the meat trader whose shop was vandalised allegedly by right-wing activists recently, was injured in a bike accident in Belagavi on Tuesday night. The victim suspects that it is a hit-and-run case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/meat-trader-alleges-hit-and-run/article37101656.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Smart City roadworks a nightmare for motorists||Roads being developed under Smart City in the Central Business District area are proving to be a nightmare for motorists and pedestrians as many stretches have become susceptible to waterlogging with heavy rains lashing the city almost every day. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta himself recently flagged the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/smart-city-roadworks-a-nightmare-for-motorists/article37101657.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 cases wane but no respite from ILI, SARI||Although the number of COVID-19 cases are waning, there is no respite from ILI and SARI. As many as 35,255 cases of ILI/SARI (non-COVID-19) have been reported in the city since this May, when the second wave started subsiding, till October 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-wane-but-no-respite-from-ili-sari/article37101659.ece
21 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||Police book 101 Hindutva activists in Hubballi||In a development pertaining to the protest by Hindutva outfits over what is said to be an act of forcible conversion, the police have registered a case against 101 members of Hindutva outfits based on a complaint by the Deputy Commissioner of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-book-101-hindutva-activists-in-hubballi/article37101926.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP open to an alliance with Amarinder Singh||The BJP on Wednesday appeared open to an alliance with the yet to be formed political party of former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.) a day after he made an overture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-open-to-an-alliance-with-amarinder-singh/article37102007.ece
21 October 2021||BUMLA,||Army strengthens firepower along the LAC||The Army has significantly augmented its firepower along the 1300-km-long Line of Actual Control in the Eastern Sector, while also beefing up overall defences in the region, especially in the Tawang sector, by integrating various services in real time through automation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-strengthens-firepower-along-the-lac/article37102008.ece
21 October 2021||HASSAN,||One dead in clash among workers||One person died and another was injured following a clash among three construction workers about sharing wages at Mosale Hosahalli in Hassan taluk on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-dead-in-clash-among-workers/article37102071.ece
21 October 2021||MYSURU,||Rise in demand for flights to Goa||Goa is emerging as the ‘go to’ place for a lot of Mysureans and this is reflected in the originating air passenger traffic. So much so that buoyed by the demand for flight seats the authorities are scouting for airline operators to operate a second flight on the Mysuru-Goa sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rise-in-demand-for-flights-to-goa/article37102073.ece
21 October 2021||MADURAI,||Minister for lifting mobile phone ban at temple||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Wednesday said he would make efforts to lift the ban on carrying mobile phones into Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple as part of giving a fillip to tourism in Madurai. The remark came during a discussion on Madurai Master Plan 2041 held at the Collectorate here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-for-lifting-mobile-phone-ban-at-temple/article37102185.ece
21 October 2021||mangaluru,||City sees rise in crimes||There has been an increase in property crimes, more so of dacoity, robbery and chain snatching, in the city, reported till September this year, compared to the numbers reported in the corresponding period last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-sees-rise-in-crimes/article37102226.ece
21 October 2021||Chennai,||Four new judges sworn in at Madras High Court||Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee of the Madras High Court on Wednesday administered the oath of office to four new judges, thereby increasing the working strength of the court to 60. The newly appointed judges are Justices S. Srimathy, D. Bharatha Chakravarthy,Mohammed Shaffiq and R. Vijayakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-new-judges-sworn-in-at-madras-high-court/article37101728.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP open to an alliance with Amarinder Singh||The BJP on Wednesday appeared open to an alliance with the yet to be formed political party of former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.) a day after he made an overture. BJP’s Punjab in charge Dushyant Gautam said Capt. Singh was a “patriot” and the BJP was open to tie-ups with “nationalist forces”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-open-to-an-alliance-with-amarinder-singh/article37102246.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India facing more risk of heat extremes: report||India has become 15% more vulnerable to extremes of heat than in 1990, according to the Lancet Countdown on Health and Climate Change, a flagship report of the medical journalThe Lancetthat provides periodic updates on the scientific literature on the relationship between climate change and public health. In 2020, the elderly were affected by 3.1 billion more days of heatwave exposure, compared to the 1986-2005 baseline average, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-facing-more-risk-of-heat-extremes-report/article37102247.ece
21 October 2021||BUMLA,||Army strengthens firepower along the LAC||The Army has significantly augmented its firepower along the 1300-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Eastern Sector, while also beefing up overall defences in the region, especially in the Tawang sector, by integrating various services in real time through automation. This includes upgraded L-70 air defence guns, M777 Ultra Light Howitzers, and automated, electronic fusion of Bofors and other artillery guns deployed along the LAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-strengthens-firepower-along-the-lac/article37102248.ece
21 October 2021||SRINAGAR,||Security forces kill four terrorists in J&K||Security forces on Wednesday eliminated four militants, including two commanders of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) who were involved in the killing of migrant labourers in Jammu and Kashmir, police have said. While two ultras were killed in the encounter at Dragad in Shopian, two others were eliminated in a gunbattle in Kulgam district, said a police official. One soldier lost his life while two others suffered injuries in the Shopian operation. According to a defence spokesman, a joint operation was launched on Wednesday evening after information was received about the movement of two terrorists along the Ashmuji-Devsar road in Kulgam district. He said the ultras opened fire, forcing the security forces to retaliate. “In the ensuing firefight, two terrorists have been neutralised.” Earlier in the day, security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Dragad area of Shopian district following information about the presence of militants there, the officials said. They said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces. Two ultras of The Resistance Front (TRF), a shadow outfit of Lashkar-e-Toiba, were killed. Three security force personnel also suffered injuries. One of them later succumbed to his injuries, the officials said. Meanwhile, security forces foiled a terror plot with the arrest of a man armed with a live hand grenade in Kishtwar district on Wednesday, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-forces-kill-four-terrorists-in-jk/article37101269.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP open to an alliance with Amarinder Singh||The BJP on Wednesday appeared open to an alliance with the yet to be formed political party of former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.), a day after the latter made an overture. BJP general secretary and party’s Punjab in charge Dushyant Gautam said Capt. Singh was a “patriot” and the BJP was open to tie-ups with “nationalist forces.” On Tuesday, Capt. Singh stated that he would soon announce his own political party and was hopeful of a seat arrangement with the BJP if the farmers’ issue was resolved in their interest. On his condition of resolving farmers’ issues, Mr. Gautam noted that Capt. Singh had not spoken about ending the farmers’ agitation. “He talked about farmers’ issues. We are committed to it and are working for the welfare of farmers. If the time comes, both will sit together and discuss farmers’ issues,” he observed. “Our main agenda is nationalism and keeping the nation first. All those parties who want to form alliances with us on this agenda are welcome.” Capt. Singh was once a soldier and his stand on the issues of national security should be praised. “He was a soldier. He knows about the threats to the country and how to secure it. He is patriotic. And whenever it is a matter of national security and security at the borders, we have appreciated his stand,” Mr. Gautam remarked. Solution soon? Senior sources in the party disclosed that one could anticipate a move towards resolving the long-running agitation of farmers against the three controversial farm laws. “Several options are being mulled in terms of a way out, including a new expanded committee of stakeholders to hold talks with farmers go into the nitty gritties of the demands by farmers,” a source explained. Interestingly, Capt. Singh had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval after he quit as Chief Minister. At that time, it was said he had spoken of the security challenges in the border State post the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-open-to-an-alliance-with-amarinder-singh/article37101288.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects plea for report on NEET ‘malpractices’||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to entertain a petition to call for a report on investigations in the FIRs registered in different States over the alleged malpractices in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG) held on September 12. A Bench headed by Justice L. Nageswara Rao said any interference now would be detrimental to a large number of students. “We cannot interfere. We understand what you say but it will create a lot of confusion. Any interference at our hands will be detrimental to a large number of students,” Justice Rao, accompanied by Justice B.R. Gavai on the Bench, said. Senior advocate Salman Khurshid, appearing for the petitioners, said FIRs had been filed at various places and sought the top court’s direction to call for a fact-finding report on the issue. The top court refused to budge, saying anything said or done by it at this stage would be taken out of context and confuse students. The court was hearing a plea filed by Vishwanath Kumar and others contending that on the day of the examination, the CBI had registered an FIR against four accused persons and unknown others, stating that the process of examination was manipulated by using proxy candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-rejects-plea-for-report-on-neet-malpractices/article37101514.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||Can’t outgoing CBI chief continue, asks court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Union Government to respond whether it can, in “exceptional circumstances”, continue with the outgoing Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Director rather than appointing an “Acting” chief. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao asked the Government, represented by Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal, that instead of an interim or an ‘Acting’ Director, the premier investigating agency could continue with the incumbent until the high-powered selection committee comprising the Prime Minister, the Chief Justice of India and the Leader of the Opposition zeroed in on the next regular appointment. NGO’s plea The suggestion came while hearing a petition filed by NGO Common Cause, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, about how the law does not permit the Government to issue executive orders on its own, appointing interim CBI Directors. Mr. Bhushan said the government had done it thrice since 2017. Such manoeuvres would hamper the functional autonomy of the elite probe agency that investigated several sensitive cases in the country. “In exceptional circumstances, can the CBI Director continue till a new Director is appointed?” Justice Rao asked the top law officer on Wednesday. Mr. Venugopal sought time to reply. The court posted the case after the Diwali holidays. In March 2021, the court first issued notice in the case. In that hearing, Justice Rao queried in passing whether the law specifically barred the appointment of an interim Director. “The government has failed to appoint the Director of the CBI as per Section 4A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act of 1946 on the expiry of the term of the last incumbent, Rishi Kumar Shukla, on February 2, 2021,” NGO Common Cause said in its petition, which was filed in the wake of the Centre’s February 3 appointment of Praveen Sinha as the “interim/acting CBI Director”. S.K. Jaiswal is the current CBI Director. The petition had said that an interim appointment through an executive order was not envisaged in the statutory scheme of the 1946 Act. Sensitive post The CBI Director’s was a sensitive post. He was the final authority in the organisation in several sensitive investigations. The agency should function independently outside the pale of the Executive or political powers, said the petition.  In exceptional circumstances, can the CBI Director continue till a new Director is appointed? Justice L. Nageswara RaoSupreme Court judge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cant-outgoing-cbi-chief-continue-asks-court/article37101274.ece
21 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab polls set to see new shifts||With former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announcing that he is set to float his own party and declaring that he is open to an alliance with the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP), the 2022 Assembly election in the State is likely to see new political dynamics. The ruling Congress, which is still grappling to put its house in order under its new State chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, could face a tough challenge, even as it seems to be a win-win situation for Capt. Amarinder Singh (retd.) and the BJP. The key to success for Capt. Singh’s proposed new party and the possible alliance would be an early resolution of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws. The BJP’s “nationalist” narrative, surrounding which the party has been of late playing its politics, blends well with the personality of Capt. Singh, who has been vocal on the threats posed by neighbouring Pakistan. Also, he has been hitting out at Mr. Sidhu, accusing him of connections with Pakistan and dubbing him “anti-national”. Boost for BJP For the BJP, which has over the years remained a ‘junior partner’ in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab, the new alliance could give a much-needed boost. Although some analysts say that Capt. Singh’s popularity has taken a beating in his recent stint as the Chief Minister owing to his “inaccessibility” to people and even his own leaders, the 79-year-old is seen as an active leader capable of putting up a strong electoral fight. Capt. Singh has been viewed as a secular and moderate leader and, in Punjab, Hindu voters have been traditionally been inclined towards the Congress. But if he joins hands with the BJP, voters could shift, eventually harming the Congress’ prospects. Some political observers believe that Capt. Singh still has his loyalists in the Congress and that there are several disgruntled leaders in the party who could join hands with him. Win-win situation “Capt. Amarinder’s announcement of a new party and possible alliance is a win-win for both him and the BJP. Capt. Amarinder had to forge an alliance with the BJP as the campaign needs finance and vote mobilisers. On the other hand, the BJP would get a leader who has a statewide support base and also a secular image. He can bring together the alienated elements within the Congress and also the Akali Dal,” said Ashutosh Kumar, professor with the political science department of Panjab University. “He can raise the issue of national security, Pakistan factor, which gels with the BJP agenda,” he added. “Definitely Capt. Amarinder can harm the Congress. The question is would the new Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi be able to swing the Dalit vote en masse, which at least for now looks a difficult task,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-polls-set-to-see-new-shifts/article37101285.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||Rawat wants Punjab duty revoked||Amid the ongoing political turmoil in Punjab, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Harish Rawat on Wednesday took to Twitter, asking the party leadership to relieve him from his duties as in charge of the State and allow him to focus on his home State Uttarakhand, where elections are scheduled along with Punjab. Earlier in the day, Mr. Rawat called on former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, reportedly to discuss Uttarakhand elections and brief him on the devastation caused by heavy rain in the State. However, Punjab is learnt to have been discussed. Following this meeting, in a series of tweets, he expressed is desire to move out as AICC’s Punjab in charge. Mr. Rawat’s move not only comes a day after former Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh (retd) announced his intention to float his own party but also days after State Congress Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu wrote a fresh letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, seeking an audience with her to explain his ‘Punjab Model’. ‘Torn between States’ “Today, I have been able to overcome a big indecision. One the one hand, I have a duty towards my ‘janmabhoomi’ [birthplace] and the other hand, I have to offer my services to my ‘karmabhoomi’ [land where one works]. Things are getting complicated as elections are drawing closer as a person has to give full-time to both the places,” Mr. Rawat tweeted in Hindi. He wanted to be in Uttarakhand to “wipe off” the tears of the people affected by the deluge but couldn’t because of the “call of duty”. “So that I can devote myself to Uttarakhand completely, I should be relieved of my present duties,” he tweeted and signed off, saying the party leadership would decide but it was his “request”, he stated. Earlier in the day, Mr. Rawat slammed Capt. Amarinder for announcing his own outfit and stating he was hopeful of a tie-up with the BJP. “The BJP was looking for a face and the Captain has offered his services. Only he can explain why he would sacrifice his years of standing as a leader by tying up with the BJP,” he told The Hindu.  Asked if the Congress would initiate disciplinary action against Capt. Amarinder, who has not yet formally resigned from the party despite publically stating that he would quit, he observed, “We have taken note of the announcement and are monitoring further developments”. Mr. Rawat questioned Capt. Amarinder’s ‘silence’ over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which the son of Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra is an accused. “Why is he silent over it? Have you ever protested against the atrocities against farmers, especially the way the Centre has kept them at Delhi borders for 10 months and nearly 600 of them have died?,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rawat-wants-punjab-duty-revoked/article37101293.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Covaxin instilled self-confidence’||The development of Covaxin has instilled the confidence that India is now much more than the pharmacy of the world and that it is a vaccine superpower, says Balram Bhargava , Director-General, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Excerpts:  The ICMR co-developed India’s first indigenous COVID-19 vaccine with Bharat Biotech. What have been the crucial learnings from this public-private partnership (PPP)? In the development of this vaccine and this partnership, I think the most important aspects have been complete trust and the level of mutual appreciation for each other’s calibre between the public and the private partner. It worked both ways — the ICMR’s trust in Bharat Biotech and Bharat Biotech’s faith in the ICMR. Right at the outset, we had clearly decided that the steps we follow must have a clear scientific basis and whatever we do should be documented in scientific journals. Now as we know, the international academia has appreciated the scientific evidence on Covaxin published in over 15 papers. These publications in highly acclaimed, peer-reviewed global scientific literature cover the entire spectrum of vaccine development, whether it be preclinical development, small animal studies, hamster studies, large animal studies and all phases of clinical trials, including the phase-III trial, which is one of the largest in the world. These studies also include the vaccine’s efficacy against the emerging virus variants, Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta. How has this experience of co-developing Covaxin enriched science and public health in the country? First, this experience has instilled self-confidence in us that India is now much more than the pharmacy of the world. It is also a vaccine superpower. This confidence in being able to develop new vaccines from scratch now pervades the industry and the academia, and it is the right time to use our learnings from these experiences to develop new vaccines for other diseases and scale them up. Second, for decades, we were largely known as a powerhouse for generic drug-making. This experience in COVID-19 has acted as a catalyst for us to move up the value chain and take a leap into drug discovery or vaccine discovery space, to be specific. If this has to take off, the industry and the academia will have to collaborate in a big way. Do you think this experience of developing a vaccine in PPP mode can be replicated for other diseases? Yes, I think this exemplary model, where the public and private partners worked with scientific rigour on a fast-track mode to deliver a product on time can serve as a template for developing vaccines for other diseases. When we worked together, we were always working on a timeline even when we were racing against time. All along there was mutual respect, clear communication, and the setting of concrete goals in the project. This generated a momentum that I feel should not be lost and should be utilised for other projects. India has developed a safe and efficacious vaccine that is beneficial not only for the global south but even for the global north. Are you confident of India reaching its target of vaccinating all adults by the year-end? I think our system is currently working like a turbocharged, well-oiled machinery vaccinating at a very fast rate, and we are advancing rapidly to reach that target. I think the world is watching us and will be witness to the fact that our vaccination drive has not only been very agile but also very responsive and responsible. What are the steps that are helping India reach its 100-crore vaccination goal? The dedication and efforts of our frontline workers and healthcare professionals involved in the vaccination drive. Second, the rich experience of carrying out one of the world’s largest universal immunisation programmes and third, an aligned holistic approach of different arms of the Government with a singular focus to make vaccination drive a success contributed to this journey. Also what is working is the ability of the whole of the Government to work together as well as strike successful public-private partnerships, where needed, that has resulted in a series of victories in these times of extreme uncertainties. Whether it be the development of CoWIN, or the pragmatic way we prioritised vaccination for different groups, getting right many of those small steps nestled within the large vaccination drive resulted in the country achieving this milestone. Beyond all, the country showed a clear commitment to public health, and that paid off.  This experience has acted as a catalyst for us to move up the value chain and take a leap into drug discovery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-instilled-self-confidence/article37101511.ece
21 October 2021||KUSHINAGAR,||Kushinagar now hub of Buddhist tourist circuit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated the Kushinagar International Airport in Uttar Pradesh, which will help connect key Buddhist pilgrimage sites. Kushinagar is an important Buddhist pilgrim destination, and is believed to be the final resting place of Gautam Buddha. An inaugural flight of Sri Lankan Airlines landed at the airport earlier in the day, bringing a large contingent of Buddhist monks and Sri Lankan Ministers, including Sports Minister Namal Rajapaksa, nephew of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and son of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa. They met Mr. Modi at an event at the Mahaparinirvana Temple here. Diplomats attend Diplomats from 12 countries where Buddhism is practised, including Mongolia, Myanmar, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Bhutan, Republic of Korea, Nepal and Japan, were also present. “There is a special focus on the development of places associated with Lord Buddha through better connectivity, and creation of facilities for devotees. Lumbini, the birth place of Lord Buddha, is not far from here. Sarnath, where Lord Buddha gave the first sermon, is also within a radius of 100-250 km. Bodh Gaya, where Buddha attained enlightenment, is also a few hours away. With the launch of this airport, I, as a representative of Poorvanchal, have also fulfilled one of my commitments to this region,” Mr. Modi said. With the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election slated for early next year, several Union Ministers had also flown in from Delhi. Apart from Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakshi Lekhi, Tourism Minister G. Kishan Reddy, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju and Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal were present. Air India privatisation In his first comments on Air India since privatisation, Mr. Modi said, “The decision on Air India will give new energy to the aviation sector in the country.” Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said, “This will be Uttar Pradesh’s ninth airport, seven of which have been developed in the past seven years alone. The State will get 11 more airports in the years to come, including two international ones.” Secretary of the Ministry of Civil Aviation Rajiv Bansal told The Hindu that Thailand sends the largest number of tourists to this region, and he expected charter flights from there to Kushinagar to start soon. On the sidelines of the Kushinagar airport inauguration, Mr. Namal Rajapaksa presented to Mr. Modi a Sinhala-Tamil-English translation of the Bhagavad Gita. The Sri Lankan delegation also brought relics from the ‘Rajaguru Sri Subhuthi Maha Vihara’, a famed Buddhist shrine located 40 km south of Colombo. Indian officials would organise an exposition of the relics in several cities, including Kushinagar and Sarnath, a statement from the Indian High Commission in Colombo said. The Sri Lankan delegation would visit Varanasi and offer prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath temple. On Wednesday, Mr. Namal Rajapaksa met Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and had a “cordial and productive conversation,” the Indian mission said in a tweet.  (With inputs from      Suhasini Haidar in New Delhi and Meera Srinivasan in Colombo)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kushinagar-now-hub-of-buddhist-tourist-circuit/article37101600.ece
21 October 2021||BUMLA,||Army strengthens firepower along LAC in eastern sector||The Army has significantly augmented its firepower along the 1300-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Eastern Sector, while also beefing up overall defences in the region, especially in the Tawang sector, by integrating various services in real time through automation. This includes upgraded L-70 air defence guns, M777 Ultra Light Howitzers, and automated and electronic fusion of Bofors and other artillery guns deployed along the LAC. The Army has set up “integrated defended localities” at several locations along the LAC. These integrate various arms of the Army such as infantry, engineers, artillery, air defence, aviation and also the fighter aircraft of the Air Force, to respond to any threat in real time and bring in maximum firepower, explained Maj. Rufus Johnson, a Company Commander at one such locality near the LAC near Bumla in Arunachal Pradesh. “Integrated defensive battle is not fought at the company or battalion level. It is a cohesive and coordinated battle fought employing all arms and services that are available with the armed forces,” he said. The Army had infused significant technology to fuse various sensors and platforms for battlefield transparency and also quick response. Talking of the significance of integrated defences built around the Bumla area, Maj. Johnson said there were primarily two approaches for the enemy to move towards Tawang, 35 km from the LAC. One was the valley after the ridgeline of the LAC and the road from Bumla to Tawang for a stretch of 35 km. Dominating this area would help in thwarting the enemy’s plans. Air defence guns Speaking of the upgraded L-70 air defence guns, Capt. Sariya Abbasi, an Air Defence officer posted in the Tawang sector near the LAC, said this was their first deployment in high altitude areas across the country. “The limitations associated with the upgraded guns have been overcome by incorporation of state of the art components, latest technology, making it a potent weapon system against all low level air threat that include unmanned aerial vehicle, unmanned combat vehicle, attack helicopter and modern aircraft, to increase the target acquisition and automatic tracking capabilities of the gun,” she said briefing visiting journalists from Delhi. Further, the use of modern proximity fuse ammunition had increased the hit probability of the gun, Capt. Abbasi added. The L-70 guns were manufactured by the Swedish company, Bofors AB, in the 1950s and India procured them in the late 1960s. These legacy guns were upgraded by Bharat Electronics Ltd. The M-777 Ultra-Light Howitzers inducted in November 2018 have been deployed all along the LAC. The M777 is a 155-mm, 39-calibre towed artillery gun and weighs just four tonnes. Significant flexibility India has contracted 145 M777 guns from BAE Systems, of which over 75 had been delivered. Three regiments had been deployed and the fourth was in the process of being raised, Director-General of Artillery Lt. Gen. T.K. Chawla had said recently. The M777 had given significant flexibility in employment options for long range fire power, one officer posted near the LAC said on condition of anonymity. “It can be airlifted by Chinook heavy lift helicopters to any forward location at short notice in case of any contingency,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-strengthens-firepower-along-the-lac/article37101272.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Pandemic fuelled rise in child sexual abuse online: report||The Global Threat Assessment report 2021, by WeProtect Global Alliance, launched on Tuesday, said COVID-19 had contributed to a significant spike in child sexual exploitation and abuse online. WeProtect Global Alliance is a global movement of more than 200 governments, private sector companies and civil society organisations working toge- ther to transform the global response to child sexual exploitation and abuse online. The report was a meta study that distils findings from multiple international studies on the issue. The findings show that in the past two years, the reporting of child sexual exploitation and online abuse has reached its highest level. “COVID-19 created a ‘perfect storm’ of conditions that fuelled a rise in child sexual exploitation and abuse across the globe,” it stated. “This sustained growth is outstripping our global capacity to respond. Child sexual abuse remains a chronically underfunded issue,” said Iain Drennan, executive director, and Ernie Allen, chair, WeProtect Global Alliance, in their foreword. The rise in child ‘self-generated’ sexual material is another trend that challenges the existing response, with the Internet Watch Foundation observing a 77% increase in child ‘self-generated’ sexual material from 2019 to 2020. As part of the report, a global study of childhood experiences of more than 5,000 young adults (aged 18 to 20) across 54 countries was done by Economist Impact. About 54 % of the respondents had experienced at least one online sexual harm incident during childhood. More than a third of respondents (34%) had been asked to do something sexually explicit online they were uncomfortable with during their childhood. Respondents who identified as transgender/non-binary, LGBQ+ and/or disabled were more likely to experience online sexual harms during childhood, it said. The report also featured a survey of technology companies that showed most were using tools to detect child sexual abuse material, but only 37% currently use tools to detect online grooming. During the pandemic, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) indicated 106% increase in reports of suspected child sexual exploitation to its global CyberTipline. During the lockdown, there was a 95% rise in searches for child sexual abuse material, the NCMEC reported. The report calls for prioritising prevention activities against abuse, creating safe online environments for children, besides calling on all with a role to protect children to work together to improve the response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pandemic-fuelled-rise-in-child-sexual-abuse-online-report/article37101277.ece
21 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Man suspected of theft dies allegedly in police custody||A sweeper, who was suspected of stealing Rs. 25 lakh from a police station warehouse in Agra, allegedly died in police custody during the recovery of the amount on Wednesday. An FIR on charges of murder was lodged against unidentified persons after Arun Valmiki’s family alleged that he was assaulted after being picked up for questioning and raised doubts on the police version. Five police personnel, including an inspector and a sub-inspector who had gone for the recovery, were suspended and an inquiry committee was constituted, SSP Agra Muniraj G. said. The autopsy report revealed that he died of heart attack, Mr. Muniraj added. On October 17, the money went missing from the storeroom of the Jagdishpura police station following which five policemen were suspended for negligence, and a probe was initiated. The sweeper was among those detained and questioned as a suspect, the police said. Mr. Muniraj said the sweeper had allegedly confessed to the crime and a police team took him to his house where he said he had hidden the cash. While recovering the amount, his “health suddenly went bad,” Mr. Muniraj said. The police and his family rushed him to a hospital where a doctor declared him brought dead, said the SSP. The police managed to recover Rs. 15 lakh from him, he said. The family of the sweeper alleged that he was murdered by the police and accused the police personnel of first carrying out the theft and then trying to falsely implicate Arun. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded a high-level probe. She also demanded compensation for the victim’s family. Ms. Vadra was stopped in Lucknow by the Uttar Pradesh police from going to Agra to meet the family members of the victim, but was later allowed to proceed.  (with PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-suspected-of-theft-dies-allegedly-in-police-custody/article37101291.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||CBI files chargesheet in Dhanbad judge murder case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against two accused in the alleged murder of Dhanbad Judge Uttam Anand, who was mowed down by an auto-rickshaw on July 28, officials said. The CBI filed it before a special court against autorickshaw driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma under the Indian Penal Code sections related to murder (302) and destruction of evidence (201) besides common intention (34), they said. The central agency has kept the probe open in the case, the officials said. Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma are both in judicial custody, they said, adding that their narco-analysis has been conducted by the CBI. The 49-year-old judge was allegedly mowed down by a heavy auto-rickshaw while he was jogging on July 28 morning in Dhanbad. CCTV camera footage showed that the judge was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk in Dhanbad when the auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene, killing him. The case was handed over to the CBI by the Jharkhand government. The CBI had dispatched a 20-member team under its ace investigator V.K. Shukla to probe the case. Mr. Shukla was recently awarded by the Union Home Ministry for being among the best investigators. The agency had taken over two more FIRs from the Jharkhand Police in order to unravel the alleged conspiracy behind the killing of the judge, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-files-chargesheet-in-judge-murder-case/article37101841.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Now, there is will to confront graft: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said there was political will to attack corruption today, while previous governments lacked both political and administrative will. Mr. Modi addressed CBI and Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) officers via a video message during a joint conference at Kevadia, Gujarat. He urged the officers to rededicate themselves to abolishing corruption. He said the Government had instilled confidence in people that graft could be contained. Digital footprints “Earlier, the way the governments and systems were run, they lacked both political and administrative will. Today, there is the political will to attack corruption and continuous improvement is also being carried out at the administrative level.” He said his Government had simplified procedures, thereby reducing interference in the lives of the common people. He said digital footprints had made investigations easier than before. “The Prime Minister exhorted the officers not to flinch from taking action against the corrupt and ensure that there is no safe haven for anyone who deceives the country and countrymen,” a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office said. He asked the officers to strengthen “New India’s policy of zero tolerance for corruption”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/now-there-is-will-to-confront-graft-pm/article37101593.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||CBSE to allow change in venue for first-term Board exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education has said that Class 10 and 12 students who were not in the same city where they had taken admission would be allowed to request a change of examination centre for the first-term board exams beginning next month. “It has come to the notice of the board that some students are still not in the city of their school where they had taken admission and are residing somewhere else. In view of the above, at an appropriate time, CBSE will inform the students to make a request to their respective schools to change the city of examination centre. Schools will follow instructions given by the CBSE to forward the request to the board in an online system,” said CBSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj. “Accordingly, all students and schools are requested to remain in touch with the CBSE’s website. As soon as the students are informed in this regard, they can make the request to their school within the schedule,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-to-allow-change-in-venue-for-first-term-board-exams/article37101521.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Kushinagar now hub of Buddhist tourist circuit||“There is a special focus on the development of places associated with Lord Buddha through better connectivity, and creation of facilities for devotees. Lumbini, the birth place of Lord Buddha, is not far from here. Sarnath, where Lord Buddha gave the first sermon, is also within a radius of 100-250 km. Bodh Gaya, where Buddha attained enlightenment, is also a few hours away. With the launch of this airport, I, as a representative of Poorvanchal, have also fulfilled one of my commitments to this region,” Mr. Modi said.  Apart from Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakshi Lekhi, Tourism Minister G. Kishan Reddy, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju and Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal were present. In his first comments on Air India since privatisation, Mr. Modi said, “the decision on Air India will give new energy to the aviation sector in the country.” Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said, “The State will get 11 more airports in the years to come, including two international ones.” On the sidelines of the Kushinagar airport inauguration, Mr. Namal Rajapaksa presented to Mr. Modi a Sinhala-Tamil-English translation of the Bhagavad Gita.  (With inputs from      Suhasini Haidar in New Delhi and Meera Srinivasan in Colombo)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kushinagar-now-hub-of-buddhist-tourist-circuit/article37101816.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Maharashtra varsities restart physical classes||The institutes should keep a record of vaccination certificates of every student and staff attending the physical sessions. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope has urged colleges and universities to think of setting up vaccination camps after discussions with the local administration to increase the pace of vaccination. “Students must get inoculated. Special drives can be set up by varsity authorities in collaboration with the local administration. Care will also have to be taken in the post-vaccination stage, in the event students experience any discomfort,” Mr. Tope had said. The Government’s decision to resume physical classes follows its phased reopening of educational institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-varsities-restart-physical-classes/article37102249.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Fresh SOP released for travellers to India||If a traveller is coming from a country with which India has reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO-approved COVID-19 vaccines and is fully vaccinated, that person shall be allowed to leave the airport and do self-monitoring for 14 days. If partially/not vaccinated, travellers should undertake post-arrival COVID-19 test, after which they will be allowed to leave the airport. Travellers should go in for home quarantine for seven days and get a re-test done on the eighth day of arrival, and if negative, further self-monitor their health for the next seven days, said the guidelines. The list of countries from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival, including post-arrival testing (countries at risk) includes countries in Europe such as the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe.The Health Ministry has clubbed under Category-A the list of countries with which the GoI has agreement for mutual recognition vaccination certificate for individuals fully vaccinated with nationally recognised or WHO recognised vaccine and those exempting Indian citizens fully vaccinated with nationally recognised or WHO recognised vaccines. These countries are the U.K., France, Germany, Nepal, Belarus, Lebanon, Armenia, Ukraine, Belgium, Hungary and Serbia. Travellers from countries, excluding those termed “at risk”, would be allowed to leave the airport and self-monitor their health for 14 days post arrival. “This is applicable to those from all countries, including the ones with which reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO approved COVID-19 vaccines exist.” The new guidelines also list rules to be followed by points of entry (airports, seaports and land borders).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fresh-sop-released-for-travellers-to-india/article37101279.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Kushinagar airport in Buddhist tourist circuit||Apart from Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakshi Lekhi, Tourism Minister G. Kishan Reddy, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju and Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal were present. In his first comments on Air India since privatisation, Mr. Modi said, “the decision on Air India will give new energy to the aviation sector in the country.” Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said, “This will be Uttar Pradesh’s ninth airport, seven of which have been developed in the past seven years alone. The State will get 11 more airports in the years to come, including two international ones.” However, the airport is yet to see any scheduled commercial flights, which will be launched by SpiceJet next month when it will operate four weekly flights from November 26 from Delhi. From December 18, SpiceJet will also connect the airport to Mumbai and Kolkata. Though the airport is yet to be connected with international destinations, Secretary of the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Rajiv Bansal, told The Hindu that Thailand sends the largest number of tourists to this region, and he expected charter flights from there. On the sidelines of the Kushinagar airport inauguration, Mr. Namal Rajapaksa presented to Mr. Modi a Sinhala-Tamil-English translation of the Bhagavad Gita. The Sri Lankan delegation also brought relics from the ‘Rajaguru Sri Subhuthi Maha Vihara’, a famed Buddhist shrine located 40 km south of Colombo. Exposition of relics Indian officials would organise an exposition of the relics in several cities, including Kushinagar and Sarnath, a statement from the Indian High Commission in Colombo said. On Wednesday, Mr. Namal Rajapaksa met Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and had a “cordial and productive conversation,” the Indian mission said in a tweet.  (With inputs from    Suhasini Haidar in New Delhi and Meera Srinivasan in Colombo)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kushinagar-airport-in-buddhist-tourist-circuit/article37101282.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India facing more risk of heat extremes: report||India has become 15% more vulnerable to extremes of heat than in 1990, according to the Lancet Countdown on Health and Climate Change, a flagship report of the medical journal The Lancet that provides periodic updates on the scientific literature on the relationship between climate change and public health. In 2020, the elderly (over 65) were affected by 3.1 billion more days of heatwave exposure, compared to the 1986-2005 baseline average, the report said. Chinese, Indian, American, Japanese and Indonesian senior citizens were the most affected. The report noted that 295 billion hours of potential work were lost across the globe in 2020 due to heat exposure. The three most populous countries in the medium-HDI (Human Development Index) group (Pakistan, Bangladesh and India) had the greatest losses among this group (2.5 to three times the world average and the equivalent to 216-261 hours lost per employed person in 2020). Between 2018 and 2019, India and Brazil had the biggest absolute increase in heat-related mortality. The economic losses of climate-related extreme events were three times higher in medium-HDI countries than in very high HDI countries. The Word Health Organisation’s (WHO) South-East Asia was the only region with increasing air pollution mortality costs between 2015 and 2019, relative to GDP. The Lancet Countdown’s sixth annual report tracks 44 indicators of health impacts that are directly linked to climate change and shows key trends are getting worse and exacerbating inequalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-facing-more-risk-of-heat-extremes-report/article37101512.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||House panel to study ‘border management’||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs headed by senior Congress leader Anand Sharma has decided to study “border management”, which will also entail deliberations on the contentious extension of jurisdiction of the Border Security force (BSF) up to 50 km inside the international borders in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. The Home Ministry, through a notification published on October 11, amended the BSF Act of 1968. The BSF’s powers which include arrest, search and seizure were till now only up to 15 km in these States. Punjab and West Bengal have objected to the change. The parliamentary panel met to discuss the agenda. Other than the pending issues, it has added “border management” to the list, which will include deliberations of all borders protected by the Central Armed Police Forces. Informed sources said this was added on demand from the Trinamool Congress. No policing powers The BSF does not have policing powers and after apprehending a suspect, it can only conduct “preliminary questioning” and the seized consignment or a suspect have to be handed over to the local police within 24 hours. West Bengal has 2,216 km long border with Bangladesh and the Trinamool contends that the extension of jurisdiction will effectively bring nearly one-third of the State’s territory under the BSF’s control. Out of 23 districts in the State nearly 10 districts will be affected. This will have an impact on 21 of the 42 Lok Sabha constituencies which could have larger political implications. The Opposition is expected to register its protest on the new amendment in the winter session of Parliament. The BSF Act, Section 139(3) requires the Government to lay the notification before Parliament and the members, within 30 days, can raise a motion for discussion on annulment of such an order. “It is clearly a violation of the federal values laid down in the Constitution. We will press for annulment of the order,” a Trinamool leader said. There was no objection or opinion from any other member from the committee on the issue when it was raised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/house-panel-to-study-border-management/article37101267.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Denied bail, Aryan Khan moves High Court||Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan on Wednesday moved the Bombay High Court after a special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act rejected his bail in the case of the busting of a drug racket on a cruise ship on October 2. The appeal is expected to be heard on Thursday. Special Judge V.V. Patil also rejected the bail pleas of Arbaaz Merchant, 26, and Munmun Dhamecha, 39, arrested with him. Mr. Khan had sought bail through senior advocate Amit Desai on the grounds that there has been no recovery of possession of contraband found from him. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, for the NCB, opposed Mr. Khan’s bail, saying: “Mr. Khan has a role in illicit procurement and consumption of contraband. It is  revealed that he used to procure contraband from Mr. Merchant and the sources connected to him from whose conscious possession six grams of charas was recovered.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/denied-bail-aryan-khan-moves-high-court/article37101270.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘U.P. dragging its feet on Lakhimpur Kheri case’||“How many of the accused have been arrested?” the CJI asked. Mr. Salve said 10 have been arrested in the case of the farmers’ deaths. He highlighted that there were two crimes involved. One was regarding the running over of farmers and the other concerning the lynching of three people in the ensuing violence. He submitted that the second incident was “more difficult to investigate” as it was a mob that was involved. The court observed that the case needed to be bifurcated. The Bench, which had taken suo motu cognisance of the Lakhimpur Kheri events, said it would first focus on the farmers’ deaths. The court finally adjourned the hearing to October 26, giving time for U.P. to provide more information about their investigation. “You gave the status report at the last minute... How are we supposed to read it? Last night, we waited till 1 o’clock for the material... Nothing. Please file the reports early,” the CJI addressed the State side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-dragging-its-feet-on-lakhimpur-kheri-case/article37101280.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian team meets Taliban Deputy PM||India was also a signatory to the joint statement issued by representatives of China, Iran, Russia, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan which called on the Taliban to keep their commitment on forming an “inclusive” government and ensuring that their territory is not used by terror groups to threaten the security of other countries, curb transnational drug routes and pursue “friendly relations” with neighbouring countries. “It was stated that further practical engagement with Afghanistan needed to take into account the new reality, that is the Taliban coming to power in the country, irrespective of the official recognition of the new Afghan government by the international community,” the statement said, marking a decided shift in India’s previously tough stand on engaging the Taliban. In the past few months, the Indian Ambassador in Doha has met with Taliban representatives and an Indian delegation took part in another multi-country meeting in Doha that included Taliban representatives as well. However, this is the first such official participation by India where the delegation, which also includes MEA Joint secretary for Eurasia Adarsh Swaika met directly with Taliban officials who are part of the new regime in Kabul that remains unrecognised by any country. Donor conference The Moscow format meeting, part of a series of meetings on Afghanistan since 2017, concluded with a proposal to launch a collective initiative for an international donor conference convened by the United Nations to collect funds for Afghanistan’s economic and financial reconstruction. The U.S. did not send any representative to the meeting, in a possible indication of the Biden administration’s waning interest in Afghanistan, with a renewed focus on groupings in the Indo-Pacific, a move Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov criticised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-team-meets-taliban-deputy-pm/article37101594.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC denies furlough to Asaram’s son||The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the Gujarat Director General of Police’s (DGP) order to deny a two-week furlough to self-styled godman Asaram’ son, Narayan Sai, who is serving life imprisonment for rape. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud agreed with the State police chief that the crimes committed by the convict were too grave to grant him furlough. The DGP, while declining furlough to Sai, had taken into consideration his criminal misconduct during the trial, including attempts to bribe officials, assaulting and murdering witnesses, and threatening police officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-denies-furlough-to-asarams-son/article37101286.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fresh SOP released for travellers to India||The Union Government has revised guidelines for those flying into India, stating that the revision has been brought “in view of increasing vaccination coverage across the globe and the changing nature of the pandemic”. The revised SOP (standard operating procedure), which will be valid from October 25, requires mandatory COVID-19 RT-PCR negative report for those boarding a flight to India. All travellers should submit a self-declaration form on the Air Suvidha portal before their scheduled trip and upload the negative RT-PCR report. This test should have been conducted within 72 hours before undertaking the journey, according to the guidelines. If a traveller is coming from a country with which India has reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of World Health Organization-approved COVID-19 vaccines and is fully vaccinated, that person shall be allowed to leave the airport and do self-monitoring for 14 days. Fifteen days must have passed since the completion of the vaccination schedule. If partially/not vaccinated, travellers should undertake post-arrival COVID-19 test, after which they will be allowed to leave the airport. Travellers should go in for home quarantine for seven days and get a retest done on the eighth day of arrival, and if negative, further self-monitor their health for the next seven days, said the guidelines. The list of countries from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival, including post-arrival testing, has been updated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fresh-sop-released-for-travellers-to-india/article37101598.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Maharashtra firm made GM-flagged rice export||IARI Director A.K. Singh told The Hindu that the European Commission must share details of specific genetic markers found in the consignment, so that it could be tracked to ascertain if there were any linkages to any of the approved field trials of GM rice in India. The European Commission’s contamination alert prompted the recall of tonnes of confectionery items and baked goods throughout Europe this summer, and provoked concerns that India’s Rs. 65,000 crore worth of annual rice exports could be hurt by the allegations, as The Hindu reported on Wednesday. “The GMO contamination is suspected to have been found in rice flour which was processed in the EU, and they themselves are not sure of the exact source of the contaminant. The broken white rice exported from India, which is allegedly one of the possibilities, has passed through many hands before reaching the actual processors in the EU,” said a Commerce Ministry statement. Ministry spokesperson D.J. Narain told The Hindu that the exporter had been identified as wholesale trader Omprakash Shivprakash of Akola in Maharashtra, who said the exported rice was non-GM. The Ministry suggested that cross contamination could have taken place while the broken rice was being processed into final products in Europe. “The experts in India, both from the Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee and agricultural experts from the IARI and other rice experts are, however, investigating the matter,” it added. “There is hardly any possibility of cross contamination even during inland transit as the final sample was drawn at the port of loading by an independent inspection agency having international recognition,” said Mr. Narain, adding that the certificate was issued by Bureau Veritas (India) Private Limited. Dr. Singh pointed out that unless the European authorities communicate what specific transgene has been detected, “it will be premature to make any comment that this is a contamination coming from India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-firm-sold-rice-feared-gm-contaminated/article37101281.ece
21 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder draws flak from Oppn.||A day after former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced that he would launch his own party, he came in for strong criticism from key political parties in the State on Wednesday. Hitting out at Capt. Amarinder Singh (retd.), Punjab’s Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa termed him an opportunist. Mr. Randhawa also blamed Capt. Singh for enhancement of powers of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Punjab. Shiromani Akali Dal leader said “It is now clear that Capt. Amarinder Singh was aligned with the BJP all along and backstabbed his party as well as Punjabis.” The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha said, “The Prime Minister has fielded Capt. Amarinder Singh to prevent the formation of the AAP government [next year].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-draws-flak-from-oppn/article37101294.ece
21 October 2021||Guwahati,||Directorate for indigenous faiths in Assam||The Assam Cabinet has approved the creation of a directorate and posts under the newly-established Indigenous Faith and Culture Department that was notified a month ago. The directorate is expected to kick-start the process of preserving indigenous faiths such as Bathou of the Bodo community and Heraka of the Zeme Naga community, considered to be endangered because of conversions to mainstream religions. In July, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced the decision to create a department for the preservation of indigenous faiths and cultures. He had said the department would not be tagged with other departments such as Culture or Welfare of Plains Tribes and Backward Classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/directorate-for-indigenous-faiths-in-assam/article37101517.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Spirit of Valmiki’s philosophy is under attack, says Rahul||The Constitution embodies the spirit of Maharishi Valmiki’s philosophy but it is under attack now as lakhs of Dalits, poor and marginalised people face violence under the current regime, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said on Wednesday. He made the remarks while flagging off Shobha Yatra, an annual parade on the occasion of Valmiki Jayanti, from the party headquarters. “Greetings on the occasion of Valmiki Jayanti! Maharishi Valmiki showed the path of love and brotherhood to our nation, gave us a way of living. Our Constitution is based on the ideas of Maharishi Valmiki. However, these days we can observe that his ideology is being attacked,” Mr. Gandhi told party workers and supporters. “Today, the Constitution, Valmikiji’s philosophy, especially our Dalit brothers and sisters, are being attacked. The country is witnessing that the poor, the weak and the marginalised are being attacked and the benefits are being given to 10-15 people. And crores of of poor people, farmers, Dalits are being attacked. “I would like to give a message to the Dalit brothers and sisters that the Congress party will stop these attacks. The more they divide the country, the more we will join.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spirit-of-valmikis-philosophy-is-under-attack-says-rahul/article37101283.ece
21 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Om Prakash Rajbhar meets Akhilesh||Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party president and former BJP ally Om Prakash Rajbhar called on Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday, in the first open indication that the two parties could be inching towards a possible alliance in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election. While there was no formal announcement of any electoral tie-up, both sides sent out enough signals that they were willing to work and contest together. The SP already has the support of three OBC-based parties in the State — the Rashtriya Lok Dal, Janvadi Party (Socialist) and the Mahan Dal. An alliance with the SBSP, which had contested the 2017 Assembly polls in alliance with the BJP, would boost its prospects in Purvanchal, especially among the Rajbhar OBC community. Mr. Yadav, sharing a picture of the meeting, which lasted almost an hour, also called it a courtesy call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/om-prakash-rajbhar-meets-akhilesh/article37101289.ece
21 October 2021||Dehradun/New Delhi,||Uttarakhand death toll touches 52||Landslips blocked roads, many villages went without electricity, and the toll climbed to 52 as authorities on Wednesday faced the aftermath of the rain that had battered Uttarakhand for over two days. Six more bodies were pulled out from the rubble of the collapsed houses. Five persons are missing and 17 injured, according to official data. The weather cleared on Wednesday morning after the incessant rain since Sunday night triggered floods, which washed away bridges, and landslips, which blocked access to towns like Nainital for hours. Most of the deaths were due to house collapses and an official statement said 46 of them suffered damage. Nainital district alone saw 28 deaths. The official count of people missing in rain-related incidents does not include a trekking team of 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttarakhand-death-toll-touches-52/article37101596.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||Debate over physical hearings in SC||The Supreme Court’s decision to shift gears from virtual to physical hearings twice a week became a point of debate on the very first day of the court’s reopening after Dasara holidays on Wednesday. Several senior lawyers across the spectrum, including senior advocate Kapil Sibal and Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, urged Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana not to make physical hearings mandatory. Mr. Sibal said physical hearings should not be made a “hard-and-fast rule”. The senior lawyer said some cases had records which ran into 50 to 60 volumes, and allowing just one briefing lawyer inside the courtroom would affect proper legal representation of the matter. The CJI said the court was forced to modify its standard operating procedure (SOP) to make physical court mandatory on Wednesdays and Thursdays. The first full physical hearing in the Supreme Court would start from October 21. The CJI said certain sections had been clamouring that the court was “shirking” from physical hearings. According to the modified SOP, lawyers have an option to opt for either physical or virtual mode on Tuesdays. Mr. Sibal said several High Courts continued to hold hybrid hearings. He said physical hearings should be given further thought and any positive action on it should be deferred to after Deepavali. The Chief Justice explained that a committee of Supreme Court judges set up by former Chief Justice S.A. Bobde decided the issue of physical hearings. Mr. Sibal’s request had to be put before this committee. Mr. Sibal said he and other lawyers could meet the committee this week. The CJI agreed to place the issue before other judges later in the day. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is the president of the Supreme Court Bar Association, said he objected to Mr. Sibal’s plea. Mr. Singh said he was in favour physical hearings every day of the week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-move-on-physical-hearings-twice-a-week-starts-off-debate/article37101516.ece
21 October 2021||Mumbai,||Param Bir not traceable, Maharashtra tells HC||The Maharashtra Government told the Bombay High Court that former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh is not traceable, and it will not continue with its statement that no coercive action will be taken against him. However, senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for Mr. Singh, told the court that he had not been declared an absconder yet. A Division Bench of justices Nitin Jamdar and S.V. Kotwal was hearing a petition filed by Mr. Singh seeking to quash an FIR against him. The plea says the FIR was registered belatedly after having failed to persuade him to withdraw his complaint against Anil Deshmukh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/param-bir-not-traceable-maharashtra-tells-hc/article37101266.ece
21 October 2021||Guwahati,||After leaving Cong., BPF cosies up to BJP in Assam||The Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) that left the Opposition alliance led by the Congress has cosied up to the BJP again in Assam. Ahead of by-elections to five Assembly seats, BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary said the friendship between his party and the BJP was “certain”. Supporters of his party would vote for the BJP candidate in the Bhabanipur constituency, he stated. “It is now up to the BJP to formally announce the tie-up,” he told party workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-leaving-cong-bpf-cosies-up-to-bjp-in-assam/article37101275.ece
21 October 2021||Jaipur,||Class 7 student beaten to death by teacher in Rajasthan||A Class VII student of a private school was allegedly beaten to death by a teacher in Rajasthan’s Churu district on Wednesday, police said. The accused has been apprehended. Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra expressed grief over the incident and issued directions to suspend the recognition of the school. A police official said 13-year-old Ganesh was severely thrashedfor not completing homework. He was rushed to a hospital in an unconscious state where doctors declared him brought dead.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/class-7-student-beaten-to-death-by-teacher-in-rajasthan/article37101276.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||Congress questions Amit Shah’s silence on J&K killings||The Congress on Wednesday questioned Home Minister Amit Shah’s ‘silence’ over the targeted killings in J&K and said the Centre had failed to tackle the situation.Party spokesperson Gourab Vallabh demanded that the Centre should restore J&K’s statehood, hold elections and offer financial support to migrant workers who have had to flee J&K.“Right now, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh are in direct control of the Home Ministry. Have we seen any statement by the Home Minister?” asked Mr. Vallabh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-questions-amit-shahs-silence-on-jk-killings/article37101278.ece
21 October 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Main suspect confesses to killing teacher in Odisha||The main suspect in the disappearance of a teacher in Kalahandi district of Odisha has confessed to having killed her, the Odisha police said on Wednesday. He is alleged to have committed the murder to stop her from disclosing his extra-marital affairs. The announcement, however, failed to douse the political controversy with the Opposition parties continuing to demand the removal of Odisha Minister of State for Home Dibya Shankar Mishra, who is accused of having close links with suspect Gobinda Sahu, promoter of the school. Though the police announced they would fast-track the investigation, the National and State Commissions for Women have taken cognisance of the incident and asked the police to ensure expeditious and impartial investigation. The NCW went a step further writing to Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik to remove the Minister to make way for a fair investigation. The State police found the half-burnt body of Mamita Meher, the teacher working in a school in Kalahandi’s Mahaling. Gobinda Sahu was the president of the school’s managing committee. The teacher had gone missing on October 8 after the accused had given her a lift in his car. The BJP on Wednesday observed a 12-hour bandh in Kalahandi, demanding the Minister’s ouster. A delegation of the BJP, led by president Sameer Mohanty, met Governor Ganeshi Lal seeking his intervention. The BJD defended the Minister, saying political leaders, who are invited to attend school or college functions, cannot be linked to crime on campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/main-suspect-confesses-to-killing-teacher-in-odisha/article37101299.ece
21 October 2021||Washington,||IMF Chief Economist Gita Gopinath to leave job and return to Harvard University||The International Monetary Fund’s chief economist Gita Gopinath will leave her job in January next year and return to the Harvard University’s Economics Department, the global financial institution said. The 49-year-old economist joined the IMF as chief economist in January 2019. She was also the director of the Research Department of the IMF. “She made history as the first female chief economist of the Fund and we benefited immensely from her sharp intellect and deep knowledge of international finance and macroeconomics as we navigate through the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression,” IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/imf-chief-economist-gita-gopinath-to-leave-job-and-return-to-harvard-university/article37101518.ece
21 October 2021||United Nations/Geneva,||WHO chief discusses Covaxin approval with Mandaviya||WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus tweeted on Tuesday that he had discussed the issue of the Emergency Use Listing (EUL) of Bharat Biotech’s COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin and resumption of supplies of the Serum Institute of India-manufactured AstraZeneca vaccine to the COVAX facility among other topics during a telephonic conversation with Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. On Monday, WHO said it is expecting one additional piece of information from Bharat Biotech regarding its COVID-19 vaccine.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-chief-discusses-covaxin-approval-with-mandaviya/article37101520.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Civil society demands moratorium on evictions||Around 15 non-governmental organisations, community representatives and academicians have appealed for a moratorium on evictions until the State government finalises the proposed resettlement and rehabilitation (RR) policy. During a consultation on the draft RR policy organised by the Madras School of Social Work and the Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities on Wednesday, they demanded wider consultation on the draft policy and addressing several gaps in the draft. They urged the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board to extend the last date (October 27) given for providing feedback as the Tamil version of the draft was made available only on Saturday. Citing the recent constitution of a drafting committee and wider consultation with civil society organised for drafting the State policy for women, they said that a similar approach should be followed by the government for the RR policy as well. The participants stressed that the RR policy could not be finalised in a hurry while the drafting of a housing policy was under way. While welcoming the State Government’s move to bring in such a policy, they offered a number of suggestions to address gaps in the draft. A common observation made by many participants was the need for clarity and clearer definition on several aspects. Arguing that any such policy should first identify the existing problems and then talk about how it planned to address them, Karen Coelho, associate professor, Madras Institute of Development Studies, said the existing issues were not articulated in the draft RR policy. The definition that the resettlement site should be within 30 minutes of travelling time of the nearest urban centre could have different interpretations, she said. Many participants said it should rather be defined in terms of distance from the place where the people were residing before relocation. Vanessa Peter, founder, Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities (IRCDUC), highlighted the inadequate representation of civil society and community representatives in the composition of committees suggested in the policy. J. Sebastin, coordinator of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board Residents’ Welfare Committee, said the draft policy did not speak about transfer of ownership of houses to the resettled population. Andrew Sesuraj, convener, Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch, said the policy should clearly say that resettlements would not be done in the middle of an academic year as it would affect the children. Other key suggestions raised during the consultation revolved around limiting the size of the resettlement colonies, addressing safety aspects that was a key concern at present in these colonies, efficient grievance redress mechanisms, and better and broader definitions on facilities to be provided at the resettlement sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civil-society-demands-moratorium-on-evictions/article37101755.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sale of crackers to be a low-key affair||With many consumers finding it difficult to buy even basic necessities, sale of firecrackers for Deepavali in the city is expected to be a low-key affair this year. Wholesalers in Parry’s Corner say they have just about started witnessing sales. “Some five years ago, we used to have business for 40 days. But only now we are seeing some movement. People don’t have money for essential items and prices of crackers have gone up manifold. The Lakshmi cracker, which was sold at Rs. 100 a pack in 2005 now costs Rs. 350. We don’t expect much sales this year,” said Syed Ibrahim, who runs a wholesale firecracker shop on Anderson Street. TUCS outlets Similarly, retail sales is yet to pick up. Shops are being put up in many places. The Triplicane Urban Cooperative Society (TUCS) is putting up 12 outlets this year at places including Saligramam, Triplicane, Besant Nagar, Saidapet and Royapettah. “This year, all our cracker sales will be computerised. Customers will get bills based on the price list provided at the shops. All our crackers this year are green. Sales is expected to commence from Friday,” said an official source. Even the firecracker shops on Island Grounds are yet to open and are expected to commence over the weekend. The Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation leases out around 3.20 lakh sq. ft. of space to cracker shops every year. Cracker sales on Island Grounds did not take a break even last year during the peak pandemic. The shops, which would number around 50, are expected to get around 1,000 visitors a day till November 5. Rajendra Raja, vice-president, The Indian Fireworks Manufacturers Association, since production had been affected due to various factors including COVID-19 and the ban on firecrackers, they expected the distributed goods to be sold this year. Thanks CM “In Chennai, sales happens only during 10 days before the Deepavali festival. As far as other States are concerned, we are thankful to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for getting in touch with Chief Ministers of other States. In Uttar Pradesh, there is some delay in getting temporary licences. We hope that the stocks we have sent to wholesalers would be sold,” he said. As far as green crackers were concerned, he said that NEERI had to provide the manufacturers with suitable formulation for crackers. Many manufacturers were converting to green crackers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-crackers-to-be-a-low-key-affair/article37101764.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 1,170 fresh COVID-19 infections and 20 fatalities||The State’s daily COVID-19 case count fell to 1,170 on Wednesday, pushing its tally to 26,90,633. Its active caseload touched 14,058. Several districts reported a marginal rise in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases — Erode logged 91 infections, while Salem saw 61. Villupuram (11), Virudhunagar (7), the Nilgiris (19), Madurai (26), Karur (19) and Kanniyakumari (13) were the other districts that recorded a rise. As many as 1,418 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,40,627. Twenty people succumbed to the infection — five of them died in private hospitals. With this, the State’s toll touched 35,948. Chennai’s tally stood at 5,53,221, with 5,42,939 people having been discharged after treatment so far. Its active caseload stood at 1,751 and toll at 8,531. Coimbatore logged the highest number of fatalities at six. Chengalpattu and Tiruchi saw two deaths each. Tiruppur, Tiruvallur, Thanjavur, Salem, Pudukottai, Nagapattinam, Kanniyakumari, Kancheeppuram, Dharmapuri and Chennai recorded one fatality each. Three of the deceased had no co-morbidity. A 74-year-old hypertensive woman from Chennai, who tested positive for COVID-19 on October 5, and was admitted on October 8 to a private hospital in Chennai with complaints of breathing difficulty for five days, died on Tuesday due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Over a lakh get jabs As many as 1,48,437 people were inoculated in 2,542 camps across the State. Among the beneficiaries were 144 healthcare workers and 576 frontline workers. As many as 85,202 people aged 18 to 44, 45,028 people in the 45 to 59 age group and 17,487 senior citizens were among those who got jabs. So far, 5,13,95,307 people have been administered the COVID-19 vaccines in government facilities in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-1170-fresh-covid-19-infections-and-20-fatalities/article37101741.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Appointment of priests subject to result of case: HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered that appointment of priests in temples managed by Fit Persons (interim administrators appointed by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department) shall be subject to the result of a case which claimed that only trustees are entitled to make such appointments. The First Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu passed the interim order following a public interest litigation petition filed by T.R. Ramesh, president of Temple Worshippers Society, based in Chennai. After preliminary arguments advanced by the litigant’s counsel M.R. Venkatesh, the judges wrote that the petitioner had challenged the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious Institutions Employees (Conditions of Service) Rules of 2020. The rules had come into effect from September 4, 2020, and the principal grievance of the litigant was that Rule 2(1)(c) which permits a Fit Person to make appointments goes against the grain of the parent statute — the HR&CE Act of 1959, under which the power was vested with trustees. The petitioner contended that the statutory rules pave the way for tinkering with the sacrosanct agamas (religious text on temple rituals) by permitting appointments without insisting upon the need for the appointee to have learnt the agama sastra followed in a particular temple. He claimed that the archaka (priest) must have been trained only in the specific agama that was relevant to the particular temple, and it was not permissible to mix up even between the two vaishnava agamas or between any of the 26 saiva agamas . Finding that the petitioner had made out a prima facie case, the judges ordered notice to the State Government and called for a counter affidavit within four weeks. The petitioner was given two weeks thereafter to file his reply, and the case was adjourned by seven weeks. “Any appointments made in the meantime will abide by the result of the petition since it, prima facie , appears that the appointment by a Fit Person may not be the appropriate form under the Act of 1959,” the judges said and impressed upon the need to appoint trustees for all temples. Although the Bench refused to stay the operation of the statutory rules under challenge, it made clear that “there must be no breach in following the particular Agama which is relevant for the particular temple for which an appointment is made.” The Bench directed the High Court Registry to tag the present case along with cases already pending in the court challenging the appointment of archakas from all castes, and list them together for hearing on December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appointment-of-priests-subject-to-result-of-case-hc/article37101773.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Murder accused from West Bengal arrested in city||A 27-year-old murder accused from West Bengal was arrested in the city on Monday. His name was given as J. Obaidur Rahman of Birbhum district in West Bengal. He had escaped from there and was working in Chennai as a daily wage worker at a construction site. A police official of Manali New Town station said that a few days ago, a team from the West Bengal police sought the help of the city police in tracing him. CCTV footage Based on photographs and identification details provided and with the help of footage from CCTV cameras fitted near a construction site, a police team identified the accused. He was arrested, and steps were being taken to hand him over to the West Bengal police. The accused, after committing the crime in July, had escaped along with his wife, and the couple were recruited by the contractor to work at a construction site in Manali New Town a month ago, the police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murder-accused-from-west-bengal-arrested-in-city/article37101745.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin inspects two reservoirs||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday visited Puzhal and Chembarambakkam reservoirs and inspected the ongoing works there. In Chembarambakkam, he took stock of the water level and inspected repair work in vents in the reservoir taken up at a cost of Rs. 2.24 crore. He instructed authorities to complete the work early and monitor the bunds in view of the northeast monsoon. Minister for Municipal Administration and Water Supply K.N. Nehru, Minister for Public Works Department (PWD) E.V. Velu, Rural Industries Minister T.M. Anbarasan, MLA S. Sudharsanam (Madhavaram), Durai. Chandrasekar (Ponneri), K.P. Shankar (Tiruvottiyur), K. Selvaperunthagai (Sriperumbudur), PWD Secretary Sandeep Saxena, Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board Managing Director C. Vijayaraj Kumar and Kancheepuram Collector M. Aarthi accompanied the Chief Minister. Minister holds meeting Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran chaired a meeting in the Secretariat on Wednesday to review the monsoon preparedness in the State. Mr. Ramachandran released Standard Operating Procedures for Handling Disasters and a telephone directory containing contacts of officials during disasters. These can be accessed at https://bit.ly/TNDisasterSOP and https://bit.ly/TNDisasterDirectory||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-stalin-inspects-two-reservoirs/article37101748.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS submits petition to Governor alleging malpractice during polls||Leader of the Opposition and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday called on Governor R.N. Ravi and submitted a petition, alleging malpractices in the recent local bodies elections in nine districts. Mr. Palaniswami told reporters that the State Election Commission had failed to conduct the elections in a transparent and independent manner and acted as a puppet in the hands of the ruling DMK. He alleged that the Madras High Court’s directions for conducting the elections in a transparent manner were not followed by the State Election Commission and the State Government. Election Commission officials had not acted on the AIADMK’s complaints, and the announcement of the victory of the AIADMK candidates was delayed. “We have detailed the malpractices and urged the Governor to take action,” he said. The petition also sought appropriate steps to ensure that the upcoming urban local bodies elections are conducted in a fair and proper manner. ‘Sasikala not in AIADMK’ Mr. Palaniswami on Wednesday said it had been made clear several times that V.K. Sasikala, aide to former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, was no longer part of the party. To a query about Ms. Sasikala, he said the AIADMK had filed complaints against her use of the party flag, and legal action would be taken accordingly. He also dismissed claims made by Ms. Sasikala that she was the general secretary of the AIADMK. “Let her call herself whatever she wants. The Supreme Court and the Election Commission of India have already ruled in our favour and elections are over. We are not concerned,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-submits-petition-to-governor-alleging-malpractice-during-polls/article37101736.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin deputes Ministers to ensure development work in districts||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has named a few Ministers as in-charge to speed up development work, to monitor the implementation of welfare schemes and to coordinate relief measures during natural disasters in 16 districts across the State. While Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru would be in-charge for Salem district, Cooperation Minister I. Periyasamy would be in-charge for Theni district. Minister for Public Works E.V. Velu would look after Tirupattur and Kallakurichi districts, an official release said. The other Ministers who have been named in-charge for various districts in the State are: Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam (Dharmapuri), Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran (Tenkasi), Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu (Ramanathapuram), Minister for Rural Industries T.M. Anbarasan (Kancheepuram), Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan (Tirunelveli), Food Minister R. Sakkarapani (Tiruvarur), Electricity Minister V.Senthilbalaji (Coimbatore), Minister for Handlooms and Textiles R. Gandhi (Krishnagiri), Minister for Backward Classes Welfare S.S. Sivasankar (Perambalur), School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi (Thanjavur) and Minister for Environment Siva.V. Meyyanathan (Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-deputes-ministers-to-ensure-development-work-in-districts/article37101862.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four new judges sworn in at Madras High Court||Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee of the Madras High Court on Wednesday administered the oath of office to four new judges thereby increasing the working strength of the court to 60 as against its sanctioned strength of 75 judges. Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram welcomed the additional judges. Introduction Introducing them to the gathering, he said Justice S. Srimathy was born on January 10, 1967 and and practised as a lawyer for 32 years since 1989. During her practice in various branches of law, she had worked with some notable lawyers. She had also served in different positions as a counsel for the Centre as well as the State government besides being a nodal counsel for Union Public Service Commission. Justice D. Bharatha Chakravarthy was born on July 24, 1971 at Thennathur village in Vandavasi taluk. After completing his schooling in Tindivanam, he had obtained law degree from Dr. Ambedkar Government Law College in Puducherry. In his 28 years of legal practice, he had served as a standing counsel for public sector undertakings such as Puducherry Tourism Development Corporation and Puducherry Slum Clearance Board. In 2017, he was appointed as Public Prosecutor for Puducherry. The third newly sworn-in judge Justice R. Vijayakumar was born on December 22, 1970. His father A. Ramamoorthy was a former judge of the Madras High Court. He had suspended his legal practice when his father got elevated as a judge and served as a lecturer in government law colleges. Thereafter, he resumed his practice and put in a Bar experience of 23 years. He had conducted numerous cases for Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation and was a resource person for Tamil Nadu State Judicial Academy. Justice Mohammed Shaffiq was born at Mannady in Chennai on March 6, 1972. His father S.M. Abdul Khadar was a practising lawyer before the Madras High Court particularly in the field of taxation and civil laws. The judge had completed his schooling at St. Bedes Anglo Indian School and graduated from the Government law college in Chennai. In 27 years of his legal practice, he had conducted cases before 10 different High Courts in the country, the A-G said and wished the new judges a wonderful tenure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-new-judges-sworn-in-at-madras-hc/article37101771.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anti-drowning unit to keep watch on beaches||The Greater Chennai Police on Thursday launched Anti-Drowning Unit to prevent people from drowning on the beaches. The unit would function at five places — Marina, Ennore, Besant Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur and Palavakkam. According to a press release, the Anti-Drowning Unit comprises personnel drawn from the city police, beach patrol team, Fire and Rescue Services, fishermen and sportspersons. It will have boats, vehicles, protective gear, and first aid kits to help prevent any drowning casualties. Also, awareness against venturing into the sea would be created through loudspeakers installed at all beaches. Five beaches The five beaches covering 13 police stations recorded more than 500 deaths due to drowning in the past five years, the release added. DGP C. Sylendra Babu, and Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal participated in the launch programme. Also, a demonstration of the rescue measures was conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-drowning-unit-to-keep-watch-on-beaches/article37101760.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Declare T.N. a nuclear free zone, say leaders||Leaders of political parties, led by VCK chief Thol. Thirumavalavan, on Wednesday sought to declare Tamil Nadu a “nuclear-free zone”. At a press conference here, he said the unscientific disposal of radioactive waste from the nuclear reactor at Kudankulam was likely to increase the risk to public health. “Experts have said some of the reasons for the disaster in Chernobyl and Fukushima were similar to the existing conditions at Kudankulam,” he said. Pointing to the issues in the disposal of radioactive waste from the Kudankulam reactor, Mr. Thirumavalavan said the Union Government had continued such activities which were dangerous to people. “The Union Government should suspend the operations pertaining to the third and fourth reactors. It should announce the location of the deep geological repository before conducting the public consultations on the development of the facility away from reactor.” The government should not develop the fifth and sixth reactors too, he added. The group of leaders called for a White Paper on the Kudankulam project and the withdrawal of cases against the residents who protested against the project. The first reactor was stopped for maintenance from June 22 and resumed operations on September 2. After 35 days, it was stopped again. The frequent disruption of operations and snags had increased the risk of disaster, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/declare-tn-a-nuclear-free-zone-say-leaders/article37101732.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK, NTK criticise Centre, State over attack||Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) chief Seeman and PMK youth-wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss criticised the Central and State governments on Wednesday for the death of Rajkiran, a fisherman from Pudhukottai district, who fell into the sea and died when intercepted by the Sri Lankan Navy. In a statement, Mr. Seeman said nowhere in the world would any country tolerate attacks on its own citizens by a foreign country. He said the plight of Tamil Nadu fishermen, who suffer violence at the hands of the Sri Lankan navy, did not change no matter who came to power at the Centre or the State. “The Union government’s silence is a betrayal of the Tamils,” Mr. Seeman said. Mr. Anbumani said Rajikiran’s family should be given a compensation of Rs. 1 crore, and urged the Union government to take strict action fishermen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-ntk-criticise-centre-state-over-attack/article37101878.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mega camp to focus on second dose: Minister||The sixth mega vaccination camp, scheduled to be held on Saturday, will focus on those requiring the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Wednesday. Speaking to journalists here, he said 5.70 crore people required the second dose. As on Wednesday morning, the State had 48 lakh doses. On Saturday, 25 lakh people were expected to receive the second dose. In the fourth camp, 10 lakh people received the second dose and 11 lakh were given the second dose in the fifth camp. He said 50,000 centres would operate to administer Covaxin and Covishield on Saturday. People are lax Mr. Subramanian expressed concern that people were lax in observing the COVID-19 protocol. “People must wear masks and maintain personal distance. The World Health Organization has said 70% of the population should have received the first dose. In Tamil Nadu, 68% of the population has been vaccinated. We are worried that the number of people taking the second dose is low. As of now, 57 lakh people need to get their second dose,” the Health Minister said. The Minister said dengue was under control in the State, with 340 persons having been infected so far. Meanwhile, health workers are carrying out daily surveillance and preventive work.  In Tamil Nadu, 68% of the population has been vaccinated. We are worried that the number of people taking the second dose is low||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-camp-to-focus-on-second-dose-minister/article37101739.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online quiz for school students on Oct. 24||NLC India, in association with Hindu Tamil Thisai, will be organising an online quiz for school students on the theme “Independent India @75: Self Reliance with Integrity”. The online quiz, to be held in two categories for juniors and seniors, is being organised as part of the Vigilance Awareness Week 2021, to be celebrated from October 26 to November 1. The online quiz will be held on October 24, and will cover various topics on Indian governance. The last date for registration for the quiz is October 22. Interested students could register themselves for the online quiz athttps://connect.hindutamil.in/special /nlc-quiz||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-quiz-for-school-students-on-oct-24/article37101762.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Relief granted to Leena Manimekalai||The City Civil Court, Chennai, has set aside an order of the Saidapet Metropolitan Magistrate Court to impound the passport of Leena Manimekalai. The order to impound the passport pertains to a defamation case filed by director Susi Ganesan against the film-maker in 2019. The director, who filed a defamation case against Ms. Manimekalai after she named him as part of the #MeToo movement, later filed a petition seeking the impounding of her passport. The Saidapet Metropolitan Magistrate ordered the passport to be impounded on September 6, against which Ms. Manimekalai filed a plea in the Chennai City Civil Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-granted-to-leena-manimekalai/article37101780.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Settle dues, urge milk producers||Milk producers have urged the State Government to settle Rs. 400 crore due to them through a one-time grant before Deepavali festival. The Government had reduced the price of Aavin milk by Rs. 3 per litre four months ago leading to a loss of Rs. 23 crore per month. However, no subsidy was provided to Aavin to make up for this loss, said M. G. Rajendran, Tamil Nadu Milk Producers’ Welfare Association. Last year, Aavin had settled dues amounting to Rs. 250 crore after the district unions took loans from public sector banks. “Due to buying milk over and above its requirement, almost all the unions attached to the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Federation, whose popular brand is known as Aavin, are running at a loss. The Federation has been purchasing at least 10 lakh litres of additional milk on the orders of the State government,” explained a retired official of Aavin. Mr. Rajendran said that another round of bank loans would unnecessarily burden the district unions that were already in a bad shape. “A one-time grant would help Aavin get back on its feet. The government should also subsidise the Rs. 3 that it directed to reduce,” he said. Another retired official said that several years ago Karnataka had a system by which new members were paid lesser than the regular members of the cooperative societies. They would be paid more when there was a demand. If implemented in Tamil Nadu, a small but significant saving could be made, he added. Aavin procures around 37 lakh litres of milk daily of which it supplies 25 lakh litres as milk and requires another 2 lakh litres to process into milk-based products. The additional milk is being converted into butter and skimmed milk powder. The milk major has vast stocks of both products and is unable to sell powder due to a glut in the international market.  The Federation has been purchasing at least 10 lakh litres of additional milk on the orders of the State government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/milk-producers-urge-state-govt-to-provide-one-time-grant-to-settle-dues/article37102143.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaiko’s son gets a post||Durai Vaiko, son of MDMK general secretary Vaiko, who has been appointed as the headquarters secretary of the party, said he would steer clear of right-wing politics and pursue progressive and development-oriented politics. “I do not want to enter politics, but destiny has thrust it on me. It is going to be a difficult journey. I am indebted to the party leaders and cadres who have reposed faith in me and will live up to their expectations,” Mr. Durai Vaiko told The Hindu . He was appointed on Wednesday after the party’s high-level committee, district secretaries, political advisory committee and political research centre voted overwhelmingly in favour of his entry into the party. Of the 106 votes, he polled 104. Mr. Durai Vaiko has been attending party events and functions on behalf of his father, who is not keeping well. Though Mr. Vaiko was against the idea of allowing his son to enter politics, he budged to the demands of partymen and called for a secret ballot. “I have watched politics as an ordinary person and I know the day-to-day problems of a common man dealing with administration and officials. I was able to connect with the people. Working with them for two years helped me win the Kuruvikulam panchayat union election,” said Mr. Durai Vaiko, who worked for an U.S.-based telecom company after completing his MBA. He said even though the country had witnessed development, it failed to percolate down. “I am not talking about villages in hills. Even villages near Sankarankoil and Kovilpatti could not get adequate drinking water and bus services,” said Mr. Durai Vaiko, who is also managing agriculture at Kalingapatti.  I have watched politics as an ordinary person and I know the day-to-day problems of a common man Durai Vaiko||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaikos-son-becomes-mdmk-headquarters-secretary/article37101775.ece
21 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Beta-glucan can help COVID-19 patients recover fast: study||An Indian Council for Medical Research-approved clinical study on the efficacy of a component in black yeast in reducing the adverse effects of SARS-CoV-2 virus and aiding faster recovery of COVID-19 patients has shown promising results. The pilot study was jointly conducted by Indo-Japanese medical experts, headed by Madurai-based pediatric neurologist K. Raghavan. Speaking to The Hindu he said a black yeast named Aureobasidium pullulans was rich in beta-glucan, known among other things, for its anti-inflammatory properties. It is a registered food supplement in Japan and traditionally the Japanese store the yeast at home for its medicinal value. For the study, COVID-19 patients in the age group 18 to 65 years were split into three groups. All were given the standard COVID19 treatment as per World Health Organisation-ICMR protocols, while two groups additionally received the beta-glucan food supplement in different measures. “Those who received the supplement in high doses reported reduced breathlessness and fatigue and recovered faster,” Dr. Raghavan said. The novel coronavirus causes inflammation and triggers a cytokine storm and as the body fights the virus, the over-production of cytokines damages tissues and organs; in this case — the lungs, he explained. “The yeast helped to lower the release of cytokine, drastically reducing the adverse effects of the virus in all the affected patients who received the supplements,” he said. The study has been acknowledged by the Clinical Trials Registry-India and the findings released by Elsevier besides being published on the WHO’s COVID-19 website. According to Dr. Raghavan, Dr. MGR Medical University would be collaborating with them to give the beta-glucan supplement to select COVID-19 patients as part of treatment to further test the results. The teams initially collaborated six months ago to study the impact of beta-glucan in children with autism and observed that it helped improve their immunity. Dr. Raghavan who runs the Kenmax Integrated Special School in the city, said the parents informed their children did not suffer the regular seasonal bouts of cold and cough. That is when the team thought of treating COVID-19 patients with beta-glucan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beta-glucan-can-help-covid-patients-recover-fast/article37101782.ece
21 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Recovered mobile phones handed over to owners||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Wednesday handed over 141 lost or stolen mobile phones to their owners after tracing them through the cyber crime police station. The Rural Police had received 347 complaints with regard to stolen and lost mobile phones till September, this year. Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam tasked Additional Superintendents of Police N. Ravichandran and R. Sughasini to conduct a special drive to trace as many mobile phones as possible. The team headed by cyber crime police station inspector S. Jayadevi recovered 141 mobile phones by tracing the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number. Mr. Selvanagarathinam handed over the recovered mobile phones to their owners at his office on Wednesday. The SP urged people to report to the respective police station in the event of losing their mobile phones. As stolen or lost phones can be misused by others, such incidents should be reported to the police at the earliest, he said. Ms. Jayadevi also educated people who came to collect their mobile phones on the need to be cautious about online cheating wherein fraudsters ask for One Time Password, credit/debit card and bank account details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recovered-mobile-phones-handed-over-to-owners/article37101801.ece
21 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pollachi sexual assault case accused get copies of survivors’ statements||The nine accused in the Pollachi sexual assault case were given copies of the survivors’ statements here on Wednesday. The accused were produced before the Mahila Court, Coimbatore, and Sessions Judge R. Nandhinidevi extended their judicial remand till October 28. In the previous hearing held on October 6, the court had issued directions to provide copies of the survivors’ statements that were recorded under Sections 161 (3) and 164 of the CrPC. Copies of these statements, which the eight survivors had given to the police and the magistrate, were provided to the nine accused on Wednesday, said court sources. The nine accused -- N. Rishwanth alias Sabarirajan (26), K. Thirunavukkarasu (28), N. Sathish (30), T. Vasanthakumar (25), R. Manivannan alias Mani (31), K. Arulanantham (34), P. Babu alias ‘Bike’ Babu (27), Haronimus Paul (29), and M. Arunkumar (29) -- have been charge-sheeted by the Central Bureau of Investigation in the case. While the first five accused were brought to the court from the Salem Central Prison, the remaining four were brought from the District Prison at Gobichettipalayam in Erode. The police party that escorted the first five accused landed in trouble after the vehicle carrying them back to Salem made a halt on Avinashi Road, around 11 km from the court, where family members were allowed to meet them. Photographs of the accused talking to their family members on the busy Avinashi Road were widely circulated in social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accused-in-pollachi-sexual-assault-case-get-statement-copies/article37101779.ece
21 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pectoral sandpiper, which breeds in North America and Asia, spotted in T.N.||A pectoral sandpiper ( Calidris melanotos ), which mainly breeds in the North American and Siberian Arctic, was spotted for the first time in Tamil Nadu, on the shores of a tank in Coimbatore. Birders D. Gajamohanraj and Sharang Sathish spotted the bird at Achankulam, a tank located 20 km from Coimbatore city, on October 15. Praveen J. and Ashwin Viswanathan of Bird Count India confirmed the identity of the sandpiper. “The sighting is the first record of pectoral sandpiper in Tamil Nadu and the fifth in India. In India, the bird has previously been spotted in Harike, Punjab, and at three locations in Kerala,” Mr. Viswanathan said. According to Mr. Praveen, the previous sightings of the bird in Kerala and the Andaman were in the coastal regions. Mr. Gajamohanraj and Mr. Sathish spotted the medium-sized wader feeding in the company of little stints and wood sandpipers at the tank. They photographed the unusual visitor. “Our initial impression of the bird was of a long-toed stint, but it did not seem to match in structure and size. Another possibility was ruff. But this bird had distinctly different upper parts colouration and pattern, apart from the different bill colour. Our familiarity with these aforementioned species allowed us to conclude that this was a bird we had not seen before in the field,” they said. According to them, the unique features of the bird include elongated body, de-curved bill with orange base, bright yellow legs, long primary projection and strong breast streaking demarcated against a bright white belly. “Pectoral sandpipers breed in the Siberian and North American Arctic. During the non-breeding season, they migrate mostly to South America but also to parts of Australia and New Zealand. Pectoral sandpipers are known to wander outside their migratory routes but it is very rare to see them in India, especially inland,” Mr. Viswanathan said. Mr. Praveen added that the one individual, which the two birders spotted at Achankulam, could have made a stopover en route to its migratory destination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pectoral-sandpiper-which-breeds-in-north-america-spotted-in-tn/article37101778.ece
21 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bicycle expedition reaches Srinagar||Two youths from Gandhipuram in Coimbatore, who commenced their bicycle trip from Kanniyakumari, have reached Srinagar in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday after 15 days of journey. Surendar Nagaraj, a 25-year-old professional equestrian, said that he and his friend S. Sajeev, a 23-year-old college student, commenced their trip from Kanniyakumari on October 4 and reached Srinagar on Tuesday morning. “We covered around 250 km per day,” he told The Hindu over phone from Srinagar. The duo traversed over 3,500 km in a span of 15 days on their bicycles, maintaining an average speed of around 20 kmph, Mr. Nagaraj said. He noted that the trip was intended as a tribute to Captain Vikram Batra, an Indian Army officer who died during ‘Operation Vijay’ of the Kargil War in 1999 and was posthumously awarded the Param Vir Chakra by the Central government for his valour. Mr. Nagaraj added that the duo threw around 5,000 seed balls at several locations en route during their journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bicycle-expedition-reaches-srinagar/article37101792.ece
21 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pollachi native duped through online trading platform||A 26-year-old man from Pollachi was duped of Rs. 99,400 by an unidentified person on an online trading platform. The police said that David John, a resident of Aishwarya Nagar near Pollachi, was cheated by the person on the pretext of selling a car through OLX. Mr. John’s complaint said that he saw an advertisement regarding the sales of a car and contacted the number that was listed as that of the seller on October 15. The unknown person, pretended to be an Army officer and asked Mr. John to pay Rs. 99,400 through another mobile number through a digital payment platform. Mr. John transferred the money to the phone number on October 16, after which he did not receive any response. Mr. John lodged a complaint with the Cyber Crime station on Tuesday and a case was registered. The Cyber Crime police are trying to trace the fraudulent seller.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pollachi-native-duped-through-online-trading-platform/article37101787.ece
21 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation removes encroachments||Coimbatore Corporation on Wednesday removed encroachments near Sungam Junction. Central Zone Town Planning wing officials led by Assistant Town Planning Officer A. Babu removed 32 tile and thatched roofed houses that were on State Government land to facilitate the construction of the flyover on Trichy Road. The portion of the flyover on Sungam Bypass Road that involved construction of columns and beams near Sungam Junction had not taken off because the houses had to be removed first. The Corporation had removed the houses to facilitate the flyover construction. The work started around 10.30 a.m. and was continuing well into the evening as rain hampered operation. For the occupants of 32 houses, the Corporation through the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board had provided alternative accommodation at the latter’s tenement in Pillukadu, near Ukkadam. The sources said the Corporation would continue with demolishing the remaining 60-odd houses in the locality but that would be only after the alternative accommodation was ready.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-removes-encroachments/article37101791.ece
21 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 141 new cases in Coimbatore||A total of 141 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The district had 1,500 active cases of the disease on Wednesday, while 143 persons recovered. The deaths in the district increased to 2,390 after six more persons died of COVID-19. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 1.5 % on Tuesday when it reported 127 new cases. Tiruppur district reported 67 fresh cases, which took its case tally to 94,596. The overall toll touched 971 following the reporting of a death by the Health Department. The district had 815 active cases and 74 patients from the district recovered from COVID-19 on Wednesday. Positivity rate of Tiruppur district based on Tuesday’s data was 1.5%. In the Nilgiris, 19 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 33,323. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the district stood at 208 in the Nilgiris on Wednesday while 330 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-141-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article37101799.ece
21 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NMR trains cancelled||Salem Division of the Southern Railway announced the cancellation of train services between Mettupalayam and Udhagamandalam on the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) section on Thursday following heavy rain in the Nilgiris district on Wednesday. A release said that Train No. 06136 Mettupalayam – Udhagamandalam special train and Train No. 06137 Udhagamandalam – Mettupalayam special train will not be operated on the NMR section on Thursday. However, the NMR train services between Coonoor and Udhagamandalam will continue uninterrupted, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nmr-services-cancelled/article37101789.ece
21 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Yogesh Pai from The Chennai Silks, Coimbatore emerged winner in the Cluster 6 Finals of Tata Crucible Corporate Quiz 2021 held recently. A press release said that the winner received a cash prize of Rs. 35,000 and will compete in the semi-final round to qualify for the national finals. The Cluster 6 Finals represented Rest of Tamil Nadu (excluding Chennai), Kerala, Andaman & Nicobar, Pondicherry and Lakshadweep.    The corporation has asked commercial establishments in its limits to remove unauthorised hoardings by October 24. The Corporation will remove the hoardings if they were found after the stipulated time period, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37101797.ece
21 October 2021||COLOMBO,TAMIL NADU||SL confirms recovery of fisherman’s body||The body of the fisherman from Tamil Nadu, missing since Monday, has been recovered from Sri Lankan waters, the Sri Lankan Navy said on Wednesday. Suganthan and Arockia Xavier, the two other fishers from Pudukottai, “rescued” by the Sri Lankan Navy on Monday, identified the body as that of their colleague, Rajkiran, officials said. Rajkiran was reported missing after their fishing vessel began sinking following collision with a Sri Lankan naval vessel on Monday night. The body has been sent to the Jaffna Teaching Hospital for post-mortem, said officials in Jaffna. The Indian Consulate in Jaffna and the High Commission in Colombo are coordinating with Sri Lankan authorities to repatriate the remains. The Sri Lankan Navy said its patrol units were “chasing away” Indian trawlers fishing illegally when the incident occurred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sl-confirms-recovery-of-fishermans-body/article37101744.ece
21 October 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Training for civil defence volunteers to manage relief work during monsoon||The administration on Wednesday launched training sessions for a batch of civil defence volunteers who will help in relief efforts during the onset of the Northeast monsoon. The training programme, being hosted by the Puducherry District Disaster Management Authority, for 61 volunteers who had responded to a call for engaging as Civil Defence personnel. Rishita Gupta, Sub-Collector (Revenue), South, R. Giri Sankar and officials from various departments participated in the function to launch the eight-day programme at the Police Training School in Gorimedu. The training sessions are being led by highly experienced resource persons from various departments, including Revenue, Police, Fire, Health, PWD, Electricity, Social Welfare and Women and Child Development. The training, includes theory, practical, mock drills and yoga sessions. Further, the NDRF Arakkonam is also imparting specialised training that will come in handy while tackling the impact of the northeast monsoon. Though the volunteers, who hail from various fields of experience, were identified with vast potential, but they still need to undergo structured training in disaster management activities, said N. Tamilselvan, Deputy Collector (Disaster Management). The administration said in a press note that the district was prone to crises, under the influence of both southwest monsoon and northeast monsoon every year. During these seasons it is highly prone to heavy rainfall, flood and cyclones. Further, the district is being affected by other disasters, such as fire and industrial hazards. All such disasters are being tackled in a proactive manner by various departments/stakeholders in a coordinated and cohesive manner. Apart from this, NGOs and NSS volunteers are also involved in the disaster management activities. Mock drills also have been conducted at various levels to test their preparedness and response time. Community is more often than not, the first responders to any disaster. As it may take sometime for the government machineries to reach the disaster site, the communities have to be trained and equipped to tide over and manage the situations. In line with this, the disaster management authority has been conducting various programmes. A Civil Defence corps has been formed to enhance community engagement in disaster relief efforts, the administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-civil-defence-volunteers-to-manage-relief-work-during-monsoon/article37102147.ece
21 October 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||1,500 kg of ration rice seized, two persons held||The Civil Supplies-Criminal Investigation Department (CS-CID) on Tuesday seized 1,500 kg of ration rice, meant for supply under the public distribution system, from a mini van and arrested two persons in this connection. Acting on a tip-off, a team conducted vehicle check at Sirupakkam check-post near Veppur when they intercepted a mini van. The team searched the vehicle and found 50 rice bags, each weighing 30 kg. Investigations by the police revealed that the accused, M. Jayakumar, 39, of Mangalur, and S. Mani, 42, of Veppur, had purchased the rice from family cardholders to convert it into poultry feed and market the same to poultry units in Salem district. The duo was arrested and remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1500-kg-of-ration-rice-seized-two-persons-held/article37102150.ece
21 October 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Co-optex fixes Rs. 3.10 crore sales target for Dharmapuri, Harur showrooms||Co-optex has come to town with a cumulative sales target of Rs. 3.10 crore for 2021 Deepavali. This envisions a sales target of Rs. 2.70 crore for its Dharampuri showroom and Rs. 40 lakhs for its Harur showroom here. Earlier, Deepavali festival sale was inaugurated by Collector S. Dhivyadarshini here on Wednesday. The sales target for the current season is a significant increase from the sales turnover of last year. A cumulative sales of Rs. 1.09 crore was realised last year, with a sales turnover of Rs. 94.61 crore in Dharmapuri, and Rs. 15.06 lakhs in Harur. For this festival, Cooptex is offering 30% discount on its products. According to the administration, the government-run Cooperative Society has come out with a range of collections with silk saris in abundance. A range of cotton saris with traditional and local weaves from Coimbatore, Madurai, Paramakudi, Tiruchi and Salem and organic and Kalamkarai printed cotton saris are also part of the Deepavali collections. In addition, the Society has also brought to town home linens, including aprons, bed spreads, quilts, curtains, table mats, pillow covers to the festival collection. Co-optex will be open on all days, including holidays at Nellikani Co-optex showroom, Nachiappa Gownder Street, Dharmapuri, phone – 04342-260145.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/co-optex-fixes-rs-310-crore-sales-target-for-dharmapuri-harur-showrooms/article37101904.ece
21 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Folk artistes roped in to create awareness on ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ scheme in districts||A 15-day awareness campaign on ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ scheme, which is aimed at filling the gaps in learning among students of Classes I to VIII owing to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on education, was launched in the districts here on Wednesday. Under the initiative, launched by the Department of School Education on October 18, volunteers will engage with students one hour every day in spaces that will be identified in the locality. In Erode, members of three cultural troupes --Adirvu, Sembaruthi and Tamilalayam -- have been roped in to disseminate information on the scheme to the people across the district. District Collector H. Krishnanunni flagged off the campaign at the Collectorate and the troupe members would be touring the district for 15 days. Mr. Krishnanunni said that volunteers would take classes for one to one-and-a-half hours a day, preferably between 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. for government school students, and the classes will be based on the syllabus. He said that of the 38 districts in the State, the State government is implementing the scheme in 12 districts, including Erode district, in the first phase. Volunteers and NGOs interested in taking part in the initiative can register themselves on the portal (https://illamthedikalvi. tnschools.gov.in), he added. Volunteers who have passed Class XII can take classes for students of Classes I to V, while any degree holders can take classes for students of Classes VI to VIII. Later, at a meeting held with officials at the Collectorate, the Collector announced a logo contest in connection with the scheme. He said that to reach out to the people, a logo with tag line should be created with the participation of the people. School and college students, teachers, public, retired staff and any individuals can participate in the contest. There is no age limit for participation and the best logo with tag line will be awarded a cash prize of Rs. 25,000 and a certificate. Entries should be emailed toillamthedikalvi@gmail.comby 5 p.m. on October 24, he added.  Special Correspondent from Krishnagiri adds:  In Krishnagiri, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy launched the awareness campaign on ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ scheme . Stakeholers The administration has roped in folk artistes to spread the message of the scheme, which in turn will push the local bodies as stakeholders in assisting the scheme to work. The initiative will be supervised by the school headmasters/headmistresses, and school management committees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/folk-artistes-roped-in-to-create-awareness-on-illam-thedi-kalvi-scheme-in-districts/article37101914.ece
21 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Temporary watchtowers installed to monitor crowd||To monitor the crowd, regulate traffic and to prevent crime during the festival season, the district police have started installing watchtowers at 20 points in the city where textile and jewellery showrooms are located. The areas where watchtowers are installed include R.K.V. Road, Panneerselvam Park, Eswaran Kovil Street, Manikoondu, Nethaji Road and Krishna Theatre area. The work is expected to be completed in two days. Watchtowers would also be installed in Gobichettipalayam, Sathyamangalam, Bhavani and Perundurai in a few days. Apart from using public address systems to warn shoppers against pocket pickers and bag-lifters, the police would also regulate traffic on these roads to ensure free flow of vehicles. Policemen would patrol the roads and streets in these areas to ensure hassle-free shopping for people. In Salem city, watchtowers are being installed at over 25 points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-watchtowers-installed-to-monitor-crowd/article37101919.ece
21 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Small industries’ association seeks reduction in GST on platic raw materials, textile yarn||Erode District Small Industries’ Association (EEDISSIA) has urged the Central government to reduce the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on plastic raw materials, textile yarn and carbonated fruit juice-based drink. The association’s general body meeting was held under the chairmanship of its president P. Thirumoorthy in which secretary R. Ramparakash, vice-presidents V.T. Shreedhar and P. Kandasamy, treasurer S. Palanivel, joint secretary A. Saravanan Babu and members participated. Various resolutions were passed during the meeting. Resolutions A resolution said that the GST council had recommended an increase in the GST rate on cartons, boxes, packing containers of paper from the present 12% to 18%. The move will affect the paper industry and wanted the proposal to be withdrawn. Another resolution said that it was proposed to increase the GST for carbonated beverages up to 40% and wanted it to be withdrawn. Use of plastic bags for packing was banned without any proof and hence the government should come out with alternative products for packing on war-footing. Since plastic items can be recycled, it should be permitted for secondary packages, the resolution said. Parachute manufacturing Other resolutions were, including Erode in the Coimbatore-Salem Industrial Corridor project, converting Erode district as drone special production centre, focusing on parachute manufacturing in the district, establishing separate industrial estates for textile, food processing and plastics in the district, establishing export hub, establishing railway export terminal at Sipcot in Perundurai and taking steps to control price of fuel. Infrastructure development  A resolution called for constructing flyovers, public parking lots and ring roads in the city and pedestrian subway near Erode Railway Junction and a flyover at Rangampalayam. The resolution also urged the government to widen the existing roads connecting Tiruchengodu, Chithode and Karur as four-lanes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/small-industries-association-seeks-reduction-in-gst-on-platic-raw-materials-textile-yarn/article37101900.ece
21 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Sixth mega vaccination camp on Oct. 22 & 23||The sixth mega vaccination camp will be held in the district on October 22 and 23 during which the district administration targets to vaccinate 1.5 lakh persons. District Collector H. Krishnanunni in a release said that camps will be held across the district on Friday and Saturday and persons above 18 years can get vaccinated. The release said that persons who received their first dose of Covishield can get vaccinated after 84 days, while persons who received Covaxin after 28 days. Hence, persons can receive their second shot of vaccination during the camps. There is no food restriction for getting vaccinated. Hence, people need not fear, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sixth-mega-vaccination-camp-on-oct-22-23/article37101917.ece
21 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||AUT against increasing marks for internal assessment||Taking strong exception to Bharathiar University’s decision to increase the marks for internal assessment from 25 % to 50% for UG and PG courses from the academic year 2021-22, Association of University Teachers (AUT) has urged the university to withdraw the proposal. The meeting of the central executive committee of AUT was conducted here Tuesday under the chairmanship of K. Thirunavukarasu during which various resolutions were passed unanimously. A resolution said that even the existing 25% was kept in abeyance for sometimes owing to several malpractices and irregularities. Hence, increasing this to 50% will lead to manipulation of results, the resolution added. Another resolution raised serious concern over the plight of teachers working in the constituent colleges of Bharathidasan University, Tiruchi, as they were not paid their salary for the past five months. A resolution said that non-filling up of the top level posts such as Registrar, Controller of Examination, Dean, Director of Distance Education, and Finance officer, in many universities in the State is affecting the normal functioning of the universities concerned as vital decisions could not be taken. “The vice chancellors have directed some professors to act as in-charge for the above posts arbitrarily without following any norms”, the resolution said. A resolution wanted the suspension order of four office bearers of the Periyar University Employees’ Association to be revoked. AUT was founded in 1946 and is the first teacher organisation in higher education in the State. To commemorate the 75th year, AUT resolves to hold an educational conference involving its members, both present and past, with leading educationists all over the country in the third week of December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aut-against-increasing-marks-for-internal-assessment/article37101906.ece
21 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 91 cases, Salem 61 and one death||Erode district on Wednesday reported 91 new cases, taking the tally to 1,03,529. While 91 persons were discharged, 876 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 61 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 99,227. While 53 persons were discharged, 557 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 1,680. Namakkal district reported 48 cases taking the tally to 51,715. While 52 persons were discharged, 617 continue to be under treatment. A total of 141 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-91-cases-salem-61-and-one-death/article37101908.ece
21 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Use only fortified salt’||With global Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) Prevention Day to be observed on October 21, Thursday, Collector H. Krishnanunni has requested the public to use only fortified salt. A release from Collector said that to create awareness about the essential micronutrient that everyone needs, the day is observed every year across the globe. Iodine helps in brain development and overall growth. Hence, only fortified salt should be used, the release said. Iodine deficiency in a pregnant woman can cause stillbirth, developmental issues in children, intellectual deficiency, congenital abnormalities and mental health problems. Iodine salt is available at low price at all the ration shops and the public should use it, the release added. He also asked the public to be cautious against pink-coloured fake salt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-only-fortified-salt/article37101916.ece
21 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Kavindapadi sub-station , power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on October 21 at Kavindapadi, Kolathupalayam, Odathurai, Pethampalayam, Ellispettai, Singanallur, Perundalaiyur, Vellankovil, Appakudal, Krishnapuram, Dharmapuri, K. Pudur, Marappampalayam, Ayyampalayam, Velampalayam, Chandirapuram, Perumapalayam, Thannachipatti, Pandiyampalayam, Kunjaramadai, Odamedu, Karukkampalayam, Kannadipudur, Manickavalasu, Ayyanvalasu, Manipuram, Viralimedu, Thangamedu, Sevacoundanur, Alandur, Kavundampalayam, Kuttipalayam and Serayampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37101915.ece
21 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||56 kg. ganja seized||Police recovered 56 kg of ganja valued at Rs. 5.60 lakh from three abandoned bags here at the bus stand on Tuesday. A mobile phone was also found inside one of the bags.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/56-kg-ganja-seized/article37101902.ece
21 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Woman found dead||A 65-year-old woman was found dead at Gurubarapalli. The victim has been identified as Soodamma. According to the police, gold chain that the victim was wearing was also missing. Gurubarapalli police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-found-dead/article37101905.ece
21 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘ Education key to social development’||The basic infrastructure for the development of society is education and every eligible student should get loan togain access to it, according to Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan. Addressing an education loan mela organised by the district administration here on Wednesday, Mr. Thiaga Rajan said he was a beneficiary of the loan from a bank in 1987 for his higher education abroad. “I repaid not just that Rs. 1 lakh that I borrowed from the bank, but also several lakhs as tax to the government due to the education I got.” Mr. Thiaga Rajan attributed the higher gross enrolment ratio in Tamil Nadu to the proactive steps taken by the Justice Party decades ago. Free meals and reservation in jobs encouraged students to take up higher education. Many States would take around 40 years to make this achievement. Minister for Commercial Taxes P. Moorthi appealed to banks to positively consider education loan for students to pursue their postgraduation too. Some students complained that they were denied loan for postgraduate courses as they had taken loan for undergraduation, he said. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan said Rs. 60 crore loan had already been given after sustained efforts taken by the district administration and the banks. He said the banks had been told not to consider CIBIL score of parents for grant of education loans to students. “No student will be denied higher education only because of lack of loan to pay tuition fees. We will scrutinise every loan application that is rejected and seek explanation from the banks,” he added. A total of 1,355 students registered themselves for loan on Wednesday and Rs. 11.8 crore education loan was disbursed on the same day. Other applications would be processed in the coming days. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar said the administration conducted a series of meetings to ensure higher education for students to realise their dream. “It is the duty of the banks to give education loan and students should not be made to run from pillar to post to get it. It is the responsibility of the students to promptly repay the loans,” he added. Lead Bank Manager Anil. D. said 15 banks had participated in the loan mela. Madurai North MLA G. Thalapathi, Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan, District Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan, and The American College Principal M. Davamni Christober were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/education-key-to-social-development/article37102217.ece
21 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Minister bats for better Master Plan||Expressing dissatisfaction over the Madurai Master Plan 2041 prepared by a private consultant, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Wednesday said a better proposal would be readied in the coming days. Mr. Thiaga Rajan, winding up a discussion on the Master Plan held at the Collectorate, said the plan was missing crucial components for the development projected for the district in the next 20 years, despite the consultant having worked on the subject for a longer period. With the support from all quarters, a better plan for the greater good of the 18 lakh population of the city would be prepared, he said. The meeting organised by Madurai Local Planning Authority, was chaired by Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar. Ministers Mr. Thiaga Rajan and P. Moorthi, MP Su. Venkatesan, MLAs and representatives of industry and tourism took part. The Collector asked all stakeholders to give their suggestions for the Master Plan within the next 10 days. While the proposal included Kariyapatti of Virudhunagar district and Tiruppuvanam of Sivaganga district, Mr. Moorthi objected to leaving major portions of Madurai district. He wanted the Local Planning Authority to reconsider the decision and include areas within 25 km radius around the city. Most of the elected representatives and stake holders agreed. While former Minister R.B. Udhayakumar listed out developmental works implemented in the last 10 years of AIADMK rule, Mr. Thiaga Rajan said the budgetary allocation for maintenance of big development projects that was around 10% in the past had come down to 5% in the last 15 years. “With fund allocation for maintenance, buildings, roads and hospitals have suffered.” He pointed out that two-wheelers accounting for a higher 43% of total vehicles in Madurai led to traffic congestion, pollution and parking problem. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha suggested paid parking facilities to decongest the roads. Similarly, certain commercial activities should not be allowed around the Meenakshi temple to enable adequate space for tourists to the temple. People should be willing to walk for some distance to reach the temple. Representatives of industry said failure to update the Master Plan after 1995 had led to a slump in industrial development of Madurai as re-classification of land became a major hurdle. “Madurai has got only three industrial estates and needed more such facility to give impetus for industrial development,” said president of MADITSSIA, M.S. Sampath. Metro Rail project and electrical multiple unit services were also suggested as cheaper mode of transport. Architect R.M. Valliappan, said the Master Plan should be ecologically sensitive and prevent industrial effluents ruining water bodies. Former Mayor V.V. Rajan Chellappa recalled the suggestion to increase the number of zones in Madurai Corporation to five for better administration. Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan, Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran, MLAs Periyapullan alias P. Selvam, P. Ayyappan and A. Venkatesan, were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-bats-for-better-master-plan/article37102219.ece
21 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Government doctors s eek redress of multiple payment issues||Aggrieved by the State government’s failure to fulfill their long pending demands of pay revision, perks, promotions and COVID-19 compensation among other things, medicos owing allegiance to the Legal Coordination Committee for TN Service Doctors took to the streets here on Wednesday. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan supported the demonstration to press for their 17-point charter of demands. Syed Thahir, Senior Assistant Professor at Institute of Anaesthesiology & Critical Care, Government Rajaji Hospital, told The Hindu that  despite promises and assurances, both the previous and the present regime had failed to provide monetary relief to doctors who worked non-stop in all kinds of emergency situations. Highlighting the major grievances, he said compensation of Rs. one crore to eight government doctors who succumbed to COVID-19 remained a lip service. Some doctors in the private sector, who died during the two waves of coronavirus infection, received the Chief Minister's solatium of Rs. 25 lakh, but families of those in the government sector were still left out. The bonus payment of Rs. 30,000 to all COVID-19 warriors was also not received by any. Another member of the committee rued that innumerable meetings with department officials had yielded no result. Instead, some cases were arbitrarily cleared for partial payments. A case in point pertained to the former head of the legal committee, Lakshmi Narsimhan, who passed away early last year, and his family was denied pension benefits whereas those who died after him received their settlements. The committee was also seeking Rs. one crore compensation for him citing there should be no distinction between COVID and non-COVID deaths. According to Dr. Thahir, GO 354 to rectify pay anomalies promulgated by the DMK government in 2009, was pending both a review and implementation. “Now that the same party is back in power, we hope the goverment will not test our patience any more,” he said. Restoring DA arrears from January last, filling up vacancies and putting a stop to arbitrary and rampant transfers and promotions and thereby creating disparity in seniority were among their other demands besides some department-specific ill-functioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/redress-payment-issues-govt-doctors/article37101888.ece
21 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Expert for early diagnosis, treatment of clubfoot||Children with clubfoot, a congenital abnormality in which the foot is twisted out of shape or position, got to spend some happy moments with the doctor who successfully treated them and enabled them to walk normally. The special get-together was organised on Wednesday by Devadoss Hospital as part of bone health awareness programmes from October 12--20. While the children gathered from across the State walked and played around normally, their parents thanked the hospital chairman, A Devadoss, who treated the children to normalcy over a period of time. Dr. Devadoss has so far treated 5,000 children with clubfeet successfully and also established the Devadoss Clubfoot Foundation to help clubfoot children get free treatment. Speaking on the occasion, he stressed on the need for early diagnosis and treatment and the importance of healthy diet for building healthy bones. He said while could correct the deformity and help the children walk normally, the families needed to give continuing care and support for complete recovery. In an affectionate gesture, Dr. Devadoss also distributed gifts among his little patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expert-for-early-diagnosis-treatment-of-clubfoot/article37102214.ece
21 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Benefits of beta-glucan seen in COVID-19 patients’||An Indian Council for Medical Research-approved clinical study on the efficacy of a component in black yeast in reducing the adverse effects of SARS Cov-2 virus and aiding faster recovery of COVID-19 patients has shown promising results. The pilot study was jointly conducted by Indo-Japanese medical experts, headed by Madurai-based pediatric neurologist K. Raghavan. Speaking to The Hindu, he said a black yeast named Aureobasidium pullulans was rich in beta-glucan, known, among other things, for its anti-inflammatory properties. It was a registered food supplement in Japan and the Japanese stored the yeast at home for its medicinal value. For the study, COVID-19 patients in the age group 18 to 65 years were split into three groups. All were given standard COVID-19 treatment as per World Health Organisation-ICMR protocols, while two groups additionally received the beta-glucan food supplement in different measures. “Those who received the supplement in high doses reported reduced breathlessness and fatigue and recovered faster,” Dr. Raghavan said. The novel coronavirus caused inflammation and triggerred a cytokine storm and as the body was fighting the virus, the over-production of cytokines damaged tissues and organs – in this case the lungs. “The yeast helped to lower the release of cytokine, drastically reducing the adverse effects of the virus in all the affected patients,” he said. The study has been acknowledged by Clinical Trials Registry–India and the findings were released by Elsevier. It was published on WHO’s COVID-19 website. According to Dr. Raghavan, Dr. MGR Medical University would be collaborating with them to give beta-glucan supplement to select COVID-19 patients as part of treatment to further test the results. The teams initially collaborated six months ago to study the impact of beta-glucan in children with autism and observed that it helped to improve their immunity. Dr. Raghavan, who runs Kenmax Integrated Special School here, said parents said their children did not suffer the regular seasonal bouts of cold and cough. That was when the team thought of treating COVID-19 patients with beta-glucan. The study was funded by Prefectural Government of Yamanashi and the Government of Japan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/benefits-of-beta-glucan-seen-in-covid-19-patients/article37102186.ece
21 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Consider plea of bull owner: High Court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to consider the plea of a man from Theni district who was yet to receive the first prize for rearer of the best bull that he won in Alanganallur jallikattu held this year. Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the State government to consider the plea after the petitioner produced the materials that included photographs and media reports. He was the rearer of the best bull in the jallikattu, he said. The court was hearing the petition filed by M.K.M. Santosh Babu of Cumbum in Theni district. He said his bull ‘Garudan’ participated in the jallikattu this year, and was adjudged the best bull. He said a trophy was given at the event. However, the first prize – a car and a certificate – was not given by the jallikattu organising committee as announced. He said he had filed the petition at the High C ourt as no steps were taken on the representations made in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-plea-of-bull-owner-says-hc/article37101882.ece
21 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Will take steps to lift ban on carrying mobile phones into Meenakshi temple’||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Wednesday said he would make efforts to lift the ban on carrying mobile phones into Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple as part of giving a fillip to tourism in Madurai. The remark came during a discussion on Madurai Master Plan 2041 held at the Collectorate here. Drop in tourists The consultant, who prepared the Master Plan, said there was a sharp decline in the number of foreign tourists visiting Madurai in the last four years. While 3.28 lakh foreigners visited the Temple City in 2016, the number came down to less than 75,000 in 2020. When Madurai Travel Club president G. Raveendran raised the issue of campaign against tourism potential in Madurai and consequent fall in the numbers of international tourists, the ban on carrying mobile phones into the temple came up for discussion. A few participants said taking photographs of many places and sculptures inside the temple with mobile phones used to be a major attraction. One of them said international tourists were allowed to take photographs even during the non- darshan timing. Taking mobile phones inside the temple was banned due to a case related to something else, Mr. Thiaga Rajan said. When former Minister R.B. Udhayakumar said the issue was pending with the Home Department, the Finance Minister said he would take up the issue with the Home Department. “Ban on carrying mobile phones was only in Madurai and not in any other temple in the State,” he contended. “If security on flights can be ensured while allowing mobile phones after scanning, the same can be done in the temple too,” Mr. Thiaga Rajan said. A participant wanted to revive the ‘sound and light show’ at Tirumalai Naick palace, which was a big hit among tourists. Senior president of Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry S. Rethinavelu suggested that tourist hubs should be promoted in an aggressive manner. Mr. Rethinavelu said lack of permission for foreign airliners to operate their flights to Madurai was also a reason for the fall in the number of tourists visiting the Temple City.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-for-lifting-mobile-phone-ban-inside-meenakshi-temple/article37101896.ece
21 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bail denied||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday denied bail to British national A. Jonathan Thorn. He was arrested by ‘Q Branch’ police while he attempted to hire a boat to illegally sail to Sri Lanka from Thoothukudi. Justice B. Pugalendhi said considering the conduct of the petitioner, his presence in Thoothukudi and the possession of foreign currency, the court was not inclined to grant bail and sought a report on progress of investigation. The petitioner was arrested by Q Branch police for alleged offences under the Passports Act. It was said he made arrangements to illegally sail to Sri Lanka from Thoothukudi. It was said that he had also made arrangements to pay Rs. 1 lakh to the boat owner and it was organised by a Sri Lankan national. The petitioner said he was innocent and had no previous case against him in Tamil Nadu. The bail petition was dismissed. He was remanded in judicial custody in Puzhal Central Prison, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bail-denied/article37101883.ece
21 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||NEET: HC seeks State response||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday sought the State government’s response to a petition seeking a direction to restrain the ruling DMK from making any statements in public regarding cancellation of NEET. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar directed the State to file its counter affidavit to the petition filed by K.S. Vetrivel, a Rameswaram-based businessman. He said the Supreme Court had upheld the validity of NEET. Despite knowing the fact, the State government said that it was keen on scrapping the examination. The false promise created confusion and a legitimate expectation among the students that NEET would not be conducted for the present year. However, the students had to take the examination this year and it came as a rude shock to them. They were disturbed psychologically and it caused stress to medical aspirants, the petitioner said. The State government should pay appropriate compensation to the families of students who ended their lives. The State government should also pay compensation to those students who were under stress and depression, he said. The case was adjourned till November 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neet-high-court-seeks-states-response/article37101788.ece
21 October 2021||Mysuru/Chennai,TAMIL NADU||MDT23 moving a little in enclosure||Tiger MDT23 remains under treatment, and is being monitored, Mysuru Zoo Executive Director Ajith Kulkarni has said. “It is managing to move a little within the enclosure, though with difficulty. It is also consuming a little quantity of food,” he said. After it was captured in the Mudumalai forests, the tiger has been kept in the enclosure at the Mysuru zoo’s rescue centre. “Sometimes, it is aggressive on seeing a doctor in the enclosure, and it has already cut the iron grill mesh and broken one of its canine teeth. But its health is showing considerable improvement,” Tamil Nadu Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj said. He said, citing the doctors at the zoo, that the antibiotics seemed to be working well as the tiger’s swollen front leg was better. It ate around 8 kg of beef on Monday night, but left out the bones. Its wounds were also showing signs of healing. Its blood haemoglobin level had gone above 9 for the first time. Serum levels had shown mild liver inflammation. Injections were being administered through blow darts or jab sticks. No sedation or squeeze caging had been attempted so far because these methods could increase the tiger’s stress, Mr. Niraj said.  Sometimes, it is aggressive on seeing a doctor in the enclosure, and it has already cut the iron grill mesh and broken one of its canine teeth Shekhar Kumar NirajChief Wildlife Warden||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdt23-moving-a-little-in-enclosure/article37101731.ece
21 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No death in U.T. even as region records 42 fresh COVID-19 cases||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory as 42 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours on Wednesday. Puducherry logged 34 of the new cases, which were detected from 4,065 tests, followed by Karaikal (3) and Mahe (5). No new case was reported in Yanam. With 71 patients recovering from Covid in the last 24 hours, the active cases further declined to stand at 461. Of this, 94 patients were in hospitals and 367 in home isolation. The cumulative toll remained at 1,852 — Puducherry (1,449), Karaikal (250), Yanam (107) and Mahe (46). The test positivity rate was 1.03%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.19%. The Union Territory has so far reported an aggregate of 1,27,521 cases against 1,25,208 recoveries. Of an estimated 18.80 lakh tests conducted so far, over 15.95 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 2,295 persons took the jab against COVID in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has to date administered a cumulative total of 10,84,545 vaccine doses. Chairing a high-level meeting of officials to assess the COVID-19 situation at the Raj Nivas, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan called for involving private medical colleges and NGOs in achieving the target of 100% vaccination coverage for the Union Territory. She directed the officials to focus on intensifying vaccination rates in the rural areas, especially in pockets with low coverage. Prashant Goyal, Development Commissioner, Ranvir Singh Krishnia, Director General of Police, Ashok Kumar, Revenue Secretary, E. Vallavan, LAD Secretary, T. Arun, Health Secretary, Udayakumar, Information Secretary, Abhijit Vijay Choudhary, Secretary to the Lt. Governor, Rakesh Aggarwal, JIPMER Director and Saira Banu, WHO representative, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-death-in-ut-even-as-region-records-42-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37102149.ece
21 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Constable, cricket coach booked under POCSO Act||The territorial police have registered two separate cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. In the first case, the Thavalakuppam police have registered a case of alleged sexual assault of a 12-year-old girl against a constable attached to the India Reserve Battalion. The constable, Kumaravelu, a resident of Nallavadu village, was absconding, the police said. Player files complaint In another incident, the Mettupalayam police have registered a case against a senior cricketer-cum-coach attached to the Cricket Association of Pondicherry (CAP), for allegedly sexually assaulting a 16-year-old woman player. The police registered a case under the POSCO Act against the coach-cum-cricketer, Thamaraikannan, based on the complaint lodged by the girl. The police also registered a case against four officials of the association for not acting promptly on the complaint given by the young cricketer against the accused. The accused mentioned are Jayakumar, coach; Damodaran, CAP president and industrialist; Rohit, son-in-law of director Shankar; and Venkat, secretary, CAP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-coach-booked-under-pocso/article37101776.ece
21 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP delegation meets SEC, urges him to lift MCC||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday appealed to the State Election Commission to withdraw the Model Code of Conduct. A BJP delegation led by party president V. Saminathan met State Election Commissioner Roy P. Thomas and urged him to lift the MCC so that administrative measures are not hampered. Talking to reporters, Mr. Saminathan said the party was in favour of conducting the local bodies polls at the earliest. But the elections should be conducted as per the Constitutional provisions and providing equal opportunity to all sections of the society. “The elections should be held after correcting the anomalies. Since it is the festival time, the MCC should be lifted. The government and business community should not be affected due to the code of conduct,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-delegation-meets-sec-urges-him-to-lift-mcc/article37102144.ece
21 October 2021||PUDUKKOTAI,TAMIL NADU||Kottaipattinam fishers stay away from the sea||Fishermen of Kottaipattinam, a coastal hamlet in Pudukottai district, abstained from fishing on Wednesday, holding the Sri Lankan Navy responsible for the death of Rajkiran, mid-sea on Monday night. No mechanised fishing boat set sail from the fishing harbour. Sources said community leaders decided on Tuesday to abstain from fishing, demanding that the Union and State governments take effective action against the Sri Lankan Navy for using excessive force on innocent fishermen. Asan Mohaideen, president of the Mechanised Boat Fishermen Association, said over 1,200 fishermen took part in the protest. The governments should take speedy action to bring back the body of Rajkiran, he said. A group of fisherfolk observed a fast in Kottaipattinam. They urged the Union government to lodge strong protest with Sri Lanka over Rajkiran’s death. Minister for Environment Siva V. Meyyanathan called on Rajkiran’s family. He gave away Rs. 1 lakh in compensation to Rasu, Rajkiran’s father, from his personal funds. The Minister also met the family of Suganthan and Arockia Xavier, who were detained by the Sri Lankan Navy. Mr. Meyyanathan also assured them that steps would be taken to arrange their return as soon as possible. He handed over Rs. 50,000 in assistance to each of the families. Centre, State criticised Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) chief Seeman and Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) youth-wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss criticised the Central and State governments over Rajkiran’s death. In a statement, Mr. Seeman said nowhere in the world would any country tolerate attacks on its own citizens by a foreign country. He said the plight of Tamil Nadu fishermen, who suffer violence at the hands of the Sri Lankan navy, did not change no matter who came to power at the Centre or the State. “India does not bother to put any pressure on the Sri Lankan government, despite having the fourth largest armed forces in the world. The Union government’s silence is a betrayal of the Tamils,” Mr. Seeman said. Mr. Anbumani said Rajkiran’s family should be given a compensation of Rs. 1 crore, and urged the Union government to take strict action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kottaipattinam-fishers-stay-away-from-the-sea/article37101734.ece
21 October 2021||Ramanthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Three sentenced to undergo life imprisonment in murder case||Additional District Sessions Court Judge Srinivasan sentenced three accused in a murder case reported in 2013 to undergo life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 each on them on Wednesday. According to prosecution, Kenikarai police had registered the case in April 2013. The complainant stated that his relative Muthusami alias Ahmed, 38, of Valantharavai near here had financial transactions with one Bas alias Baskaran, 37, of the same locality. A wordy altercation erupted between them over some differences. Baskaran asked Muthusami to come to a place on April 28, 2013. When Muthusami went to the place with one of his relatives, four persons, identified as Jayakrishnan, 36, Dinesh, 29, Arjunan, 29, and Satish, 32, were there with Baskaran. Suddenly, they attacked Muthusami with ‘aruvals’ in which he died. Muthusami’s relative escaped from the spot and informed the police, following which they arrested all the five. Even as the trial was under way at the sessions court, the court was informed that Baskaran, after obtaining bail, went absconding. While Jayakrishnan, Dinesh and Arjunan, who were present, were awarded life term, the court acquitted Satish. The court also ruled that the trio should serve another six-month jail term if they failed to pay the fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-in-murder-case/article37101895.ece
21 October 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand action against MP, son in UP||Condemning the killing of four farmers and a journalist in Uttar Pradesh, farmers staged a protest here on Wednesday. Protestors said that farmers from various parts of the country continue to stage protest against the three farm laws in New Delhi for the past 10 months in a peaceful way. But, a vehicle in the convoy of Union Minister for State for Home Affairs and BJP MP Ajay Kumar Mishra deliberately ran over the farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri killing four farmers on the spot. Also, Raman Kashyap, a journalist with a local television channel, who was covering the protest, was also killed, they said. Farmers demanded action against the MP and his son while they wanted the three farm laws also to be withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-demand-action-against-mp-son-in-up/article37101911.ece
21 October 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Science graduate is new panchayat president||A science graduate, Yuvaniya, 23, daughter of Chidambaram, has assumed charge as the new panchayat president of Okkupatti near Sivaganga on Wednesday. Following the demise of the previous panchayat president, Arumugam Ammal, recently, the State Election Commission had ordered a by-poll for the post. Among others, Ms. Yuvaniya had also filed her nomination. After she was declared elected, Ms. Yuvaniya, took the oath in the presence of Deputy BDO Sujata and other former panchayat presidents from the village at the panchayat office. Many of them greeted her on assuming office and wished her good luck. In a brief chat with reporters, she said that she was elated on the one hand, while on the other side, she had a lot of responsibility as the elected representative. “I will do my best and be accessible for the needy people...I will discharge my duties sincerely. Being young and educated, I will create awareness about the need for women’s empowerment,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/science-graduate-is-new-panchayat-president/article37101894.ece
21 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Form Pattukottai district, says CPI(M)||The Communist Party of India (Marxists), Pattukottai Union, has demanded that a separate district with Pattukottai as headquarters be carved out of the Thanjavur district. A resolution to this effect was passed at its 13th conference held at Pattukottai recently. Resolutions demanding speedy execution of outer ring road project, implementation of underground sewage network, construction of check dams, disbursement of house site pattas and opening of sand quarries for the benefit of bullock-cart traders were passed. A resolution suggesting allocation of 100-days work scheme on rotation among the villages in a panchayat was also passed. Meanwhile, a tentative list of local bodies to be merged with Kumbakonam Municipality to elevate the latter as a Corporation has evoked mixed responses from the people. Inquiries reveal that one town panchayat and 13 village panchayats situated around the Kumbakonam are to be merged to form the new corporation. Not all the village panchayats are to be merged fully with the corporation. Only 6 out of the 13 village panchayats are to be merged entirely with Kumbakonam whereas only a portion of the village panchayat domain depending on the proximity, location and various ‘other influencing factors’ in each of the remaining 7 rural local bodies, are to be brought under the new corporation’s domain. Following the merger, the total area to be brought under the administrative control of the proposed Kumbakonam Corporation is expected to increase to 42.95 square km from the existing 12.58 square km that remain under the municipal domain. Similarly, the tentative population of the proposed corporation is estimated to hover around 2.50 lakh persons with more than half the population hailing from the existing municipal domain. On the revenue generation front also the existing municipal domain is all set to play the key role since the probability of setting up business or emergence of trading activities in the village panchayat areas to be merged with Kumbakonam town remains meagre. The previous proposal to bring the semi-urban areas such as Dharasuram, Swamimalai, Thirunageswaram and Thirubhuvanam Town Panchayats under the proposed corporation might have served the purpose of formation of the corporation as these town panchayats had enough potential to get themselves transformed as full-fledged urban localities in view of their tourist attractions, according to a group of social activists in Kumbakonam town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/form-pattukottai-district-says-cpim/article37101865.ece
21 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Procure all paddy’||The State Secretary of Communist Party of India (Marxist) K.Balakrishnan has demanded that the paddy brought to the direct purchase centres should be procured without insisting on moisture level. Talking to reporters at Okkanadu Kizhaiyur in Orathanadu taluk on Wednesday, he welcomed the inspection by the Central government team to assess the ground realities of the ongoing paddy procurement. He said that no farmer should be turned away for higher moisture content level in paddy as conducive atmosphere was not available to dry paddy. As the Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R.Sakkarapani was inspecting the DPCs as per the Chief Minister, M.K.Stalin’s instructions, he said the DPC staff should procure the grains even if the moisture content level was high. Earlier, he inspected the lift irrigation system canal infrastructure created at Okkanadu Kizhaiyur in 1969 and urged the Public Works Department to initiate necessary steps for the renovation of the facility which serves the irrigation needs of more than 2200 acres in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/procure-all-paddy/article37101857.ece
21 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Cases registered||The Panthanallur police have registered cases under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act recently. According to a complaint lodged by the Vanniyar Sangam, Thanjavur district, on October 20, Sasirekha of Nachiyar Kovil and Mukesh of Vettamangalam were intercepted by a gang near the Adidravidar Street at Papakudi while they were proceeding to Vettamangalam from Panthanallur on October 15 night. The gang started manhandling the woman and her relative after ascertaining their caste. A local resident, Rajasekar, who came to the rescue of the woman and her relative was also attacked by the gang. Rajasekar was undergoing treatment at the Government Hospital, Kumbakonam, according to the State deputy president Vanniyar Sangam M.K.Stalin of Maruthuvakudi in Thiruvidaimaruthur taluk. Meanwhile, unidentified gang has attacked the houses of Prakash and Nehru at Panthanallur, both belong to a caste that has been branded as ‘dominant caste’ in the society, on October 15. On hearing about these incidents, local people led by G.Aalayamani, president, Uzhavar Periyakkam, Vettamangalam, staged a demonstration on October 16 and complaints were lodged. Sekar of Melamaththur complained that an attempt on his life was made by a group belonging to another caste on October 9. The police, which had failed to initiate any action on the complaints lodged by the victims of attack on October 15 and on October 9, have registered two different cases based on complaints forwarded by members of the caste to which the attackers belonged and have arrested four persons, Mr.Stalin added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-registered/article37101859.ece
21 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Annabishekam’ performed||The 13-feet high Sivalingam of Sri Brahadeeswarar (Peruvudaiyar) Temple here was covered with cooked rice on Wednesday as part of the annabishekam ritual. According to the Saivaite tradition, the idol of Lord Shiva installed at temples will be anointed with a specific product on every full moon day. So, the ‘Siva lingam’ will be covered with cooked rice. Around 750 kg of rice and 600 kg of vegetables and sweets were used to decorate the Sivalingam at the Big Temple. Meanwhile, the Sivalingam at the Sri Brahadeeswarar Temple at Gangaikondacholapuram was adorned with ‘anna alangaram’ instead of the usual annabishekam, which is performed to the Sivalingam with hundred kg of cooked rice right from the morning to evening at the temple. The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department had announced that the event would be celebrated as ‘anna alangara’ festival instead of annabishekam in view of the pandemic situation. After maha abishekam and deeparadhana in the noon, the Sivalingam was adorned with cooked rice in the afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annabishekam-performed/article37101861.ece
21 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Television mechanic murdered||A television mechanic was murdered by a catering graduate at Ettaiyapuram on Wednesday. Police said television mechanic S. Surya Raghavan, 31, of Kumaragiri Pudur near Ettaiyapuram married a 21-year-old girl from a different caste two months ago despite stiff opposition from both the families. Against this backdrop, he was murdered on Wednesday morning when he came to the shop. The assailant chopped off his head and threw it on the road. During investigation, Ettaiyapuram police found that K. Anantharaj, 22, of nearby Chozhapuram wanted to marry the girl. However, she turned down his proposal and made it clear that she would marry Surya Raghavan as she was in love with him. Agitated over this, Anantharaj murdered Surya Raghavan after sprinkling chilli powder on his face. The Ettaiyapuram police arrested Anantharaj, a catering graduate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/television-mechanic-murdered/article37101890.ece
21 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Relief materials handed over to seven families||Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan on Wednesday handed over relief to seven families which lost their houses in a fire accident on October 14. The members of the affected families staged a protest on the Collectorate premises on Monday. Subsequently, Ms. Geetha and Collector K. Senthil Raj handed over the relief to them. While Rs. 5,000 each was given to five families that had lost their homes in the fire accident, two families received Rs. 4,100 each as their houses were partly damaged. Moreover, grocery items and dresses were also given to the affected families. Ms. Geetha informed that the affected families would be given permanent houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-materials-handed-over/article37101858.ece
21 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Job racket busted, 3 held||Police have arrested three persons, including a couple, for allegedly cheating job-seekers to the tune of Rs. 60 lakh. According to Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, P.Sakthivel, 37, of Millerpuram Housing Board Colony, his wife S. Jayachitra, 30, K. Usha, 34, of Kirubai Nagar, M. Muthupandi of Krishnarajapuram and M. Karthik Kumar of Ceylon Colony near Ottapidaram promised S. Muthukumar, 29, of Ceylon Colony in Ottapidaram of getting him a job in Public Works Department. In turn, they took Rs. 3 lakh from Mr. Muthukumar. When he approached them to get jobs for his wife and brother-in-law, they took another Rs. 6 lakh from him. When Mr. Muthukumar, his wife and the brother-in-law were given ‘appointment orders’, they found that they had been cheated as they reported for ‘duty’ in three different places in Thoothukudi district. Mr. Muthukumar filed a complaint with the SP, who formed a special team that nabbed Sakthivel, Jayachitra and Usha. The team is on the look-out for the others. During investigation, the police found that the five had cheated job-seekers to the tune of Rs. 60 lakh. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-racket-busted-3-held/article37101886.ece
21 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Justice Aruna Jegadeesan Commission starts 31st sitting||The Justice Aruna Jegadeesan Commission probing police firing during the anti-Sterlite protest violence here commenced its 31st sitting on Wednesday. Former Corporation Commissioner and present Tiruvallur Collector Alby John Varghese and two officials attached to Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board deposed before the Commission on Wednesday. During this sitting, 30 persons, including the doctors who conducted post-mortem of the victims, forensic experts and revenue officials, are expected to depose. The Commission, which has recorded the statements of 962 persons during the past 30 sittings, is expected to conduct the probe till October 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/justice-aruna-jegadeesan-commission-starts-31st-sitting/article37101889.ece
21 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Scant regard for safety measures in textile showrooms||Lackadaisical approach of traders in the city on enforcing COVID-19 safety protocol has raised concern among the people. With the Deepavali festival round the corner, shoppers have been making a beeline to the major business streets such as NSB Road, Singarathope, Big Bazaar Street, Nandi Koil Street and Chinnakadai Street. The commercial centre attracts customers from Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukkottai too. Though the impact of the second wave of COVID-19 on textile business is yet to be analysed, traders have filled up the racks with a hope by procuring dress materials from Mumbai, Surat, Ahmadabad, Kolkata, Bengaluru and others. As expected the textile showrooms are teeming up with customers. What is causing concern among the people is the lackadaisical approach on enforcing the COVID 19 safety measures prescribed by the government. Except one or two, most traders seem to have taken the COVID 19 safety protocol for granted. Except applying hand sanitizer while allowing the customers inside their showrooms, traders do not enforce other safety measures such as wearing masks, limiting the number of customers, enforcing social distancing norms and screening the customers for temperature, it is alleged. Business is as usual in most textile and garment showrooms and utensil stores. It seems that no one has restricted the customers. They allow as many people as possible. Shoppers too do not bother to wear masks. Stating that the danger of COVID-19 is still omnipresent, doctors sound a warning. “We must not forget the sharp rise in fresh cases shortly after the Onam festival season in Kerala. We need to be extremely careful while shopping in congested places,” says M.A.Aleem, former Vice Principal, KAP. Viswanatham Government Medical College, Tiruchi. While admitting the need for enforcing COVID-19 protocol, an employee of a textile showroom on NSB Road said that limiting customers was not practical. If limited, it would cause mayhem and confusion not only inside the showrooms but also on busy streets. Customers, who abide by the safety measures, said that law enforcers should at least ensure all customers in showrooms wear masks. Otherwise, action should be taken against the customers and traders for failing to adhere to the safety norms. Meanwhile, the Tiruchi Corporation’s Assistant Commissioner of K.Abishekapuram zone has announced that it is mandatory for all traders and the employees in their shops to have inoculated with both doses of COVID-19 vaccine. They should produce the certificates of vaccination to corporation workers during inspections, he said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-do-not-enforce-safety-measures/article37101870.ece
21 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecturers stage protest||Piqued by apathy of the Ministry of Higher Education, guest lecturers of the newly-converted government arts and science colleges that were earlier constituent units of Bharathidasan University staged a demonstration in campuses along with family members demanding settlement of salary dues for five months. Over 600 guest lecturers and about 90 non-teaching staff have been making repeated representations to the Chief Minister, the Higher Education Minister and the Vice-Chancellor of Bharathidasan University, but to no avail. Bharathidasan University had stopped paying the guest lecturers from the start of 2021 fiscal year, purportedly after the higher education department assumed responsibility for meeting the salary expenditure. However, neither the government nor the university had addressed the plight of the guest lecturers for long. During the previous demonstration, the guest lecturers wrote letters en masse to the Chief Minister M.K. Stalin seeking his intervention. Since there was no response from the government, the guest lecturers proceeded with their earlier announced protest of holding demonstration in the campuses with family members. According to the representatives of the guest lecturers, they have been forced to launch an indefinite strike from October 21 to bring their plight to the notice of the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guest-lecturers-stage-protest/article37101867.ece
21 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Data sought by NAAC ready||The Internal Quality Assurance Cell of Bharathidasan University has readied the data required for submission of Annual Quality Assurance Report (AQAR) for 2019-20 to the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). The data will be submitted shortly in the specified format after approval at an impending meeting of IQAC, its Director in-charge V. Vinod Kumar said. The NAAC had extended the timeline for online submission of AQAR from May 31 to August 31, due to COVID 19 pandemic. The format for online Annual Quality Assurance Report conceptualised by the NAAC for fulfilment of quality sustenance requires the higher educational institutions to upload minutes of IQAC meeting on their websites. Submission of Institutional Information for Quality Assurance (IIQA) to NAAC has to be followed by online submission of Self Study Report within 45 days from the date of acceptance. Heads of departments are expected to submit the data for 2020-21 to the IQAC before this month-end. The data will be consolidated for preparation of AQAR for 2020-21 well in time, Prof. Vinod Kumar said. A software has been readied to cull out data for submission of data for AQAR and NIRF (National Institutional Ranking Framework), Prof. Vinod Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/data-sought-by-naac-ready/article37101868.ece
21 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A novel method of teaching||A primary school teacher in a village near Thuraiyur prepares letters of the alphabet, shapes and other learning material from dosa batter and roti dough to teach children. It is a method of visual learning that parents of her students can afford, she says. Students of the Panchayat Union Primary School, Melakunnupatti, have missed 18 months of learning. There are 34 students enrolled in the school, of which some of them have never seen a classroom or a teacher. While online classes are not a viable option for these students whose parents are daily wage labourers, the government’s Kalvi TV too has not proved to be helpful. For students of Class 1, the video classes are aired at 1 p.m. ‘Most houses do not have TV sets. If any, the parents do not have the funds to pay for cable connection. Wherever it is available, the children are not watching without the involvement of their parents, said Nageswari Sasikumar, a teacher at the school. The teacher decided to use items available at each household - dosa batter and roti dough - to make letters of the Tamil and English alphabet, numbers, shapes, among other things, to teach the students. ‘I found that students who are in Class 2, ones who enrolled in the school in 2020 have not been able to pick up the basics from any other learning method. For children at that age, the teacher usually traces the letters, shows them how to write them. It is all visual and sensory, she said. She had used a similar method to make learning fun for her own daughters years ago. While she sent videos making these alphabets and shapes to the students who have access to mobile phones, she took it with her when she visited their homes. She taught mothers to make them. She finds that involving parents has helped the students learn better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-novel-method-of-teaching/article37101863.ece
21 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report dip in cases||The central region reported 179 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. Five deaths due to the viral infection were registered. Two patients succumbed to the illness in Tiruchi while one each died in Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam districts. Thanjavur district reported a notable dip in the number of cases. On Wednesday, 51 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported 44 fresh cases of COVID-19. The other seven districts in the region reported less than 30 fresh cases. In Tiruvarur, 23 patients reported COVID-19 positive, and in Karur, 19. Nagapattinam reported 16 fresh cases and Pudukottai, 11. Mayiladuthurai reported a significant dip with nine fresh cases, while Ariyalur reported four. Perambalur continued to retain its spot as the district with the least number of fresh cases with two fresh cases on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-dip-in-cases/article37101877.ece
21 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Certificates distributed||Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi has completed the schedule for the first batch of Post Graduate certificate in Executive General Management Programme (e-GMP) aimed at assisting working professionals build effective business management and decision-making skills. Encompassing diverse functions such as marketing, finance, operations, strategy, and HR management, the year-long programme consisted of 13 modules covering various functional disciplines including data analytics, finance, marketing, operations, strategy, and organisational behaviour-human resource. A blended pedagogy was adopted with 144 hours of content delivered in the direct-to-studio mode and five days of on-campus presence. The certificates were presented virtually at a valedictory ceremony recently. This batch of 109 students reflected the institution’s foray into e-learning space, with technical support of Jaro Education, S. Sivakumar S, Professor and e-GMP Programme Director, said. Prashant Gupta, Professor and Chairperson - Executive Education and Consulting, said the programme initiated during the beginning of the pandemic was completed overcoming challenges. Programme Director Satish S Maheswarappa joined others in presenting merit awards to top three rankers: Sharmila D, Mohammad Mushaffa Alam, and Praveen Kumar Meyur Ram. Students said the programme helped them run their companies, manage finances and implement practical marketing tools. The learning experience was enriched through real-time simulations, case studies, and projects, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/certificates-distributed/article37101866.ece
21 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cases booked for abusing Dalit man||The panchayat president from Allur here has been booked for abusing a Dalit man. Four others have also been booked for hurling casteist slurs and attempting to physically assault the man. K. Vijendran, the panchayat president, and Prabhakaran, Manikandan, Vikram and Bharath, all residents of Allur in Jeeyapuram, had attempted to attack A. Anand, 29, a resident of the village, on several occasions. According to the FIR, the accused had been threatening the complainant for many months. The matter came to light when Anand was returning to his residence on October 12 with his family, when the panchayat president and a few others attempted to attack him with weapons. Anand filed a complaint at the police station. On October 2, Mr. Anand raised a few concerns with regard to the availability of certain civic amenities at the gram sabha meeting during which the panchayat president had allegedly hurled some casteist slurs. Following an altercation, the crowd dispersed. However, the panchayat president, along with the four accused, held a grudge and stopped his car while Anand and his wife were passing by to harm him on October 12, they added. While the police initially registered a community service register complaint, they registered an FIR and booked the accused on October 17, after investigation. Along with the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, the accused have been booked for rioting, unlawful use of weapons, use of profanity in public spaces and criminal intimidation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-booked-for-abusing-dalit-man/article37101864.ece
21 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Maris road over-bridge reopened for light vehicle traffic||The road overbridge (ROB) near the Maris Theatre complex on Fort Station Road in the city has been reopened for light vehicle traffic after repairs. The ROB situated on the arterial road linking the Salai Road and the Main Guard Gate area had remained closed for traffic for several months now, after a portion of its retaining wall on the eastern side of its approach road caved in following a spell of heavy rain in July 2020. The corporation had taken up repair to rebuild the retaining wall at a cost of nearly Rs. 2.90 crore. The road was thrown open for traffic following the completion of the work. However, only light vehicles were being allowed to ply over the bridge, said to have been built in 1876, is considered to be weak. Steel height barriers have been installed on either sides of the ROB to prevent heavy vehicles movement. While the opening of the ROB has come as a big relief for motorists, especially during the festival season when there is bound to be heavy traffic movement towards the city’s main commercial areas around the Rockfort, residents hope that the corporation would soon take steps to rebuild the narrow bridge. “It is high time that the Railways and the Corporation rebuild the narrow ROB which had been in a poor condition for many years. It is an important bus route road,” observed R.Gopal, a city resident. The corporation had previously, especially after the damage to the approach road in 2020, unsuccessfully tried to persuade the Highways Department to take over and rebuild the ROB. The Railways is said to be keen on rebuilding the bridge portion over the railway tracks and the corporation has now decided to build the approach roads on either sides. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N.Nehru had also recently asserted that the civic body would do the work. “The Detailed Project Report has been prepared at an estimate of about Rs.46 crore and sent for sanction of funds,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maris-road-over-bridge-reopened-for-light-vehicle-traffic/article37101872.ece
21 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Plea to remove encroachments obstructing flow of rainwater||The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) has appealed to Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran to remove alleged encroachments that are obstructing the flow of rainwater from Karim Nagar near Melapalayam to Venthankulam near the new bus stand. The rainwater that gets accumulated in Teachers’ Colony and Government Engineering College during the northeast monsoon overflows Tirunelveli-Nagercoil Highway and reaches Karim Nagar area on Melapalayam–Reddiyarpatti Road. Like a small wild stream, the rainwater crosses Karim Nagar and flows towards Venthankulam through Xavier Colony, from where the surplus water gets drained in Palayam Channel opposite K. A. Hotel on South Bypass Road. As illegal structures have come up, these obstruct the flow of rainwater towards Venthankulam and Karim Nagar, Teachers’ Colony and Government Engineering College get marooned whenever there is considerable rain. Rainwater stagnating on Melapalayam–Reddiyarpatti Road also affects vehicular traffic. Hence, the SDPI submitted a petition to the Corporation authorities last October also appealing to them to remove the encroachments. As the structures are yet to be removed even as the northeast monsoon is about to start within a week, the party cadre submitted a petition again to Mr. Vishnu Chandran during the special grievances redress meet held at Palayamkottai Zone office on Wednesday. “We, especially our children, are facing untold hardship during the rainy season as water stagnates in Karim Nagar area due to structures obstructing the flow of water to Venthankulam. Our earlier petitions did not evoke any positive response from the Corporation officials. Hence, we are submitting a petition again since the monsoon is about to start,” said K.S. Shahul Hameed Usmani, president of Masjid-Ul-Huda Jamaath of Karim Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-remove-encroachments-obstructing-flow-of-rainwater/article37101892.ece
21 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Elected rural local body members assume office||Most of the elected representatives of rural local bodies in the district assumed office on Wednesday. In the district panchayat council, 10 of the 12 elected councillors assumed office on Wednesday in the presence of A. Palani, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, and Shanthi, Project Officer, Mahalir Thittam. After the senior-most member of the district panchayat council, Solomon David of ward 6, assumed office, others took the oath. Of the 12 members, 11 are from the DMK and one is affiliated to the Congress. “Since the DMK high command has not named the district panchayat council chairman candidate and left the job to the party’s office-bearers here, absolute confusion prevails. Consequently, the aspirants for the district panchayat chairman post have started ‘horse-trading’ and some of the councillors who assumed office and those who are yet to take the oath are under the control of these aspirants. Hence, one can witness interesting or unpleasant developments during the indirect election to the post of chairman to be held on Friday (October 22),” said a DMK office-bearer, who was present in the oath-taking ceremony. All the district panchayat councillors had come to the district panchayat office with ‘protection’ being given by private persons hired by two aspirants. After assuming office, they left the spot with the ‘protection’. In all the nine panchayat unions, the elected ward councillors took oath and assumed office. In Tenkasi, all the 14 councillors of the district panchayat council assumed office in the presence of Collector S. Gopala Sundararaj and Tenkasi MLA Palani Nadar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elected-rural-local-body-members-assume-office/article37102188.ece
21 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Legal awareness vehicle takes off||District Collector V. Vishnu and Principal District Judge A. Nazir Ahmed flagged off a legal awareness vehicle here on Wednesday to commemorate 75 years of Independence and as part of the silver jubilee celebrations of National Legal Services Authority. Mr. Vishnu and Mr. Nazir Ahmed also inaugurated a photo exhibition. The legal awareness vehicle will visit Munneerpallam, Pottal Pacheri, Jothipuram, Puthu Gramam, J.J. Nagar, Mani Nagar, Metharthal Nagar, Araikkulam, Mela Munneerpallam, Annai Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Lakshmi Nagar, Thirunellai Nagar, Vadakku Chelladurai Nagar, Tharuvai, Eswaripuram, Alangulam, Adaimithippankulam, Kandithankulam, Thidiyoor, Ilaiyamputhur, Pookkuzhi, Tamizhakurichi, Sengulam, Kumtharkulam, Keezha Omanallur, Perinbapuram, Vadakkoor, Karavarkulam, Melur, Ponnakudi, Kamaraj Colony, T. Ponnakudi, Vanchinathan Nagar, M.M. Nagar, Nesamony Nagar, Santhosh Nagar, Singo A Colony, Anna Nagar and Samathuvapuram. During the visit, the awareness vehicle will explain in detail the legal assistances available to the people, especially the illiterate rural population, right from the subordinate courts to the Supreme Court. Moreover, the assistances by the District Legal Services Authority will also be explained. Resolving cases through Lok Adalat and its advantages will also be explained. “Legal awareness camps have been conducted in 199 villages so far. The legal awareness vehicle will further strengthen this effort,” said Mr. Nazir Ahmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/legal-awareness-vehicle-flagged-off-in-tirunelveli/article37102190.ece
21 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Legal awareness vehicle flagged off in Tiruppur||As part of the nationwide campaign organised by the National Legal Services Authority to commemorate 75th anniversary of India’s Independence, Principal District and Sessions Judge, Tiruppur Swarnam J. Natarajan flagged off a vehicle for legal awareness on Wednesday. The vehicle was flagged off on the premises of the combined court building on Palladam Road. A press release said the vehicle will screen short films on topics such as drug abuse and crimes against women and children to generate awareness among the public. Judge Natarajan, who is also the chairman of the District Legal Services Authority, distributed pamphlets after flagging off the vehicle. As part of the 25th anniversary celebrations of the National Legal Services Authority, Tiruppur District Legal Services Authority along with the district administration and lawyers’ associations have been organising various events from October 2 in the district. The celebrations will continue till November 14, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/legal-awareness-vehicle-flagged-off-in-tiruppur/article37101794.ece
21 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Five women arrested||The Kunnathur police in Tiruppur district on Tuesday arrested five women on charges of cheating a man under the pretext of marriage. According to the police, Rajendran (34) of Nalligoundanpalayam, near Kunnathur, got married to a woman named Bhavani (27) on September 24. Ambika (38), who claimed to be a marriage broker, had arranged the marriage and took Rs. 1.3 lakh as her fees. The next day, the bride allegedly absconded with the jewellery. Based on Mr. Rajendran’s complaint, the police began investigation, which revealed that the two women, along with three others namely Valli (55), Thangam (32) and Devi (55) who attended the marriage claiming to be the bride’s relatives, had cheated him for the money and jewellery. The five women were booked under Section 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code and were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-women-arrested/article37101796.ece
21 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Women workers stung by wasps||Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj visited the women enrolled in Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme who were stung by wasps near Dharapuram in Tiruppur district on Wednesday. Sources in the Revenue Department said that 27 women were working under the MGNREGA scheme at a plot in Kattampudur village near Dharapuram on Wednesday morning when they were attacked by a swarm of wasps. They were rushed to Government Hospital, Dharapuram for treatment, where the Minister visited them. All the 27 women suffered minor injuries and were discharged from the hospital later in the day, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-workers-stung-by-wasps/article37101795.ece
21 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Focus on organic farming in the Nilgiris||The Government Botanical Garden (GBG) in Udhagamandalam has taken a lead in inspiring farmers across the Nilgiris to adopt organic farming regarding compost for use on the thousands of flowering plants inside the garden. Started recently, three cows have been purchased by the Horticulture Department in the Nilgiris. The dung from the cows is being used to produce compost and vermicompost, as well as ‘panchagavya’ and ‘dasagavya’. Assistant Director of Horticulture (Nilgiris district), M. Radhakrishnan, said that around three tonnes of compost are produced each year. “While most of it gets used within the garden itself for the thousands of flowering plants from across the world that are grown here, around two tonnes of compost and vermicompost are sold to farmers at a reduced price,” he added. The compost is sold at Rs. 10 per kg and more farmers are coming forward to purchase the compost directly from the department and are gradually moving away from using chemical fertilizers, officials said. The use of chemical fertilizers inside the GBG has reduced substantially, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. “The Nilgiris district administration’s effort to promote organic farming is a step in the right direction to minimise the effect of the conventional type of farming on the environment. The Government Botanical Garden is doing its utmost to help bring awareness and to implement organic farming practices,” he added. Other parks and gardens in the Nilgiris, too, are following suit, with compost being produced at the Kattery Park in Coonoor. The compost produced there is being used not just at the Kattery Park but also in the Sims Park in Coonoor, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-organic-farming-in-the-nilgiris/article37101803.ece
21 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Anaicut village panchayat now has its own building||After meeting under a peepal tree for nearly half a century, Anaicut village panchayat started functioning in a new building on Wednesday. “The new building will help us to meet often to discuss public issues. The building will also help us to store essential items to organise various camps. Nevertheless, the tree will always remain part of our lives,” said 42-year-old Thilagavathy Sarathy, president, Anaicut village panchayat. Along with nine ward members, Ms. Sarathy took oath as president of the panchayat in the new building. Spread over 2,400 sq ft, the office was built with funds from the MGNREGA scheme that was executed by the District Rural Development Authority (DRDA) at a cost of Rs. 17.64 lakh. Residents, who are mostly farmers, also pooled their money for the new building. The entire construction of the office was done by the MGNREGA workers, mostly women. The work started in April 2020. The building office has a spacious meeting hall that can accommodate around 60 persons. It also has an office room, rest room and store room. For persons with disabilities, ramps are provided. The building also has a rainwater harvesting system, LED lights, CCTV cameras and solar panels. Meanwhile, the elected members for 7,251 posts, including village panchayat ward members and panchayat presidents covering a population of 20.33 lakh voters in Vellore, Ranipet and Tiruppatur, took oath on Wednesday. District Collectors presided over the oath-taking ceremony in the Collectorates. Elections were held in two phases between October 6 and 9 for these posts with a poll percentage of over 75 in these districts. Divided into four categories, the elections were contested on party basis for the posts of district ward members and panchayat union members. For the posts of village ward members and panchayat presidents, candidates contested on non-party basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anaicut-village-panchayat-now-has-its-own-building/article37102141.ece
21 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||15 fresh COVID-19 infections in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,686 with 15 new cases reported on Wednesday. While a total 48,356 people have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 201. The district's death toll is 1,129. In Ranipet district, 12 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,318. In Tirupathur district, eight new cases were reported on Wednesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,216. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 21, taking the total number of cases to 54,750. Out of this, 53,871 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 212.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-fresh-covid-19-infections-in-vellore/article37102142.ece
21 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,TAMIL NADU||TDP bandh against attacks in A.P. partial||The bandh called by the Opposition Telugu Desam Party to protest against the attacks on the party offices in Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday was partial. Alleging that TDP official spokesman K. Pattabhiram had made objectionable comments and used unparliamentary language against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy over the drugs seizure issue, unidentified miscreants attacked the TDP offices and the houses of some party leaders. Criticising the attacks, TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu gave a bandh call on Wednesday. Many TDP leaders and activists were taken into preventive custody, and a few were kept under house detention. Additional forces were deployed at bus and railway stations and at all government offices across the State as a precautionary measure. CM blames TDP Activists of YSRCP staged dharnas at many districts condemning the language used by the TDP official spokesman. Blaming the TDP for Tuesday’s disturbances, Mr. Reddy alleged that the Opposition party would not hesitate to incite communal violence as part of its conspiracy to derail the government’s welfare agenda. In his speech that followed the disbursement of financial assistance under the Jagananna Thodu scheme, Mr. Reddy said the TDP was unable to accept the growing popularity of the government, and was hence trying to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere. “The Opposition party leaders are unable to bear the love and affection being shown to me and my government. This is what prompted them to behave in such a deplorable manner,” Mr. Reddy said. Terming the attacks as “State-sponsored terrorism,” Mr. Naidu, in a press release on Wednesday, said the ransacking of the State party office, the residence of spokesman K. Pattabhiram and the offices / houses of various leaders allegedly by the YSRCP cadres was a major conspiracy that should be exposed by the police. Mr. Naidu alleged that the government and the police had colluded to intimidate the TDP leaders by resorting to physical attacks. He said the attack on the TDP State office was unprecedented. Never in the past had the headquarters of the main Opposition party been vandalised, Mr. Naidu said. It was a pre-planned attack intended to warn the TDP leaders on the consequences of speaking up against the government, Mr. Naidu said, and called upon other Opposition parties to support the TDP’s fight against the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tdp-bandh-against-attacks-in-ap-partial/article37101523.ece
21 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,TAMIL NADU||Naidu to sit on 36-hour protest||TDP national president and former A.P. Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu will be staging a 36-hour demonstration at the TDP headquarters from 8 a.m. on October 21 till 8 p.m. the following day, in protest against the Tuesday’s attacks on his party offices and leaders’ houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/naidu-to-sit-on-36-hour-protest/article37101524.ece
21 October 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murdering couple||The Kandamangalam police on Wednesday arrested a 35-year-old man for murder of an elderly couple in Periyababusamudram near here. Police said the accused, Arun Raj, had strangulated the couple to death and decamped with the jewellery. According to the police, the couple identified as Ranganathan, 77, and Porkalai, 72, were found dead in their house on Monday. The accused had made the crime scene look like a suicide to divert the police investigation. The police registered a case and shifted the bodies to the Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital (GVMCH) for post-mortem. Subsequently, the police received the post-mortem report which stated that the couple died due to strangulation. The police conducted enquiries with the couple’s three daughters and sons staying in Villupuram and found that the jewellery which Porkalai wore were missing. On Wednesday, the police nabbed Arun Raj of Maducarai in Puducherry. Following suspicion, they enquired him. He confessed to having murdered the couple. He took away a pair of nose studs and a ‘thali’ from Porkalai. He was arrested and remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murdering-couple/article37101881.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TANFINET signs pact for BharatNet packages||The ‘D’ package will cover 3,103 village panchayats in Dindigul, Kanniyakumari, Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Theni, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar, an official release said. “After the disposal of the pending litigation over the ‘A’ and ‘B’ packages, the project will be implemented in all 12,525 village panchayats,” the press release added. Four packages — A, B, C and D — were designed to implement the project, and four system integrators were identified, one for each package, along with a third-party agency to inspect and audit the implementation. BharatNet aims to provide quality digital services, e-education, telemedicine and triple-play services to all village panchayats. Secretary of the Department of Information Technology Neeraj Mittal; TANFINET Managing Director A.K. Kamal Kishore; Chief General Manager of Bharat Broadband Network Limited (BBNL) G. Kalaivani; BBNL Principal General Manager M. Chandrasekhar; and representatives of the companies involved in the implementation were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tanfinet-signs-pact-for-bharatnet-packages/article37101880.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Northeast monsoon to set in over T.N. on Oct. 26||“Normally, the northeast monsoon sets in around October 20. The prolonged southwest monsoon has led to the delay in onset this year. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) is monitoring the changes in the weather pattern,” said S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai. The IMD has also forecast a fairly widespread rainfall over the State till October 24. A cyclonic circulation that lies over south Tamil Nadu and a trough extending from the weather system to the northern parts would trigger isolated intense rainfall, particularly over districts in the south and those along the Western Ghats, on Thursday, he said. Nearly 22 districts, including Tiruchi, the Nilgiris, Namakkal, Salem, Kallakurichi and Vellore, are likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall at one or two places. The coastal region is likely to receive light to moderate rainfall on Thursday. Many places in the State and Puducherry would continue to receive rainfall of different intensity till the weekend. Chennai humid In Chennai, officials said the increase in moisture in wind during the transition period led to such a humid weather. Thunderstorm with light rain is expected in some areas till Friday, and the maximum temperature may remain around 35 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal, as it was on Wednesday. Weather experts noted that many parts of Tamil Nadu had already received a significant share of their annual rainfall. They predicted a good northeast monsoon. Senior meteorologist Y.E.A. Raj said a majority of the places had already received 70%-80% of the annual rainfall. Chennai had so far registered 90 cm against its annual average of 140 cm. A positive southern oscillation and the chances of La Nina — the global weather parameters that have a strong influence on monsoon — indicate subdued northeast monsoon rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/northeast-monsoon-to-set-in-over-tn-on-oct-26/article37101743.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Artistry Club - Workshop on Contemporary Tanjore paintings, 3 p.m.  Dr. NGP Arts and Science College: Two-day virtual international conference on Pandemic and Business Sustainability, 9.30 a.m.  KGiSL institute of Technology: Blood donation camp, 10 a.m.  Rotaract District Organisation, Coimbatore City Police and Thulasi Pharmacies India Pvt Ltd: Launch of Raksha - Save a life today, programme to give first aid and emergency response training to police personnel, donation of first aid kit to traffic signal booths, Police Commissioner Office, 10 a.m.  Vishwa Samvad Kendra: Shri Narad Award 2021 and release of audio book, Hotel Sri Krishna Vilas, 43 Old Post Office Road, near Collectorate, 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37101798.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||21-10-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA Rasika Ranjani Sabha (Regd.) Mylapore, Chennai - 600004 Today:NAVARATHRI NRTYOTSAVAat 05.30 p.m K.P Rakesh (Kalakshetra). 07.00 p.m: Dr.Srekala Bharath (Disciple ofGuru. K J Sarasa) Ph. No: 044-24641767, Webcast Link - https://www.livewebcast.in/rrsabha.Entry as per Govt. Covid SOP Guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/21-10-2021-city-cinema/article37101757.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SALEM||Periyar University : Department of Management Studies, two day workshop on Corporate Skills, R. Jagannathan, vice chancellor of the university, inaugurates, Chitra Sathyanarayanan, Chief Executive Officer, Milesstones, chief guest, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem/article37101909.ece
21 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Hate crimes by right-wing groups condemned||Various women’s organisations have condemned the rising hate crimes by members of right-wing organisations against women and young men. Representatives of the Jagruta Mahila Okkoota, the Janawadi Mahila Sanghatane, the Mahila Dourjanya Virodhi Okkoota, the Uttara Karnataka Mahila Jagruti Vedike, the Agama Mahila Okkotta and the Naveddu Nilladiddare spoke at a press conference in Belagavi on Monday, against the murder of Arbaz Khan in Khanapur. Activist Shivaji Kaganikar said that it was a matter of great concern that vigilante groups were committing crimes against innocent people and were interfering in the private lives of citizens. “This is against the spirit of the Constitution that guarantees every adult the right to take decisions about his or her personal life. This right is extendable to life decisions like marriage or social developments like conversion. No self-proclaimed vigilantes should force their views on people in a free society. This is highly condemnable,” he said. Gouramma, JMS leader, said that women were the target of most hate crimes. Even when the women are not assaulted, the case revolves around them as the men try to dominate their will and negate their freedom of choice. This is institutional denial of the women’s right to consent. In that way, it is violation of human rights, she said. Sharada Gopal of Jagruta Mahila Okkoota said that unchecked hatred and intolerance would lead to communal violence and that would ultimately destroy society. It is the duty of every citizen to oppose such trends. “We have to condemn all types of hatred and violence, whether intolerance stems from Hindu groups or Muslim groups,” she said in reply to a question. Other activists spoke. Later, they held a meeting of workers. They will submit a memorandum to the government with a list of demands. Their demands include compensation to the victim’s family, a proper scientific investigation and inquiry, functional autonomy to the police, free from interference from political parties or communal or other groups and strict monitoring and vigilance of communal groups to ensure that such hate crimes don’t occur again.  ‘This is against the spirit of the Constitution that guarantees every adult the right to take decisions about his or her personal life’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hate-crimes-by-right-wing-groups-condemned/article37101929.ece
21 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Dhanaragi village, surrounding areas report tremors||Residents of Dhanaragi village and surrounding areas felt tremors for a few minutes, following an earthquake on Wednesday. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Centre officials issued a note saying that it was a low intensity quake of a magnitude of 3.6 on the Richter Scale. These type of earthquakes do not create any harm to the local community, although there may be slight shaking observed locally. The community need not panic as the intensity observed is low and not destructive, the note said. The epicentre of the quake was Dhanaragi village in Vijayapura taluk. However, its affects were felt in a radius of 12-15 km. Residents of Takkalaki, Jalageri and Tikkota also felt the tremors. Meanwhile, scientists from the National Geophysical Research Institute visited Masuti village near Vijayapura where a small seismometer has been installed. They held a meeting with revenue officials. Shashidhar D., a member of the team, said that the few instances of the quake felt in the district in the last month were not major, destructive events and people need not fear them. He said that scientists had gathered all related data and prepared seismic intensity maps to study all aspects related to the quakes. He said that the reasons behind these events could not be pinned down specifically, but it was possible that heavy rain may have contributed to the tremors. Heavy rain has led to a large amount of water seepage in the soil, creating or widening gaps in the layers of the rocks. That may be one of the reasons. But there is no need to panic, he said. Other scientists and officers Ramesh Dikpal, Suresh Budakatti, Pushpa T.V., Abhinay Bine, Subhashchandra S. and Mahesh Birajanavar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dhanaragi-village-surrounding-areas-report-tremors/article37101931.ece
21 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Price rise is the result of spending on COVID-19 management: Katti||“Price rise is the result of the government spending extra money on COVID-19 management,’’ Minister and BJP leader Umesh Katti said in Belagavi on Wednesday. He told journalists that the Union and State Governments were spending huge amounts of money on COVID-19 management and the prices of commodities had gone up. But he did not specify how. He said that the Congress and the Janata Dal(S) leaders were making false allegations against the BJP, out of desperation. They know that they would lose the bypolls. That is why they are making meaningless remarks, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/price-rise-is-the-result-of-spending-on-covid-19-management-katti/article37101933.ece
21 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vijayapura doctor is safe||The State Natural Disaster Management Centre has confirmed that Captain Anita Papannanavar, a Vijayapura-based doctor serving in the Indian Army, is safe in a village in flood-hit Uttarakhand. This follows a request from the Vijayapura district administration. Deputy Commissioner P. Sunil Kumar had sent a request to the Centre after family members of the doctor expressed concern about her whereabouts as they were unable to contact her. The family hails from Sindgi town in Vijayapura district. The clarification was issued on Wednesday, sources in the district administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vijayapura-doctor-is-safe/article37101930.ece
21 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Girl killed in road accident, two injured||A young girl died and two were injured in a road accident at Solapur Cross near Sankeshwar on Wednesday. Priya Manoj Patil, whose age was given as 12, died on the spot. And, her mother, Arati Patil, and another person were injured in the road accident on Pune-Bengaluru National Highway. The Hubballi-based family was going to Karade in Maharashtra in a taxi. The driver lost control over the vehicle and rammed a lorry parked on the side of the road. Sub-Inspector of Police Ganapati Konganoli visited the spot. A case has been registered in Sankeshwar Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/girl-killed-in-road-accident-two-injured/article37101932.ece
21 October 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||I don’t need RSS shakhas to learn lessons of life, says HDK||“I am a student of the school of life and the school of the poor. I don’t have to go to RSS shakhas to learn lessons of life. That is enough,” H.D. Kumaraswamy, JD(S) leader, said in Vijayapura on Tuesday. “I know what kind of leaders RSS has produced. I know the activities of the past students of RSS. Some of them have watched obscene videos on their phones, sitting in the the Assembly hall. Is that why we should go to RSS? I don’t need that,” he said. He said he would stay in Sindgi for some time and ensure the victory of JD(S) candidate Najiya Angadi. He denied allegations by some Congress leaders that he was helping the BJP by dividing the secular vote bank. “We are proud that we have fielded a Muslim woman from Sindgi and a Muslim youth from Hangal. We are opposed to the BJP and the Congress equally,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-dont-need-rss-shakhas-to-learn-lessons-of-life-says-hdk/article37101940.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Smart City roadworks a nightmare for motorists, pedestrians||Roads being developed under Smart City in the Central Business District area are proving to be a nightmare for motorists and pedestrians as many stretches have become susceptible to waterlogging with heavy rains lashing the city almost every day. Residents and store owners on Commercial Street, Ulsoor Road, Miller’s Road and several other key roads where works are on have raised the issue multiple times. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta himself recently flagged the issue, along with delay in completion of works. “On many roads, the gratings put up to allow water to enter the drains are above the road level causing waterlogging, inconvenience to motorists and ruining the road surface as well. These need to be fixed immediately,” Mr. Gupta said in his letter dated October 16 to the Managing Director, Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. A copy of the letter is available with The Hindu.  Weather woes When contacted, Rajendra Cholan, MD, Bengaluru Smart City Ltd., admitted that rains had hindered work. We are waiting for three rainless days to lay Dense Bituminous Macadam (0.7 inches) on 16 roads, he said. However the gratings were installed taking into consideration the 0.7 inches of DBM which is not yet laid, and hence they are currently above road level. “We have a forecast that after October 24 we will get rain-free days and we will complete the works in a week and then these issues will be sorted out,” Mr. Cholan told The Hindu.   However, gratings aren’t the only problem with the 32 Smart City roads in the CBD area. Inordinate delay in completion of works and several deadlines missed is another issue that the civic chief raised in his letter. Mr. Gupta noted the delay and inconvenience it is causing and directed Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. to speed up the works and complete them at the earliest. He also said delay in laying bituminous concrete over the carriageway led to the deterioration of the road work already completed during the rains. Mr. Gupta called for better coordination with other agencies like Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) and Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom).  First there was the pandemic and the lockdowns. Now when restrictions have been lifted, the never-ending roadwork has robbed us of business. There is also a lot of dust, and rain often causes the roads to turn to sludge. Ganapathy, a bookseller from Avenue Road   I hope civic agencies do a decent job once and for all, given that the first time around, work was shoddy and there were design flaws. We need to wait, which we are ready to do, but we want the work to be good when it’s finally completed. Mohammed Nazin, Vice President, Bangalore Commercial Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smart-city-roadworks-a-nightmare-for-motorists-pedestrians/article37101671.ece
21 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ready to respond to demand for hike in quota by various communities: CM||Referring to the demand by various communities for either an increase in reservation quota or reclassification of their communities, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said he was ready to respond to the aspirations of people seeking equal opportunities. “We have already formed a committee led by a retired Karnataka High Court judge to look into these demands. We are getting inputs from them as well as social science experts,” he said after presenting Maharshi Valmiki awards at a programme organised by the Social Welfare Department to mark Maharshi Valmiki Jayanti here. Collective decision “But it is not as easy exercise. It is not going to be one person’s decision. It will be a collective decision to be made in the interest of all the communities as well as society. I need your full cooperation, especially that of religious heads, to take such a decision,” the Chief Minister said. He pointed out that various communities had been seeking an increase in reservation quota based on increase in their population as well as aspiration of their community members. This had underscored the need for taking a relook at reservation levels for various communities throughout India, he said. Karnataka is witnessing a movement by various communities seeking an increase in reservation quota as well as reclassification of their communities in the reservation list. The Valmiki community is demanding that the Scheduled Tribe reservation level be increased from 3.5% to 7.5% while Panchamasali Lingayats are seeking 2A category status, which will increase the overall reservation quantum for them. The Kuruba community, which is in the backward classes list, has been demanding the Scheduled Tribe tag. Meanwhile, stressing on the need for women from the backward classes and Dalit families to be economically independent, the Chief Minister said such a step would go a long way in the development of these communities. The government is holding consultations with NABARD to explore opportunities regarding extending financial support to women from these communities to take up self-employment. Award winners Maharshi Valmiki awards were presented to 11 personalities from various walks of life for their contribution to society. The award carries a purse of Rs. 5 lakh each and a gold medal. Six personalities were given the award for 2021: K.C. Nagaraju (Social Service), Lakshmi Ganapathi Siddi (Social Service), S.R. Niranjana (Education), Bhatrahalli Goolappa (Social Service), T. Ashwatharamaiah (Social Service), and Jambaiah Nayaka (Social Service). Five were given the award for 2020: K.R. Patil (Social Service), B.L. Venu (Literature), Gowri Koraga (Social Service), Marappa Nayaka (Organisation), and Thippeswamy H. (Social Service).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ready-to-respond-to-demand-for-hike-in-quota-by-various-communities-cm/article37101703.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 infections wane but no respite from ILI, SARI cases||Although the number of COVID-19 cases are waning, there is no respite from Influenza-like Illnesses (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI). As many as 35,255 cases of ILI/SARI (non-COVID-19) have been reported in the city since this May, when the second wave started subsiding, till October 17. Contrary to the trend seen last year when ILI/SARI was predominantly seen among senior citizens, people in the 30-45 years age group have been the worst hit in the city this year. According to Public Health Activities, Surveillance and Tracking (PHAST) data from the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments (KPME) portal, 10,653 persons in the 30-45 age group have reported ILI/SARI, the highest. The next highest, 7,979 cases, were reported in the 18-30 years age group. Hospitals to report In April last year, the State Health and Family Welfare department had directed all private medical establishments to notify establishment of fever clinics to district health authorities under KPME Act, 2OO7. The private hospitals were also directed to report all ILI/SARI cases and also enter them on the KPME portal. However, not all hospitals are reporting such cases currently. While 233 private medical establishments reported a total of 16,585 ILI/SARI cases in May, only 151 hospitals continued to report in June recording 4,958 cases. While 114 hospitals reported 3,951 cases in July, 118 hospitals reported 3,947 cases in August. The number of hospitals reporting ILI/SARI further reduced to 96 in September when 4,070 cases were recorded. In October (till 17th), 68 health facilities reported 1,744 cases. Admitting that the ILI/SARI cases may be even more than those officially recorded, State Health Commissioner D. Randeep said although 35,255 ILI/SARI cases have been reported in the city not all of them progressed into COVID. “Doctors reporting these cases clinically suspected COVID-19 in as many as 9,579 cases and they were treated as per COVID-19 protocols,” he said. “Although COVID-19 cases are waning, we are continuing to record ILI/SARI cases as we want to keep a track on other respiratory diseases too,” the Commissioner said. C/ Nagaraja, director of the State-run Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD), said ILI/SARI are usually high during September-October. “This was the trend even during pre-COVID-19 days. Even during May-June we have seen a lot of cases due to dust, especially among children,” he said. “During the second wave peak, 90% of all ILI/SARI cases treated in our institute developed COVID-19. But now, although we are seeing over 50 such cases, hardly 5% are testing positive for COVID-19,” he said. Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, said a direction will again be issued to all hospitals to report all ILI/SARI cases. “Although ILI/SARI are not emerging infections, it is essential that we continue surveillance of respiratory illness for future planning,” she said. Admitting that not all hospitals are reporting ILI/SARI cases, H.M. Prasanna, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), said this is because the State has not made reporting mandatory. Updating issues “Moreover, with COVID-19 cases waning, now hospitals are busy with non-COVID-19 services. Staff at the hospitals, who are already fatigued due to the pandemic, are finding it tedious to update details on various portals. Hence, they may be leaving out those that are optional. If it is mandatory, all will report,” he said. Bengaluru Urban District Health Officer (DHO) G.A. Srinivas said hospitals have been asked to compulsorily report all fever cases. “Fever and respiratory infections are on the rise. As many as 1,419 ILI and two SARI cases have been reported in the last 10 days in Bengaluru Urban district,” he added.  ILI/SARI cases in city May: 16,585  June: 4,958 July: 3,951 August: 3,947 September: 4,070 October (till 17): 1,744||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-infections-wane-but-no-respite-from-ili-sari-cases/article37101682.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||AAP celebrates ‘pothole habba’; traffic police step in to make roads better||Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday ‘celebrated’ what they called a ‘pothole habba’ across the city’s 198 wards to highlight an issue that has been a sore point among citizens for long. While garlanding potholes, they urged citizens to raise their voices and question the administration. AAP Karnataka convenor Prithvi Reddy said, “Around Rs. 20,000 crore of our tax money has gone into this. Where is it? Why are there still potholes? Seven people have lost their lives in Bengaluru due to potholes. Many of us have suffered back problems. We have spent on vehicle repairs? Where is the money going if the potholes are yet to be repaired?,” he asked citizens. He also alleged that irrespective of which party has been at the helm - BJP or Congress - the pothole menace remained unresolved. “We need to start raising our voices and questioning governance,” he said. Meanwhile, the traffic police who often bear the brunt of public ire, have stepped in to fill potholes. On Wednesday, traffic police personnel filled potholes in front of City Railway Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aap-celebrates-pothole-habba-traffic-police-step-in-to-make-roads-better/article37101678.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Uttarakhand: 92 of 96 from Karnataka safe||At least 96 people from Karnataka were stranded in rain-battered Uttarakhand, of which 92 have reported to be safe, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) said on Wednesday. Of the remaining four, three are stranded in Badrinath and are not reachable due to connectivity issues, while one is an SSB jawan. “Regarding the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) jawan, SSB control room has been intimated,” the KSNDMC said. On Tuesday, the Karnataka Government established a helpdesk to assist stranded people — passengers, pilgrims, tourists, and visitors from Karnataka — at various places in Uttarakhand. Minister for Revenue R. Ashok had said that those stranded or relatives of the stranded can contact the helpdesk and give information, which will be flashed to the Uttarakhand authorities for immediate action and quick response. Ten calls A senior official told The Hindu that the centre had received 10 calls since Tuesday. “Through these, we heard from them that they are safe. For example, there was one group of 50 pilgrims. Our team is trying to reach out to the state nodal team of Uttarakhand to ascertain these details. So out of 96, 92 reported back as safe. Many are already making the journey back,” said the official. The calls were received from Bengaluru, Mysuru, Vijayapura, Dharwad, and Udupi, the official said, adding that road connectivity and communications had been hit in Uttarakhand. Incessant downpour in the state has wreaked havoc, leading to deaths and destruction. Uttarakhand attracts tourists, pilgrims and adventure enthusiasts in large numbers with popular destinations such as Nainital, Rishikesh, and Haridwar. Ashwath Narayan, whose wife was part of the group of 50 people on the chaar dhaam yatra through a travel agency, said the group was safe. “They left on October 18 morning. They are safe and the travel agency is making arrangements for their return. They are looking at the weather conditions and flight availability to bring them back,” he added. Posted in Uttarakhand There are others from the state who are settled in or posted in Uttarakhand. Anil Kumar from Vijayapura, whose sister Anitha S. Papanavar is a doctor at a military hospital, said she was to come home, but got stranded due to a landslip. “I managed to reach her and she said she is safe. However, I have not received any photos or managed to make any video calls to her. If I try 20 times, i am able to connect with her once. But she is safe and staying with department colleagues at a village,” he said. Further communication from the Revenue Department said: “Though the rainfall intensity has reduced, there has been extensive damage to road network because of multiple landslides due to which people are stranded. The road repairs are taken up on priority by agencies concerned. Weather is likely to clear in the next two to three days.” The Karnataka State Emergency Operation Centre (KSEOC) can be reached at 080 - 1070 (toll free) and 080 - 2234 0676. These numbers are active to receive any distress call and will function 24x7, says an official press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uttarakhand-92-of-96-from-karnataka-safe/article37101689.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP identifies over 500 dilapidated structures in preliminary report||Over the past few weeks as heavy rains lashed the city almost every day, nearly seven buildings in different parts have either collapsed or tilted due to faulty foundations, byelaw violations, etc. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) in an emergency survey identified 503 dilapidated and weak structures that are dangerous for habitation across the city. The list, according to sources, contains details pertaining to the buildings, including name of the owner, address, extent of construction, year of construction, etc. The maximum number of weak buildings have been identified in the West zone (121), followed by South (115) and East (113). Sources said that the number of weak and dilapidated structures may increase further, as the survey is still ongoing. Civic Chief Gaurav Gupta told The Hindu that the survey was taken up suo motu to ensure there is no danger to public life. The damage to buildings is not just because of heavy rains. Civic officials are also attributing it to the large-scale building byelaw violations and inferior quality of construction. The BBMP woke up to the dangers posed by dilapidated and weak buildings following a similar accident in 2019. The then commissioner had directed the officials to take up a survey and identify weak structures. Following this, the civic body had identified 185 weak and dilapidated structures across the city, of which 10 were demolished. The civic officials claim to have issued notices to the owners and residents of the remaining 175 structures. In 2019, no weak structures were identified in the Bommanahalli zone. However, the new survey states that there are 9 such buildings in the zone. Similarly, as opposed to 1 identified in Rajarajeshwarinagar zone in 2019, there now are 23 dilapidated buildings. BBMP officials have already begun issuing notices to the owners and residents of the identified buildings, apart from giving them seven days to vacate the premises. One challenge that is before the BBMP officials is to trace the owners of these buildings, who have rented out the premises and are living elsewhere. The civic body is looking to enlist civil engineering experts to assess the structural strength of the identified buildings. Based on their report, the demolition will be taken up. Owners of the weak buildings may also hire their own structural engineers to assess the condition of the buildings to take up repairs. “The removal of the buildings deemed weak will depend on the urgency and condition of the building. The other buildings will be marked unsafe and residents asked to vacate the premises,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-identifies-over-500-dilapidated-structures-in-preliminary-report/article37101666.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Political discourse gets lower by the day in pitched bypoll battle||Though fierce attacks on the Opposition arenothing uncommon ahead of elections, the upcoming bypolls for two Assembly seats in the State have seen the political discourse getting lowered to the level of personal attacks. On Sunday, the Congress described Prime Minister Narendra Modi as an “illiterate” in a tweet and the BJP responded to it by calling Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as “Pappu”. However, soon after, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar expressed regret over his party’s personal attack on the Prime Minister and asked the party to delete the tweet. But the trend of indulging in personal attack got even worse with BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Tuesday calling Mr. Gandhi a “drug addict” and “drug peddler” citing unnamed media reports. Even as these remarks kicked up a political storm, the BJP continued its personal attack on Wednesday by accusing JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy of “bigamy”. No dip stick The lowering of political discourse has made saner leaders across political spectrum to wonder over the reason behind such a trend. In fact, the two Assembly seats which are going to bypolls are confined to northern region and hence the results may not be a dip stick for the entire State. But it appears that the timing and context of the bypolls have made them important. As these bypolls are going to be a precursor to the 2023 Assembly elections, political parties are believed to be using them to galvanise their cadre and set a trend. In fact, the parties appear to be using these bypolls as a launch pad to begin an early preparation for the 2023 elections, feel political observers. Another possible dimension that has triggered the trend is change of guard in the BJP with Basavaraj Bommai replacing veteran B.S. Yediyurappa as not just Chief Minister but also the leader steering its poll campaign. While the BJP does not want to take any chances due to change of guard and is going very aggressively to prove that the new regime is as stronger as the older one, the Opposition parties too are keen to explore the possibility of breaking the barriers during the transitional stage of the new political order in the BJP. This context is also believed to be one of the reasons for political parties mounting attacks on multiple fronts on their rivals. Under pressure Also, top leaders of all the three prominent political parties — BJP, Congress and JD(S) — are under pressure to protect their political space due to the power struggle within their organisation. While stakes are high for Mr. Bommai and Mr. Kateel in the BJP to prove that they have the calibre and capability to ensure winning streak for the party, there appears to be a shadow-boxing in the Congress between its top leaders Siddaramaiah and Mr. Shivakumar regarding supremacy in the party. The JD(S) is not devoid of problems as it is under immense pressure to protect its political identity and to prove that it is still a force to reckon with in a bid to put an end to desertion by its MLAs. This is being reflected in the manner in which Mr. Kumaraswamy is taking on the RSS head on. Interestingly, various leaders in the BJP, especially those eyeing a ministerial berth, are using the opportunity by joining those strongly defending the RSS to send a message to their party bosses. These internal pressures and pulls in all the parties too appear to have contributed to the aggressive posture that has resulted in personal attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/political-discourse-gets-lower-by-the-day-in-pitched-bypoll-battle/article37101704.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Namma Metro till BIEC to be operational by mid-2022||After opening two lines under Phase II of Namma Metro this year, the BMRCL has set its sights on a mid-2022 deadline for the extended Green Line from Nagasandra to Madavara (formerly Bangalore International Exhibition Center – BIEC) BMRCL Managing Director Anjum Parwez told The Hindu that the line will be opened for commercial operations after addressing concerns raised by the villagers of Anchepalya off Tumakuru Road. In August, residents of Anchepalya village staged a protest demanding a metro station or an access road to the nearest station. “This is a 3-km stretch. Measures will be taken to expedite the work so that line is operational by mid next year,” said Mr. Parwez. The elevated line from Nagasandra to Madavara has three stations at Manjunathnagar, Chikkabidarakallu and Madavara. In January, the BMRCL had opened the extended line on the southern part of the Green Line from Yelachenahalli to Silk Institute on Kanakapura Road. Once the extended stretch till BIEC becomes operational, the total length of the Green Line will be 33 km. As of September, the BMRCL had completed 71% of civil works from Hesaraghatta Cross to BIEC. Mr. Parwez added that by the end of 2022, the BMRCL plans to open the extended Purple Line from Baiyappanahalli to Whitefield to the public. This will help lakhs of people working various tech parks in Whitefield. The line has 13 stations on a stretch of 15 kms. BMRCL is also building a depot at Kadugodi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/namma-metro-till-biec-to-be-operational-by-mid-2022/article37101663.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Flying mobile towers may up India’s broadband penetration||Unmanned aerial vehicles (drones) can become flying mobile towers to bring wireless telephony, Internet access and mobility to people who live in far-flung, remote and tough terrains of India. Bengaluru start-up, VFLYX India, the drone tech arm of e-com platform for electronic/tech gadgets, XBOOM Utilities, is now doing R&D to introduce such drones. A proof of concept is expected to be ready in a year, as per the firm. A swarm of long-flying drones, powered either by solar, electric, gasoline or hybrid engines have to be used to create a mobile tower environment (they become both receivers and repeaters) to ensure seamless Internet and mobile access to people in no-connectivity areas, said Rohit Dey, CTO, UAV/Drones at VFLYX. The start-up was currently working on swarm drone technology (that allows drones to fly similar to that of a flock of birds) to deploy various applications ranging from cellphone tower infrastructure, aerial entertainments including fireworks, light shows and laser displays; aerial advertisements, brand campaigns, product launches, sky messaging, disaster warnings or public announcements (from governments and local bodies), holiday greetings, wedding/birthday wishes, etc., said Mr. Dey, a NASA Young Scientist in 2015 and a Hall of Famer for his research in drone technology. According to Vishal Saurav, CEO & Co-Founder VFLYX, drones can potentially become aerial towers that are quick to set up, cost effective, easily movable and also ideal in disaster management when networks are fully disrupted. “Drone tech is going to take off in a big way as our country now has a supportive environment. This gives entrepreneurs the confidence to invest in R&D and innovation. Drones are going to be like flying robots and AI, ML and Edge Computing will make intelligent and autonomous,” Mr. Saurav stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flying-mobile-towers-may-up-indias-broadband-penetration/article37101668.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Appointment of Ravindranath Kamath as SPP quashed||The High Court of Karnataka has set aside the Government Order of appointing advocate Ravindranath Kamath as the Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) for conducting the trial in the criminal case of murder of Mangaluru-based RTI activist Vinayaka Baliga. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while allowing a petition filed by M. Naresh Shenoy, who is the prime accused in the case, questioning the legality of the GO dated December 21, 2016, on appointing Mr. Kamath as the SPP. The court held that the apprehension of petitioner-accused is “well founded” that “he would not be subjected to a fair trial in light of appointment of Mr. Kamath”, who had represented the causes of the victim’s father, Ramachandra Baliga, and sister Anuradha Baliga against the petitioner in various courts, including the High Court, prior to his appointment as the SPP. Fair trial Reiterating the court’s earlier finding in cases related to appointment of SPPs that the “fair trial does not necessarily mean that it must be fair only to the victim but it should be fair to the accused also”, the court termed as “erroneous and unwarranted” that appointment of Mr. Kamath as the SPP as he had espoused the causes of victim’s father and sister, who is also complainant in her brother’s murder case of 2016. Above personal loyalty “An upright public prosecutor has no friends and foes in court. He has no prejudices, preconceived notions, bias, hostility or his own axe to grind. He represents public interest. He has no client or constituency apart from the State. He is above the personal loyalty...Public interest also demands that the trial should be conducted in a fair manner, heedful of the rights granted to the accused under the laws of the country... It is no part his obligation to secure conviction of an accused in any event or at all costs...”Mr. Justice Nagaprasanna quoted from a 2005 judgment of the High Court in the case of appointment of SPP based on a request made by victim’s wife in a politically sensitive murder case of Kolar. While reserving the liberty to the complainant, Ms. Anuradha Baliga, to submit representation to the Government for appointing a new SPP for exclusive conduct of the trial, the court also said that the Government was free to appoint new SPP bearing in mind the observations made by the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appointment-of-ravindranath-kamath-as-spp-quashed/article37101699.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: State reports 462 new cases, nine deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 462 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,84,484. Bengaluru Urban reported 253 cases and six deaths. With nine deaths, the toll rose to 37,976. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 479 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,37,405. The State now has 9,074 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.39%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.94%. As many as 1,16,121 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 97,948 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 4,96,90,154.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-state-reports-462-new-cases-nine-deaths/article37101683.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nine IPS officers transferred||The State Government on Wednesday transferred nine IPS officers and gave them new postings. According to a release, Patil Vinayak Vasantrao, has been appointed as Deputy Commissioner of Police (North), Bengaluru. The new postings of the other officers are: Nikam Prakash Amrith, Superintendent of Police, Anti-Naxal Force, Karkala, Udupi; Illakkiya Karunagaran, principal, Police Training School, Thanisandra, Bengaluru; Dharmendra Kumar Meena, Superintendent of Police and Director, Forensic Sciences Laboratory, Bengaluru; Savitha S., Deputy Commissioner of Police, Traffic (North), Bengaluru; M. Ashwini, Assistant Inspector-General of Police (Headquarters),Chief Office, Bengaluru; Suman D. Pennekar, Superintendent of Police, Mandya; Nikhil B., Superintendent of Police, Raichur; Deepan M.N. Assistant Commissioner of Police, Kalaburagi-B sub-division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-ips-officers-transferred/article37101697.ece
21 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP talks of ‘bigamy’, HDK hits back||In the latest instance of personal attack, the BJP on Wednesday accused JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy of “bigamy” following which the former Chief Minister warned that he too could speak on personal lives of BJP leaders since he had “information on all”. Karnataka unit of the BJP tweeted, “Signal jump, breach of trust, corruption, nepotism and more than anything else bigamy. Should H.D. Kumaraswamy, who always ridicules mistakes of others, not be careful about these things?” Responding to this at bypoll-bound Sindgi, Mr. Kumaraswamy said, “Be careful. I can also speak on personal lives since everyone has a history... BJP leaders will become a laughing stock if I speak on what BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel has done to senior pracharaks’ families in Mangaluru.” He added that he did not need moral lessons from the BJP, which had a slew of leaders caught watching pornography. He further said that he had hidden nothing and spoken publicly and during Assembly discussions on his “mistakes”. “I had taken a wrong path and I have rectified it,” he said, adding that personal attacks serve no purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-talks-of-bigamy-hdk-hits-back/article37101700.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Investors keen to build ‘design district’ on Bengaluru outskirts, says Minister||Investors from the Gulf Cooperative Council (GCC) have shown interest to build a ‘design district’ on the outskirts of Bengaluru. Minister of IT, Biotechnology and Science and Technology C.N. Ashwath Narayan, after returning from a four-day visit to Dubai Expo 2020, said a Rs. 1,000 crore project would come up on 100 to 150 acres of land. Dr. Narayan said a delegation of investors from the GCC countries such as the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and Egypt had shown keen interest to invest in Karnataka. The GCC is a regional intergovernmental political and economic union comprising countries such as the UAE, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, and Qatar. Memorandum of understanding (MoU) would be signed with investors on various projects during their visit in November. “The proposed design district will be way ahead than the one in Dubai. Industrial designs of all kinds required for any sector will be done in the proposed design district,” said Dr. Narayan. He added that the Bengaluru Design Festival would be held in the design district. The Minister announced that the Gulf Islamic Investment (GII) plans to set up its office in Bengaluru to further strengthen the Indo-UAE investment ties. Office in Bengaluru “The GII expressed an intent to sign an MoU with the State to set up its office in Bengaluru,” Dr. Narayan said. GII plans to invest $500 million (Rs. 3,500 crore) in India in the next three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/investors-keen-to-build-design-district-on-bengaluru-outskirts-says-minister/article37101706.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protests across State today||A coalition of organisations will stage protests on Thursday at multiple locations in the State against Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai “condoning moral policing” by Hindutva organisations, which they termed “complete abdication of duty of the Chief Minister in upholding the constitutional values”. Protests will be held in Bengaluru, Raichur, Koppal, and Vijayapura, among other places, a communique said. The joint statement observed that instances of violence in the name of religion and caste, perpetrated by right-wing extremist organisations, had increased over the last one year. “This is sending a chilling message to people in Karnataka that associating with a person from another caste or religion can invite injury and death and that merely practising their faith or belonging to one can be dangerous,” the statement said. “As these atrocities and violence increase in Karnataka, the Chief Minister has condoned such acts of violence and assault on our Constitution. Such a statement legitimises and encourages the perpetrators of violence and makes the victims into offenders,” the organisations said. The organisations have been demanding that the Chief Minister immediately withdraw his statement made earlier in relation to moral policing incidents that they should be viewed from the prism of “action and reaction” and that they occur when there is “moral degradation” in society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protests-across-state-today/article37101696.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Work on only 9 roads done||In January this year, then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa set a deadline of May 31 – before the monsoons – to complete works on all 32 roads. This was later extended to June 30 and again to August 30 by when the rains had already set in. Mr. Cholan told The Hindu that all works were completed on only nine roads and works on 16 roads would be completed by November. The remaining seven will take longer. “The monsoons interrupted the work causing the delay,” he said. “What is so smart about these roads anyway?,” asked N.S. Mukunda, of Bengaluru Praja Vedike, a citizen’s forum, adding that waterlogging and delayed deadlines reflect the lack of coordination between agencies. Meanwhile, traders on these key streets and the commuters navigating them continue to suffer. “First there was the pandemic and the lockdowns. Now when restrictions have been lifted, the neverending road work has robbed us of business. There is also a lot of dust, and rain often causes the roads to turn to sludge,” said Ganapathy, a bookseller from Avenue Road. Mohammed Nazin, Vice President, Bangalore Commercial Association, an association of traders on Commercial Street, said there was waterlogging, but that the civic agencies were working on it. He hoped they would do a decent job ‘once and for all’ this time, given that the work was shoddy and had design flaws last time. “We need to wait, which we are ready to do, but we want the work to be good at the end,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-on-only-9-roads-done/article37101669.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Breast cancer incidence third highest in Bengaluru after Hyderabad, Chennai||Incidence of breast cancer in Bengaluru is the third highest in the country after Hyderabad and Chennai. From 15 per lakh (age-adjusted rate) cases in 1980, the incidence of breast cancer has increased to 41 per lakh currently in the State capital. Doctors said breast cancer is the first and most common cancer in women in India and accounts for 25% to 32% of all cancers in women in Indian cities (as per Urban Population-based cancer registries) and second most common cancer in rural areas. At the State-run Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology nearly 1,000 new cases of breast cancer are seen every year. “Over the years it has been observed that more young women are reporting breast cancer. The average age of patients with breast cancer has shifted from 40-70 years to 30-50 years. Over the last few years we are also seeing incidence among women in 20-30 years and this cancer in the young age is more aggressive,” C. Ramachandra, Kidwai Director, told The Hindu on Wednesday. October is observed as breast cancer awareness month. According to ‘The Clinicopathological Profile of Cancers in India: A Report of the Hospital Based Cancer Registries, 2021’ prepared by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR), Bengaluru, breast cancer contributed 27.9% of the total cancer burden in females in 2020, the highest among all cancers in Karnataka. Risk factors Dr. Ramachandra said although the exact risk factors for breast cancer are still not known, sedentary lifestyles, excessive consumption of fast food, aerated drinks and increase in smoking and alcohol consumption among women, menstrual factors (early age at menarche and late age at menopause) are responsible. Besides, obesity, weight gain during adulthood, lack of physical exercise and reproductive factors (nulliparity, late child bearing), exogenous hormone factors are also the common risk factors, he said. Women should not ignore any lump or pain in the breast, thickening or swelling of a part of the breast, irritation or dimpling of breast skin, redness and discharge, the doctor added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/breast-cancer-incidence-third-highest-in-bengaluru-after-hyderabad-chennai/article37101684.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IRCTC launches tourist train ‘Shri Ramayana Yatra’||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), a Government of India Enterprise, Ministry of Railways, has announced the launch of Bharath Darshan Tourist Train Shri Ramayana Yatra. According to a release, the tour will commence from Madurai via Bengaluru, Arsikere junction, Davangere, Hubballi Junction, and Gadag on November 16. The 13 night/14 days tour will cover major pilgrim/tourist destinations of Hampi, Nasik, Chitrakut Dham, Varanasi Gaya, Sitamarhi, Janakpur (Nepal), Ayodhya - Nandigram, Prayagraj, and Shringaverpur. The cost per person for the tour package is Rs. 14,490. For details, visitwww.irctctourism.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/irctc-launches-tourist-train-shri-ramayana-yatra/article37102085.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A barrage of questions on RSS||Even as JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s comments on the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) have attracted bitter criticism from the BJP, the party on Wednesday asked why BJP leaders had not shown the courage to answer questions that were raised by him. The party on its official Twitter handle raised a series of questions: “Is RSS an official organisation? When was it registered? Where is its registered office? Is its work social or political?” It further said that crores of rupees were coming in the form of donations from India and abroad and asked if the RSS had given an account. “Has it kept the balance sheet of its finances? Who are the auditors? Is it false that it is brainwashing young volunteers?” asked the JD(S). In another tweet, the JD(S) asked another string of questions: “In the name of education, is it false that it [RSS] is feeding communal feelings among the youth? Keeping trident and sword in its shakhas is illegal. Have they obtained a licence? Why did the BJP not show courage to answer these questions?” “In our country those opposed to the Constitution are called anti-nationals. What should the RSS be called?” asked the party in yet another tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-barrage-of-questions-on-rss/article37101705.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man murders woman, tries to set body on fire||A 28-year-old woman was found murdered with multiple stab injuries at her house in Yarab Nagar in Banashankari on Tuesday. The murder had attempted to set fire to the body to remove evidence, said the police. The victim, Afreen Khanum, a tailor, was home alone “Her husband works at the Timber Yard, while their children – aged five and three years – were at their grandparents’ house,” said the police. Afreen was murdered in the afternoon. The unidentified attacker stabbed her with a pair of scissors that she used for tailoring. The accused covered the body with the cloth and set it on fire before locking the door from outside and escaping. The incident came to light at 5.30 p.m. when neighbours noticed thick smoke billowing from the house and alerted her family members. When they broke open the back door, they found the partial burnt body on the bed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-murders-woman-tries-to-set-body-on-fire/article37101672.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Honeywell bags Bengaluru Safe City project||The Union Government has selected Honeywell Automation India to lead the Rs. 496.57-crore Bengaluru Safe City project under the Nirbhaya Fund. The project was initiated by the Ministry of Home Affairs to create a safe, secure and empowering environment for women and girls in public places to enable them to pursue all opportunities without the threat of gender-based violence or harassment. Bengaluru is among eight cities selected for the project, which involves identification of hot spots for crimes against women and deployment of various components, including infrastructure, technology adoption, and capacity building in the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/honeywell-bags-bengaluru-safe-city-project/article37101695.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man robs elderly woman||Posing as a courier agent, a man stole a gold chain worth Rs. 1.4 lakh from an elderly woman at her house in Jayanagar 1st block. On Sunday morning, the 72-year-old victim heard the bell ring. A delivery agent with a parcel claimed he needed her signature. At first she refused to open the door since she had neither ordered an item online nor was expecting any parcel. However the accused forced her to open the door to check the address. As soon as she opened the door, he snatched the chain she was wearing and escaped.The Tilak Nagar police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-robs-elderly-woman/article37101686.ece
21 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hassan sees 19 new cases||Hassan reported 19 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. Among them, 10 were in Hassan taluk, three in Alur, two cases in Arkalgud, one each in Belur, Channarayapatna, Holenarsipur, and Sakleshpur. So far 1,368 people have died. As many as 219 people are under treatment. Shivamogga district reported 10 fresh cases of COVID-19 on the day. Among them, four were in Sagara taluk, two each in Hosanagar and Thirthahalli and one each in Shivamogga and Bhadravathi. So far. 1,071 people have died due to the infection and 59 people are under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hassan-sees-19-new-cases/article37102078.ece
21 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Body of professor found in tank||The body of S. Ganga Prasad, professor at University of Agricultural and Horticultural Sciences in Shivamogga, was found in a tank at Chikkabasur in Honnali taluk of Davangere district on Tuesday. Ganga Prasad, 58, was Head of the Department of Genetics and Plant Breeding. He was reported missing three days ago by his wife who had filed a complaint with the police in Shivamogga. Ganga Prasad was a native of Dogganal in Holalkere taluk of Chitradurga district. He had been working in the agriculture college in Shivamogga since 2006. He is survived by his wife and a daughter. The police have begun an investigation into his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/body-of-professor-found-in-tank/article37102074.ece
21 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman dies in accident||A woman died after she was hit by a car while crossing NH 75 at Gowdagere in Channarayapatna taluk on Tuesday evening. Yasmin, 19, was hit by the car while she was returning home after a visit to a nearby shop. The negligence of the car driver is said to be the reason for the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-dies-in-accident/article37102075.ece
21 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||One dead in clash among workers||One person died and another was injured following a clash among three construction workers about sharing wages at Mosale Hosahalli in Hassan taluk on Tuesday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Manjunath, 30, of Arsikere. Jayanna, 51, of Aladahalli near Hassan suffered injuries. Hassan Nirmita Kendra has taken up the construction of a building and water tanks at Mosale Hosahalli. Along with Shivanna, a resident of the Mosale Hosahalli, Manjunath and Jayanna worked on Monday. The contractor of the work had hired Manjunath and Jayanna for the day. After the work was over, Yogesh, who was in charge of the construction site, paid Rs. 1,500 to Shivanna asking him to share it with the others. However, later all three had liquor and fought with each other over the amount. Shivanna allegedly hit Manjunath and Jayanna with an iron rod. The next day when Yogesh visited the place, he found both the workers with serious injuries. He took them to the government hospital in Hassan, where the doctors declared Manjunath dead. Based on the complaint filed by Yogesh, Hassan rural police have registered the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-dead-in-clash-among-workers/article37102076.ece
21 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Suicide case takes new turn||The death of a 29-year-old person reported at Andasura in Sagar taluk in May this year has taken a new turn after the police obtained the postmortem report. Earlier, perceived to be a suicide, now the case has turned out to be a murder. Harish was admitted to a hospital in Shivamogga on May 8 after he reportedly consumed pesticide meant for paddy. He died the next day. Sagar Rural police took up investigation under 174C of CrPC. When the police obtained the postmortem report, they learnt that Harish due to a head injury. They learnt that Harish had consumed poison after a quarrel with his father and brother on May 8. At the same time, his brother hit him with an iron rod to kill him as he was not willing to share the ancestral property with him. Later, the accused took Harish to a private hospital, where he died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suicide-case-takes-new-turn/article37102079.ece
21 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Police book 101 Hindutva activists||In a development pertaining to the protest by Hindutva outfits over what is said an act of forcible conversion in Hubballi, the police have registered a case against 101 members of Hindutva outfits for unlawful assembly, provocation to rioting and other charges, based on a complaint by the Deputy Commissioner of Police. The case has been registered by the police based on a complaint filed by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) K. Ramrajan. The APMC Navanagar Police have booked case against Ashok Anvekar and 100 others for unlawful assembly (Section 143), rioting (Section 147), joining unlawful assembly (Section 145) and provocation to rioting (Section 153) of the Indian Penal Code. The incident is said to have taken place on Sunday, when members of Bajrang Dal and other Hindutva outfits were protesting against what they termed as inaction by the police although they had handed over the man accused of carrying out forcible conversion to them. In his complaint, Mr. Ramrajan has said that Mr. Ashok Anvekar and 100 other members of Hindutva outfits illegally resorted to an agitation in front of the Navanagar Police Station on October 17 without permission. They had also barged into the police station and prevented the police from carrying out their duties. These men also made derogatory speeches that would affect peace, tranquillity in society and communal harmony, Mr. Ramrajan has said in the complaint. As per the complaint, Mr. Anvekar has been accused of making a speech that would incite communal feelings among those present. It might be recalled that following the protest by Hindutva activists, one person, who has been accused of carrying out forcible conversion, has been arrested by the police under the provisions of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Following the incident, members of the Christian community held a series of meetings to chalk out the next course of action apart from taking legal recourse.  Case has been registered based on a complaint filed by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) K. Ramrajan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-book-101-hindutva-activists/article37101935.ece
21 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Horatti sees need for creating awareness on Valmiki||Chairman of the Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti has said that in an era of digital technology, there is a need for utilising it for creating awareness on the life and contribution of saint-poet Maharshi Valmiki. Speaking at the birth anniversary celebrations of Maharshi Valmiki organised by the district administration at Patil Puttappa Sabha Bhavan in Dharwad on Wednesday, he said that saint-poet Valmiki was a Guru (teacher) who belonged to the whole society and there is a need for imbibing the values he stood for among the younger generation. He said that it was not enough if community halls are constructed in memory of the saint-poet. The onus should be on proper utilisation of the community halls for the benefit of the children of the Valmiki community and others. Referring to the demand for increase in reservation for the community, he said that he would send a suggestion to the State Government. Inaugurating the birth anniversary celebrations, Minister for Handloom, Textiles, Sugarcane Development and Sugar Shankar Patil Munenakoppa said: “Saint-poet Valmiki is not just a great individual belonging to a particular community but a model to the entire mankind.” He said that a community hall is being built in Dharwad for the benefit of the community members and Rs. 4 crore was allocated for the purpose in the last fiscal. Surpur MLA Raju Gowda (Narasimha Naik) said that it is a matter of pride that they belonged to the community which gave the country an epic the Ramayana, which is the base for several literary works even to this day. Basavaraj Nagavvanavar delivered a talk on life and works of Maharshi Valmiki. Honoured On the occasion, students of Scheduled Castes who have scored high marks in SSLC, PU, degree and post-graduation were honoured with merit certificates, mementos and books on Valmiki. This apart, achievers Pushpa Koobihal, C. Thyagaraj, S.N. Angadi, Shivakumar Kalliganur, Adiveppa Hebasur and Manjunath Huded were honoured with awards and cash prizes. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, Chairperson of Karnataka Silk Marketing Board Savita Amarshetty, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant and others were present. Meanwhile, Valmiki Jayanti programmes were held in various government offices and educational institutions. Talks on the saint-poet were organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/horatti-sees-need-for-creating-awareness-on-valmiki/article37101938.ece
21 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Silk India Exhibition||An 11-day Silk India Exhibition showcasing products from artisans and weavers from across India will be held at Gujarat Bhavan in Hubballi from Thursday. Hastashilpi from Mysuru has organised the exhibition. Managing Director of Hastashilpi T. Abhinand has in a release said that products from artisans and weavers from Kanchipuram to Kanyakumari will be on display in over 50 stalls at the exhibition-cum-sale. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil will inaugurate the exhibition, while Chairperson of Karnataka Silk Marketing Board Savitha Amarshetty will be the guest of honour. The exhibition will be open from 10.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/silk-india-exhibition/article37101936.ece
21 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Stress on need for more humanitarian services||At a time when the pandemic has affected the lives of commoners badly, there is a need for more humanitarian services with focus on girl education and women empowerment, president of Rotary Club International Shekhar Mehta has said. Inaugurating the 80th anniversary of Rotary Club of Dhawad at Srujana Rangamandir in Dharwad on Tuesday, he said that the onus is particularly more Rotarians during these hard times. He said that while Rotarians are involved in humanitarian services for long, there is a need for expanding these activities and services to cover more people so as to ensure welfare of mankind. Mr. Mehta urged Rotarians to chalk out various programmes to achieve the common goal of serving society. Unveiled On the occasion, Mr. Mehta unveiled a replica of the building of New Rotary School coming up on a one-acre land near Taiwac in Dharwad. President of Rotary Club of Dharwad Vijaykumar Kattimani has donated the land for the school. Past District Governor and senior paediatrician Rajan Deshpande said that Rotary Club Dharwad, established in 1940, is the second oldest club after the one in Bengaluru and is the first in North Karnataka. He said that during the pre-Independence days, Rotarians played a key role in getting Karnatak University and later the College of Agricultural Sciences in Dharwad. To mark the 80th anniversary, Rotary Club of Dharwad will adopt the Government Primary School No 2 in Dharwad and take up development works there. This apart, 25 girl students from humble backgrounds will be adopted by the club. A Breastfeeding Centre will be established at the BRTS Terminal in Dharwad to help lactating mothers from rural areas who visit the city for various works, Dr. Deshpande said. Rotary Club Director Mahesh Kotabagi from Pune also spoke. Rotary office-bearers Ravi Deshpande, Kavan Deshpande, Pallavi Deshpande, Gaurish Dhond and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stress-on-need-for-more-humanitarian-services/article37101939.ece
21 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||City sees a rise in robbery, chain snatching cases||There has been an increase in property crimes, more so of dacoity, robbery and chain snatching, in the city, reported till September this year, compared to the numbers reported in the corresponding period last year. As against two dacoities reported till September last year in which property worth Rs. 88,000 were stolen, there were 13 reported till September this year and Rs. 69.66 lakh property stolen. The police have detected two dacoities of last year and recovered the entire stolen property, 11 of the 13 dacoities were detected and property worth Rs. 17.57 lakh has been recovered so far. While six robberies were reported and five detected till September last year, 11 of the 16 robberies reported in the same period this year were detected and property worth Rs. 5.54 lakh recovered. Similarly, five chain snatching incidents were reported in this period last year and two detected, while 10 such incidents were reported in the corresponding period this year and three detected. Among other property offences, seven cases each of house break-in theft by day were reported last year and this year. While four cases of last year have been detected, only one case of this year has been detected. Of the 60 house break-in theft by night reported last year, 30 cases were detected. And, of the 39 such cases reported this year, only 10 cases have been detected. Of the 10 house theft cases of last year, two have been detected and four of the seven theft cases reported this year have been detected. Among the other cases, there were 24 murders reported last year and 38 reported this year. While 83 motor vehicle accident deaths were reported last year, 87 such cases were reported this year. While 23 cases under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act were reported last year, there were 42 cases this year. While stating that there was not been any marked increase in property and other crimes this year, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that the police are taking steps to prevent theft and other property offences. For over a fortnight now, the police have been rounding off accused involved in property offences reported in the last five years. Apart from the accused from the city, those from neighbouring Udupi, Uttara Kannada and Kasaragod in Kerala are being put under surveillance and their residence and other details are being updated. Those receiving stolen property are also being questioned. “We are not only trying to detect property crime accused but also systematically working to prevent those crimes,” Mr. Kumar said. The police have put under surveillance people involved in communal incidents in the last five years, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-sees-a-rise-in-robbery-chain-snatching-cases/article37102241.ece
21 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MIT emerges first runner-up in CodeStreet Hackathon||Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), an engineering college of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), has secured the first runner-up position in the American Express CodeStreet Hackathon national challenge with the theme Open Banking. Over 9,000 students participated in the hackathon from August 13 to October 8. In all, 10 teams were selected after the ideation phase. The 10 teams had to develop prototypes between September 24 and October 8, with guidance from a mentor from American Express, a release from MAHE said. The team, Ipseity, from MIT comprising four students Mini Shail Chhabra Praseedha, Praveen Kalbhavi, Pratyaksh Gupta and Shreya Tewari worked on the theme of Open Banking with an ideology of One world one identity. They worked and brainstormed to bring a proposal of a multi-purpose identity card with all identities united at a single place, being powered and entrusted by blockchain technology. Director of MIT Anil Rana said: “MIT students keep showcasing their true talent which motivates teachers to work hard for them and aim at providing them the best exposure to participate in such prestigious platforms.” The CodeStreet is American Express’ annual hackathon that provides coders an opportunity to showcase their technical skills by solving the latest tech riddles in the Fintech industry. The MIT team presented the prototype on October 8 to a panel of four judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mit-emerges-first-runner-up-in-codestreet-hackathon/article37102230.ece
21 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two teenagers drowned in rivulet near Brahmavar, their bodies retrieved||The bodies of two teenaged boys who were said to have drowned in a rivulet near Uppoor in Udupi district on Tuesday were retrieved on Wednesday. The police gave the names of victims as Anas (17) of Varamballi, and Shreyas (18) of Chantharu. Both these places are near Brahmavar. They said that three boys — the two victims and another boy, Sanjay Raj of Chantharu, went into the rivulet at Uggelbettu on Tuesday afternoon for a swim. The two boys drowned while swimming. Sanjay Raj, who got frightened by the turn of events, left the spot and did not inform the parents of the boys who were drowned. When the two boys did not return home by evening, the parents of Shreyas and Anas informed Brahmavar Police who questioned Sanjay Raj. The boy told them that he did not inform the boys’ parents out of fear. Brahmavar Police have registered a case under section 174 of Cr.PC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-teenagers-drowned-in-rivulet-near-brahmavar-their-bodies-retrieved/article37102233.ece
21 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Values upheld by the Ramayana will remain relevant forever: Minister||Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport S. Angara said here on Wednesday that the values upheld by the epic Ramayana will remain relevant forever. Speaking at the Valmiki Jayanti celebrations organised by the Dakshina Kannada district administration, the Minister said that the Ramayana written by Maharshi Valmiki should be understood from the right perspective. Mr. Angara said that castes are irrelevant but values are. Maharshi Valmiki commanded respect from the values which he upheld. The Minister said that in the olden times, though children were interested in getting educated, there were no proper facilities. But nowadays there are multiple avenues to get educated. There are enough educational institutions. There are donors to sponsor the education expenses of poor students. Hence, students should avail themselves of the benefits of education and excel in life. The government is also investing crores of rupees in the education sector. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that the Ramayana should be studied not just as a religious text but to understand the essence of life it propagates. Some students who had done well in the SSLC and pre-university examinations were felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/values-upheld-by-the-ramayana-will-remain-relevant-forever-minister/article37102229.ece
21 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Students should make the best use of free training for Civil Services exams’||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao on Wednesday asked students and graduates to make the best use of the free training to be organised by the district administration to help them appear for the Union and State civil service examinations. Speaking at the Valmiki Jayanti celebrations in Udupi, the Deputy Commissioner said that training will be provided for students and graduates of the district. So far, 720 candidates have registered their names to avail themselves of free training. The administration will hold a workshop for them on October 22 at Rajatadri to enlighten them on the Civil Services examinations. He said that the values propagated by the Ramayana written by Valmiki are relevant forever. The Ramayana has been written in a simple manner and can be understood easily. President of Udupi City Municipal Council Sumitra Nayak, who inaugurated the programme, said that people from backward classes should get education and join the mainstream. A research scholar in Mangalore University Dinakara Kenjur spoke on the life and achievements of Valmiki. Students Prathibha Naik and Kavashree, who had excelled in this year’s SSLC examinations, were honoured on the occasion. In addition, achievers in different fields Sheena Naika, Dogu Koraga and Gulabi Goudthi were also felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-should-make-the-best-use-of-free-training-for-civil-services-exams/article37102232.ece
21 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Youth Congress workers protest against Kateel||Youth Congress workers staged a protest against State president of the BJP Nalin Kumar Kateel here on Wednesday for his statement against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi a few days ago. They also burned an effigy of Mr. Kateel in front of the Congress office in Mallikatta. Addressing the protesters, Dakshina Kannada Youth Congress president Lukman Bantwal said that as a MP, the contribution of Mr. Kateel to Dakshina Kannada is nil. He stood as a symbol of an insult to Dakshina Kannada by making controversial statement against Mr. Gandhi, he said. Mr. Bantwal said that the BJP leader had made the statement to appease the BJP top brass in Delhi and to save his chair. He should apologise for his statement and resign as MP. Mr. Kateel is not fit to speak about the Gandhi family, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-congress-workers-protest-against-kateel/article37102243.ece
21 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||15-year-old boy drowned||A 15-year-old boy is said to have drowned in the Phalguni near Morantakadu bridge near Venur in Dakshina Kannada on Tuesday evening. The police said that Martin Pinto (15), a student of Mount Carmel School, was washed away in the river soon after he entered the water. A team of Fire and Emergency Services personnel and local swimmers found the body on Wednesday morning. In her complaint to the police, Pinto’s mother said that she left home at around 2.30 p.m. on Tuesday and returned two hours later to find his son missing. The police and the Fire and Emergency Services personnel found the clothes of the boy and his slippers near the bridge and commenced a search operation from there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/15-year-old-boy-drowned/article37102239.ece
21 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||K. Krishna Bhat passes away||The former Chairman of the Department of Human Consciousness and Yogic Sciences K. Krishna Bhat passed away at his residence in Yekkur here on Wednesday. He was 72. He is survived by his wife, three daughters and a son. The last rites were performed at his native village Karopady in Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada. He had written a book, Power of Yoga. Mr. Bhat, who was president of Yoga Practitioners Association of India, was instrumental in offering yoga in the form of therapy. Mr. Bhat was the founder-chairman of the Department of Human Consciousness and Yogic Sciences at the university. As chairman he led the department from December 1998 to January 2012. He was instrumental in opening the Indian Institute of Yoga and Allied Sciences, Tirupati, and the Yoga Department at KMC, Manipal. Mr. Bhat was also running Bhat’s International Yoga Centre at Balmatta in the city where yoga professionals were offering yoga therapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/k-krishna-bhat-passes-away/article37102238.ece
21 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rise in demand for additional flights from Mysuru to Goa||Goa is emerging as the ‘go to’ place for a lot of Mysureans and this is reflected in the originating air passenger traffic. So much so that buoyed by the demand for flight seats the authorities are scouting for airline operators to operate a second flight on the Mysuru-Goa sector. This is not a post-COVID demand for travel but has been visible ever since the flight from Mysuru to Goa was launched more than two years ago. “The rush is such that lot of tourists and passengers who fly out of Mysuru to Goa find it difficult to find return tickets and hence fly to Bengaluru and then make the road journey to Mysuru,” said Mysuru airport director R. Manjunath. Stakeholders in the tourism sector are also vocal in their demand for additional flights to Goa and say this is based on inquiries made by holidaymakers and people travelling out of Mysuru. “The existing Alliance Air flight from Mysuru to Goa is almost full and people are forced to either delay their holiday or take the route via Bengaluru which is tedious and cumbersome,” said B.S. Prashanth of Safe Wheels. The demand has reached a new high after the pandemic began to ebb and the vaccination drive gained traction giving confidence to people to venture out, he added. So much so that the authorities are now marketing the Mysuru-Goa sector to the airlines instead of other routes so that the built-up demand and assured occupancy on the Mysuru-Goa sector will give confidence to the flight operators of the air traffic potential from Mysuru to other cities. At present, there is demand for flights to Coimbatore, Tirupathi, and Shirdi with the last two sectors catering to the pilgrims and tourists. K.S. Nagapati, a tourism expert and author of many books on tourism, opined that apart from direct flights there is a need for a daily train connecting Mysuru with Goa. “This will also help shore up the tourism traffic of Mysuru as assured connectivity will ensure tourists from Goa and surrounding places to explore Mysuru which is not the case now,” he added. Making a strong case for regular and reliable flights between Mysuru and Goa, Mr. Nagapathi said that in the post-COVID world, once the international tourism resumes even if a fraction of the international visiting Goa are lured to visit Mysuru through marketing and publicity, the local tourism sector will get a fillip. Overall traffic Meanwhile, the overall passenger traffic from Mysuru is also on the rise. The outbound flights from Mysuru to Chennai, Hyderabad, Kochi, and Bengaluru tend to have high occupancy rates and in most instances the flights are full. The Airports Authority of India’s traffic survey indicated that 9,503 passengers used the Mysuru airport during April-August last year and this increased to 29,754 during the same period this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rise-in-demand-for-additional-flights-from-mysuru-to-goa/article37102081.ece
21 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vatal Nagaraj protests price hike||Kannada activist and former MLA Vatal Nagaraj said on Wednesday that the escalation of diesel, petrol, and LPG rates has affected the commoners and the government was indifferent to their plight. Mr. Nagaraj said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was apathetic to the consequences of the price hike on the poor and the middle class. He said the prices of petrol, gas, and diesel should be brought down by 50% so as to provide relief to the public. Wondering at the indifference of the public against raising their voice, Mr. Nagaraj said it is strange that those affected by the price hike were not taking to streets. “The price hike will not affect political leaders, MLAs, MPs, and the rich, and it is only the middle class and the poor which is suffering silently,” he said. The Congress and the JD(S) came under flak and said they did not persist with their protests against the price hike and that “their leaders were in comatose stage.” Mr. Nagaraj said in the byelections in the State, price hike was not an issue and the political parties were content engaged in mutual recriminations. This was dangerous to the democratic set up and people should take to protests to let the government know their plight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vatal-nagaraj-protests-price-hike/article37102084.ece
21 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kateel flayed for remarks against Rahul||Local Congress leaders and party functionaries in Mysuru lashed out at BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel for his disparaging remarks about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Mr. Kateel had described Mr. Gandhi as a “drug addict and a drug peddler” thus stoking a controversy with the state Congress leaders demanding an apology from the former. In Mysuru, party spokesperson M. Lakshman lashed out at Mr. Kateel and said the BJP was side-stepping real issues and launching personal and baseless attacks on the Congress and the Opposition. Dubbing Mr. Kateel as “incompetent” and a “joker”, Mr. Lakshman said the BJP had all the institutions under its control and if Mr. Gandhi was indeed a drug peddler as alleged then it should allow the NCB, the CBI, and other institutions to investigate. Hitting out at Mr. Kateel, Mr. Lakshman said the BJP has Ministers who have a sordid saga of crime behind them and even the Union Home Minister was in jail, and in Karnataka, the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had spent 29 days in prison. There are serious issues pertaining to the economy and India has slid in the Global Hunger Index. These are real issues that needs to be debated in public but the BJP was making baseless allegations to avoid being subjected to scrutiny of its performance, said Mr. Lakshman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kateel-flayed-for-remarks-against-rahul/article37102080.ece
21 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sri Krishnadevaraya’s death anniversary to be remembered||There are plans afoot to mark the death anniversary of Vijayanagara ruler Sri Krishnadevaraya on October 17 from next year through a series of conferences or seminars to mark the occasion. Sunday (October 17) marked the 492nd death anniversary of the ruler and his exact date of death was only confirmed through an inscription that came to light in February this year. Until then, the date of death was not known though the year was clear. But the first-ever epigraphical reference to the death of Vijayanagara emperor was discovered at Honnenahalli village in Tumakuru district of Karnataka and was confirmed by the Epigraphy Branch of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in February. Sources said though unofficial a few programmes are being held by history buffs and scholars, they will appeal to the government to start conducting the death anniversary through seminars or other programmes- preferably at Hampi which was the capital of the Vijayanagara rulers for long. As per the inscription which was deciphered by the scholars, Krishnadevaraya died on October 17, 1529, which happened to be a Sunday and was also marked by a lunar eclipse. The discovery came about when the office of the Epigraphy Branch here received a photograph of the inscription from K.R. Narasimhan, retired professor from Yelahanka, Bengaluru. On studying the inscription and deciphering it the scholars were stunned to realise that the exact date of death of Krishnadevaraya had been mentioned in it and this was the first-ever material evidence related to the emperor’s date of death. The inscription - engraved on a slab kept on the north side of Gopalakrishna temple at Honnehalli in Tumakuru district – is in Kannada and characters. The inscription recorded the the demise of Krishnadevaraya _(Virakrishnaraya maharayalu yi tatha tithiyalu astamayaragalu)_ in Śaka 1451, Virodhi, su. 15, lunar eclipse, which corresponds to 1529 A. D., October 17, Sunday, according to Dr.K.Munirathnam, Director, Epigraphy Branch of the ASI. Meanwhile, G. Kishna Reddy, Union Minister of Culture tweeted: I bow in reverence, on the 492nd Punya Tithi of one of the Greatest Rulers of all times, Vijayanagara’s King Krishnadevaraya. For the very first time, @ASIGoI retrieved the epigraphical evidence about the demise of Krishnadevaraya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sri-krishnadevarayas-death-anniversary-to-be-remembered/article37102088.ece
21 October 2021||NELLORE,KARNATAKA||Aquaculturists upbeat as prices stabilise||After a slump in the wake of COVID-induced economic crisis, the prices of shrimps have now recovered bringing cheers to farmers in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh. All aqua farms in the coastal region are active with farmers gearing up to make good of the favourable situation to maximise returns. They mainly cultivate pacific white-leg shrimp ((Litopenaeus Vannamei) in the districts of SPSR Nellore and Prakasam to cater to the demand for the produce in the USA as also European countries. “There has been a jump of over Rs. 100 per kg in the rates now. A count of 30 fetched a price of Rs. 530 per kg, 40-count Rs. 430 per kg, 50-count Rs. 360,” says a shrimp farmer from Tangutur Ramesh Reddy. Meanwhile, conscious of cutting costs to maximise returns, a progressive farmer K. Nishant Reddy urges fellow shrimp farmers to adopt intensive production method to stay in contention even when other production factors remained unfavourable. Overseeing the water quality in his farm at Koduru, near T.P.Guduru mandal, the GenX farmer says the aqua farmers could make big gains “by growing shrimp in Biofloc at higher stocking densities of 200 pieces/m2 and achieving an average harvest volume of 4 kg per m2”. By doing so, shrimp farmers could achieve a production of 160 tonnes of shrimp in one hectare per year. They could harvest shrimp four times in a year by going in for ‘biofloc nursery’, explains the shrimp farmer. Bioflocs are aggregates of algae, bacteria, protozoans and other kinds of particulate organic matter which helps the farmers to meet about 20% of the feed cost on their own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aquaculturists-upbeat-as-prices-stabilise/article37101693.ece
21 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Valmiki Jayanti celebrated||Maharshi Valmiki Jayanti was celebrated in Yadgir district on Wednesday. Member of Legislative Assembly Venkatareddy Mudnal inaugurated the programme in the auditorium in the district administration building in Yadgir. He said that the jayanti is celebrated to honour the ancient poet, Maharishi Valmiki, who is the author of the great Hindu epic, the Ramayana. The principles of Maharishi Valmiki are the guiding force for society today, he said. Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya appealed to the people to get educated by using the facilities provided by the government. S.S. Nayak gave a special lecture about Maharshi Valmiki. Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy spoke. Additional Deputy Commissioner Shankaragowda Somanal, Assistant Commissioner Prashant Hanagandi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/valmiki-jayanti-celebrated/article37101934.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||An outing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/an-outing/article37101708.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Valmiki Jayanti||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/valmiki-jayanti/article37102087.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Seegi Hunnime||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seegi-hunnime/article37101924.ece
21 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Bund breach submerges crops in Kuttanad||A breach in the outer bund of the 160-hectare Theveri paddy polder at Cheruthana in Upper Kuttanad in Alappuzha district has submerged harvest-ready crops. The bund breach occured in the early hours of Wednesday. "The field was originally scheduled to go under the harvester by October 15. However, the harvest was delayed due to heavy downpour. The farmers have suffered huge losses," said an Agriculture Department official. Losses Meanwhile, efforts were on to plug the breach and dewater the polder. As per the preliminary assessment carried out by the Agriculture Department, the agriculture sector has suffered losses to the tune of Rs. 27.02 crore in the district due to heavy downpour and waterlogging in recent days. The district has witnessed 26 bund breaches. Paddy in 538.60 hectares were destroyed. Farmer cultivating vegetables, banana and other products have also suffered huge losses. Though flood threat has eased in the district, waterlogging continued in several low-lying areas of Upper Kuttanad and Kuttanad. Many houses and roads remained submerged. Parts of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road remained inundated. However, the KSRTC has resumed services through the Ambalappuzha- Thiruvalla road after floodwaters receded. Relief camps As of Wednesday evening, 11,219 people of 3,404 families were staying at 125 relief camps in the district. The administration has also opened 101 gruel centres for 34, 956 people of 8,715 families across the district.  Though flood threat has eased in Alappuzha, waterlogging continues in many low-lying areas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bund-breach-submerges-crops-in-kuttanad/article37102033.ece
21 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Punnapra-Vayalar uprising anniversary observance begins||A week-long observance of the 75th anniversary of the Punnapra-Vayalar uprising began on Wednesday. Anniversary observance committee chairman E.K. Jayan hoisted the flag at Punnapra in the evening. The flag was also hoisted at the martyrs’ memorials at Valiyachudukadu and Mararikulam. The flag-hoisting ceremony at Menassery and Vayalar will be held on Thursday. A public meeting to mark the occasion will be held at Punnapra on October 23. It will be inaugurated by CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan. Meetings to commemorate those who lost their lives in the uprising will be held at Menassery, Mararikulam and Vayalar on October 25, 26 and 27 respectively. The anniversary is being organised jointly by the CPI(M) and the CPI. The communist parties consider the Punnapra-Vayalar uprising against the Maharaja of erstwhile Travancore and his Devan (prime minister) C.P. Ramaswamy Iyer a part of the freedom struggle. Labourers armed with areca nut staves and choppers put up a brave fight but the government forces with guns overpowered them and several people lost their lives. The revolt led by the undivided CPI then is celebrated as a watershed event in the history of the Communist movement in the State. It is named after two of the places involved.  A public meeting to mark the occasion will be held at Punnapra on October 23||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/punnapra-vayalar-uprising-anniversary-observance-begins/article37101988.ece
21 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level in Idukki reservoir starts dipping||The water level in the Idukki dam began to decline slowly on Wednesday following the opening of three shutters of the Cheruthoni dam by 0.34 metres on Tuesday. Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) authorities said that in the wake of continued high volume of inflow, the water in the reservoir was kept at a controlled level to prevent further increase. In view of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) predictions of high rainfall, the water level needed to be kept at a safe limit, they said. At present, 60 lakh litres of water a minute was being discharged. The live storage stood at 94.28% of the total capacity on Wednesday, whereas the level on the same day last year was 89.61%, they said. Power generation The water level stood at 2,398.4 ft at 3 p.m. on Wednesday. Electricity generation at the Moolamattom power station remained high at 14.89 million units. The KSEB continued to monitor the water flow in the downstream areas, said an official. The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam in the upstream of the Idukki dam on Wednesday morning was 134.30 ft. While there was an inflow of 2,559 cfs (cubic feet per second), Tamil Nadu drew water at 1,750 cfs from the dam. Its maximum storage level is 142 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-in-idukki-reservoir-starts-dipping/article37102054.ece
21 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad model for weather forecasting||While the State has been struggling to address the repercussions of repeated events of extreme heavy rainfall, a localised weather forecasting system launched jointly by the Hume Centre for Ecology and Wildlife Biology (HCEWB) and the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research (ACARR) of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) in Wayanad has emerged as a model in providing timely assistance to the district administration and public. The centre had mapped landslide and mudslip locations with public participation after the massive landslides in 2018 and 2019. The mapping exercise continued in 2019 and 2020 and it was found that many such incidents happened outside the sensitive zone marked by the National Centre for Earth Science Studies, says C.K. Vishnudas, director, HCEWB. So a new approach has been followed for analysis with a new landslide susceptibility map, creating panchayat-wise zonation maps. The analysis has found that though extreme rainfall is a triggering factor of landslides, land-use pattern in slopes higher than 25 degrees can also cause it, he says. So the centre started establishing rain gauges across the district with public participation and 120 gauges have been established so far. “We have been contributing regular data to the District Disaster Management Authority, from where early warning alerts are issued to the panchayat concerned and Cusat for creating a Wayanad-specific rainfall forecasting system,” he adds. The district is divided into 106 grids of 25 sq km area each for the purpose. Along with forecast data, the centre collects actual rainfall data from each grid. This helps to test the efficiency of daily forecast and intensity of precipitation. The forecast and daily data collection are shared to the participants through the Whatsapp group ‘Wayanad Weather Forecast’. “As decentralised weather monitoring system can enhance local resilience system in the context of extreme weather events, it needs to be expanded to other vulnerable regions of the State through multi-institutional collaborations,” says S Abhilash, director, ACARR. “Our next goal is to make this rainfall forecasting system available in the public domain through an open data portal and upgrading the current system to make it more accurate ,” adds Dr. Abhilash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-model-for-weather-forecasting/article37102068.ece
21 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Man drowns in Iritty river||A 41-year-old man drowned after he reportedly slipped and fell into the Iritty river on Wednesday evening. The police identified the deceased as Ganesan, a resident of Vekkalam Kodanchal at Peravoor in Kannur. Ganesan’s body was spotted near Thantodu junction near the Iritty police station. The body was was shifted to the Kannur Medical College Hospital. Irrity Circle Inspector K.J. Binoy, Principal Sub Inspector Dinesh Kotheri, and Fire Station Officer Rajeev led the search operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-drowns-in-iritty-river/article37101980.ece
21 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cycle-friendly roads to be identified in Kochi Corpn.||Cycle-friendly roads will be identified in all divisions of the Kochi Corporation. The initiative comes as part of the Cycle with Kochi programme of the civic body. The annual corporation budget for 2021-22 had envisioned a programme to convert Kochi into a cycle-friendly city. The cycling project will be implemented with technical support from the German agency, Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit, said a communication issued by Mayor M. Anilkumar. The project aims to make Kochi the national capital of cycling activities. Cochin Smart Mission Limited, Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority, Kochi Metro Rail Limited, Revenue Department, city traffic police, cycling clubs, and other agencies will be part of the campaign, he said. The civic body will also partner with regional cycling clubs and undertake road safety awareness programmes with focus on Kudumbashree members, girl children, and domestic helps. Training in cycling will also be given, said the communication. The first meeting of the working group of the project was held on Wednesday, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cycle-friendly-roads-to-be-identified-in-kochi-corpn/article37102202.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||LDF voted out as Chellanam Twenty20 and UDF join forces||Nine months after wresting power on a razor-thin margin, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) was voted out in a no-confidence motion moved jointly by the apolitical outfit Chellanam Twenty20 and the United Democratic Front (UDF) on Wednesday. In the 21-member house, Panchayat president and CPI(M) leader K.D. Prasad was unseated by 12 votes to nine after eight members of the Chellanam Twenty20 and four members of the UDF voted in favour of the no-confidence motion. The LDF managed to secure power in the first place after UDF members stayed away from voting, giving it a marginal victory of nine to eight votes. “It is political horse trading of the kind the Congress is now being identified with, as its elected representatives across the country go in droves to the BJP. The apolitical outfit Chellanam Twenty20, on the other, hand, had fought the election painting both the LDF and the UDF as corrupt but has now joined hands with the Congress. Ultimately, it will cost the Congress, as it was at their expense that the Chellanam Twenty20 had managed to seal the victory of their candidates,” said Mr. Prasad. The Chellanam Twenty20 and the Congress have agreed to share the president and vice president posts between them. Chellanam Twenty20 member from Ward 8, K.L. Joseph, has been chosen as the president candidate, while the Congress is likely to split the term of vice president between its two elected women members Gracy Justin and Anila Sebastian. “Though we had approached them in the past for a common front against the LDF, the Chellanam Twenty20 turned us down then. This time though the initiative has come from them. The outfit here has nothing to do with the namesake party of Kizhakkambalam,” reasoned Thomas Gregory, Congress mandalam president. Meanwhile, the Chellanam Twenty20 justified joining forces with the UDF alleging discrimination against their wards by the ruling LDF. “Our elected members along with those of the UDF were ignored by the LDF in all administrative matters. Our members were even denied earth-moving equipment in the wake of sea erosion and had to meet the expenses over and above the sanctioned allocations either from their own pockets or through public donations,” said Dileep Joseph, spokesperson, Chellanam Twenty20. Mr. Prasad denied it claiming that the governing committee was going full steam by getting the government to sanction a package for the panchayat and developing it into a model fishing hamlet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-voted-out-as-chellanam-twenty20-and-udf-join-forces/article37102209.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||State yet to get its basics right on tackling natural disasters||Kerala, it appears, has failed to take a leaf out of the two back-to-back floods it had in 2018 and 2019 and the landslides which left a trail of destruction. As it once again reels under the fury of nature, disaster management experts feel the State has not got its basics right when it comes to vulnerability mapping and mitigation measures. While it has geared up its disaster response and rescue mechanisms, Kerala failed to empower and equip its local bodies, as promised, to respond to calamities. The proposal to set up the desired number of rain gauges and weather stations too did not materialise, feel experts. The major lacunae in terms of disaster preparedness, according to S. Sreekumar, former director of the Integrated Rural Technology Centre and member of the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority, is the delay in updating the landslide hazard zonation mapping, promised after the landslides during 2018 and 2019. 1:500 scale map “What we have is the map prepared on the 1:50000 scale some two years ago. We need to update it at least in 1: 5000 scale to evolve accurate mitigation plans. It can use its own resources and expertise to validate the map, which would serve as the base document for any government to evolve plans,” says Dr. Sreekumar. Muralee Thummarukudy, Chief of Disaster Risk Reduction in the UN Environment Programme, urges Kerala to get used to a world of changing climate. “We need to take a radical relook at our land-use planning. We can hope to have a sustained reduction in disaster risks only when we start to plan in a risk-informed manner,” he adds. K. G. Thara, former member, State Disaster Management Authority, and head of the Institute of Land and Disaster Management, too suggests updating the maps at even 1: 2000 scale in high-risk areas so that effective mitigation plans could be drawn up. Mitigation plans Most of the disaster mitigation plans prepared by the local bodies are found to be not actionable ones. Kerala has also failed to evolve long-term mitigation plans as its focus is more on reactions to emergency situations. No local-level and community-specific action plans and capacity-building exercises are taking place, she points out. Green signal The disaster management activities initiated before, during and after an event shall set itself into motion action than waiting for the green signal from a centralised authority. It shall be a decentralised system, she says. On a positive note, an international expert in disaster management, points out that the government has given more responsibility to the local agencies for disaster management and every local body has been asked to prepare disaster management plans. It has also reinvigorated the civil defence systems by training more people, he says. However, the Rebuild Kerala initiative has been too slow in implementation. There is no conscious effort to increase risk awareness in the community. High flood marks The suggestion to mark high flood marks in the State, at least in government buildings and schools, has been mostly ignored. A number of suggestions on land-use changes based on disaster risk was proposed during the post-disaster period. However, it has not been implemented, he points out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-yet-to-get-its-basics-right-on-tackling-natural-disasters/article37102064.ece
21 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Capturing the horrors of Nazi camp, sans judgement||The photography exhibition, ‘Yours is Not to Reason Why’ by Sudheesh Yezhuvath, on at Durbar Hall Art Gallery since October 16, is based on a trip he made to Auschwitz in 2018. The images offer a glimpse of the horrors of the infamous Nazi concentration-turned-extermination camp. The exhibition has been curated by visual artist Murali Cheeroth and Jayaraj Sundaresan, who teaches at the London School of Economics. The photographs show what many of us would have only read in books or seen on reel — films and documentaries. Bengaluru-based IT entrepreneur Yezhuvath confesses he did not intend to exhibit the photographs. They were to be part of his personal collection. Close friend Murali Cheeroth, however, convinced him otherwise. “There was conscious art behind each image, Sudheesh got the clear essence [the enormity of what he was faced with] in the picture,” Cheeroth says. The 75-odd frames show unsettling, serene, almost picnic-spot-like well-preserved spaces. Even debris of buildings destroyed by fleeing Nazis has been preserved to give a sense of what life was like at these horror camps where 1.1 million people were killed. As he walked through the camp — the barracks, the gas chamber, the crematorium — a few questions nagged Yezhuvath. “How could a people become so cruel? How could a people have supported such an atrocity? How could a whole nation be brainwashed to support the bigotry of a few? I think these are very important questions and these questions need to be reflected upon by people of various countries even now. This is what we have to be aware of when we see people’s minds being filled with hate for the ‘other’.” Along with the exhibition, which concludes on October 29, a series of associated programmes are also being held. Artists’ cinema by artists such as Riyas Komu, Gigi Scaria, Radha Gomaty, Sumedh Rajendran and Murali Cheeroth is screened daily at the venue. On October 23, a poetry session ‘Athijeevanathinte Kavitha’ will be held; participants will include K.G. Sankarapillai, P.P. Ramachandran, Rafeeque Ahammed, Anvar Ali, V.M. Girija, P. Raman, P.N. Gopikrishnan, Serina and S. Kalesh. Sunil P. Ilayidom will deliver a talk on October 24. Films that will be screened include Moloch (October 25), Fear Eats the Soul (October 26), and Hitler’s Children (October 27).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capturing-the-horrors-of-nazi-camp-sans-judgement/article37102199.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Flood threat recedes, but vigil continues in Ernakulam||The overall weather situation remained normal in Ernakulam district on Wednesday despite light rainfall reported from parts of the district in the evening. The flood threat in Aluva following the opening of shutters at Cheruthoni and Edamalayar dams faded in the morning, as there was no considerable increase in water level in the Periyar. No major incidents affecting normal life were reported from the district though light rainfall was recorded in Aluva, Kothamangalam and Kochi taluks after 5 p.m. However, it was a cloudy sky with thunder and lightning in parts of Kanayannur, Muvattupuzha, Kunnathunad and Paravur taluks. There was no major incident of flooding or rain-related incidents in areas under the Kochi Corporation, according to reports from the control room opened by the civic body. People living in hilly regions and landslide-prone areas in the district were reluctant to move out of their homes to safer locations, as they cited lack of rains in the morning hours. Officials of Revenue and police departments had a tough time convincing them of the need to shift to nearby camps as a safety measure. “People were asking us why they should venture out of their homes when there was no rain. They were not ready to even move to a nearby church where two halls have been earmarked for those coming from landslide-prone regions,” said a senior Revenue official at Aluva who had reached Ayampuzha on Wednesday morning. Collector’s order District Collector Jafar Malik had issued an order asking the tahsildars concerned to shift people living in as many as 43 landslide-prone regions to safer locations in view of heavy rains predicted by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) till Sunday. The landslide-prone villages were identified based on reports prepared by the Geological Survey of India and the State Disaster Management Authority. The Collector had directed officials of Revenue, police and Local Self-Government departments to compulsorily ensure the relocation of people residing in such areas to safer places. A senior Revenue Department official at Kothamangalam too reported resentment among people in vulnerable locations, including Neriamangalam and Kothamangalam, to shift to safer areas. Officials were in a fix over the question of forcefully shifting families to safer locations, as they feared it might lead to tense situations. Two teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in vulnerable locations in the district. The district administration said the vigil against a possible spike in rainfall would continue, as some regions were expected to receive heavy rainfall till Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flood-threat-recedes-but-vigil-continues/article37102136.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No whistleblower yet on child marriages||More than a year-and-a-half since the Woman and Child Development Department announced a cash reward for reporting child marriage, not a single claim has been made in Ernakulam district. It was in March last year that the department announced a cash reward of Rs. 2,500 to whistleblowers reporting child marriage under the Ponvakku project. An email id was publicised to share information, and details of informers were to be kept confidential. Based on the report, the department was to initiate an inquiry by child marriage prohibition officers. But not a single mail has been received till date. That being the case, the department does not take it as a vindication of having eradicated the social evil completely but just that it may not be getting reported. However, instances of child marriage are relatively low in the district, it is being observed. People in the neighbourhood who may be aware of child marriages in their locality may be reluctant to report them considering that they end up facing the ire of the families concerned. That was why a confidential system was evolved for reporting them. “School teachers used to be the primary informers on any potential child marriage on account of their connection with the students. But that avenue was affected, as schools remain closed due to the pandemic,” said Premna Manoj Shankar, District Woman and Child Development Officer. The pandemic also affected the effective publicising of the programme, which also hampered its impact. The Woman and Child Development Department had organised a novel programme on the International Day of the Girl Child earlier this month to alleviate this shortcoming. “We staged Chakiyar Koothu performances in public spaces to create better awareness about the programme during the Girl Child Day,” said Ms. Shankar. The department has also tied up with St. Teresa’s College, Ernakulam, to create short videos on the programme and circulate them on social media. Also, efforts are being made to take the programme through the department’s diverse networks. District child protection sources said child marriages might still be taking place in tribal belts like Kuttampuzha where they are held as part of custom. “There have been instances where such marriages were stopped by our timely intervention. We are also conducting awareness programmes in tribal belts in coordination with the Scheduled Tribe Welfare Department,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-whistleblower-yet-on-child-marriages/article37102212.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Expert calls for regional land-use planning||Land-use zoning regulations should be implemented in phases by prioritising the most vulnerable districts and sectors in the State to reduce the risk of landslides, according to Saibal Ghosh, Director (Geology), Geohazard Research and Management Centre, Geological Survey of India (GSI). “Regional land-use planning can be started immediately with the available macro-scale landslide geodatabase. In each district, all critical sectors for mesoscale (1:10,000) landslide susceptibility and hazard mapping and critical landslides for site-specific remediation need to be identified for planning and prioritising landslide remediation, mitigation, and management work,” he told The Hindu in an e-mail interview. Suggesting that some pilot districts could be identified first to take up comprehensive landslide mitigation and management, Dr. Ghosh says a comprehensive mitigation strategy for those districts be planned and implemented by taking into account all available scientific data and information. “If new data are to be generated, the same may be prioritised for use; arrangement for exclusive funding for such mitigation tasks be made beforehand in a DPR (detailed project report) mode; execution of mitigation work also needs to be monitored closely by an expert group. The identified pilot district be made a model one for implementing comprehensive landslide mitigation and management tasks,” he says. Early warning systems Dr. Ghosh suggests simultaneous implementation of regional rainfall threshold-based landslide early warning systems and site-specific landslide early warning systems using in-situ instruments for a few critical landslides in the pilot district. “Any relevant endeavour for landslide disaster risk reduction (DRR) requires the involvement of the community right from the planning stage. Therefore, any measures to be implemented should be designed and executed by involving local stakeholders and the community from the very beginning so that their understanding of landslide risks, their capacity, and resilience are improved altogether to achieve a suitable landslide DRR (disaster risk reduction) in that area,” he says. Dr. Ghosh says the GSI has completed a macro scale (1:50,000) landslide susceptibility mapping in 2020 for the entire landslide-prone areas of 19,300 sq km. in parts of 13 districts of Kerala. “While preparing the landslide susceptibility map, the GSI has also collected field-based data of 1,395 numbers of landslide incidence. The above spatial geoinformation on a 1:50,000 scale can be used for regional planning purposes of land-use zoning regulations,” he says. Full interview: https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/regional-land-use-planning-can-be-started-in-kerala-reduce-the-risk-of-landslides-gsi-geology-director/article37085923.ece||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expert-calls-for-regional-land-use-planning/article37102056.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A resource centre on alert against rain fury||Puthenvelikkara grama panchayat in North Paravur, one of the worst affected in the 2018 deluge, was staring at a potential flood on the morning of October 12 after the water level in the Chalakudy river rose alarmingly after sluice gates of three dams — Parambikulam, Sholayar, and Peringalkuthu — were opened almost simultaneously. That half of the shutters of the Kanakkankadavu regulator-cum-bridge was still remaining closed added to the crisis. Seized of the danger, the Puthenvelikkara Community Resource Centre (CRC) immediately alerted the authorities concerned about the need for immediately opening the shutters. Consent was given though no official from the Irrigation Department was present to oversee it, and a 62-year-old fisherman, A.R. Sundaran, in the neighbourhood opened the shutters much to the relief of the people. It was one of the many instances in which the alertness of CRC, a community-driven flood mitigation system, has come in handy during the unpredictable rains since the deluge when Puthenvelikkara along the confluent point of the Chalakudy-Periyar rivers literally sank in the stormwaters. “CRC has been operational for the last couple of years though it was officially inaugurated only in August this year. We have set up rain gauges at 27 points along the Chalakudy river basin and equipped the local population to measure it daily at 8.30 a.m. and share it over a WhatsApp group. During heavy rains and surge in river water level, we gauge it more frequently and are in constant contact with the District Disaster Management Authority,” said P.N. Maya, secretary, CRC. Water release The panchayat was keeping its fingers crossed when water was released from Idamalayar and Cheruthoni dams on Tuesday morning. “The authorities erred about the time by which water from the Cheruthoni dam was expected to reach our area. “That it eventually reached much later after midnight when low tide was in progress saved the low-lying areas of Puthenvelikkara and Kunnukara panchayat from potential flooding. Had it reached much earlier, as was told during the time of high tide, it would have posed problems,” said M.P. Shajan, vice president, CRC. CRC maintains that the timing of high and low tides in vulnerable areas should also be taken into consideration while releasing water from dams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-resource-centre-on-alert-against-rain-fury/article37102207.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man stabbed multiple times||A man was violently stabbed multiple times during an altercation near Kaloor bus stand here on Wednesday around 7 a.m. The victim, identified as Akhil, 24, of Ambalamedu, was a member of the Haritha Karma Sena deployed by the Kochi Corporation to collect waste from households. He was on his daily rounds when he was confronted by the accused who could only be identified as Ashique. “An altercation from the previous night seems to have led to the stabbing. The accused has no permanent residence in the city and is reportedly from Palakkad. He used to work in an abattoir at the Kathrikadavu market till a few weeks ago before being asked to leave. We suspect him to be of an unstable mind,” North police sources said. CCTV footage The police have no idea where he works now and suspect that he used to live in the street. They have registered a case for attempt to murder. That the accused has no residence and does not even seem to use a mobile phone have made it tough for the police to track him down. They are also examining CCTV footage. According to eyewitness account, the assaulter had fled the scene with the victim collapsed on the ground. The police team, which reached the scene, rushed him to a private hospital where his condition remains very serious. “He has multiple stab wounds to his chest, hands, behind the thighs, and on the head. He was subjected to an emergency thoracotomy surgery, an open chest procedure,” hospital sources said. The wound on the chest was really deep and had stopped just millimetres away from the heart. He also seems to have ruptured his lungs,” said the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-stabbed-multiple-times-after-altercation/article37102130.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC moved against use of homoeo medicine||A writ petition was filed in the Kerala High Court on Wednesday against the State Government decision to distribute homoeopathic drug Arsenicum Album 30CH (“Ars. Alb. 30”) among school students as a preventive medicine against COVID-19. The petition was filed by Cyriac Abby Philips, a specialist in haepatology and liver transplant medicine in Kochi. According to him, Arsenic was “ranked first among toxicants posing a significant potential threat to human health.” The metalloid was a known carcinogen and “there is overwhelming evidence that indicates exposure to even low quantities of Arsenic can cause liver damage and impair neurological function.” Research studies revealed that exposure to Arsenic, even in low doses, also caused cognitive and neurological dysfunction in children, he said. No reliable clinical data were available in favour of the use of the drug. Ignoring all available evidence about the toxicity and adverse effect of Arsenic , the State was going to commence the first phase of distribution of Ars. Alb. 30 among schoolchildren from October 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-moved-against-use-of-homoeo-medicine/article37102058.ece
21 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Monson case: CB quizzes press club secretary||The Crime Branch probing cases against self-styled antique dealer Monson Mavunkal on Wednesday recorded the statement of the Ernakulam Press Club secretary. He was asked to appear before investigators following reports that Monson had funded a part of expenses for an annual event organised by the press club. He was reportedly quizzed about transactions in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monson-case-cb-quizzes-press-club-secretary/article37102203.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Arrested for firing airgun||The Ernakulam South police arrested a man on the charge of firing an airgun at and assaulting another man over an alleged dispute over a drug deal. Jewel James, 20, of Kothamangalam is accused of firing an airgun at and manhandling one Shelton, 27, of Muvattupuzha, allegedly for not honouring a promise to deliver a psychedelic drug that goes by the name ‘magic mushroom’ despite taking an advance. The accused stands charged with IPC 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide). The incident occurred near the Central Park at Panampilly Nagar around 12.30 p.m. “The two had met in Kodaikanal a few months ago when Shelton reportedly gave the accused the drug. The accused got hooked and gave him an advance for delivering the drug,” said police sources. However, the petitioner reportedly went incommunicado thereafter. The accused then trapped him by chatting him up in the guise of a woman on social media and fixed a meeting at the park where the confrontation took place. Though he had fired the airgun, the pellet seems to have missed the victim. However, the accused allegedly assaulted the victim leaving him injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/20-year-old-arrested-for-firing-airgun-amid-confrontation/article37102139.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Driver killed as car rams metro pillar||A youth was killed after his car rammed a metro pillar near Kalamassery on Wednesday around 3 a.m. The deceased was identified as Shahid, 24, of Edavanna in Malappuram. A cab driver, he was on his way back from Aluva to Kakkanad, the police said. Though he was rushed to hospital, he was declared brought dead. He was reportedly working for a travel agency in Kochi and was returning after dropping the staff of a company at the time of the accident. The police suspect that he might have dozed off, as the area has enough street lights, ruling out lack of visibility as the potential reason for the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/driver-killed-as-car-rams-metro-pillar/article37102137.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Priest held for abusing minor||The Ernakulam Rural District Crime Branch arrested a priest who was accused of sexually abusing a minor girl. The arrested is Sibi Varghese, 32, of Varapuzha. He was a co-vicar at a church in Kochi. He had been hiding in various States. A team led by district Crime Branch DySP V. Rajeev made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/priest-held-for-abusing-minor/article37102138.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||One more arrested in gold theft case||The Chengamanad police arrested one more person in connection with the theft of cash and gold ornaments from a doctor’s house back in February, 2019. The arrested is Bhagavathi, 47, from Theni in Tamil Nadu. He was nabbed from Kodungalloor in Thrissur. The police had already arrested co-accused Sundararaj and Jaison. They are charged with forcing their way into the house and stealing 57 sovereigns of gold ornaments, a diamond necklace worth around Rs. 1.50 lakh, and Rs. 79,000 after threatening to kill the doctor’s wife. They were were nabbed by a squad formed by the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). A team led by Inspector S.M. Pradeep Kumar, Sub Inspector P.J. Kuriakose, and Assistant SIs Sinu Mon and K.U. Shine made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1-more-held-in-gold-theft-case/article37102131.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,012 new COVID cases in Ernakulam||As many as 2,012 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. A total of 1,980 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection was not ascertained in 21 cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 13.25%. The regions that reported positive cases above 40 included Kalamassery (68), Thrikkakara (65), Karumaloor (53), Kottuvally (50), Thirumaradi (50), Puthenvelikkara (48), Thripunithura (47), Pallipuram (46), Piravam (46), and Amballoor (42). Some places that had fewer than five cases were Eloor, Palakuzha, Edakochi, Mulavukad, Elamkulam, Chalikavattom, Thevara, Ayappankavu, Elanji, Kumbalanghi, and Nellikuzhi, according to an official release. The number of active cases in the district was 11, 963 as on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2012-new-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article37102211.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Consumer law: HC seeks Govt. response||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday sought the response of the State Government to a plea for providing adequate number of staff and setting up mediation cells at the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission and district consumer disputes redressal forums. The Bench sought the response on a writ petition filed by C.K. Mithran from Kollam. According to him, the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act mandated State Governments to determinate categories of officers and other staff for assisting the State commission and district forums and provide them to the commission and the forums. However, the Kerala Government had not yet appointed sufficient number of staff for both. Besides, the Government was yet to set up consumer mediation cells with sufficient supporting staff at the State commission and district forums as mandated by Section 79 of the Act. The State commission and other district forums did not entertain execution petitions because of the lack of supporting staff such as Amin. In fact, the State Government was yet to fully implement the provisions of the Act. The inaction of the Government had affected the rights of consumers and their rights to access justice, the petitioner added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consumer-law-hc-seeks-govt-response/article37102057.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New HC judges sworn in||;Four new High Court Judges were sworn in on Wednesday by Chief Justice S. Manikumar. The newly sworn-in additional judges are Justices C. Jayachandran, Sophy Thomas, P. G. Ajithkumar and C.S. Sudha. With their swearing-in, the total strength of the judges in the Kerala High Court has gone up to 41 and the number of women judges to six.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-hc-judges-sworn-in/article37102059.ece
21 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Schools in Kollam get ready for reopening||Schools in Kollam district are gearing up to receive students after a long pandemic-induced break. Clean-up drives being carried out in schools are in the final stages and COVID-19 protocol will be strictly followed on the school premises as well as nearby roads after the reopening. Officials from the General Education Department had been visiting schools in Kollam to evaluate the fitness of buildings and progress of sanitation works. They also assessed the arrangements made for providing mid-day meals to students. "The department has instructed school officials who have failed to submit fitness certificate to appear immediately," said Subin Paul, deputy director of education. As per the new guidelines, only two students will be allowed on each bench. In strict compliance with the COVID-19 protocol, students will be asked to sanitise their hands and undergo thermal scanning before entering classrooms. Disinfection The department has also taken steps to provide facilities to maintain physical distancing and ensure availability of masks. In most schools, classrooms have been disinfected under the guidance of teachers and non-teaching staff. Apart from the required amenities, posters to spread awareness about the pandemic will also be displayed after the reopening.  COVID-19 protocol will be followed on the school premises and nearby roads after the reopening||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schools-in-kollam-get-ready-for-reopening/article37102025.ece
21 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||No delay in Perumon-Munroe Thuruthu bridge work: Riyas||Technical issues will be resolved and the Perumon-Munroe Thuruthu bridge will be completed in a time-bound manner, Minister for Tourism and Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. On a visit to evaluate the work progress here on Wednesday, he said the completion of the bridge would be a priority since the area was part of the Biodiversity Circuit connecting various tourist destinations in the district. “A special meeting will be convened to assess the progress of the project and make arrangements for its speedy completion,” the Minister said. At present, the piling work of the 417-metre-long bridge has been completed. The bridge will have 500-metre-long approach roads on both sides. A 7.5-metre-wide carriage and a 1.5-metre-wide footpath will also be constructed as part of the project.  Ferry services The construction work of the 42.5-crore bridge, a long-standing demand of the local residents, started in November 2020. Currently, the residents of Munroe Thuruthu and Panayam mainly depend on ferry services to commute and the bridge is expected to solve their travel woes. With the completion of the bridge, the distance from Kollam to Munroe Thuruthu will be reduced by 10 km. Since the bridge is coming up in environmentally important places such as Munroe Thuruthu and Ashtamudi Lake, construction will be carried out with the help of the most advanced technology. The extradosed bridges has 11 spans and it will have a design that gels with the visual beauty of the Ashtamudi Lake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-delay-in-perumon-munroe-thuruthu-bridge-work-riyas/article37102035.ece
21 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam district braces for heavy rain||With the India Meteorological Department issuing a heavy rainfall alert, the district administration has made elaborate arrangements to deal with any possible emergencies. “More relief camps will be opened as needed. The camps are being set up in view of the COVID-19 situation and washroom facilities will be ensured for those in home quarantine. A list of such centres has been prepared. Those in high-risk areas will be asked to move to the camps and local bodies will be in charge of coordinating the activities,” said District Collector Afsana Parveen here on Wednesday. The camp management committee will have male and female representatives, ward members and officials. Community kitchen will be set up with the help of camp members or through voluntary organisations. Provisions and cooking gas will be made available through the supply office. Drinking water and electricity will be provided by the respective departments without any disruptions. Suchitwa Mission, in collaboration with the local body concerned, will ensure cleanliness and hygiene. The district administration has also deployed health workers for COVID-19 testing and monitoring. While details of the camp members will be added to the relief portal, daily meetings will be held to ensure the smooth functioning of the camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-district-braces-for-heavy-rain/article37102038.ece
21 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam logs 846 cases||Kollam reported 846 new cases of COVID-19 and 470 recoveries on Wednesday. While 834 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include two NRIs and 10 health workers. At present the district has 17,327 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 24,98,601. While 2,082 completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 3,93,728 primary and 21,274 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 13.3 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-logs-846-cases/article37102040.ece
21 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Heavy rain, lightning wreak havoc in rural areas of Kozhikode||Heavy rain and lightning caused widespread destruction in the rural areas of Kozhikode on Wednesday. Stormwater entered many shops in Thiruvambady town causing huge loss to traders. The area remained waterlogged for hours, preventing traders from shifting stocks to safer places. Lightning struck many coconut trees in Kodiyathur grama panchayat. Costly home appliances were damaged and power supply was interrupted in villages. The compound wall of the Aanayamkunnu GLP School collapsed onto a nearby house following heavy rain. No one sustained injuries in the incident. Water level rose to dangerous levels in all rural rivers prompting the Revenue Department to adopt relief measures. Waterlogged roads interrupted traffic in many villages. Revenue Department officials said all arrangements were in place in the environmentally sensitive areas of Kozhikode district to mitigate the impact of rain-related calamities. Local rescue teams controlled by various service organisations would also extend their support for relief activities, they said. As an additional precautionary measure, instant messaging groups exclusively for the purpose of coordinating rescue requirements were created under the leadership of taluk-level rescue squads. According to officials, the groups will ensure the quick exchange of emergency messages with rescue squads. They would also work as virtual control rooms apart from the taluk-level helplines, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-lightning-wreak-havoc-in-rural-areas-of-kozhikode/article37101999.ece
21 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Disaster management plan for three districts still in cold storage||An initiative of the Indian Institute of Architects, the Department of Town and Country Planning, and the National Institute of Technology-Calicut to mitigate natural calamities in Kozhikode, Malappuram and Wayanad districts against the background of the massive floods of 2018 still remains in cold storage. The comprehensive report titled ‘Post Disaster Assessment of Great Flood of 2018’ had suggested that statutory bodies should examine the plan of the buildings at identified vulnerable zones before the construction stage itself. The study conducted based on the guidelines of the United Nations Post Disaster Needs Assessment found that about 90% of the affected areas were in the regions where the slope of the hill was above 50 degrees. When the calamity and its effects were at peak, 41,565 persons were relocated in 297 relief camps in Kozhikode district while 55,413 people had to be shifted to 237 camps in Malappuram district. A total of 247 landslips occurred in Wayanad district. Suggestions Over 5,000 people from Licensed Engineers and Supervisors Federation, Registered Engineers and Supervisors in Kerala, National Service Scheme and several non-governmental organisations volunteered to collect data to study the reasons for the calamity and provide steps to prevent flooding in these three districts. Incorporating no-development zones in strategies on land use in existing ecologically sensitive and coastal regulation zones and removing vegetation in and around rivers were some of the suggestions. Also, each zone should be identified, marking them as high vulnerable zones (red), moderate vulnerable zones (orange), and mild vulnerable zones (yellow). Besides, the report recommended expansion of channel size, dams, levee bank and catchment and clearing all works that have degraded hill slopes, rivers and floodplains. The report suggested that local bodies carry out tree pruning and desilting of drains before the monsoon since areas that have been highly modified by human activity tend to suffer deleterious effects from flooding. The study found that economically constrained groups were mostly affected due to floods in these regions. Over 60% of the damaged houses were reinforced concrete structures and 30% were traditionally built tiled roof structures. This was attributed to the owners using different types of construction materials rather than depending on locally available resources. The report had suggested power back systems at the local levels and the introduction of solar units as an alternative in the case of power outages. Rejuvenation of existing paddy fields and relooking at the use of agricultural land were recommended for rebuilding the agriculture sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/disaster-management-plan-for-three-districts-still-in-cold-storage/article37102001.ece
21 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Corpn. council adopts green protocol for Kozhikode||A meeting of the Kozhikode Corporation Council on Wednesday approved the final draft of the sanitation guidelines in connection with the ‘People’s mission to make Kozhikode green and beautiful’. Previously, the council had unanimously adopted a hygiene protocol and action plans. The final draft was approved after detailed discussions and soliciting public opinion. The meeting chaired by Mayor Beena Philip on Wednesday afternoon also decided to increase the number of sectors from 33 to 51. However, the protocol will be implemented after government approval. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is expected to announce the plan in November. In the first phase, the protocol will be implemented in various areas within three years. To implement the guidelines, the maiden meeting of the corporation-level committee, to be chaired by the Mayor, will be convened on Thursday. It was also decided that the ward-level committees chaired by councillors would be formed before October 25. Also, technical committees will be constituted by November. Some projects targeted by the protocol are houses and institutions, which will be graded in terms of cleanliness. All existing toilets will be functional within two months. A door-to-door waste collection process will be implemented within six months. The Conolly canal, named after the former Collector of Malabar, Henry Valentine Conolly, will be cleaned. A master plan will be prepared within a year for the drainage system, and an incinerator will be set up. The others projects include the establishment of a slaughterhouse within three years, upgrading of fish markets in two years, and the implementation of a special theme and design for roadside eateries (Thattukada) in two years. Explaining the guidelines, health standing committee chairperson S. Jayasree said cleanliness should become a habit of the city. On September 15, she had tabled in the council the draft protocol aimed at implementing an action plans. Leader of the Opposition in the council and Congress member K.C. Shobitha demanded the constitution of a special team to take action against those who litter garbage in public places as and pollute beaches and lakes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-council-adopts-green-protocol-for-kozhikode/article37101993.ece
21 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Panel submits S.M. Street fire audit report||The fire audit report prepared by the Special Branch with fresh suggestions to address the existing safety issues at S.M. Street has been submitted to the District Police Chief (Kozhikode city) for immediate follow-up action. The report, which was prepared by Assistant Commissioner A. Umesh after conducting a field-study, has the details of all shops and its owners who have violated building rules. A copy of the comprehensive report will be submitted to the District Collector and district-level officers concerned. Heads of various departments are expected to summon the violators soon. “Our main intention is to make the area safe for both customers and those who work at shops. The traders in the area have the responsibility to ensure it at any cost,” says Mr. Umesh who carried out the several week-long study. According to him, building rule violations and ignorance of fire safety rules should be addressed in the first phase. One of the findings related to the cause of frequent fires is the dangerous practice of cooking food inside congested shops. Many migrant labourers and casual workers in the area are reportedly following the practice without taking any precautionary measures. Though self-cooking is not permitted in the area for safety reasons, many shop owners are reportedly facilitating it citing their workers’ need to save money. The poor quality of electrical wiring and equipment is cited as another reason. Apart from building rule violations, the attempt of some of the traders to store huge quantities of goods, including hazardous materials, violating storage rules has also been mentioned in the report. The plan of the police is to take stringent action after issuing direct warning to the shop owners concerned for the rectification of safety issues. Based on the District Collector’s response to the report, the building owners concerned will be asked to meet the District Police Chief to finalise the deadline for corrective measures. Those failing to execute the emergency works on time are likely to be charged under various sections of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sm-street-fire-audit-report-submitted-to-police-chief/article37101995.ece
21 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Families living in landslip-prone areas being shifted to camps||Responding to the rough weather alert, the District Level Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has deputed village officers in 28 select locations in Kozhikode district to arrange the required number of local relief camps and shift people who live in landslip-prone areas. Legal action will be initiated against those who do not cooperate with the temporary arrangement. The majority of those to be shifted to relief camps by Thursday noon are from Kumaranallur village and Kodiyathur panchayat. Families living close to isolated hilly areas, where landslips caused huge damage in previous years, will also be shifted. The facilities temporarily arranged in villages will be opened within an hour after getting the distress signal. Emergency vehicles and other rescue equipment are available with regional rescue teams for meeting unexpected situations. The secretaries of grama panchayats will also work as team members with the revenue squad. They will be mainly responsible for helping rescue operators with emergency service vehicles and rescue accessories. Revenue Department officials said many families living in vulnerable areas were shifted on Wednesday itself following the directive of the DDMA. They would be allowed to stay in camps till the withdrawal of the yellow alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/families-living-in-landslip-prone-areas-being-shifted-to-camps/article37101996.ece
21 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||996 new COVID cases||The police on Wednesday registered 50 cases of COVID-19 protocol violation. A majority of the cases pertained to violation of social distancing norms and reluctance to wear masks. Meanwhile, the Health Department confirmed 996 new COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/996-new-covid-cases/article37102000.ece
21 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||More seats in Calicut varsity||More seats will be added to the existing undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses in government and aided colleges affiliated to the University of Calicut this year. It will be based on requests from those institutions and the facilities being provided there. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the university’s Syndicate on Wednesday. Colleges which became functional last year too will be benefited by this. If there are vacant seats reserved for differently abled persons, sportspersons, residents of Lakshadweep, and those from economically weaker sections, they will be converted and allotted to other students five days after the closing of admissions process. But it will require the university’s sanction. Widespread complaints The decision to increase seats follows widespread complaints that many students were unable to get the courses and colleges of their choice even after scoring high marks in Plus Two exams and the government approving a 20% increase in the number of seats. At the same time, unaided colleges, where the fee is comparatively high, had a large number of unclaimed seats as well. The Syndicate also decided to seek explanation from unaided colleges which fail to fill 50% of their merit seats. This is in view of many merit seats lying vacant in such institutions last year and this year. The practice of starting new courses, stopping them temporarily citing various reasons, and restarting them again will be subject to the approval of a district-level monitoring committee. The Syndicate decided to set up cash counters at Pareeksha Bhavan from October 25, following demand from students. More staff will be deployed for Suvega, the digital students’ service centre of the university, which will be operational from November 1. A new section will be set up at Pareeksha Bhavan to expedite the setting up of question papers. Charge memo G. Radhakrishna Pillai of the Department of Life Sciences will be served a charge memo, as he has been accused of maintaining a UK citizenship. A legal panel of the Syndicate will examine all future statements to be submitted in courts for cases in which the university has been impleaded. It was pointed out that the university was losing its arguments in courts because of faulty statements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-seats-for-ug-pg-courses-in-calicut-varsity/article37101992.ece
21 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Four youths held on rape charges||The Kozhikode rural police on Wednesday arrested four youths who allegedly raped a 17-year-old girl after taking her to an ecotourism centre in the district. Sayooj Thekkeparambath, 24, Shibu Parachalil, 32, Rahul Thaminjal, 22, and Akshay Paloli, 22, were nabbed by a police team from the Thottilpalam station. The youths hailing from Kayakkodi and Kuttiyadi were charged under Section 376 (punishment for rape) and various other sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). They would be taken to the POCSO court on completion of interrogation and medical examination. According to police sources, one of the accused youths was in love with the girl and he allegedly took her to the ecotourism spot. Others were their mutual friends who joined the two later and allegedly exploited her. The incident of gang rape took place on October 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-youths-held-under-pocso-act/article37101997.ece
21 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More street vendors to take e-payments||The Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation has begun digital onboarding of street vendors to equip them to accept digital payments using UPI QR codes. As many as 650 of the city’s street vendors have been provided training till now as part of this. Since around 50% of the street vendors do not use smartphones, they are being provided a system which enables accepting of digital payments in their accounts even with a regular phone, with SMS notifications. According to an official of the National Urban Livelihoods Mission at the Corporation, loans have been provided under the Union Government’s scheme to more than 1,000 street vendors till now, with the city becoming the first local body in the State to achieve that number. Till now, loans of Rs. 10,000 have been provided to 1,000 street vendors and loans of Rs. 20,000 to 240 street vendors. The digital onboarding is now being rolled out for the street vendors who are beneficiaries of these loans, to improve their basic infrastructure. Banks’ rejection “One of the issues we are facing is that many banks are rejecting the loan applications based on CIBIL scores. But Finance Ministry officials had made it clear that in this case CIBIL scores should not be considered. Till now, applications from 458 street vendors in the city have been rejected,” said an official. The Corporation organised a 12-day camp for the 650 street vendors who were digitally onboarded. They were provided sessions on the benefits of digital payment, its security aspects and the cost- saving through the implementation of the scheme. A special cash-back system is also being implemented for the street vendors to promote the system. Street vendors selling food items, fruits and other items have signed up for the loan schemes and digital onboarding. A majority of the smartphone users among the street vendors are the relatively young vendors who have taken it up in the past two years, especially after the COVID-19 outbreak, which led to job losses across several sectors. According to the officials, some of the vendors call them up with doubts on using the online payment system. Houses for vendors The Corporation is also planning to provide houses to the homeless street vendors under the LIFE project. As per a quick survey conducted by the officials here, 25% of the street vendors do not have a house of their own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-street-vendors-in-capital-gear-up-to-accept-e-payments/article37102028.ece
21 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vibrant online platform for kids winds up||‘Kuttikalude Charchavedi,’ an online collective formed by four schoolgirls during the pandemic last year, has brought down the curtain on its activities with a podcast on a translation of Anton Chekhov’s ‘The Bet’ in the voices of students. The target is to have podcasts by 100 students on the Malayalam translation of the work by V.R. Santhosh, says Abhirami S., one of the girls behind the initiative. The collective has brought out as an e-book of the work, using free software, as well as an audiobook. Pandemic impact Like other children, Abhirami and her friends Devika Santhosh, Gouri Priya P.S., and Asna S.N., then class 10 students of Government Tribal High School, Meenankal, were stuck at home last year. Bored, unable to meet each other, the close friends reminisced about their school life, the discussions during the school mid-day meals, and wondered if they could be revived online. The girls started holding online discussions. On the suggestion of a former teacher, they decided to open up the platform to other children too. Their initiative received support from teachers and parents, and in the month of Chingam in 2020, the platform was formally launched by Asna with a talk on lockdown experiences. With the support of their teachers, guests such as Anvar Ali, P.K. Rajasekharan, Anitha Thampi, Biju Longhinos, E.A. Antony, S. Gopalakrishnan, Anjali Rajan, S.D. Biji, K.K. Krishnakumar, Vijayakumar Blathur, and S.L. Sanjeev Kumar spoke on topics ranging from Basheer and poetry to environment, Malayalam computing, and employment. Students from schools in other districts too participated in these discussions. Abhirami says the four friends would discuss what topics or areas they wanted to know more about. Depending on the availability of speakers, the topics were finalised. More than 10 discussions were held over a four-month period. They also held reviews of the discussion to ascertain how these could be improved further. While the podcasts from children are still coming in, Abhirami, who is now in class 11, says the girls have not decided what lies ahead for ‘Kuttikalude Charchavedi.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vibrant-online-platform-for-kids-winds-up/article37101990.ece
21 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Forum to support rain-affected children||Save the Children, a child rights non-governmental organisation, will support 5,000 marginalised families and 10,000 children in Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta districts that have been hit hard in the recent heavy rain in the State. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the organisation said the rain fury had caused floods and landslips, putting children at risk of displacement and loss of home and family. The rising water levels in Kuttanad were leaving hundreds displaced. Children faced a high risk of water-borne diseases such as diarrhoea and conjunctivitis. They were sharing flood shelters with large numbers of unknown people, and this posed a significant risk to them, particularly of abuse and trafficking. “We plan to collaborate with Kudumbashree, as we did in 2018, for on-ground humanitarian response. We have to mobilise local resources for collaborating with Kudumbashree and raising funds for food and shelter, education, WASH (Water, Sanitation and Hygiene), and livelihood. Save the Children intends to reach approximately 10,000 children impacted by the disaster.” Many families had lost everything. Provision of daily essentials for their survival was the need of the hour, besides safety and security. Save the Children was assessing the requirements, for appropriate response, the statement by Santanu, Director, Programme Implementation, Save the Children, India, said.  Initiative in Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forum-to-support-rain-hit-kids/article37102045.ece
21 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assembly mourns victims of rain-triggered calamities||The Assembly on Wednesday condoled the deaths of men, women and children in the rain-induced landslips and floods which ravaged parts of the State. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan called for a united stand in tackling the crisis and extending the much-needed support to the kin of the deceased. While lives lost cannot be replaced, the Government will not abandon the families of the deceased, he said. Given the forecast for heavy rainfall this week, the government is continuously monitoring the weather situation, Mr. Vijayan said and touched upon the steps taken for the controlled release of water from dams in anticipation of increased inflow into reservoirs. The torrential rain that triggered landslips and floods was totally unexpected. Rather than delve into the particulars now, this is the time to offer support to the affected communities and stand by them, he said. Oppn. demand The Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) demanded that the Government examine whether there were lapses or shortcomings in the weather forecast and disaster management mechanisms. The Government should also examine whether the rescue operations were delayed, K. Babu of the Congress, who spoke on behalf of Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan, said. The UDF extended its support to the Government's disaster management efforts. Speaker M.B. Rajesh led the Assembly in condoling the deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assembly-mourns-victims-of-rain-triggered-calamities/article37102061.ece
21 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Signs of COVID being reined in, says CM||One year and nine months after the State began fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, the infection finally looked like it was coming within control, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan claimed here on Wednesday. All indicators that determine the intensity of an ongoing epidemic, including the number of new cases, deaths due to the infection, hospitalisations and serious cases, were down. While the sero survey conducted by the State in September had found an overall sero prevalence of 82% in the State, going by the vaccination coverage and the number of new cases reported from September till now, approximately 85-90% of the State’s adult population would have acquired immunity against COVID-19, Mr. Vijayan said. In children The fact that sero prevalence in children was only about 40%, indicated that the State had succeeded in preventing or limiting disease transmission within households, he said. The State has also come much forward in vaccination against COVID-19, with 94.08% of those above 18 years covered with the first dose of vaccine and 46.5% fully vaccinated. The Chief Minister urged persons who are yet to receive the first dose of vaccine to get vaccinated immediately. Those due for the second dose also should not delay it, he added, so that they get the protection afforded by vaccination. He said that all precautions against COVID-19, including masking, be maintained in all flood relief camps so that disease is not transmitted in camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/signs-of-covid-being-reined-in-says-cm/article37102002.ece
21 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Address learning gaps at schools: Minister||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) should expedite preparation of learning material so that schools can ready their academic master plan keeping in mind the local conditions. Teacher training should also be arranged, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. He was speaking after inaugurating a State-level planning meet of the SCERT’s teacher empowerment programme. The Minister said that learning gaps, if any, should be addressed when children returned to schools. New techniques should be adopted as part of concerted effort to support children academically. Teachers should be supported to implement academic activities in classrooms. Learning material and teacher training should support this. Children who were staying away from academics should be brought back to the classroom. Students who were reaching schools for the first time should also be given attention. It was natural for students staying away from academics for long to have some shortcomings. Projects were needed to identify and address these. Learning material and worksheets suited to this should be provided to schools without delay. Children should be given an idea of academic activities to be taken up in schools next month. The abilities and limitations of each child should be understood to guide them properly, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/address-learning-gaps-at-schools-minister/article37102253.ece
21 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Legal awareness programme begins||Legal awareness programmes are an attempt to touch the lives of the people, Muhammed Nias C.P., judge, High Court of Kerala, has said. He was inaugurating a one-week legal awareness programme ‘LAWOJ 2021’ organised by the Kerala Law Academy Legal Aid Clinic and Services along with the academy’s National Service Scheme, in association with the District Legal Services Authority under the umbrella of the National Legal Services Authority. The programme is intended to train young lawyers to provide legal awareness to society. A quiz will be conducted on the theme ‘Glimpses of Consumer Protection Act, 2019’ and a ‘Talk With a Lawyer’ session held with Narayan Radha Krishnan, senior layer, Consumer Court, on Thursday. A discussion on ‘Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2017’ and a webinar by K.P. Kylasnatha Pillay, lawyer, Supreme Court, will be held on Friday. A webinar by N. Sheshadri Nadan, judge, Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, on 'The View of Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019' will be held on Saturday, and on Monday, a webinar by Shibu Daniel, sub-judge, Principal Sub-Court, on the POCSO Act, 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/legal-awareness-programme-begins/article37102254.ece
21 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State set to institute its own ‘Padma awards’||The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to institute State awards on the lines of the Padma awards presented nationally for exemplary contribution to various fields. The State awards will be titled Kerala Puraskarangal. They will be given away in three categories - ‘Kerala Jyothi,’ ‘Kerala Prabha,’ and ‘Kerala Sree.’ The Kerala Jyothi award will be presented to one individual in a year. The Kerala Prabha award will be given away to two persons, and Kerala Sree to five. Award committee After scrutiny by preliminary and another committee, an award committee will decide the awards. The number of awards and details will be advertised and the General Administration Department will invite nominations in April every year. The awards will be announced on November 1, Kerala Piravi Day. The award distribution function will be held at Raj Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-institute-own-padma-awards/article37101991.ece
21 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State has received excess rain: Rajan||The State has already received over 90% of the quantum of rainfall due to it in the entire northeast (NE) monsoon season during the first 19 days of October, even before the season has officially commenced, Revenue Minister K. Rajan's office said on Wednesday. Citing India Meteorological Department (IMD) data, the Minister's office said the State's normal expectation is 491.6 mm during the NE monsoon season, which constitutes 16.8% of the annual rainfall. During October 1-19, the State recorded 453.5 mm of rainfall, although the ‘normal’ for the 19-day period is 192.7 mm (a 'large excess' of 135%). Apart from Alappuzha, all other districts recorded over 75% excess rainfall during the 19 days. The IMD indicated on Wednesday that the southwest monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country around October 26 and simultaneously the northeast monsoon rains are likely to commence over southeast peninsular India.  IMD indicates that southwest monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country around October 26||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-has-received-excess-rain-minister/article37102029.ece
21 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Animal husbandry reports Rs. 2-cr. loss||The animal husbandry and dairy sectors have reported losses worth Rs. 2 crore in the rain havoc, the Animal Husbandry Department said here on Wednesday on the basis of a preliminary assessment. The losses included 91 head of cattle, 42 goats, 25,032 chickens, 274 cattle sheds, 29 hen coops and cattle feed worth Rs. 5 lakh. Financial assistance will be disbursed to the farmers at the district-level, Minister for Animal Husbandry J. Chinchurani said. The Minister convened a meeting of officials of the Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development departments on Wednesday to assess the damage. Applications Farmers have been directed to file their applications for compensation to the veterinary surgeon at the veterinary hospital concerned or the block-level office of the Dairy Development Department within 10 days.  Financial aid will be disbursed to farmers, says Chinchurani||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/animal-husbandry-reports-loss-of-rs-2-crore/article37102030.ece
21 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District’s farm sector loses Rs. 15 cr. in rain||The farm sector in Thiruvananthapuram district incurred losses to the tune of Rs. 15.31 crore in the rain havoc between October 15 and October 20, the Agriculture Department said on Wednesday, citing a preliminary assessment. Flooding and waterlogging triggered by the heavy rainfall damaged crops in 640 hectares, affecting 5,913 farmers, K.M. Raju, Principal Agriculture Officer, Thiruvananthapuram, said. Banana (259.9 hectares), paddy (192.08 hectares) and vegetable crops (96.03 hectares) suffered the heaviest losses. Tapioca in 69.12 hectares and other tubers in nine hectares were destroyed in the rain. The sustained heavy rainfall over several days also affected arecanut (6.08 hectares), rubber (5.9 hectares), coconut (2.87 hectares), pepper (1.52 hectares) and betel (1.32 hectares). Parassala, Pallichal, and Aryancode blocks reported the highest losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/districts-farm-sector-loses-rs-15-cr-in-rain/article37102255.ece
21 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NTC mills’ employees to stage protest||The employees of the mills run by the National Textile Corporation (NTC), including those of five such mills in Kerala, have decided to launch a nationwide joint protest demanding the reopening of the mills and payment of full wages to the workers. According to union leaders of the Vijayamohini mills here, the decision was taken at a meeting of the Save NTC All India Co-ordination Committee, consisting of all trade unions including the CITU, INTUC, and LPF, held in Coimbatore two days ago. The Vijayamohini mills and four other mills of the NTC in Kerala have remained closed for 19 months, with temporary staff laid off and permanent staff not getting their salaries. The employees have been staging a protest in front of the mills for the past several months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/employees-of-ntc-mills-to-protest/article37102047.ece
21 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assault: trade union leader arrested||The Museum Police on Wednesday arrested a trade union leader on charge of assaulting a representative of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (CREDAI) during a meeting chaired by the District Labour Officer. The accused has been identified as Chala Nasser, a leader of the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC). The meeting, which had representatives from trade unions, was held on Tuesday to discuss the wage revision of headload workers. The trade unions, which initially demanded a 40% hike, offered to settle for a 25% increase. However, the builders remained firm on their stance that they could not afford any hike beyond 5%. According to the police, Mr. Nasser assaulted CREDAI district secretary Arun A. Unnithan at the meeting. A case has been filed against him under Section 308, pertaining to attempt to commit culpable homicide. In protest against the alleged assault, CREDAI and the Builders Association of India (BAI), observed a total shutdown across all construction sites in the district on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assault-trade-union-leader-arrested/article37102260.ece
21 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,700 new cases in district||The district logged 1,700 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday and 1,085 recoveries. The test positivity rate was 15% and the number of active cases stood at 11,032. In all, 43,710 people are in quarantine, including 2,318 people who were added to the list on Wednesday. Decentmukku in Navayikulam panchayat, and Panthuvila and Eetimoodu in Vamanapuram panchayat have been declared as containment zones. Thrikkovilvattam ward in Pangode panchayat has been declared a micro containment zone. The following areas have been excluded from the list of micro containment zones: Office ward (Chinnanvila region) and Maruthoorkonam ward in Kottukal panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1700-new-cases-in-district/article37102262.ece
21 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Orange alert in three districts||Three districts are on orange alert on Thursday, given the possibility of isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. Pathanamthitta, Kottayam and Idukki are on orange alert, while Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall. The State is also bracing for widespread rainfall till October 24 as a cyclonic circulation lies over the south Tamil Nadu coast and its neighbourhood. It is likely to persist over the next two to three days, bringing widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls with thunderstorm and lightning over Kerala. Yellow alert has been issued for Kottayam and Idukki and some of the northern districts till October 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orange-alert-in-three-districts/article37102062.ece
21 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||11,150 more test positive in State||New cases of COVID-19 went up in the State on Wednesday in proportion to an increase in testing. It reported 11,150 new cases of COVID-19 when 94,151 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The active case pool had 82,738 patients on Wednesday, with 8,592 recovering. Only 9.8% of the active cases are currently in hospitals or first-line/second-line treatment centres. The case fatality now stands at 27,084 with the State adding 82 deaths to the toll on Wednesday On Wednesday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 707. On an average, about 25% of the new cases reported daily are those unvaccinated and 30% to 32% are breakthrough infections The cumulative case burden now stands at 48,79,790 cases. Among the districts, Ernakulam had the highest number of new cases at 2,012, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 1,700, Thrissur 1,168, Kozhikode 996, Kottayam 848, Kollam 846, Malappuram 656, Alappuzha 625, Kannur 531, Idukki 439, Pathanamthitta 427, Palakkad 415, Wayanad 328, and Kasaragod 159.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11150-more-test-positive-in-state/article37102066.ece
21 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vigilance probe sought into Coir dept. units||Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala has demanded an anti-corruption inquiry into various corporations and public sector units under the Coir Department. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Mr. Chennithala said Coirfed, Foam Mattings India, and Kerala State Coir Machinery and Manufacturing Company were prime examples of public sector corruption. He said that nepotism, backdoor appointment and corruption ruled the roost in these units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigilance-probe-sought-into-coir-dept-units/article37102043.ece
21 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||After two years, it’s ‘play time’ at akademi||After a long hiatus, theatre performances are back at the Regional Theatre of the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi in Thrissur. The institute is set to host a professional theatre competition starting October 25 where 10 plays will be staged in five days. “The competition for the year 2019, which was postponed due to COVID-19, has been organised between October 25 and 29 this year. Two plays will be staged in a day, at 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. respectively, in adherence to the COVID-19 protocol,” said Prabhakaran Pazhassi, akademi secretary. Entry passes Entry will be restricted through passes. In all, 250 persons will be permitted at a time. Passes will be issued only for those who have taken both doses of COVID-19 vaccine. Passes will be issued from the akademi office free of cost from October 23. Visitors are required to submit vaccination certificates and a copy of Aadhaar card along with the application for issuance of passes. Only one pass each will be issued to a person. Vaccination certificate must be produced along with the pass for entry at the theatre. The 10 plays to be performed were selected from 23 entries. Each team will receive Rs. 1 lakh for the performance. Akademi chairperson KPAC Lalitha will inaugurate the competition at 9.30 a.m on October 25. Akademi vice chairman Xavier Pulpatt will preside. List of plays The event opens with the play Annam by Cochin Chandrakantham. Amma by Kalidasa Kalakendra will be staged at 5 p.m. the same day. The other plays are as follows: October 26 — Ithihasam (Souparnika, Thiruvananthapuram); Kumaranasanum Chandala Bikshukiyum (Kannur Nataka Sangam). October 27: Jeevitha Padam (Samskrithi, Venjarammoodu); Pattupadunna Vellayi (Valluvanadu Brahma). October 28: Bolaraam (Kannur Sanga Chethana); Makkalude Sraddaku (Sanghakeli Pirappankodu). October 29: Marathan (KPAC); Venalavadhi (Kozhikode Sankeerthana). Eight books published as part of the 100 Day, 100 Books project of the akademi will be released during the event inauguration. Writer Asokan Charuvil will release the books. (KPAC); Venalavadhi (Kozhikode Sankeerthana). Eight books published as part of the 100 Day, 100 Books project of the Akademi will be released during the event inauguration. Writer Asokan Charuvil will release the books.  Two plays will be staged in a day, at 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. , in adherence to the COVID-19 protocol. Prabhakaran Pazhassi Akademi secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-play-time-again-at-kerala-sangeetha-nataka-akademi/article37102042.ece
21 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Kasaragod to Kanyakumari on foot with green message||Sarat, an Ayurveda therapist, is walking from Kasaragod to Kanyakumari to spread the message of environmental conservation. His solo mission gains importance at a time when the State is witnessing vagaries of climate change once again. Sarat, who hails from Edappal, started his solo walk from Kasaragod on September 25, before the torrential rain started to cause devastating impact in the State. ‘People yet to act’ “Kerala society knows very well about the need for environmental conservation. We are familiar with natural calamities. Each flood and the scorching summer after it force us to think about the need to protect nature. Other than thoughts and discussions, we are yet to act,” says Sarat, who is an Ayurveda therapist in Hyderabad. “Along with protecting the nature and natural resources, my solo mission aims at rejuvenating the nature, which has suffered much damage due to man’s greed and callousness,” Sarat, who reached Thrissur on Wednesday said. Avoids highways He avoids National Highways and takes small roads for his walk. “What is the use for an awareness walk through the busy Highways, where people don’t have time to listen you. On small roads, I can engage at least a few people with my idea,” he added. He plans to enter Ernakulam from Thrissur through Irinjalakuda. “I have a hidden agenda for taking this route. Innocent and Tovino are my favourite actors. What if I get a chance to meet them during my walk,” he said with a smile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kasaragod-to-kanyakumari-on-foot-with-green-message/article37101983.ece
21 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Ham radio to the rescue of rain-hit Thrissur||Even as the incessant rain and resultant flooding disrupted lives across the central regions of the State, ham radio enthusiasts have quietly swung into action in Thrissur district, setting up their unique work stations to ensure a steady stream of communication in case nature's fury wreaked havoc on conventional systems of contact. The district administration has sought the service of ham radio operators to coordinate disaster relief operations in case the communication system gets cut off due to any rain-related incident. "Communication often turns out to be a major challenge when natural calamities strike. During heavy floods, there are chances that the power supply will be down for days, which affects the communication systems, including mobile phones," says Sarachandran C.S., a former merchant navy officer-turned-ham radio operator. He is one of the 10 operators hired by the Thrissur administration to handle emergency communication in case of any untoward incident. All the operators possess Amateur Station Individual Operator licence issued by the Union Government. All the taluks offices in Thrissur district are currently equipped with radio facilities so that even when all other communication systems are down, emergency services can be contacted and details shared. Handy in 2018 The services of ham radio operators were utilised during the 2018 August deluge when almost the entire State was ravaged. “Power connection was lost in most parts. This affected mobile communication in many places. Our service was sought by the district administration. Over 40 ham radio operators worked and helped at least 2,000 people during the floods that year," says Mr. Sarachandran. From remote places where people are stranded and are unable to communicate with the outer world when their mobile phones don’t work, ham radio operators can track the last location of their phone's signal, based on which they try to locate the person, says another ham operator. They use high frequency signals to connect with other operators. "It is basically an amateur radio set that is used for non-commercial exchange of messages, private recreation, self-training, emergency communication and so on," he says. There are various types of ham radios depending on battery capacity, ranging from 10 W to 60 W. While a 10 W radio set can transmit messages within a range of 10-15 km, the 60W can do that up to 100 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ham-radio-to-the-rescue-of-rain-hit-thrissur/article37101985.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Scholars’ conclave||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scholars-conclave/article37101987.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making hay||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-hay/article37102180.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Scholars’ conclave||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scholars-conclave/article37102133.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A burning issue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-burning-issue/article37102205.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Demand for action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-for-action/article37102257.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Struggle for survival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/struggle-for-survival/article37102264.ece
21 October 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Accident victim blames right-wing activists||Hassan Saab Khureshi, the meat trader whose shop was vandalised allegedly by right-wing activists recently, was injured in a bike accident in Belagavi on Tuesday night. The victims suspect that it is a hit-and-run case and a continuation of the earlier attack. Mr. Khureshi and his wife were travelling on their bike from Belagavi to Yamunapur when another bike rammed into his vehicle from behind. He has been admitted to a hospital, while his wife sustained minor injuries. Right-wing youths allegedly vandalised his chicken shop on October 8, saying he had kept his shop open even on the village jatra day. They tore up the signboard and burnt it, and damaged the door, while raising slogans in praise of the village deity. They also forced him to pay Rs. 2,500 as a fine. Videos of the incident were shared widely on social media. However, the city police did not register a case, saying the victim had not filed a complaint following an advise from his lawyers. Mr. Khureshi, however, has said the police had advised him not to file a complaint. “I listened to the police the first time and did not file the complaint. But now, I have filed a complaint as I suspect that the accident was a case of hit and run,” he said on Wednesday. Belagavi North traffic police have registered a case. Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan said all angles related to the case would be investigated. Earlier cases Meanwhile, the Belagavi city police arrested three persons on the charge of assaulting a Muslim woman and Hindu man who were travelling together in an auto. Auto driver Dawood Khateeb and his friends Mohammad Ayub and Yusuf Pathan were arrested. The incident happened on October 8. The arrests were made on Tuesday. The interfaith couple were assaulted, threatened with death and reprimanded for moving around with each other. Earlier, activists of Sri Ram Sena Hindustan allegedly murdered Arbaz Mulla, a boy from Khanapur for falling in love with a Hindu girl in his neighbourhood. His mutilated body was found on railway tracks on September 28. District police arrested 10 accused, including the girl’s parents 11 days later. Some leaders allege that the city police have been trying to hush up such hate crimes and moral policing by organising compromises between the accused and the victims in the police stations. ‘Dangerous trend’ “This is a dangerous trend and should stop immediately. The police should register and investigate every crime in their jurisdiction. They should go ahead and file cases even if the victims don’t register complaints,” said Ashfaq Madaki, JD(S) leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/accident-victim-blames-right-wing-activists/article37101547.ece
21 October 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 held for assaulting Hindu man, Muslim woman||Belagavi Police arrested three persons on the charge of assaulting a Muslim woman and Hindu man who were travelling together in an autorickshaw. Auto driver Dawood Khateeb and his friends Mohammad Ayub and Yusuf Pathan were arrested. The incident happened on October 8. The arrests were made on Tuesday. The woman and the man were assaulted, threatened with death and reprimanded for moving around with each other. The married woman who had come to Belagavi to borrow money from the man was asked not to move with non-Muslims. The attackers also accused her of doing commercial sex work. The two persons from different villages had hired the autorickshaw of Dawood Khateeb, after alighting at the Belagavi Bus Stand. They wanted to go to a park to sit and discuss and told the auto driver to take them to a park. But the driver diverted his vehicle to Aman Nagar and called his friends. All the accused thrashed the man and the woman. The accused threatened to kill them, by tying their hands and legs, cutting their heads and throwing them on the railway track, “just as in the case of Arbaz Mulla of Khanapur”. Dawood Khateeb, the autorickshaw driver, noticed the burqah of the woman and the vermilion on the man’s forehead and decided to teach them a lesson, a police officer said. The police said that the accused had also robbed the two of their ATM cards, a mobile phone and Rs. 50,000 in cash. These have been recovered from the accused, the police added.  The police say that the accused also robbed the two of their ATM cards, a mobile phone and Rs. 50,000 in cash and these have been recovered now||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-held-for-assaulting-hindu-man-muslim-woman/article37101604.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weak structures identified in Bengaluru||As heavy rains lashed Bengaluru almost every day over the past few weeks, nearly seven buildings in the city have either collapsed or tilted due to faulty foundations, violations, etc. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) in its emergency survey has identified 503 dilapidated and weak structures that are dangerous for habitation. The list, according to sources, contains the details of the owners, address, extent of construction, year of construction, etc. According to information made available, the most number of weak buildings have been identified in west zone (121), followed by south (115), east (113), Yelahanka (84), Mahadevapura (27), Rajarajeshwarinagar (23), Dasarahalli (11) and Bommanahalli (nine). Sources said the number may increase as the survey is still on. Civic chief Gaurav Gupta told The Hindu that the survey was taken up suo motu to ensure there is no danger to public life. The damage to buildings is not just because of heavy rains. Civic officials also attribute it to the large-scale building bye-law violations and inferior quality of construction. The BBMP woke up to the dangers posed by dilapidated and weak buildings following a similar accident in 2019. The then Commissioner had directed the officials to take up a survey and identify weak structures. The civic body had identified 185 structures of which 10 were demolished. The officials claim to have issued notices to the owners and residents of the remaining 175 structures. In 2019, no weak structures were identified in the Bommanahalli zone. However, the new survey says there are nine such buildings in the zone. Similarly, as opposed to one identified in the Rajarajeshwarinagar zone in 2019, there are 23 now. The officials have begun issuing notices to the owners and residents of the identified buildings, apart from giving them seven days to vacate the premises. One challenge before the BBMP officials is to trace the owners who have rented out the premises and are living elsewhere. The civic body is looking to enlist civil engineering experts to assess the structural strength of the buildings. Based on their report, the demolition will be taken up. Owners of the weak buildings may also hire their own engineers to assess the condition of the buildings to take up repairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/weak-structures-identified-in-bengaluru/article37101534.ece
21 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||IISc team develops novel model to predict ‘change blindness’||Our brains pay attention to details, but may sometimes fail to notice even marked differences. This phenomenon of overlooking a visual change or change blindness has been studied by a research group at the Centre for Neuroscience and the Department of Computer Science and Automation, Indian Institute of Science (IISc.). They have developed a novel computational model of eye movement that can predict a person’s ability to detect changes in their visual environment, in a study published in PLoS Computational Biology. The researchers believe that successful change detection may be linked to enhanced visual attention – how some people are better at selectively focusing on specific objects. In the study, the team first checked for change blindness among 39 persons by showing them an alternately flashing pair of images that have a minor difference between them. “We expected some complex differences in eye movement patterns between subjects who could do the task well and those who could not. Instead, we found some very simple gaze-metrics that could predict the success of change detection,” said Sridharan Devarajan, Associate Professor at the Centre for Neuroscience and corresponding author of the paper. Successful change detection was found to be linked to two metrics: how long the subjects’ gaze was fixated at a point and the variability in the path taken by their gaze between two specific points (‘saccade amplitude’). “Subjects who fixated for longer at a particular spot and whose eye movements were less variable were found to detect changes more effectively,” according to the findings. Based on these observations, the researchers developed a computational model that can predict how well a person might be able to detect changes in a sequence of similar images shown to them. The model also takes into consideration various biological parameters, constraints and human bias. “Since biological neurons are noisy, they do not encode the image precisely,” according to Mr. Devarajan. There is a lot of variability in the way neurons encode – process and/or respond to – images in the brain, which can be captured by a mathematical representation called the Poisson process. “Other researchers have previously developed models that focus either only on eye movement or on change detection, but the model developed by the IISc. team goes one step further and combines both. The researchers also tested their model against a state-of-the-art deep neural network called DeepGaze II, and found that their model performed better at predicting human gaze patterns in free-viewing conditions – when the subjects were casually viewing the images. While DeepGaze II could predict where a person will look if presented with an image, it did not work as well as the IISc.-developed model at predicting the eye movement pattern of a person searching for a difference in the images,” according to the findings. In the future, the researchers also plan to incorporate artificial neural networks with ‘memory’ into the model – to more realistically mimic the way our brains retain recollections of past events to detect changes. The authors say that the insights into understanding change blindness provided by their model could help scientists better understand visual attention and its limitations. Some examples of areas where such insights can be applied include diagnosing neurodevelopmental disorders like autism, improving road safety while driving or enhancing the reliability of eyewitness testimonies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/novel-model-to-predict-change-blindness/article37101529.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Northeast monsoon to set in over T.N. on Oct. 26||The northeast monsoon, the major rainy season for Tamil Nadu, is likely to set in on October 26. The northeasterly winds are expected to set in the lower tropospheric levels over the Bay of Bengal on October 26. This will lead to the simultaneous retreat of the southwest monsoon the same day and the start of northeast monsoon rain over the southern peninsular region as it happened last year, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). “Normally, the northeast monsoon sets in around October 20. The prolonged southwest monsoon has led to the delay in onset this year...,” said S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai. The IMD has also forecast a fairly widespread rainfall over the State till October 24. A cyclonic circulation that lies over south Tamil Nadu and a trough extending from the weather system to the northern parts would trigger isolated intense rainfall, particularly over districts in the south and those along the Western Ghats, on Thursday, he said. Nearly 22 districts, including Tiruchi, the Nilgiris, Namakkal, Salem, Kallakurichi and Vellore, are likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall at one or two places. The coastal region is likely to receive light to moderate rainfall on Thursday. Many places in the State and Puducherry would continue to receive rainfall of different intensity till the weekend. Chennai humid In Chennai, officials said the increase in moisture in wind during the transition period led to such a humid weather. Thunderstorm with light rain is expected in some areas till Friday, and the maximum temperature may remain around 35 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal, as it was on Wednesday. Weather experts noted that many parts of Tamil Nadu had already received a significant share of their annual rainfall. They predicted a good northeast monsoon. Senior meteorologist Y.E.A. Raj said a majority of the places had already received 70%-80% of the annual rainfall. Chennai had so far registered 90 cm against its annual average of 140 cm. A positive southern oscillation and the chances of La Nina — the global weather parameters that have a strong influence on monsoon — indicate subdued northeast monsoon rainfall. But the northeast monsoon could not be easily judged, given its volatile behaviour, he said. “We have not had excess monsoon rainfall after 2015. After 2017, the monsoon performance has been only close to normal. We will have to wait for the monsoon this year to break the pattern,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ne-monsoon-to-set-in-over-tn-on-oct-26/article37101729.ece
21 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP bandh foiled in Naidu’s home district||The bandh called by the Opposition Telugu Desam Party(TDP), to condemn the attack on the party offices and senior TDP leader K. Pattabhiram’s house reportedly by the YSRCP cadres, was foiled by the police all over Chittoor district. Right from Tuesday night, the police department had deployed personnel in all sensitive areas, and posted action teams at all important junctions and crossroads. In Kuppam, the constituency represented by TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, the bandh effect remained nil. In Chittoor, TDP MLC B.N. Rajasimhulu and party’s State general secretary V. Surendra Kumar were kept under house-arrest in the early hours of Wednesday, when they tried to organise a protest rally to the Gandhi Bomma Centre. Surveillance intensified Police had intensified surveillance at all the prominent TDP leaders in Madanapalle, Kuppam, Piler, Palamaner, GD Nellore, Puthalapattu, Srikalahasti, Satyavedu and Nagari Assembly constituencies. Though some youth members of the TDP tried to converge at the main thoroughfares to protest the attacks, the police parties had acted swiftly in shifting them to the nearby police stations. APSRTC (Chittoor region) Deputy Chief Traffic Manager M. Bhaskar said that all the buses in the region had plied normally. “Though in a couple of places the disruption was felt for a few minutes, everything was normal later,” he said. All the business establishments functioned normally. TDP State general secretary Surendra Kumar said that it was unfortunate that when the party cadres had sponsored the bandh as a peaceful means to protest the heinous attacks on the party offices, the YSRCP government had involved the police to foil the bandh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-bandh-foiled-in-naidus-home-district/article37102103.ece
21 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leaders come down heavily on Telugu Desam||On a day of raucous debate, leaders of the YSR Congress Party came down heavily on N. Chandrababu Naidu and Telugu Desam Party leaders for indulging in “dirty and cheap politics” by making derogatory comments against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, and said TDP has been doing so only to prove its existence. Speaking to media at Lake View guest house in Hyderabad on Wednesday, Minister for Agriculture, Kurasala Kannababu alleged that TDP leaders, on orders from Mr. Naidu had stooped so low and allegedly used filthy language against the Chief Minister only to instigate violence, gain sympathy and save the party, and demanded an apology from Mr. Naidu. He said the Chief Minister and YSRCP leaders were calm over the TDP leaders’ comments, but the cadre were offended. He said Mr. Naidu had been stating that he would go on 36-hour strike. All this drama was to conduct the strike only to prove the existence of the TDP, he claimed. Sharing the same venue, MLA Ambati Rambabu questioned whether Mr. Naidu was supporting the remarks made by TDP spokesperson Pattabhiram against the Chief Minister. He flayed the TDP for making degoraratory comments against the DGP and said the party had been trying to tarniush the YSRCP image to gain people’s sympathy. He demanded tht Mr. Naidu announce that the comments made by Mr. Pattabhiram were wrong and then sit for hunger strike, and added that law would take its own course against Mr. Pattabhiram for his remarks. ‘Bid to create unrest’ Speaking to media at party central office in Tadepalli, Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Venkatswara Rao (Nani) alleged that Mr. Naidu had been conspiring to create unrest in the State to benefit Nara Lokesh. He slammed the TDP for propagating false information on supply of drugs, and said the party was trying to link every issue to the Chief Minister and create a scene out of it to gain sympathy. He said the bandh called by TDP was utter failure and added that even Heritage didn’t close the shop. Mr. Venkateswara Rao slammed Pawan Kalyan for supporting Mr. Naidu and questioned why he was silent when Jana Sena Party activists attacked Posani Krishna Murali's home. Meanwhile, speaking at a separate press conference at party office in Kadapa on Wednesday, Chief Whip Gadikota Srikanth Reddy slammed Mr. Naidu and the TDP leaders for their degoraratory comments against Mr. Jagan, and said the opposition had stooped so low only to prove its existence and unable to bear internal rebellion in their party. He alleged Mr. Naidu had directed the TDP leaders to provoke people through hate speech against the Chief Minister and added that the TDP chief was indulging in conspiracies and dirty politics unable to bear the people’s support to the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-leaders-come-down-heavily-on-telugu-desam/article37101619.ece
21 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sajjala blames Naidu for ‘retaliatory attacks’||Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu is to be blamed for the “retaliatory attacks” on the TDP offices and leaders. “Mr. Naidu has unleashed a calculated and premeditated assault against an elected government. The reaction is natural. The tone and tenor of the language used by TDP official spokesman Pattabhiram crossed all limits of decency. We will not tolerate such utterances and will react sternly,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. The TDP should have distanced itself from such leaders and refrained from using such derogatory language against a Chief Minister, he said. There were instances when even Union Ministers were not spared for using abusive language against the Chief Minister of a State, he said. ‘Law will take its own course’ “The law will take its own course here, but we are urging people to condemn such derogatory attacks on the office of the Chief Minister and the government,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. He dared the TDP to contest the Badvel by-election and prove its strength.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sajjala-blames-naidu-for-retaliatory-attacks/article37102124.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sharmila lashes out at KCR, vows to bring back YSR policies||Invoking the name of her father and former Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy, his daughter and YSR Telangana Party chief Y.S. Sharmila vowed to tread on former’s footsteps to bring back his “leadership and welfare schemes” at Chevella public meeting to signal the start of her ‘Praja Prasthana Yatra’ on Wednesday. “There has not been a single man to question this government in last seven years. Like my father, I will stick to my word. We will go to every village, every district and every house to lend an ear to people’s problems and put the Telangana Government on notice. We will also expose the sold-out Opposition for having kept silent. Equality and social justice will be our motto,” she declared. Speaking in a calm and measured tone, Ms. Sharmila lashed out at Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his son K.T. Rama Rao, challenging the latter to join her to understand people’s woes. “KTR, you can see for yourself about people’s plight. If you think your father’s rule has been fantastic, I will apologise and withdraw. Or, you say sorry, quit and hand over administration to a Dalit,” she said. She accused KCR of having cheated every section and had even lied on the floor of the Assembly about sanctioning three acres to Dalits. “He has no right to utter YSR name having gone back on every promise whereas the latter lived up to his word all the time,” she claimed. Her ‘padayatra’ is for the sake of youth and students denied jobs due to lack of recruitment, lack of employment opportunities or self-employment; farmers denied loan waiver, assured price for crops; against indiscriminate inflated irrigation projects; weaker sections denied due share and so on. “This is to end the corrupt-family rule of KCR, who has forgotten about people and did not even have the heart to include COVID treatment in Arogyasri. With government hospitals lacking infrastructure, people were forced to sell their family silver to pay exorbitant bills of private hospitals,” she said. Ms. Sharmila accused Congress president Revanth Reddy of being caught “red-handed” in the ‘vote for note’ scandal and his fate was in the CM’s hands since the case was still ‘live’. BJP rakes caste or communal issues, was hand in glove with TRS . She is scheduled to walk 4,000 km in 400 days covering the length and breadth of Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sharmila-lashes-out-at-kcr-vows-to-bring-back-ysr-policies/article37101526.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stop drug cultivation, consumption: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the Police and Excise departments to stop illegal cultivation and consumption of ganja with an iron hand. “There is a need to declare a war against cultivation and use of ganja in the light of reports of gradual increase in the consumption of contraband. The departments should be on high alert and take remedial measures before the situation escalates,” he said. He favoured the appointment of a special officer of the rank of DGP and creation of a special cell. Steps should also be taken to strengthen enforcement and flying squads. Strict vigil should be maintained at educational institutions and check-posts on borders should be increased. Exchange of information among the departments should be strengthened and necessary infrastructure like vehicles should be provided to the personnel. A special cell should be constituted in the intelligence department while cash rewards, special promotions and other incentives should be given to personnel who excel in duties. The Chief Minister was speaking on Wednesday at a high-level meeting of officials of the two departments convened to discuss the steps needed to curb illicit cultivation of ganja. He recalled how the State made rapid strides since its formation achieving all the targets set for welfare and growth. With over 1.3 crore acres under cultivation, the State would soon cross Punjab in agriculture while Mission Bhagiratha has ensured supply of safe drinking water to all households. On the industry front, almost all the internationally reputed companies set up their shop here and progress of the State was being appreciated nationally and globally. The manner in which the police department had taken steps to maintain law and order situation had seen to it that there was steady stream of investments into the State. The State could effectively check extremism because of the efforts of the police. There was scope for the achievements registered by the State getting diluted if the menace was not eliminated. “Police and Excise officials should understand the seriousness of the situation in the light of reports that the youth are communicating among themselves through social media and consuming ganja,” he said. The Chief Minister lamented that innocent youths were falling prey to those indulging in the sale of contraband. Use of substances like ganja could have an adverse impact on the psychology of the youth and this could lead to suicides as de-addiction was a complex and long process. “The government is prepared to extend all the help that is needed in this direction,” he asserted. He reminded the officials that the State Police and enforcement agencies were lauded as the best in the country and they should take steps to retain the credit. He wanted them to study from other States too. “Police and Excise departments should work in coordination to see that there is no scope for ganja cultivation or consumption. The State should be made ganja-free by taking effective measures in the coming days,” the CM said. KCR said that the government would stop giving Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima to farmers found guilty of cultivating ganja. The government was not averse to withdrawing the benefits conferred under the ROFR (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act in case of beneficiaries if they were found engaged in cultivation and supply of the contraband.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stop-drug-cultivation-consumption-kcr/article37102109.ece
21 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu man appointed COO of U.S. Trade and Development Agency||Former diplomat and prominent Telugu personality in the United States, Vinai Thummalapally, has been appointed as the Deputy Director and Chief Operating Officer of the U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA). The appointment was made by U.S. President Joe Biden. Mr. Thumalapally was the first Indian-American to serve as a U.S. Ambassador when he was appointed as the Ambassador to Belize. Mr. Thumalapally also served as the Executive Director of SelectUSA, a U.S. Department of Commerce initiative that facilitates job-creating business investment into the country, from 2013 to 2017. Telangana Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao took to Twitter to congratulate Mr. Thummalapally on the appointment.  ‘Able administrator’ Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Krishna Sagar Rao also hailed the appointment stating he was an able administrator and a good friend. Hailing from Hyderabad, Mr. Thummalapally moved to the U.S. in 1974. His father was a scientist. Former U.S. President Barack Obama was with him while pursuing his higher studies in the U.S. Mr. Thummalapally was appointed the Ambassador to Belize during Mr. Obama’s term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-man-appointed-coo-of-us-trade-and-development-agency/article37101546.ece
21 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP welcomes Jana Sena Party support in Badvel||The Bharatiya Janata Party has welcomed the support extended by its ally Jana Sena Party (JSP) in the ensuing byelection to Badvel (SC) constituency, adding that it will act as the proverbial shot in the arm for the party. BJP State president Somu Veerraju ridiculed the presence of the entire Cabinet of Ministers at Badvel and called it an indication of the fear gripping the ruling party. Taking exception to the abusive words used by Proddatur MLA Rachamallu Sivaprasad Reddy, he said the party would complain to the Election Commission. Citing Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy’s warning that the BJP would have to search for booth agents, he objected to the ‘intimidating’ words. Condemning the attack on TDP offices, BJP vice-president C. Adinarayana Reddy accused the ruling party of unleasing a reign of terror, which he said had reflected even in Badvel ahead of the bypoll. JSP Kadapa assembly in-charge Sunkara Srinivas said the party chief Pawan Kalyan had appointed a three-member committee to ensure the alliance victory. BJP candidate P. Suresh said Badvel byelection result would change the political course of direction of Andhra Pradesh. Meanwhile, the ruling party left no stone unturned to counter the BJP’s fusillade by bringing on to the war front the Deputy Chief Ministers S.B. Amzath Basha and K. Narayanaswamy, Member of Parliament Y.S. Avinash Reddy, Cabinet ministers P. Ramachandra Reddy, Adimulapu Suresh, whips G. Srikanth Reddy and K. Srinivasulu, MLCs D.C. Govinda Reddy and C. Ramachandraiah||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-welcomes-jsp-support-in-badvel/article37101625.ece
21 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Loan mela today||The District Lead Bank (Union Bank of India) in association with private, rural, and co-operative banks will conduct a loan mela for farmers, entrepreneurs, and other beneficiaries here on Thursday. Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu will inaugurate the mela. As many as 32 stalls would be set up in the mela to offer loans of State and Central governments and the banks. The loans under PMEGP, Mudra, Stand up India and other State government loans will be offered during the mela, according to District Lead Bank Manager S. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/loan-mela-today/article37101621.ece
21 October 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mueen Ali appears before ED||Syed Mueen Ali Shihab Thangal, son of Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) State president Panakkad Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal, appeared before Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials in Kochi on Wednesday in connection with the agency probe into the allegations of money laundering using the Chandrika daily, the mouthpiece of the IUML. The ED launched a probe after complaints that Rs. 10 crore, which was suspected to be part of the kickbacks related to the Palarivattom flyover corruption, was laundered by using the accounts of the daily. Mr. Mueen had earlier raised a volley of allegations, including financial misappropriation, against IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty and held him responsible for the financial crisis the newspaper was facing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mueen-ali-appears-before-ed/article37101530.ece
21 October 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials reach out to eligible persons for vaccination||The vaccination drive got a boost in SPSR Nellore district as the district administration reached out to many persons falling in the 18-plus age bracket to administer the vaccine. “We are close to covering 100% of all the eligible persons in the 18-plus age group,” SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu said after overseeing the door-to-door survey undertaken by a group of volunteers and health workers. Over 12.13 lakh persons have been fully vaccinated so far, while 19.28 lakh persons have been given one dose, he said. Meanwhile, two persons succumbed to COVID in Prakasam and 62 fresh COVID cases were registered in South Coastal Andhra, including 16 in Prakasam, in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-reach-out-to-eligible-persons-for-vaccination/article37102105.ece
21 October 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bandh evokes mixed response in Prakasam||The State-wide bandh called by the Opposition Telugu Desam party, in protest against attack on its offices allegedly by ruling YSR Congress Party activists, evoked mixed response in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday. While most educational institutions remained closed, buses, both public and private ones, ran as usual. Shops and other commercial establishments downed the shutters for some time when the activists went around to enforce the bandh and resumed business after they left. Police put under house arrest key leaders of the TDP including, former Minister Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy, former MLC Beeda Ravichandra, former Nellore Mayor Abdul Azeez, TDP State vice-president Damacharla Janardhana Rao and TDP Ongole Lok Sabha unit president N.Balaji, TDP MLAs Yeluri Sambasiva Rao and Dola Balaveeranjaneya Swamy and former TDP MLA M. Ashok Reddy to maintain law and order. A high drama was witnessed when Nellore TDP In-charge Kottamreddy Srinivasulu Reddy defied the police curbs and came out of his house and staged a protest. Police resorted to mild lathicharge to restore order as tension gripped the area. TDP activists were seen engaged in a heated argument with the police at various places and insisted that they be allowed to exercise their ‘democratic right’ to protest. Tension prevailed at the MS function hall centre in Ongole when the opposition party activists broke the glass panes of a hypermarket. Police rushed to the spot and restored order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bandh-evokes-mixed-response-in-prakasam/article37102104.ece
21 October 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP activists burn Naidu’s effigy||YSR Congress Party leaders led by Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat on Wednesday burnt the effigy of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu here. The YSRCP leaders criticised the reported indecent remarks recently made against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy by TDP national spokesperson K. Pattabhiram. The YSRCP leaders formed a human chain at Vemagiri junction where they burnt the effigy of Mr. Naidu. “Mr. Naidu and TDP leaders should be held responsible for the indecent remarks against the Chief Minister,” Mr. Bharat said. TDP protests On Wednesday, the TDP leaders staged a protest across the East Godavari district against the attack on the TDP offices by alleged YSRCP activists. The protests have been conducted peacefully amid the huge deployment of police personnel. Many senior TDP leaders have been put under house arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-activists-burn-naidus-effigy/article37101620.ece
21 October 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student dies as school bus falls into pond||One student was killed when a school bus fell into a pond near Koyyam village of Etcherla mandal of the district on Wednesday. According to the police, the victim was identified as Mylapilli Raju,6, of Badivanipeta village. Five other students travelling in the bus were saved with the quick efforts of the locals. Condition of other students stable The students were taken to a nearby hospital, where their condition is said to be stable. Authorities used earth movers to remove the bus from the pond. The villagers and parents alleged that driver was taking the children in a narrow and dangerous route in spite of repeated warnings. Srikakulam SP Amiti Bardar directed the officials to verify the school buses’ condition, their routes and safety measures being taken up by the respective school authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-dies-as-school-bus-falls-into-pond/article37101532.ece
21 October 2021||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rammohan Naidu, Kondru held in Srikakulam||Many TDP leaders were taken into custody during protests at several places in Srikakulam and Vizinaagaram districts on Wednesday, condemning the attacks on the party offices. Srikakulam MP K. Rammohan Naidu, former Minister Kondru Muralimohan and many other leaders were taken into custody when they staged protests in Srikakulam as part of the bandh called by the party’s national president N. Chandrababu Naidu. “It was a black day for the democracy in India. It is unfortunate that the police officials who are supposed prevent such incidents, encouraged them blatantly,” said Mr. Rammohan Naidu. Mr. Muralimohan alleged that the police personnel were ‘exceeding limits’ by curtailing the rights of opposition leaders to raise their voice on public issues. Speaking to the media at Rajam, Mr. Muralimohan said, “Attack on the TDP offices and leaders is highly deplorable. Such incidents has never happened in the State. The YSRCP leaders should ensure decency in politics,” said Mr. Muralimohan. He alleged that the YSRCP government was trying to curtail the freedom of speech and the legitimate rights of the opposition parties to raise the issues of public importance. In Vizianagaram district, former MLCs Dwarapu Reddi Jagadish, Gummadi Sandhya Rani, former MLA K.A.Naidu and TDP Vizianagaram Parliamentary wing in-charge Kimidi Nagarjuna were also taken into custody when they had tried to enforce the bandh in Parvatipuram, Saluru, Gajapathi Nagaram and Cheepurupalli respectively. Former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju urged the people to assess the undemocratic administration of the YSRCP government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rammohan-naidu-kondru-among-tdp-leaders-held-in-srikakulam/article37101623.ece
21 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Toll in rain-related incidents rises to 42’||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that 42 people have died in the State in natural calamities triggered by heavy rainfall between October 12 and October 20. The bodies of 19 people who died in landslips in the districts of Kottayam (12 people in Plapally and Kavali in Koottickal panchayat) and Idukki (seven from Kokkayar and Peruvanthanam) were recovered. Six people are still missing, the Chief Minister told a press briefing here on Wednesday. As many as 3,851 families were currently accommodated in 304 relief camps across the State. Several families were shifted to the homes of relatives. Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister informed the Assembly that 217 houses were destroyed and 1,393 damaged in rain-related calamities. The Chief Minister underscored the need to remain vigilant, especially in high ranges, given the heavy rainfall alert for Thursday issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Additionally, the cyclonic circulation formed near the south Tamil Nadu coast was expected to bring widespread rainfall to Kerala till October 24, he said. With the northeast monsoon likely to commence next week, the State would continue to remain alert, he said. Government departments have been directed to disburse the financial assistance to the kin of the deceased at the earliest. People who had lost houses and farmers who had reported crop loss would be suitably compensated, he said. Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had contacted him and promised all support to Kerala in handling the situation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toll-in-rain-related-incidents-rises-to-42/article37101540.ece
21 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Gurukulam model, manuscriptology will revive glory of Indian education system’||Sadhu Bhadresh Das, chief monk of Bochasanwasi Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha (BAPS), laid emphasis on studying manuscriptology and to encourage Gurukulam model to revive the glory of Indian education system. Bhadresh Das was addressing students at the first convocation of National Sanskrit University (NSU) here on Wednesday when he hailed the decision to make study of manuscriptology mandatory in M.Phil curriculum, which he said would go a long way in bringing unrevealed texts to light. The monk, who also heads the Swaminarayan Research Institute at Akshardham, New Delhi, appreciated NSU for establishing a ‘Gurukulam’ to teach Sastras such as Advaita Vedanta and Nyaya, hoping that Swaminarayan Akshara Purushottama Darsana, the philosophy of their school of thought, would also be taught along with other Vedantic branches. NSU Chancellor and former Chief Election Commissioner N. Gopalaswami announced the introduction of interdisciplinary courses like modern mathematics with Indian mathematics and the new concept of ‘Academic Bank of Credits (ABC). Vice-Chancellor V. Muralidhara Sharma, in his annual report, announced the opening of a six-storeyed and a five-storeyed building, one as a hostel to accommodate 500 students and the other as an academic complex with modern facilities like air-conditioning, acoustics and wall panelling to facilitate virtual classrooms. 53 gold medals presented Ph.D degrees were presented to 67 scholars and 1,160 students of UG, PG, diploma and certificate courses received their degrees. Fifty three gold medals were presented to 26 meritorious students. Registrar Challa Venkateswar, Deans G.S.R. Krishnamurthy, R. Sadasiva Murty, Narasimhachar Purohit, Prahlad Joshi and A. Sripada Bhatt took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gurukulam-model-will-revive-glory-of-education-system/article37101614.ece
21 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPGECET results declared||Sri Venkateswara University Vice-Chancellor K. Raja Reddy released the results of the Andhra Pradesh Post Graduate Engineering Common Entrance Test (APPGECET-2021) here on Wednesday. The university had conducted the test on behalf of the APSCHE on September 28 and 29 at 22 centres for admission into 13 streams. CET Convener R.V.S. Satyanarayana asked the qualified candidates to download their rank cards from the website – sche.ap.gov.in/pgecet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appgecet-results-declared/article37101626.ece
21 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Padmaja takes charge as TSCCL chief||Naramalli Padmaja, a senior YSR Congress Party functionary, assumed office as Chairperson of Tirupati Smart City Corporation Limited (TSCCL) on Wednesday. Speaking to the media after taking charge in the presence of MP M. Gurumoorthy, MLA B. Karunakar Reddy and Mayor R. Sireesha, she thanked the State government for reposing faith in her and nominating her to the post. Explaining the facilities and schemes lined up for smart cities, she offered to bring many projects to the temple city of Tirupati. She cited the completion of ‘Srinivasa Sethu’ elevated corridor project, coming up with an outlay of Rs. 550 crore, as her top priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/padmaja-takes-charge-as-tsccl-chief/article37101628.ece
21 October 2021||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bandh fizzles out as many leaders confined to homes||The Telugu Desam Party’s bandh call evoked very little response on Wednesday, with the police succeeding in holding the local leaders in the confines of their residences at daybreak. Party leaders, including Tirupati parliamentary constituency in-charge G. Narasimha Yadav, were prevented from moving out of their house to enforce the bandh. Argument with police Mr. Yadav entered into a heated argument with the policemen as to how they could detain him, while keeping mum when the activists of the ruling party had gone on rampage. He even warned of moving the court, but he was forcibly retained at his residence. Hinting at a ‘sense of insecurity’ gripping the people, former MLA M. Sugunamma appealed to the Centre to intervene in view of the failed law and order situation in the State. In Kadapa, the party’s Pulivendula in-charge M. Ravindranath Reddy alias ‘B.Tech’ Ravi congratulated the ‘Telugu Thammullu’ (the party’s foot soldiers) for making the bandh a success, notwithstanding the absence of senior leaders. He accused the government of unleashing a reign of terror in the State and wondered how the police department, in spite of armed with intelligence inputs, could feign ignorance of such ‘pre-planned attacks’. He accused the YSRCP of trying to bring the entire State to its feet in the manner in which his Pulivendula constituency had been made to toe its line out of fear. MLC C. Ramachandraiah hit back at the TDP for making a verbal attack on Chief Minister and later playing the victim card, which, he said was a ‘dangerous game’. He appealed to Mr. Chandrababu Naidu to leave the drugs issue to the investigating agencies and keep his partymen under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bandh-fizzles-out-as-many-leaders-confined-to-homes/article37102106.ece
21 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bandh called by TDP partial, protesters taken into custody at many places||The bandh called by the Opposition TDP in protest against Tuesday’s attacks on the party offices in the State was partial on Wednesday. Alleging that TDP official spokesman K. Pattabhiram had made objectionable comments and used unparliamentary language against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy over the drugs seizure issue, unidentified miscreants had attacked the TDP offices and the houses of some party leaders. Criticising the attacks, TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu gave a bandh call. Responding to the call, the party leaders tried to stop APSRTC buses, close educational institutions, shops, hotels and other establishments. Many TDP leaders and activists were taken into preventive custody, and a few were kept under house detention. Police shifted the protesters to police stations in some places. Former Minister Devineni Umamaheswara Rao was taken into custody at Gollapudi in Vijayawada, former Government Whip Chintamaneni Prabhakar was kept under house detention in West Godavari. Several party leaders were confined to their homes since Tuesday night. Police arranged tight security at Chief Minister’s camp office, residence of the Leader of the Opposition, Ministers, MPs, MLAs and MLCs houses, party offices and other important places. Additional forces were deployed at bus and railway stations and at all government offices as a precautionary measure. Activists of YSRCP staged dharnas at many districts condemning the language used by the TDP official spokesman. Police forces were deployed at Pandit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS), Eluru, Gudivada, Jangareddygudem, Machilipatnam, Jaggaiahpet, Nuzvid and other bus stations. Banks, cinema halls and government offices functioned as usual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bandh-called-by-tdp-partial-protesters-taken-into-custody-at-many-places/article37102116.ece
21 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP conspiring to derail welfare agenda, says CM||Blaming the TDP for Tuesday’s disturbances, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday alleged that the opposition party would not hesitate to incite communal violence as part of its conspiracy to derail the government’s welfare agenda. In his speech that followed the disbursement of financial assistance under the Jagananna Thodu scheme, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the TDP was unable to accept the growing popularity of the government, and was hence trying to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere. Legal obstacles He insisted that ever since it had lost power in the 2019 elections, the TDP was creating obstacles in the government’s path by filing a slew of petitions in the A.P. High Court and spreading falsehood through the “yellow media.” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said a few TDP leaders had made disparaging remarks on him, and created a ruckus when people who admired him lost their cool on hearing the abuses and resorted to the attacks. He said the TDP leaders were habituated to speaking in such a foul language, the kind of which he had never uttered, and they were desperate to derive political mileage by creating a law and order problem. “The opposition party leaders are unable to bear the love and affection being shown to me and my government. This is what prompted them to behave in such a deplorable manner,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-conspiring-to-derail-welfare-agenda-says-cm/article37102126.ece
21 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. a fit case for Centre’s intervention: Yanamala||TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Wednesday said there was a total breakdown of law and order in the State, and that Andhra Pradesh was a fit case for Centre’s intervention to invoke Article 356 and impose President’s Rule. In a statement, Mr. Ramakrishnudu, while likening the YSRCP government to “jungle raj,” said the “goons who went on a rampage, attacking the TDP offices and cadres across the State on Tuesday have the tacit support of the government and the Police Department.” “This is an unprecedented crisis. The entire police machinery has been systematically debilitated, and since the government itself is resorting to a constitutional breakdown, there is no other option but to invoke Article 356,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu observed. “There is no security for the opposition parties, their leaders and cadres,” he alleged. “Is it wrong to question the government for selling away public properties, for failing to check rampant ganja smuggling in the State, for pushing the State into deep financial crisis, for failing to provide jobs to youth, for acute scarcity of sand, and for failing to provide work to the poor?” the TDP leader wondered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-a-fit-case-for-centres-intervention-yanamala/article37102285.ece
21 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Law and order fully under control: DGP||Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has said law and order is fully under control and the rule of law is prevailing in the State. Addressing the media on Wednesday, Mr. Sawang said, “TDP official spokesman K. Pattabhiram had used vulgar language against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who is in a constitutional position.” Terming Tuesday’s incidents as unfortunate, the DGP said such abusive language was not acceptable, and the police had taken the disturbances seriously. “It was not a slip of the tongue. The TDP spokesman had repeated the same words,” the DGP said. The police were investigating the series of incidents that had been witnessed on Tuesday, and action would be taken as per law, Mr. Sawang said, and asked the leaders to maintain dignity. The DGP also found fault with the opposition party leaders for making “baseless allegations” with regard to the Gujarat drugs racket in spite of the clarification given by the police that Andhra Pradesh had no links with it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/law-and-order-fully-under-control-dgp/article37101942.ece
21 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP appeals to CEC to deploy Central armed forces in Badvel||A delegation of the BJP, comprising State party affairs co-in-charge Sunil Deodhar, national secretary Y. Satya Kumar and Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, met Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra in New Delhi on Wednesday, and appealed to him to order deputation of Central armed forces for election duty in Badvel (SC) Assembly constituency. The BJP leaders also urged Mr. Sushil Chandra to take steps for ensuring peaceful election keeping in view Tuesday’s attacks on the TDP offices across the State and the alleged complicity of the police in the incidents. “The CEC is empowered under Article 324 of the Constitution to issue orders to ensure a level-playing field between the contesting parties and the candidates,” they observed. In a memorandum submitted to the CEC, the BJP leaders said the attacks created a sense of fear and insecurity all over the State, and that violence was unleashed to scare away the voters who were not sympathetic to the ruling YSRCP. They also apprehended a threat to the lives of the BJP leaders, including its candidate in the by-election, and the agents engaged in the election campaign. The BJP delegation insisted that the CEC should send special, general and expenditure observers, and direct the ward and village volunteers to leave the constituency (lest they should influence the voters). ‘Scope for malpractices’ They further said that Badvel, which is situated in Kadapa district from where the Chief Minister hails, was a highly sensitive constituency, where there was scope for intimidation of the voters, bogus voting, violence and large-scale electoral malpractices. The YSRCP leaders and volunteers were threatening the voters that the social security benefits being given by the government would be discontinued if they did not vote for the ruling party, the BJP leaders alleged. During the State party president Somu Veerraju’s visit to Badvel and Porumamilla mandals on October 3 and 4, the voters had complained about the strong-arm tactics of the YSRCP leaders, the BJP leaders told the CEC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-appeals-to-cec-to-deploy-central-armed-forces-in-badvel/article37102120.ece
21 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagananna Thodu aid twice in a year’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday disbursed Rs. 16.36 crore towards reimbursement of interest paid by 4,50,546 small and petty vendors on loans availed by them between November 2020 and September 2021, under the Jagananna Thodu scheme. On the occasion, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the scheme was aimed at providing working capital to petty businessmen and artisans, who usually approach private parties for loans and often fall into debt traps. He said a total of 9,05,458 beneficiaries had availed interest-free loans worth Rs. 905 crore in two spells under the scheme. Almost 5.35 lakh people took loans in November 2020 and another 3.70 lakh in June 2021. The Chief Minister said financial assistance under the scheme would henceforth be disbursed twice a year, and appealed to the beneficiaries to repay their loans on time to avoid overdues and the loans turning into NPAs for banks. About 5% of the loans taken under the scheme had tuned NPAs and 11% overdues. Energy Minister B. Srinivasa Reddy, Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma, Special Chief Secretaries Ajay Jain (village and ward secretariats) and K. Sunitha (social welfare), SERP CEO A.Md. Imtiaz, MEPMA MD Vijayalakshmi, State-Level Bankers’ Committee convener Brahmananda Reddy, and Sthreenidhi MD Nancharaiah were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagananna-thodu-aid-twice-in-a-year/article37102122.ece
21 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu to launch 36-hr. protest at party office today||TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu will be staging a 36-hour demonstration from 8 a.m. on October 21 till 8 p.m. the following day, in protest against the Tuesday’s attacks on his party offices and leaders’ houses. The protest will be staged at the TDP headquarters, near Mangalagiri, in Guntur district. Terming the attacks as “State-sponsored terrorism,” Mr. Naidu, in a press release on Wednesday, said the ransacking of the State party office, the residence of spokesman K. Pattabhiram (whose comments on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy sparked the outrage), and the offices / houses of various leaders by the YSRCP cadres was a major conspiracy that should be exposed by the police. Mr. Naidu alleged that the government and the police had colluded to intimidate the TDP leaders by resorting to physical attacks. He said the attack on the TDP State office was unprecedented. ‘Attack pre-planned’ It was a pre-planned attack intended to warn the TDP leaders on the consequences of speaking up against the government, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu said, and called upon opposition parties, civil society organisations and people to support TDP’s fight against the government’s “autocratic functioning and objectionable demeanour of the ruling party leaders.”  Opposition parties, civil society groups and people should support TDP’s fight against YSRCP’s autocratic functioning N. Chandrababu Naidu TDP national president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-to-launch-36-hr-protest-at-party-office-today/article37102127.ece
21 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu writes to President and PM, seeks President’s Rule||Telugu Desam Party president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu wrote letters to President Ramnath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister for Home Amit Shah appealing for the imposition of President’s Rule under Article 356 of the Constitution in order to establish law and order in the State in the wake of Tuesday's attacks on offices of TDP, including its headquarters near Mangalagiri in Guntur district. Mr. Naidu also sought a CBI inquiry into the ransacking of the TDP offices and attacks on the party leaders, and Central police protection to them. He said the incidents that took place on October 19 were a culmination of two-and-a-half years of intimidation and attacks by the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) on democratic institutions namely the political parties, State Legislature, judiciary, bureaucracy and media and different sections of society. The TDP leader said if left unchecked, the “State-sponsored violence” would escalate and spill across the State borders and pose a threat to national security. There was a clear failure of law and order and breakdown of the constitutional machinery warranting the imposition of President’s Rule, he said. The attacks, Mr. Naidu said, were aimed at preventing the TDP from speaking about the seizure of 3,000 kg of heroin at Mundra port and its alleged links to an importing company registered in Vijayawada, and the rampant smuggling of heroin and cannabis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-writes-to-president-and-pm-seeks-presidents-rule/article37102128.ece
21 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welfare is not Jagan’s priority, says Congress||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president S. Sailajanath on Wednesday said the YSR Congress Party was trampling on the constitutional rights of the people. At a press conference, he said it was clear that welfare of the State and its people was not the priority of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. If the government worked effectively, the condition of the State would not be so bad, he said, accusing Mr. Jagan of using the Ministers in his Cabinet as mere puppets. The Congress leader said only one Minister responds to everything that happens in the State. Referring to a ruling party MLA’s threat that “whoever talks against the Chief Minister will meet the same fate” reflected their intolerance, he said: “They are trying to send a message that nobody has the right to question the government.” He said the Chief Minister should remember that allegations and criticisms were part of politics and one should not get perturbed. Party working president N. Thulasi Reddy likened the YSRCP rule in the State to Taliban regime in Afghanistan. Referring to Tuesday’s attack on TDP offices and party cadres by the ruling party men, he called it “murder of democracy in broad daylight”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/welfare-is-not-jagans-priority-says-congress/article37102280.ece
21 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘206 policemen died of COVID-19’||Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will observe the Police Flag Day and pay tributes to the police martyrs to mark Police Martyrs’ Commemoration Day, at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium here on Thursday, said Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. Smriti Parade Addressing the newsmen at the AP Police Headquarters at Mangalagiri on Wednesday, the DGP said Mr. Reddy would observe the Smriti Parade and pay homage to those who laid down their lives in discharging their duties. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita, bureaucrats, Ministers, police officers and other VIPs will participate in the programme. The police will organise exhibitions, open houses, visit the houses of police martyrs, debates, essay writing competitions, band shows, medical camps, blood donation camps, review the welfare of police families and observe ‘Rastriya Ekta Diwas’ for 10 days from Thursday, Mr. Sawang said. In all, 206 police personnel died due to COVID-19, of which 74 dependents were given appoinments on compassionate grounds so far. The police department had spent Rs. 1.36 crore for procuring oxygen concentrators and medicines for patients. Additional Directors-General of Police Ra1vi Shankar Ayyanar and Harish Kumar Gupta, OSD (Police Welfare) P.V.S. Ramakrishna, DIGs S.V. Rajashekar Babu and G. Pala Raju were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/206-policemen-died-of-covid-19/article37101616.ece
21 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu bats for ST status for Valmikis||The Telugu Desam Party has urged the Centre to include Valmikis/Boyas in Andhra Pradesh in the Scheduled Tribes list. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Wednesday requested the BJP government at the Centre to introduce a Bill in Parliament and recognise Valmikis/Boyas of Andhra Pradesh as STs. He said the communities lived in plain areas of the State in abject poverty. In 2016, a team headed by Prof. Satyapal was constituted to carry out a comprehensive study on the status of Valmikis/Boyas, and after a year-long research, it was concluded that despite fulfilling the criteria required for their inclusion in the ST list, there was an inordinate delay in implementing it. Recalling that several Commissions in the past had recommended their inclusion in the ST list, Mr. Naidu said in 1964, the State government issued orders declaring equal status to the communities living in both Rayalaseema and coastal Andhra region. Finally in 1968, the communities were included in the ST list, but in July of 1977, the then government recognised only the Valmikis living in the Agency area as STs and this led to differences among the communities inhabiting the Eastern Ghats, North Eastern Andhra Pradesh and the Boyas scattered in different parts of the State. He pointed to the fact that their counterparts in the neighbouring Karnataka had ST status. “My government in the past tried to solve this issue by passing a resolution in the Cabinet, the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council to this effect in 2017 and sending them for the approval of the Centre,” he said, adding that unfortunately, the proposal was still pending with it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-bats-for-st-status-for-valmikis/article37102125.ece
21 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh, others booked for ‘assaulting’ police officer||The Mangalagiri Rural police on Wednesday registered a case against several TDP leaders for allegedly assaulting a police officer on spotter duty at the party office in Mangalagiri. The officer, G. Sakru Naik, went to the TDP office to observe and take photographs of the alleged attack on Tuesday. When the TDP leaders questioned his identity, Mr. Naik showed his ID card, and said he was a police officer on duty. But the TDP leaders and a few party workers allegedly snatched Mr. Naik’s mobile phone, thrashed him and wrongfully detained him for a few hours. The officer reportedly suffered bleeding injuries and fainted. On receiving information, the police rushed to the spot and rescued Mr. Naik. Following a complaint, the police registered a case against MLC P. Ashok Babu, former Ministers N. Lokesh and A. Rajendra Prasad, former MLA T. Sravan Kumar, and a few other leaders under IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder), Section 342 (wrongful confinement), and SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Mr. Naik was admitted to a hospital in Guntur district for treatment. His condition was stable, the police said. The police registered cases against unidentified persons involved in the attacks on TDP offices in State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-others-booked-for-assaulting-police-officer/article37102118.ece
21 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers’ protest enters second day||The ongoing protests by members of Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation (APTF) seeking immediate solution to their long-pending demands such as revocation of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and implementation of the Pay Revision Commission recommendations, entered second day on Wednesday. The federation leaders have launched a four-day protest to build pressure on the government to address 46 issues that have been pending redressal. Their demands include payment of DA arrears and removal of the several apps that had been introduced by the Education Department, among other issues. Federation’s State general secretary P. Panduranga Varaprasada Rao, organisation’s former general secretary N. Parameswara Rao, State secretary B. Venkatapathi Raju and others led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-protest-enters-second-day/article37102281.ece
21 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘7.2% of students exposed to tobacco smoke at home’||The Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS), a component of the Global Tobacco Surveillance System, pegged the number of school students aged between 13 and 15 in Andhra Pradesh who are consuming tobacco products at 2.6% (3.6% of boys and 1.5% of girls), smoking tobacco at 1.8% (2.7% of boys and 0.8% of girls), smoking cigarettes at 1.1% (1.6% of boys and 0.5% of girls), smoking beedi at 0.8% (1.3% of boys and 0.2% of girls) and those using smokeless tobacco at 1.1% (1.4% of boys and 0.8% of girls). Documentation Releasing the GYTS-AP Fact Sheet-2019 on Wednesday, Commissioner of Health Katamneni Bhaskar said the GYTS was a global standard for systemically monitoring youth tobacco use (smoking and smokeless) and tracking key tobacco control indicators. The aim was to document and monitor the extent of smoking and smokeless tobacco use and to understand and assess the students’ attitudes, knowledge and behavior towards tobacco use and its health impact. The overall response rate in Andhra Pradesh was 99.7%. A total of 3,290 students from 33 schools (18 public and 15 private) participated in the survey. Of them, 2,959 students were considered for reporting. Try to give up habit Some of the other findings are: 37% of the students (42% of boys and 20% of girls) tried to quit smoking and 30% of the current smokers wanted to give up the habit. A total of 7.2% of the students were exposed to tobacco smoke at home and 22.5% were exposed to tobacco smoke inside closed public places. Forty-nine per cent of the school heads (43% in rural and 58% in urban schools) were aware of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003 and 36% know the policy to display ‘tobacco - free school’ boards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/26-of-students-in-13-15-age-group-consume-tobacco-products-says-survey/article37101617.ece
21 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP bandh fizzles out as leaders taken into custody||The bandh called by the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in protest against the attack on the party offices in Visakhapatnam and elsewhere in the State hardly had any impact in the city as well as in the district, as the party leaders were either confined to their houses or taken into custody by the police on Wednesday. Except for some protests and rallies at a few places, the bandh was ineffective, and the TDP leaders blamed the government for taking most of its leaders into custody. The YSRCP activists allegedly attacked the TDP offices at different places in the State on Tuesday after TDP leader K. Pattabhiram allegedly made some derogatory remarks on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The call for the bandh was given by TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu in protest against the attack on the party offices. The bandh had a little impact as RTC buses, private vehicles and business establishments ran as usual. Several TDP activists, who squatted on the road at the Jagadamba Junction were taken into custody by the police. At Bheemunipatnam, the TDP leaders took out a rally. The protesters were taken into custody when they tried to stage a sit-in at the junction. At Narsipatnam, TDP activists led by Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu took out a rally. “We were preparing to participate in the bandh, when the police confined us to out houses. The opposition parties have the right to protest in a peaceful manner. The bandh was called for upholding the democracy. The police force was used to stifle the protest and it is not a solution,” said TDP Parliamentary constituency president Palla Srinivasa Rao. According to him, the police reportedly took into custody many party leaders in the wee hours of Wednesday between 2 a.m. to 4 a.m, or had deployed personnel in front of their houses right from the Tuesday midnight. All the 31 corporators of the TDP were either taken into preventive custody or were confined to their houses, said Mr. Srinivasa Rao. In Tirupati, party leaders, including Tirupati parliamentary constituency in-charge G. Narasimha Yadav, were prevented from moving out of their house to enforce the bandh. Mr. Yadav entered into a heated argument with the policemen as to how they could detain him, while keeping mum when the activists of the ruling party had gone on rampage. He even warned of moving the court, but he was forcibly retained at his residence. Hinting at a ‘sense of insecurity’ gripping the people, former MLA M. Sugunamma appealed to the Centre to intervene in view of the failed law and order situation in the State. In Kadapa, the party’s Pulivendula in-charge M. Ravindranath Reddy alias ‘B.Tech’ Ravi congratulated the ‘Telugu Thammullu’ (the party’s foot soldiers) for making the bandh a success, notwithstanding the absence of senior leaders. He accused the government of unleashing a reign of terror in the State and wondered how the police department, in spite of armed with intelligence inputs, could feign ignorance of such ‘pre-planned attacks’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bandh-fizzles-out-in-vizag-as-leaders-taken-into-custody/article37102272.ece
21 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stifling voice of the Opposition is dictatorship, say TDP leaders||Condemning the police for taking TDP workers into preventive custody and confining some others to their houses during the protest condemning the attack on the party ofices, TDP Parliamentary district president Palla Srinivasa Rao on Wednesday alleged that the police were behaving like the workers of the YSRCP. “The police, instead of arresting those involved in the attack on the TDP offices, are taking our leaders into custody for staging peaceful protests. The police are getting their salaries from the tax payers’ money and they are accountable to the people, not the ruling party. The DGP must follow the rule of law at least now and arrest those who attacked the TDP offices,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao told the media on Wednesday evening. He said the YSRCP leaders were claiming that the TDP leaders were the first to level allegations against the ruling party and the Chief Minister. He said the ruling party leaders had made many allegations against the TDP leaders in the past and that the police were ‘unable to see it’. Saying that the role of the Opposition was to question the government on its failures, on behalf of the people, Mr. Srinivasa Rao opined that ‘stifling’ the voice of the Opposition was nothing but ‘dictatorship’. “It is normal for the Opposition to criticise the government, but the latter should not show intolerance it and indulge in attacks on the leaders of opposition parties and their offices. The ruling party must realise it at least now and uphold democratic values,” he said. TDP leader M. Sri Bharat also alleged that the police were making selective arrests of TDP leaders. ‘Media not allowed’ “I was not allowed to go out of my house by the police on the plea that it may lead to law and order problems. I was not allowed to speak to the media at my house and no justification was given for this,” he said. Expressing his reservations against criticism and mudslinging, Mr. Sri Bharat said: “I am against criticising leaders of any political party, including mine, without a valid reason. But, today all parties are indulging in it. We can’t say one is wrong and the other is right. You (ruling party) can take action against us (Opposition) if we dilute the Constitutional values.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stifling-voice-of-the-opposition-is-dictatorship-say-tdp-leaders/article37102289.ece
21 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP demands apology from Naidu, Pattabhiram||The activists of the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) on Wednesday staged protests at various places in the city, taking strong exception to the alleged derogatory statements made by TDP official spokesperson K. Pattabhiram against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy They demanded an apology from TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu and Mr. Pattabhiram. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, along with YSRCP leaders K.K. Raju, Pedada Ramani Kumari among others, took part in a protest at Thatichetlapalem Junction as the party activists formed a human chain on the National Highway-16. Mr. Srinivasa Rao accusing Mr. Naidu of creating unrest in the State by instigating his party leaders to make derogatory comments against the Chief Minister. “Mr. Naidu is unable to handle pressure at home. He wants to promote his son N. Lokesh in the party, but there is stiff opposition to it. Unable to manage the issue, he is diverting the attention of the people. Mr. Naidu and Mr. Pattabhiram should tender an apology to teh Chief Minister,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. Meanwhile, large number of YSRCP activists led by Visakhapatnam (South) MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar staged a protest near the Mahatma Gandhi statue near the GVMC office. They carried placards saying that Mr. Naidu must apologise to the Chief Minister. YSRCP activists led by VMRDA Chairperson A. Vijaya Nirmala also formed a human chain at the Isukathota Junction. Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari also took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-demands-apology-from-naidu-pattabhiram/article37102292.ece
21 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ENC, Waltair Railway Division bag Rajbhasha trophies||The Eastern Naval Command (ENC) bagged the first position, while the Waltair Division of East Coast Railway secured the second and Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) finished third in the implementation of Hindi. Six Rajbhasha trophies, for effective implementation of Hindi as official language, for the year 2019-20, were presented to Central government offices here. The 73rd Town Official Language Implementation Committee (TOLIC) meeting held at the Divisional Railway Manager’s Office on Wednesday. Three more shields are awarded in the minor offices category to Kendriya Vidyalaya-II, Nausena Bagh- first position; Fisheries Survey of India- second position and Kendriya Vidyalaya-INS Kalinga- third position. Waltair DRM Anup Satpathy, who is also the Chairman of the TOLIC, congratulated all the winning offices. Visakha Bharathi, an e-magazine and e-bulletin, was also released by the members of the TOLIC. Commodore, Rajveer Singh, Hindi Kaman Sampark Adhiikari, Eastern Naval Command, Namonarayana Meena, secretary, TOLIC and ADME, Waltair Railway Division, were among others who spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rajbhasha-trophies-for-enc-waltair-railway-division/article37102276.ece
21 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders condemn attack||BJP State vice-president P. Vishnu Kumar Raju has condemned the attacks on the TDP offices, saying that the attacks that were carried out at different places simultaneously suggest that they were ‘pre-planned’. He, however, said that it was wrong on the part of the TDP leader Pattabhiram to make the ‘uncalled-for remarks’ on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. In a separate statement, BJP Visakhapatnam Parliamentary district president Raveendra Medapati condemned the attacks and described them as a ‘blot on democracy’. He condemned the personal attacks and derogatory remarks made by the TDP leaders on the Chief Minister. “The YSRCP leaders could have initiated legal recourse against the TDP leaders,” he said and called for restraint on the part of the leaders of both parties. He recalled that the BJP had condemned the remarks of the YSRCP leaders on the Opposition parties in the past and the TDP was committing the same mistake now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-condemns-attack/article37102275.ece
21 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagananna Thodu’ to benefit 31,465 people||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that the State government had released about Rs. 1.09 crore to the district under the ‘Jagananna Thodu’ scheme, which would benefit 31,465 people. Taking part in the launch of the ‘Jagananna Thodu’ scheme by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy from Tadepalli in virtual mode on Wednesday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the government was committed to the welfare of the poor. He instructed the ward volunteers to create awareness about the welfare schemes. The ‘Jagananna Thodu’ scheme aims at helping petty businessmen, street vendors, small traders, pushcart vendors, craftsmen and others. Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari, Joint Collector Venugopal Reddy and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagananna-thodu-to-benefit-31465-people/article37102295.ece
21 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Coffee godown work will begin in Visakha Agency soon’||Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna said that the State government had sanctioned about Rs. 1 crore to set up a coffee godown for the farmers of the Visakha Agency. Construction works for the godown will start soon, he added. Speaking as the chief guest of the third annual meet of “The Visakha – Agency Girijan Coffee Rythu Utpathidarula Paraspara Sahayaka Sahakara Sangham Limited’ at Chintapalle on Wednesday, Mr. Gopala Krishna said that they would allocate some space to dump the wastes generated after coffee pulping. “The ITDA is striving to ensure remunerative price for coffee farmers. The ITDA is also exploring ways to provide loans to the farmers to tackle with the issues of middlemen,” said Mr. Gopala Krishna .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coffee-godown-work-to-begin-in-agency-soon/article37102277.ece
21 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sai Avatara Prakatana Dinotsavam’ celebrated||A decorated Sri Sathya Sai Radham (chariot) was flagged off by Nupur Bhatt, wife of Atul Bhatt, CMD, RINL, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, on Wednesday, marking the ‘Avatara Prakatana Dinotsavam’ of Sri Sathya Sai Baba. The rally passed through the township before culminating at the Ukkunagaram Sathya Sai Baba Mandir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sai-avatara-prakatana-dinotsavam-celebrated/article37102290.ece
21 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zero COVID deaths reported in 24 hours||Thirty persons undergoing treatment for COVID-19 infection recovered in the district, while 43 more infections were reported in the last 24 hours, ending Wednesday morning. The cumulative tally increased to 1,57,897 while the recovery rate was put at 98.7 % as the number of recoveries rose to 1,55,997. The death toll stood at 1,094 as zero deaths was reported in the last 24 hours. The active caseload stood at 806.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zero-covid-deaths-reported-in-24-hours/article37102293.ece
21 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attacks carried out with support of police: Ayyanna||TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu on Wednesday described the attacks on the TDP offices as ‘unprecedented’, saying that he had never seen such attacks on political party offices during his 38-year political career. Ayyanna Patrudu, who led a rally taken out by the party leaders at Narsipatnam, alleged that the manner in which the attacks were carried out simultaneously at different districts in the State indicated that it was done with ‘the tacit support of the police’. Taking exception to the statements of Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath that he would ‘kick’ TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, Mr. Patrudu dared the MLA to beat him instead. “Mr. Amarnath’s mother was given a TDP ticket by Mr. Naidu, when the Congress had neglected the family after the death of his father and former Minister Gudivada Gurunadha Rao. Mr. Amarnath had defected to the YSRCP and he is now targeting Mr. Naidu in a bid to catch the attention of the Chief Minister,” he said. Mr. Patrudu alleged again that the excise officials were hand in glove with ganja smugglers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/attacks-carried-out-with-support-of-police-ayyanna/article37102274.ece
21 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP trying to create anarchy: MLA||Parvatipuram MLA Alajangi Jogarao on Wednesday sought unconditional apology from former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu alleging that he was allowing TDP leaders to make derogatory remarks against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Deploring the comments of TDP leaders, he took out a padayatra in in Parvatipuram. “The TDP is trying to destablise the government by encouraging anarchy in the State. ,” said Mr. Jogarao. Parvatipuram Municipal Chairperson Bonu Gowreeswari, Vice Chairpersons K.Rukmini, Indupuri Ganeswara Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-trying-to-create-anarchy-mla/article37101622.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remembering their sacrifice||Amainstay to ensure law and order, the police have been an integral part of every society in some form or the other. The term police have been derived from the Latin word ‘politia’ which means the condition of a State. The term means, a system of regulation for the preservation of order. It broadly refers to the purposeful maintenance of public order and protection of persons and property. Representing the civil authority of government, police typically are responsible for maintaining public order and safety, enforcing the law, and preventing, detecting, and investigating criminal activities. Empowered by the State, the police force is tasked primarily with ensuring the safety and well being of citizens by enforcing the law of the land. An integral part of today’s society, the police are the first responders in any emergency, invariably risking their own lives to assist and rescue. Ensuring that such deeds of valour are recognised and valued, the National Police Commemoration Day, also referred to as the Police Martyrs' Day, is observed every year on October 21 by police departments nationwide. It is on this day that the memory of every police-personnel who sacrificed their life while discharging his or her duty is honoured. This day honours every police martyr who died for ensuring the safety of ordinary citizens. The day commemorates an incident that took place on the Indo-Tibetan border in Ladakh during a China-Indian border dispute in 1959. While on patrol, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was ambushed by Chinese forces. The attack is referred to as the ‘Kongka Pass incident’. In October 1959, Indian troops crossed the Kongka Pass while attempting to establish posts at Tsogstsalu, Hot Springs, and Shamal Lungpa. On 20 October, an initial Indian reconnaissance team was captured by the Chinese forces. On 21 October, a larger search party was formed for the missing reconnaissance team. Chinese troops opened fire and threw grenades at the party of 20 police personnel near the Kongka Pass. Chinese forces had a more favourable position in this engagement. Ten were killed in the incident, which left seven others injured, who were later taken as prisoners. Three weeks later, China returned the bodies of the ten personnel which were later cremated with full police honours at Hot Springs in North Eastern Ladakh. Incidentally, the incident contributed to the heightening of tensions that led to the Sino-Indian War in 1962. Back then, the Indian media described the event a "brutal massacre of an Indian police party." Police personnel had been responsible for manning the 2,500-mile-long border of India with Tibet until the autumn of 1959. A memorial was erected at Hot Springs and members of Police Forces from different parts of the country trek to Hot Springs to pay homage to the martyrs. Since the year 2012, the Police Commemoration Day Parade is being held at the National level at the Police Memorial, Chanakyapuri. In the year 2018, India's first national police museum was inaugurated in Delhi on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day. The museum - depicting the history, artefacts, uniform and gear of central and state police forces - is as an underground facility in the premises of the national police memorial in Delhi’s Chanakyapuri. In Andhra Pradesh, it is the Director-General of Police (DGP) who heads the Police Department of the State. He is assisted by Additional DGPs, each heading various departments like Law and Order, Crime Investigation, Personnel, Intelligence and Security, Recruitment and Training, Armed Police, Technical Services. Every year, the Director-General of Police (DGP) reviews the commemoration day parade, and pays tributes to the police martyrs on October 21.  Uma Chodavarapu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remembering-their-sacrifice/article37102107.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Looming danger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/looming-danger/article37102279.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strict vigil||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strict-vigil/article37102283.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rising complacency over second jab of COVID vaccine||The number of people who have skipped the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine despite completing the prescribed time interval is rapidly climbing. Until October 10, the figure stood at 25 lakh. Now, just about 10 days later, the number stands at a little over 36 lakh. Of the State’s total population of 4.1 crore, around 2.77 crore above the age of 18 years are eligible for the vaccine. The inoculation drive was launched on January 16 this year. Till October 19, around 2.06 crore beneficiaries had taken the first dose and 81.01 lakh the second dose. So, around 69 lakh eligible population in the State are yet to take the first dose, and 36 lakh people who took the first jab have skipped the second one. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said that out of the total COVID-19 cases reported, around 60% patients are unvaccinated, 30% are partially vaccinated, and only 5-10% are fully vaccinated. The senior health official said that chances of hospitalisation, COVID severity and death is low among the people who are fully vaccinated (have taken both doses of the vaccine). Besides, Dr Srinivasa Rao said, development of antibodies is not effective if people skip the second shot. The time interval between first and second dose of Covishield has been reduced to 12 weeks, from 14 to 18 weeks, The second dose of Covaxin has to be taken after four weeks of the first one. The Sputnik V vaccine is administered in two doses at a gap of 21 days Among the 33 districts in the State, more than 50% of first dose recipients took the second dose in only the three urban districts — Hyderabad, Rangareddy, and Medchal-Malkajgiri. The lowest percentage of second dose coverage is in Narayanpet, Kumaram Bheem Asifabad, Adilabad, and Jogulamba-Gadwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rising-complacency-over-second-jab-of-covid-vaccine/article37101951.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lake claims ‘part ownership’ of homes||Several residents of Hanuman Nagar Colony in Tatti Annaram within the limits of Pedda Amberpet Municipality cannot live in their homes for about six to eight months every year. They will have to hand over their premises to neighbouring Oora Cheruvu/Annaram Cheruvu — a lake which enters their homes uninvited. “There are about 10 to 12 houses where one cannot live during and after heavy rains. They are part of 25 to 30 houses which are badly affected by floods to the Oora Cheruvu,” said Kushal Deshmukh, a resident of the colony. Quite a few dwellings, which lie empty now, have continued to be besieged by water from last year’s devastating rains during October. CC roads are submerged in water while sign boards indicating ‘Hanuman Nagar’ stand out. Several owners have rented out their homes, but tenants do not stay here very long. Residents recall that a boy of eight years drowned in the lake during recent rains. “This colony was settled way back in 2004. We all purchased plots unknowingly, trusting the developer who produced a bunch of papers indicating permissions. It was much later when Irrigation officials demarcated the full tank level of the lake that we came to know about the irregularity,” Mr. Deshmukh said. After demarcation of FTL, Revenue officials tried to demolish houses within lake boundaries, prompting the residents to seek legal recourse. “Court directions were favourable to us, and we continued to live here without hassle. As recently as 2018, more houses were permitted in the FTL by municipal authorities,” Mr. Deshmukh said. Still, the residents stayed without any issue till October last when heavy rains lashed the city and surrounding municipalities. Since then, the colony was flooded every time it rained. Copious rainwater flowed downstream from areas such as Autonagar and Hayathnagar, continuously for about a month after the rains, residents say, and blame the Irrigation and GHMC authorities for diverting the flows from above. Officials say, rampant construction activity in the urban peripheries has a lot to do with the diversion in the course of flood water. “The lake’s sluices have been closed, and so is the surplus weir. Last time when it rained, we begged officials to open the weir, but residents of colonies downstream objected. So, the weir could be opened only partially,” said Nagasri, another resident. The lake had a natural drain from the sluice, which was blocked when the radial road for the Outer Ring Road was built from Nagole to Gowrelli, without any provision for drainage underneath, Mr.Deshmukh said. Petitions to public representatives, district administration, HMDA, Irrigation and municipal authorities could not find a resolution to the issue. “We were even threatened with cases for encroachment of FTL by officials from district administration. We were told, ignorance is no excuse! Officials who condoned layouts in the FTL space have gone scot free while we suffer,” Mr.Deshmukh laments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lake-claims-part-ownership-of-homes/article37101966.ece
21 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||DCP remains evasive to SC panel on Disha accused encounter||I don’t know. No. I’m not aware. I’m not in a position to answer. I don’t remember as it’s been almost two years. These were some of the stock replies given by Cyberabad’s Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shamshabad zone) Nyalakonda Prakash Reddy to the several questions posed by the Supreme Court-constituted three-member commission to inquire into the alleged encounter killings of the four accused in the rape and murder of Disha by Telangana police in December 2019. Mr. Reddy, who appeared before the commission once again on Wednesday, was questioned on the parameters for the selection of team in handling the crowd, selection of ‘safe house’ for questioning the alleged accused, the role of Additional DCsP, Special Branch and Special Operations Team, ages of the victims, his briefing about the case and suggesting to the then Cyberabad Commission of Police V.C. Sajjanar to brief the media and why the alleged accused were not produced before the Judicial Magistrate while praying for police custody. On Wednesday too, they told Mr. Reddy that he was trying to run away from the questions. Further, the members asked the officer to clarify the inconsistencies in the timings stated by him in his answers (while explaining the sequence of events) and suggested ‘Do not rush to the answers. We advise you to go through the questions and then answer.’ The officer maintained that he was not aware of the ages of the accused when they were arrested and the then ACP Shadnagar V. Surender had briefed him. When asked if he briefed the CP at the time of the press conference on December 6, 2019, that the firearms of the police officers escorting the accused to the reconstruction of the crime scene were ‘unlocked’ (safety catch: a first position wherein the bolt and the firing pin are unlocked), the DCP requested the panel to elaborate the word ‘Unlock’, as it has different meanings for different firearms. For which, the commission member, a former director of the CBI and retired IPS officer D.R. Karthikeyan commented, “the word unlock is commonly used and understood by everybody. Unlock means ready to fire.” Mr. Reddy answered: SHO Shadnagar had informed me about the weapons and accordingly I told him (Mr. Sajjanar). Further, the panel members asked the officer on whose idea Mr. Sajjanar held the press conferences to reveal the details of the case. Mr. Reddy said as several media personnel, including the correspondent of this newspaper, were continuously requesting him to give updates on the case, he requested the CP to hold the press conferences. Then the commission questioned if he was aware of the observations of the Supreme Court on discouraging media briefings in the ongoing investigation of the offence. “Yes”, the officer replied. Mr. Reddy maintained that Mr. Sajjanar’s statement on DNA profiling of the victim and the accused, and recovery of material objects from the scene of offence were ‘erroneously’ mentioned during the press conference on December 6, 2019. “In my opinion, showing the photos of the accused with faces masked would not offend the dignity of the accused,” Mr. Reddy said when asked if showing the photos of the accused would affect the dignity of the latter. Later, the 2010-batch IPS officer had clarified that he had never associated himself with the supervision of investigation of the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dcp-remains-evasive-to-sc-panel/article37101970.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC notices over non-allotment of double bedroom houses||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday issued notices to the State government and others to explain within four weeks why the nearly one lakh double bedroom houses built by the State government were not being allocated to beneficiaries despite completion of construction. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy passed the direction, after hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition. In addition to the State government represented by the Chief Secretary, notices were issued to Housing Secretary, vice-chairman and managing director of Housing Corporation, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Commissioner Commissioner, Housing and Urban Development Corporation chairman and Collectors of all 33 districts in the State. The petition was filed by N. Indrasena Reddy, former MLA and Bharatiya Janata Party leader, stating that the government had not allotted the completed houses to the beneficiaries for the past one year. According to the petitioner, 1,00,087 houses were ready for occupation but the government chose to allot only 12,656 of them to the beneficiaries, the petitioner’s counsel Srujan Kumar Reddy said. While hearing contentions of the petitioner’s counsel, Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma observed that the petitioner should wait for four more weeks having waited for one year over the issue of allotment of the houses. “This court will wake up the officials,” the Chief Justice said. The petitioner’s counsel contended that the District Collectors were not allotting the completed double bed-room houses due to political pressure. With the completed houses unoccupied, some miscreants were taking advantage and indulging in theft of doors, windows and electric switch boards, he said. The next hearing for the case was posted after four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/notices-over-non-allotment-of-2bhks/article37101974.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fire at Gandhi Hospital||A fire occurred at Gandhi Hospital, Secunderabad, on Wednesday morning. No one suffered injuries. Patients were shifted to another block on the hospital campus as power supply ceased to the main block where the fire accident was reported. Superintendent of the tertiary care hospital, M. Raja Rao said that the fire originated in an electrical box on the ground floor which spread vertically up along the electrical cables in first, second and third floors. Fire-fighters along with the vehicles reached in a span of 15-20 minutes and controlled the fire. The hospital staff too were involved in controlling the fire. Power supply cut “There is no power supply to the North block and it may take time to restore it. We have shifted patients from there to South block. No patient in the North block was on life support. All are elective cases. There is no interruption or inconvenience to their treatment,” said Dr Raja Rao. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy visited the hospital. The superintendent said on Wednesday evening that power was temporarily restored to cellar, fourth to eight floors, and it would be restored to the remaining floors on Thursday. It would take two to three days to replace the electric cables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fire-breaks-out-at-gandhi-hospital/article37101955.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pact for waste conversion tech||CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT), Hyderabad, has signed a memorandum of understanding with Clean-Seas Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Clean-Seas India Pvt. Ltd of the Clean Vision Corporation, to collaborate on waste conversion system technology. Clean Vision Corporation is a global holding company that acquires and operates sustainable clean tech and green energy businesses. IICT will be the knowledge partner for customising Clean-Seas’ waste plastic conversion technology to suit Indian conditions, which will aid in mitigating India’s growing waste streams, converting them into valuable, environment-friendly commodities. The project is currently in planning stage, and the collaboration partners seek to have it operational next year. The collaboration will also extend to cost-effective fuel cell technology to enable the project to complete the value chain from conversion of waste to generation and use of the hydrogen output. The plastic waste streams will be converted into low sulphur fuels to produce electricity for generating clean hydrogen called ‘hydrogen moonshot’. Promising solution “We are sure of bringing out a promising solution that will have an edge over current technologies and will go a long way towards addressing this global crisis,” said IICT director S. Chandrasekhar. “We are honoured to have been chosen to partner with CSIR-IICT which will lead the way to a cleaner and more energy secure environment,” said Clean-Seas India MD Venkat Kumar Tangirala and CEO Dan Bates. CSIR-IICT will help in arrangement of sourcing raw materials locally, while Clean Seas will provide waste conversion technology, construction, operations and finance for the pilot project. The technology will be available for commercialisation once the project implementation is done, said IICT chief scientist D. Shailaja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/csir-iict-signs-agreement-with-clean-seas-for-waste-conversion-tech/article37101958.ece
21 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jeevan Reddy warns Revanth, Arvind against targeting KTR||TRS MLA from Armoor A. Jeevan Reddy has warned TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy and Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Arvind that police cases would be filed against them if they continued to target MA&UD Minister K.T. Rama Rao with baseless allegations. At a press conference here, he said they were nowhere near KTR’s image and stature to criticise him and warned that they would have to face people’s wrath if they continued with their unwarranted criticism. Ridiculing Mr. Revanth’s challenge for debate with KTR, he said the former was no match to discuss with an educated and sophisticated leader like KTR. “Will he discuss in Telugu, English, Hindi or any other language? Neither has he the skills nor the knowledge and discussing such issues is waste of time,” he said and sarcastically arguing that Revanth may win in blackmailing and not in an issue-based debate. The TRS MLA also challenged Mr. Arvind to contest against him in Armoor and people would show him his place. Nizamabad people would teach him a lesson if he continued to criticise TRS MLC Kavitha, he said and reminded that he won because of BJP and Congress colluding in Nizamabad with an ulterior motive. “How did a two-time MP and Congress candidate Madhu Yaskhi lost his deposit in Nizamabad if not for the collusion politics,” he asked. He said the party would move the court against Mr. Arvind for raising drugs issues linking with KTR yet again when there was a stay from the court on the issue. He said the TRS was against ‘Jaganmohan Reddy kind of attacks’ as their leader K. Chandrasekhar Rao never taught them such violent politics. “If we could do we have to attack the party offices of BJP and Congress several times for the loose talk indulged in by their leaders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jeevan-reddy-warns-revanth-arvind-against-targeting-ktr/article37102174.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man with cocaine arrested||A 28-year-old man was caught with 16 grams of cocaine by the Telangana Prohibition and Excise department’s Enforcement wing (Hyderabad) near Tolichowki on Tuesday. The Enforcement Wing’s Excise Superintendent N Anji Reddy said that the accused Buta Singh has revealed that a person by name Alex from Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra, is supplier of cocaine. “He got addicted to cocaine from around three years ago. He started to sell cocaine to customers by purchasing the same at Rs. 4,000 per gram, and sold it at Rs. 7,000 to Rs. 8,000 per gram depending upon the situation. He used to go to Mumbai and collect the drug from the peddler Alex,” said Mr Anji Reddy. Based on a tip-off, Buta Singh was caught while on the way from Gachibowli to Tolichowki. Charred body found The charred body of a man aged between 30-35 years was found in Pahadishareef police station limits on Wednesday early morning. Since around 80% of the body was burnt, identity of the man could not be established immediately. A private company’s watchman saw the body lying at an isolated place located on the way from Pahadishareef to Mamidipally. When the police reached the spot, they saw fumes still coming out of the body. Pahadishareef police inspector C Venkateshwarlu said that they suspect someone killed a person, and burnt the body on Tuesday late night. The body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-with-cocaine-arrested/article37101962.ece
21 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Ministers and MLAs taking all the credit for welfare schemes’||Public representatives of the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) are annoyed with the Telangana government that their participation in government schemes has been reduced drastically and this may impact their goodwill and future political opportunities. Wherever there is an opportunity for their involvement to take some credit for the government welfare schemes, Ministers and MLAs are grabbing them and relegating them to the background. This was one of the main grouses that the party representatives from districts, particularly ZPTCs, MPTCs, sarpanches apart from chairmen of various corporations, have with the government. Their displease stems from the fact that most of the financial benefits of government’s welfare programmes are directly going into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries and they can’t even claim some role in it. Their grouse was brought to the notice of the party high command during the ongoing review meetings of the constituencies being held as a precursor to the party plenary on October 25. TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao admitted that the people’s representatives from the party have asked for increased participation in the welfare programmes like Shaadi Mubarak, KTR Kits or financial support from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF). Rythu Bandhu or Aasra pensions too are directly credited into the beneficiaries’ accounts leaving no scope for corruption but also cutting down the partymen’s role, which they feel is important for gaining positive traction from the schemes for betterment of their political future or even the party’s, a senior leader argued. In some schemes like the Shaadi Mubarak or assistance from CMRF, cheques are distributed by the Ministers or MLAs along with officials. Since Ministers are now touring extensively in their constituencies and districts, they don’t leave any opportunity for others to take credit. KTR is said to have taken note of this request from public representatives in districts and assured to increase their participation. Ultimately, the party benefits from their participation as it increases confidence among the local leaders along with the party is what some leaders claim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ministers-and-mlas-grabbing-limelight-for-welfare-schemes/article37102171.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC gives liberty to govt. to reopen residential schools with hostel||Telangana High Court on Wednesday permitted the State government to take a call on the reopening of all government residential schools, social welfare and tribal welfare schools with hostel facilities. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy passed this direction, modifying an earlier direction given by the previous bench in a PIL petition. Earlier, on August 31, the bench headed by the then Acting Chief Justice had instructed the government not to reopen State-run residential schools on the ground that they did not have adequate infrastructure to check the spread of coronavirus. The bench then said that it would be difficult for the students in the schools and hostels to maintain social distance, and in the absence of proper facilities, the students were likely to contract COVID-19 and become super-spreaders. When the PIL plea came up for hearing, Advocate General B.S. Prasad requested the bench to reopen government residential schools with hostel facilities. Not opening these institutions would deprive their students of quality education, he contended. Due to closure of these orgnisations, the students were facing difficulties and missing the facilities like quality food provided by the government, he said. ‘COVID control good’ CJ Satish Chandra Sharma appreciated the efforts of the Telangana government in checking the spread of COVID-19. “In Telangana, the controlling of coronavirus was good,” he observed. The CJ also remarked that containing the virus in Telangana was good vis-a-vis the States of Kerala and Telangana. The AG maintained that all precautionary measures were being taken by the government to ensure that no student contracted the virus. Standard Operative Procedures were being adhered to by hostel authorities to check spread of COVID-19, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-gives-liberty-to-govt-to-reopen-residential-schools-with-hostel/article37101957.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Housing project gets Rs. 136 cr. investment||The SWAMIH Investment Fund 1 has invested Rs. 136 crore in a gated-community project being developed by Janapriya Projects Pvt Ltd on over 8.212 acres near Sainikpuri in the city. A category II alternative investment fund, the Special Window for Completion of Construction of Affordable and Mid-Income Housing Projects (SWAMIH I) is a government-backed last mile financing platform for affordable housing. The Rs. 12,500-crore Fund, with an option of an additional Rs. 12,500 crore, aims to provide capital for completion of stalled housing projects in the country. Janapriya in a release on Wednesday said the impact of COVID-19 had necessitated the need for funds. The funds from SWAMIH will give the required impetus for completion of the project. The total investment required is Rs. 149.62 crore, the company said. Janapriya chairman K. Ravinder Reddy said project is expected to be completed in 36 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/housing-project-gets-rs-136-cr-investment/article37101963.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DPH defends no-mask outings, calls it ‘strategy’||On countless occasions, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao has urged people to continue wearing mask to prevent COVID-19 infection. However, the senior health official was seen dancing among a group of people, without a mask at celebrations on at least two occasions. Videos of it had gone viral. When this lapse was pointed out at a press conference on Wednesday, Dr Srinivasa Rao defended himself, saying that not wearing a mask generates discussion about mask compliance and leads to adherence among people. He stated that this was “as per our strategy”. He also said that the Health staff have been relentlessly working for the past 18 months, putting their lives at stake and attending COVID patients. Stating that Accredited Social Health Activists, Auxiliary Nursing Midwives, and other Health staff are like his extended family, he said they have all taken two doses of vaccine and so, danced together for a few minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dph-defends-no-mask-outings-calls-it-strategy/article37101953.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Charred body of a man found in Pahadishareef||The charred body of a man aged between 30-35 years was found in Pahadishareef police station limits on Wednesday early morning. Since around 80% of the body was burnt, identity of the man could not be established immediately. A private company’s watchman saw the body lying at an isolated place located on the way from Pahadishareef to Mamidipally. When the police reached the spot, they saw fumes still coming out of the body. Pahadishareef police inspector C Venkateshwarlu said that they suspect someone killed a person, and burnt the body on Tuesday late night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/charred-body-of-a-man-found-in-pahadishareef/article37102158.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Banks’ credit outreach initiative begins||A credit outreach programme being organised by the State Level Bankers’ Committee as part of the Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav celebrations, commemorating the 75th year of Independence, got under way in the State on Wednesday. All 33 districts are to be covered by October 29 under the programme. NABARD, UIDAI and government departments would also participate in the programme to be conducted by the Lead District Manager concerned in coordination with public, private and regional rural banks. The initiative is to create awareness of various credit facilities, including Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, Stand Up India, PMEGP, PMSVANidhi, ECGLS, Agriculture Infrastructure Fund, home and education loans as well as to provide the provisional sanctions. The credit outreach camps were conducted in Mahabubnagar and Khammam on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/banks-outreach-initiative-begins-in-ts/article37102167.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||On-site oxygen generation for Vijaya Healthcare||MVS Engineering, a leading on-site oxygen generation solutions provider, has set up an on-site oxygen generation plant at Vijaya Healthcare in Secunderabad, to supply life saving oxygen to around 50-100 hospital beds. Until now, the hospital’s oxygen supplies were hinging on reserves of liquid oxygen tanks and cylinders kept on standby. “It is a small but timely step that has been taken by Vijaya Healthcare to augment and ensure reliable supply of oxygen at all times to the thousands of patients”, said MVS Engineering executive director, Siddharth Rastogi. “Now it is easier to handle oxycare patients without much depending on the transporter,” said Vijaya Healthcare director Narasimha Rao, said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/on-site-oxygen-generation-for-vijaya-healthcare/article37102155.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Legal tech firm ramps up service||Document execution platform Leegality has completed its integration with National eGovernance Services Ltd (NeSL). Leegality, which serves over 1,000 businesses across the country, including some leading names in BFSI space and fintechs, plans to double its headcount to 100 by December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/legal-tech-firm-ramps-up-service/article37101964.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Canadian Wood villa project coming up||MAK Projects in collaboration with the Canadian Wood of Government of British Columbia, Canada, announced its foray into the city’s maiden premium ‘Canadian Wood Villa Project’ at BTR Greens in ‘Knowledge City’ on Srisailam highway in Maheswaram mandal. MP G. Ranjith Reddy unveiled a replica of the Canadian Wood Villa in the presence of Minister (Commercial), High Commission of Canada Andrew Smith, Canadian Wood country director Pranesh Chhibber and Honorary Consul of Republic of Kazakhstan for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and promoter and managing director of MAK Projects Nawab Mir Nasir Ali Khan. Spread over 250 acres, the 300 premium wood villas are being constructed by MAK Projects. The villas are to be built on 70 acres with club house, squash and tennis court, spas, and theatre, in the first phase. The second phase has provision for 150 custom-built homes spread over 40 acres. Last phase construction of 700 houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/canadian-wood-villa-project-coming-up/article37102157.ece
21 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||191 fresh cases of COVID reported||As many as 191 cases of COVID-19 were recorded in Telangana on Wednesday, taking the infection tally to 6,69,556. While 41,682 samples were put to test, the results of 2,784 were awaited. The new 191 infections include the maximum of 49 from Greater Hyderabad region followed by 19 from Karimnagar, 13 from Rangareddy, 12 from Warangal Urban, and 10 each from Mancherial and Medak districts. No infection was detected in Vikrabad, Narayanpet, or Mulugu. One more patient succumbed to the infectious disease on the day. The death toll now stands at 3,942. As of Wednesday evening, the total active cases in the State were 3,968.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/191-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-reported/article37101960.ece
21 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Award for UoH professor||The Asiatic Society, Kolkata, has conferred the Maya Deb Memorial Lectureship award for the year 2020 on Prof. Meena Hariharan, Professor of Health Psychology, University of Hyderabad. This award is conferred in recognition of her research contributions through her work on psychological and social problems of downtrodden Indian rural women. Twenty-seven scholars from different fields have been chosen for the award for the year 2020. Prof. Hariharan worked for making the rural women literate along with her colleague Prof. Ramabrahmam for 15 years. Alongside the evaluation of literacy campaigns in various districts in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Maharashtra, and Karnataka, she provided counselling and coping techniques to empower the neo-literate women. Her research contribution to the psychosocial approach to cardiac health, which is neglected in particular in women, calls for a special mention. She is the founder president of the Association of Health Psychologists, and the Chief Editor of Indian Journal of Health Studies . Prof. Hariharan’s academic contributions include four books, more than 100 articles, about 15 video lectures, and more than 25 projects. The Centre for Health Psychology was started with her initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/award-for-uoh-professor/article37101972.ece
21 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘NHRC seeks report on ryot suicides due to Dharani’||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to file a report on farmer suicides allegedly due to issues arising out of irregularities in the Dharani portal. Congress leader Bakka Judson, said in a statement here on Wednesday, that the NHRC sought the report based on a complaint filed by him in August this year. Mr. Judson had lodged a complaint that farmers were committing suicide in Telangana due to a ‘defunct’ Dharani portal and inaction by the Revenue department on the irregularities. Mr. Judson also alleged that there was no Revenue Minister or Revenue Secretary in Telangana due to which the issue of ‘land irregularities’ were ignored and people suffered from it. He had requested the commission to intervene into the matter. Mr. Judson said that the NHRC has also sent a copy of the complaint lodged by him and sought a report within four weeks. The commission warned that the authority concerned would be called for a personal appearance if the report was not filed within the stipulated time, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nhrc-seeks-report-on-ryot-suicides-due-to-dharani/article37102172.ece
21 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kishan Reddy to visit Ramappa Temple today||Union Minister of Tourism Kishan Reddy will be visiting Ramappa Temple in Mulugu district near Warangal on Thursday, to participate in an official function. The Minister will also visit the Thousand Pillar Temple and watch the sound and light show at Warangal Fort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kishan-reddy-to-visit-ramappa-temple-today/article37102169.ece
21 October 2021||JAMMIKUNTA (Karimnagar),TELANGANA||Take money from TRS but vote for BJP candidate: Bandi Sanjay||Striking chords with people by asking “Mothers and sisters! Have you all got yourselves vaccinated and did you know Prime Minister Modi gave it for free?”, State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar kicked off his campaign for the Huzurabad bypoll on Wednesday. In all the roadside shows on his first day of canvassing for party nominee Eatala Rajender, the Karimnagar MP tried to convince people that it was the BJP-ruled Central government that was giving more funds to villages. In Ankushapur, Madipally, Machanapalli, Saidabad, Vilasagar, Gandrapalli and Sayampet villages, where he campaigned, the MP read out precise details of Central funds allotted for construction of graveyards, building infrastructure and other programmes. Realising that people cannot withstand the scorching heat, he was crisp, to the point and concluded each of his speech, laced with criticism of ruling TRS party policies, in less than 15 minutes. The Telangana BJP chief, known for his rabble-rousing talks, alleged that the ruling TRS was gearing up to give Rs. 20,000 for each vote this time. “That is your money….without any hesitation accept it...but vote for Eatala Rajender,” he said, as people responded with claps. The MP refuted the criticism that Dalit Bandhu scheme was deferred because of his party. “Narasimha Swamy is my home god...I will come to Yadadri and swear that I did not do anything to stop it,” he said. He compared the deferment of Dalit Bandhu to Rs. 10,000 financial assistance given to flood-affected families in Hyderabad before GHMC elections. “The TRS supremo fooled people in Baldia elections and is using the same tactics here in Huzurabad,” he charged. The BJP chief sought to know what sacrifices has KCR or any of his family members made to secure separate Telangana State. “Constable Kishtaiah shot himself dead to achieve Telangana...Srikantha Chary torched himself to death...But KCR’s son, nephew, daughter and his relatives got posts”, Mr. Sanjay said. BJP is going to step up the campaign with more leaders, including Union Minister G. Kishen Reddy and former MP Vijayashanti, arriving in Huzurabad in the next two to three days. Sources said that either party president Nadda or Union Home Minister Amit Shah would join the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/take-money-from-trs-but-vote-for-bjp-candidate-bandi-sanjay/article37102166.ece
21 October 2021||JHANSILINGAPUR (MEDAK),TELANGANA||Hope for patients with fractures||B. Narasimhulu, who is in his 30s, fell from a tree about four months ago at his native place resulting in several fractures. He had visited hospitals at Gajwel and Kamareddy but that was of no use and he ended up losing a lot of money. This is when he came to know about MRK Ayurvedic Hospital located at Ramayampet mandal of Medak district, being run by Manegalla Ramakishtaiah. “When I came here, I was unable to move, literally. I was confined to a room for about one month. Now, I am able to walk with the help of a walker. I am confident that I will be normal in the next few months,” Mr. Narasimhulu told The Hindu . Patients come to this hospital even from neighbouring States like Maharashtra. Lakshman from Kandi in Sangareddy district brought his son here. His son had a fracture in his leg about a week ago after falling from a vehicle. They were asked to shell out about Rs. 50,000 at a private hospital in the district headquarters. This made Lakshman to come to Jhansilingapur. He was here with his son and wife and made all preparations to stay for a few months. Some patients stay here in single room accommodations available for Rs. 2,000 per month. “I am suffering from sciatica for the last 12 years. I spent about Rs. 10 lakh for treatment so far. But, after coming here I got cured,” said Suresh, who came to this hospital from Suchitra area in Secunderabad. Ramakishtaiah prepares medicines from plant extracts. He has a farm at Bikkanur where he cultivates medicinal plants and prepares the medicines himself. He got this medicinal expertise from his father, and now his son Bhaskar is continuing this practice. Bhasker completed his MBBS and is practising at Ramayampet mandal headquarters. This type of treatment was first started by Bagaiah in 1912 and then Lachaiah, Ramakishtaiah’s father, respectively. “I prepare medicines from herbs. I take nominal fees from patients as most of them come from poor background. I feel happy when they walk out of my hospital with a smile on their face. This gives me utmost satisfaction,” Mr. Ramakishtaiah told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hope-for-patients-with-fractures/article37102177.ece
21 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Legal services expo held||A legal services exhibition was organised under the aegis of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ to commemorate 75 years of the country’s Independence at the new bus stand premises here on Wednesday. Senior civil judge and the DLSA secretary Mohammed Abdul Javeed Pasha inaugurated the exhibition in the presence of a host of panel lawyers, para-legal volunteers and people from different walks of life. Posters were put up at the exhibition highlighting the services of the legal services institutions such as free legal aid for the poor and marginalised sections of the society for ensuring access to justice for all and alternative dispute resolution mechanism — Lok Adalat, among others. Speaking on the occasion, the DLSA secretary said legal awareness camps were conducted in around 757 villages with the active participation of panel lawyers, para-legal volunteers, law students, NSS volunteers and others so far. The remaining villages will be covered by November 14 to spread awareness on legal rights and free legal services in rural areas, he added. An estimated 2,400 buses pass through the Khammam new bus station, which has a footfall of around 40,000 passengers a day, and as such it was chosen as the venue for the exhibition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/legal-services-expo-held/article37102162.ece
21 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Mock e-voting held||Around 55.6% of the total 3,830 persons, who registered their names through the distributed ledger technology based e-voting application, participated in the dummy election (mock e-voting) conducted by the Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) as part of the dry run of the country’s first smartphone-based e-voting solution, on a pilot basis in Khammam on Wednesday. According to sources, as many as 2128 registered voters in Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits participated in the mock voting through the “TSEC eVote” Android app from 7 am to 5 pm on Wednesday. The TSEC’s digital initiative is a collaborative effort involving the Emerging Technologies Wing of the State IT Department and the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) to create an e-voting facility for certain sections of the electors including differently abled voters to make elections more inclusive and accessible. 3,830 people participated Sources said that 14,804 persons tried to register their names for the mock voting through the mobile app during the stipulated period. However, only 3,830 persons succeeded in enrolling their names through the DLT-based e-Voting application. Many applicants reportedly faced technical glitches during the registration process due to reasons like failure to link their Aadhaar cards with mobile phone numbers, among other factors, sources added. In a statement, Khammam Municipal Commissioner Adarsh Surabhi said the mock voting (dry run for e-voting) was conducted successfully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telengana-poll-panel-conducts-mock-e-voting/article37101843.ece
21 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||BRF||An action plan to resolve podu land issues and protection of forests has been virtually set into motion with a team of senior officials of the forest and other allied departments holding a crucial review meeting with Collectors of Khammam, Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Nalgonda districts here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article37102178.ece
21 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Rs. 4.11 crore unaccounted cash seized from SUV||Bundles of cash amounting to Rs. 4.11 crore, being transported from Hyderabad to Chennai, in what the police suspect to be the handiwork of a hawala network, were seized by Chityala police in the wee hours of Wednesday. The police, who were checking vehicles near Chityal bus stand at around 1 a.m., on NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) stretch, pinned their suspicion on a black SUV as its occupants reportedly attempted evading the search. A thorough search later exposed the hidden business. According to the police, the vehicle had two occupants and they were identified as Veerendra from Maharashtra and K. Babu from Karnataka. The vehicle was reportedly heading towards Chennai. Police said that the occupants did not produce any documents supporting the volume of cash being transported and also did not disclose other details. The recovered amount, police said, was handed over to Income Tax authorities. A probe has been launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-411-crore-unaccounted-cash-seized-from-suv/article37102164.ece
21 October 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Vandemataram Foundation to offer free teacher training||Vandemataram Foundation, an NGO working on education related issues, is offering free six months training in teaching. The focus will be on new education policy. Any graduate can apply for admission. Free accommodation and food will be offered during the training period and the focus will be on language, logic and life skills. After successful completion of training, the candidates will be offered Rs. 10,000 cash reward and a certificate will be presented. Those who completed any degree are eligible to apply. The interviews will be held on October 24 at Vandemataram Research Centre, Akashara Vanam, Kalvakurthi, Nagarkurnool district. Interested can contact Venkatesh - 93989 71916 or Ravinder - 87901 85815.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vandemataram-foundation-to-offer-free-teacher-training/article37102159.ece
21 October 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Narayan Reddy’s fight for landless poor recalled||CPI State secretary Chada Venkata Reddy said that Comrade Narayan Reddy was a sincere leader and constructing a building on his name will be paying a rich tributes to him. Addressing a gathering after laying foundation stone for construction of a building at Magdum Nagar colony in the district headquarters along with District Congress Committee (DCC) president Nirmala Jayaprakash Reddy on Monday, he said that Narayan Reddy had fought for the right of landless poor and was instrumental in getting houses for them. Party leaders Syed Azeez Pasha, K. Sambashiva Rao, Municipal Chairperson B Vijaya Lakshmi were present .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/narayan-reddys-fight-for-landless-poor-recalled/article37102160.ece
21 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder draws flak from Cong., Akali and AAP leaders||A day after former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced that he would launch his own party, he came in for strong criticism from key political parties in the State on Wednesday. Hitting out at Capt. Amarinder Singh (retd.), Punjab’s Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa termed him an opportunist. Mr. Randhawa also blamed Capt. Singh for enhancement of powers of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Punjab. Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said “It is now clear that Capt. Amarinder Singh was aligned with the BJP all along and backstabbed his party as well as Punjabis.” “The cosy relationship that Capt. Singh shared with the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also clear from the fact that despite being an opposition Chief Minister, the BJP never went after him like they did in the case of Mamata Bannerjee and others. The most the PM said about him was that he was a ‘swatantar fauji’ (independent soldier). Capt. Singh’s announcement that he would form his own party and align with the BJP is proof that the independent ‘fauji’ was always working in collusion with the BJP,” she said. The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha in a statement said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is making every effort to prevent the Aam Aadmi Party from forming a government in Punjab. While the Bharatiya Janata Party, Akali Dal and the Congress are failing to stop the Aam Aadmi Party from forming a government in Punjab, the Prime Minister has fielded his beloved Capt. Amarinder Singh through a fourth party, to prevent the formation of the AAP government [next year].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amarinder-draws-flak-from-cong-akali-and-aap-leaders/article37101845.ece
21 October 2021||Kochi,||Mueen Ali appears before ED||Sayed Mueen Ali Shihab Thangal, son of Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) Kerala chief Panakkad Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate officials in Kochi on Wednesday in connection with the agency probe into allegations of money laundering using Chandrika daily, the mouthpiece of the IUML. The ED launched a probe after complaints that Rs. 10 crore, which was suspected to be part of the kickbacks related to the Palarivattom flyover corruption, was laundered by using the accounts of the daily. Mr. Mueen had earlier held IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty responsible for the financial crisis the newspaper was facing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mueen-ali-appears-before-ed/article37101842.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||Open fair price shop in Baprola so that poor are served well: HC||The Delhi High Court has asked the AAP government to open a fair price shop (FPS) at Rajiv Ratan Awas Yojana, Phase-2, Baprola, for the convenience of more than 800 families mostly belonging to the economically weaker section. Justice Nazmi Waziri took note that the nearest FPS is approximately 2.5 km away, and women have to walk through deserted stretches and forest areas to fetch rations and feed their families. “It is in the interest of the State to ensure that citizens do not have to chart their ways through difficult areas simply to get foodgrains at subsidised prices,” Justice Waziri said. “In the special facts and circumstances, it is appropriate that the Delhi government open an FPS in the aforesaid place or in the immediate vicinity...so that the poorest of the poor are served well by the State,” the court ordered. The court’s direction came while hearing a plea for an FPS by residents of Rajiv Ratan Awas Yojana. The government said that there are only 320 ration cardholders in the area; therefore it may not be feasible to operate an FPS with a small amount of margin money. The margin money is Rs. 2 per kg of foodgrain supplied by an FPS. Generally, each FPS caters to about 1,000 ration cardholders, it said. Exception to rule The High Court, however, highlighted that there is an exception to the rule where an FPS can be opened for lesser numbers. As per the guidelines for allotment of FPS outlets, as notified by the Delhi government in August 1997, an FPS can be established in an area where there are about 1,000 food cardholders and about 1,400 cards in case of kerosene oil depot. The guidelines also provided that in case of JJ (jhuggi jhopri) clusters and other areas inhabited by poorer sections of society, and in special cases, relaxation of norms for opening of a new PDS outlet can also be considered. The High Court ordered the Delhi government to submit a compliance affidavit by November 30, and posted the case for further hearing on December 8. During the hearing, the counsel, representing the petitioner, said that there exists a community centre in the residential area and a portion of it has already been earmarked for opening of an FPS. The counsel contended that due to the long distance of 2.5 km for the nearest FPS, the morsel of food comes at a palpable cost to the safety and security of the residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/open-fair-price-shop-in-baprola-so-that-poor-are-served-well-hc/article37101821.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. announces Rs. 50,000 per hectare compensation for farmers||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced Rs. 50,000 per hectare as compensation for farmers whose crops have been damaged in the unseasonal rain. Mr. Kejriwal claimed that this amount was the highest in the country and that efforts were on to ensure that farmers receive it within two months. The officials concerned, the CM said, had been directed to complete surveying the damaged crops in a fortnight following which the compensation would reach the affected farmers’ accounts. “A few days ago, I met a delegation of farmers who apprised me of how the unseasonal rain had ruined their crops. I want to tell all the farmers of Delhi that they need not worry about the situation,” Mr. Kejriwal said at a digital briefing. “I stand with you. Ever since we came to power 6-7 years ago, we have been giving a compensation of Rs. 50,000 per hectare whenever crops have been damaged in Delhi,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said this compensation amount was the highest provided by a government in the country with most States disbursing around Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 10,000 per hectare. “I want to assure all the farmers that we will help and support them; their compensation will reach their accounts as soon as possible,” he added. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri termed the announcement a victory for, and a result of pressure from, the BJP. He, however, said that the amount of compensation was less and it must be increased along with the fulfilment of other outstanding demands of the Capital’s farmers. “The compensation amount is very less and should be increased to Rs. 50,000 per acre. The farmers should also get subsidy for the purchase of diesel, electricity and agricultural machinery like in other States,” Mr. Bidhuri demanded. “If these demands are not met, the BJP will launch an agitation in the interests of Delhi’s farmers after Diwali,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-announces-rs-50000-per-hectare-compensation-for-farmers/article37101831.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||House help kidnaps 7-year-old boy, demands Rs. 1.10 cr. ransom||A 22-year-old house help has been arrested for allegedly kidnapping a seven-year-old boy from Shahdara’s Gandhi Nagar for a ransom of Rs. 1.10 crore, the police said on Wednesday. Joint Commissioner of Police (Eastern Range) Sagar Preet Hooda said that the accused has been identified as Monu from Uttar Pradesh. He was arrested with the help of technical surveillance, the police said. DCP (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said that they received a PCR call at 4 p.m. on Tuesday from the boy’s father, who said that the minor had been kidnapped by their help who they had hired about a week ago to look after the child. The father said that Monu had gained the boy’s trust and on Tuesday evening, he took the child on the pretext of buying him some edibles and didn’t return for an hour. “Our other house help said that Monu had taken his phone and when we called, the number was switched off. When we tried again, it was on and he picked up and said that he was bringing him in half an hour. But when we called again after half an hour, he said that he would only return the child after we gave him Rs. 1.10 crore,” the father, who runs a mineral water plant, said. The police registered a case and began investigation. “The phone was put on technical surveillance while the family negotiated that they could not pay more than Rs. 10 lakh but he refused to reduce the ransom amount and switched off the phone,” Mr. Sathiyasundaram said. The family, along with police officials, then roamed the area where the phone location was traced and finally, the boy and the accused were spotted near Gokulpuri metro station. The boy was rescued and the accused was arrested. On interrogation, the police said, Monu disclosed that he was planing to buy a flat in Mumbai using the ransom money. The boy’s family said that Monu had gained the child’s trust in a week so much so that when the police were arresting him, he asked them not to do so, as Monu was his uncle.  The family negotiated that they could not pay more than Rs. 10 lakh but he refused to reduce the ransom amount R. Sathiyasundaram DCP (Shahdara)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/house-help-kidnaps-7-year-old-boy-demands-rs-110-cr-ransom/article37101825.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM invites oil majors to partner with India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday interacted with chief executives of global and Indian oil majors and invited them to partner with India in exploration and development of the oil & gas sector in the country. The sixth such annual interaction, which comes amid soaring prices of petrol and diesel in the country, was attended by Saudi Aramco President & CEO Amin Nasser, British Petroleum CEO Bernard Looney, Rosneft Chairman & CEO Dr. Igor Sechin, Schlumberger Limited CEO Olivier Le Peuch, Honeywell UOP President & CEO Bryan Glover, Reliance Industries CMD Mukesh Ambani and Vedanta Limited Chairman Anil Agarwal, among others. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Hardeep Puri, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar and Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant were also part of the virtual meeting. As per the official release, during the meeting, talking about the oil sector, Mr. Modi said that the focus has shifted from ‘revenue’ to ‘production’ maximization. Further, he touched upon the need to enhance storage facilities for crude oil and talked about the rapidly growing natural gas demand in the country. “He talked about the current and potential gas infrastructure development including pipelines, city gas distribution and LNG regasification terminals,” the statement said, adding that the Prime Minister discussed in detail the reforms undertaken in the oil and gas sector in the last seven years, including the ones in exploration and licensing policy, gas marketing, policies on coal bed methane, coal gasification, and the recent reform in Indian Gas Exchange. Such reforms will continue with the goal to make India ‘Aatmanirbhar’ in the oil & gas sector’, he said. “He said that India is a land of openness, optimism and opportunities and is brimming with new ideas, perspectives and innovation. He invited the CEOs and experts to partner with India in exploration and development of the oil and gas sector in India,” it added. CEOs’ take The CEOs on their part said that India is adapting fast to newer forms of clean energy technology, and can play a significant role in shaping global energy supply chains. They talked about ensuring sustainable and equitable energy transition, and also gave their inputs and suggestions about further promotion of clean growth and sustainability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pm-invites-oil-majors-to-partner-with-india/article37101839.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||Turning off engines at signal can help reduce pollution by 15%: Rai||Air pollution caused by vehicles can be reduced by 15%-20% if everyone takes part in the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Wednesday. “This campaign is a great initiative to reduce vehicular pollution in Delhi. The aim of the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign is to stop the burning of fuel in vehicles parked at intersections. If the two crore people of Delhi do their part with full responsibility, then we can reduce the vehicular pollution by 15%-20%,” Mr. Rai said. The campaign is voluntary. “I call upon the two crore people of Delhi. This entire campaign is on your shoulders. This campaign will run till November 18. We are confident that the way we are running the anti-dust campaign in Delhi, we will also see success similarly with this campaign,” he said. The Delhi government started the campaign earlier this week and appealed to citizens to turn off their vehicles when the traffic signal is red. “To give further impetus to the initiative, all the MLAs of Delhi will campaign at Chandgi Ram Akhara on Thursday,” Mr. Rai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/turning-off-engines-at-signal-can-help-reduce-pollution-by-15-rai/article37101830.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||SDMC schools to get 586 primary teachers||Addressing the shortage of teaching staff at primary schools falling under the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), Samagra Shiksha-Delhi has announced the engagement of 586 schoolteachers, on a contractual basis, under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA). The move comes after Mayor Mukesh Suryan wrote a letter to Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, stating that there was a “shortfall of 600 teachers”, which were to be “urgently filled with contractual teachers as a temporary measure”. Mr. Suryan said that these teachers had been serving at SDMC schools “since 2001” and “could not be engaged during the pandemic period”. “These teachers are now under the SSA and they will have a regular renewal of their contracts, unlike previous instances where they had to wait and do multiple follow-ups,” he said in the letter. Currently, there are close to three lakh students studying in SDMC schools. Reacting to the decision, some heads of SDMC schools said that they faced “bigger issues” and that the move “would make no difference” to their situation. A school official, who did not wish to be named, said he faced a “massive” shortage of teachers for the “evening shift”. “We have only 14 teachers handling the evening shift; there are 21 vacancies that need to be filled. I do not think we will get any teachers from the 586 that have been approved. These 586 teachers were serving on a contractual basis even before, except the lockdown period,” he said. He added that close to “400 students” had enrolled in the current academic year for the evening shift and the teaching staff were inadequate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-schools-to-get-586-primary-teachers/article37101838.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||City’s air quality falls to ‘poor’ category, expected to worsen||The air quality in the city deteriorated from “satisfactory” category on Tuesday to “poor” on Wednesday. It is expected to worsen further, as per official data. “In the presence of local dry weather and north-westerly wind, local dust emission will lead to high PM10. Additional dust transport from desert areas is very likely. Fire emission from upwind region will increase PM2.5 concentration as winds are from north-west region at transport level. The overall AQI is likely to degrade to higher end of moderate or poor category for the next three days,” said monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). Also, the share of stubble burning in neighbouring States in causing air pollution is likely to increase in the next two days if there is no rain. The AQI of Delhi was 221 on Wednesday, up from 69 on Tuesday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours and considered the day’s AQI. Surprise checks Meanwhile, Rs. 3.07 crore has been levied as environmental compensation charge on construction and demolition sites in Delhi and NCR for violating dust control measures, as per the Commission for Air Quality Management. Following the directions of the commission, dedicated teams were deployed in the States to inspect construction and demolition (C&D) sites. “They have so far carried out surprise checks and inspections at more than 6,596 sites, of which 963 sites were found to be non-compliant with various C&D waste management rules and dust mitigation measures. Further, an amount of approximately Rs. 3.07 crore has been levied as environmental compensation charge against the defaulting agencies, besides orders for stoppage of work at 52 locations,” an official statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/citys-air-quality-falls-to-poor-category-expected-to-worsen/article37101828.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||225-foot-long national flag to be displayed at Red Fort||The 225-foot-long monumental national flag made by the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC), which was unveiled earlier in Leh, will be displayed at Red Fort to celebrate 100 crore COVID-19 vaccinations on Thursday. The tricolour made of Khadi, which weighs 1,400 kg, is 150 feet wide and was conceptualised to celebrate “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”. It was displayed at Leh in the Union Territory of Ladakh on October 2. As many as 180 Army jawans tugged the flag to a hilltop, 13,000 feet above sea level. The Army is the custodian of the flag as the flag code has to be adhered while displaying it. A KVIC official said the flag will be used on a rotational basis for all events of national importance in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/225-foot-long-national-flag-to-be-displayed-at-red-fort/article37101836.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||North Delhi civic body launches online portal for funeral services||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday announced the launch of its online cremation and burial grounds application that will give users real-time updates on availability of slots and will also generate digital cremation slips. Mayor Raja Iqbal Singh said users can utilise the service through the online portal section on the civic body’s website. “The North civic body is making an all-out effort to provide services to the citizens at their doorsteps,” he added. Currently, there are 12 crematoria under the North Delhi corporation’s jurisdiction. They are Nigam Bodh Ghat, Inder Puri, Panchkuian Road, Satnagar, Beri Wala Bagh, Wazirpur, Paschim Vihar cremation ground, Haiderpur cremation ground, Rohini Sector-26 cremation ground, Mangol Puri cremation ground, Mangol Puri cemetery and Mangol Puri burial ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/north-delhi-civic-body-launches-online-portal-for-funeral-services/article37101833.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT announces scholarships, seed funding||IIT-Delhi on Wednesday announced an Endowment Merit Scholars Programme that will provide 120 merit scholarships every year to batches of 15 women and 15 men pursuing BTech/dual degree. It also announced an Endowment Nurture Fund that aims to offer graduating students an opportunity to be awarded seed funding for their proposed ventures, encouraging them to embark on developing and nurturing their entrepreneurial ideas and aspirations rather than seeking job placement, the institute said. The institute had last year established the IIT-D Endowment Fund and had announced the two initiatives to encourage diversity in scholastic excellence and entrepreneurship. Ramgopal Rao, Director of IIT-Delhi and chairman of the Endowment Fund Board, said that the institute has taken a historic step with the establishment of the Endowment Fund, and it is encouraging to receive the collective support of the alumni towards the realisation of the institute’s vision. “The endowment initiative has helped the institute connect with the alumni at a deeper level and engage them on a variety of activities,” Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/iit-announces-scholarships-seed-funding/article37101826.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||Hotel employee held with 90 kg firecrackers||The Delhi police have arrested a 26-year-old man, an employee of a five-star hotel, for allegedly possessing 90 kg firecrackers, which he had planned to sell, in central Delhi’s Jama Masjid area. Constable Dharmender and assistant sub-inspector P.R. Patnayak arrested the accused, identified as Mohd. Azim, along with a plastic bag containing 90 kg firecrackers on Tuesday. The accused is a resident of Dharampura in Jama Masjid area, the police said, adding that he has been booked under Section 286 (acting rashly or negligently with an explosive substance to endanger human life) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections of the Indian Explosive Act. Significantly, the DPCC had banned the sale and possession of firecrackers in the NCR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hotel-employee-held-with-90-kg-firecrackers/article37101822.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||Valmiki Jayanti to be celebrated on grand scale, says Kejriwal||The Delhi government will celebrate Valmiki Jayanti on a grand scale at Thyagaraj Stadium on Saturday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday. The Chief Minister made the announcement following his visit to the Valmiki Temple at Mandir Marg, which is located in his Assembly Constituency of New Delhi. “This is the first time that the occasion will be marked on such a grand scale and each citizen of Delhi is invited to be part of the celebrations,” Mr. Kejriwal was quoted as saying. The CM said that the Ramayana is a legendary epic that tells society about the Dharma of each and every person in this world. “If we adopt the path shown by Lord Valmiki even fractionally in our lives, then we will be able to lead much better lives,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/valmiki-jayanti-to-be-celebrated-on-grand-scale-says-kejriwal/article37101832.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||City reports 25 cases, no deaths||The city reported no COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours and the total number of fatalities stood at 25,090, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Twenty-five new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,39,466. A total of 56,293 tests were conducted in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.04%. There are 310 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-reports-25-cases-no-deaths/article37101835.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||3 held in make-up artist murder case||Three youths were arrested for their alleged involvement in the murder of a 24-year-old aspiring make-up artist in Dwarka’s Bindapur in the early hours of Tuesday, the police said, adding that it appears to be a case of sudden provocation. DCP (Dwarka) Shankar Chaudhary said that the three have been identified as Ankit Gaba, who can be seen in the CCTV footage attacking the victim, identified as Dolly Babbar alias Kishu, and Himanshu and Manish Sharma, who were with Ankit at the time of the incident. But the role of the duo is being examined. Mr. Chaudhary said that the incident occurred near the victim’s house after a party at an under-construction building where the four of them — Dolly and the three accused — got together and drank. “During the party, a heated argument broke out between Ankit and Dolly over personal issues, which turned into a fight. He then stabbed her in the presence of Himanshu and Manish,” the DCP said. The police said that the accused already had a knife in his two-wheeler. “While it appears to be a case of sudden provocation, the presence of a weapon in his vehicle puts a question mark over whether the murder was planned,” Mr. Chaudhary said. Escape plan During investigation, it was revealed that after committing the crime, they escaped to Patiala. “After they found that the police were chasing them and they couldn’t find a permanent hideout, they decided to return to Delhi and dispersed after reaching here. Himanshu and Manish were arrested in Dwarka Mor and Ankit was arrested at an under-construction building in Dwarka Sector-23,” he said. Ankit, while trying to evade arrest, fell from the second floor of the building and injured his legs, Mr. Chaudhary said, adding that he has been admitted to a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-held-in-make-up-artist-murder-case/article37101824.ece
21 October 2021||Reuters,||Russia presses Taliban to open up govt.||Russia increased pressure on the Taliban on Wednesday to create an inclusive government representing a broad spectrum of Afghan society, as it hosted their new administration at a major conference for the first time since they took power. Pakistan, China, Iran, India and former Soviet Central Asian states joined Taliban officials at the Moscow meeting. The United States stayed away, citing technical reasons. With Afghanistan facing economic collapse and a humanitarian catastrophe, Moscow called for international aid to support Kabul, conscious that any spillover could threaten regional stability. “Nobody is interested in the complete paralysis of an entire state, which borders, among other things, the CIS (Commonwealth of Independent States),” said Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov. Boosting influence Russia's initiative in hosting the talks is part of an effort to boost its influence in the region after the United States withdrew its forces from Afghanistan and the Taliban took control of the country. Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said he regretted the U.S. absence from the talks, the biggest international meeting on the region since the Taliban victory in August. Mr. Lavrov struck a conciliatory tone towards the Taliban government, which is seeking international diplomatic legitimacy that would bolster its calls to unfreeze assets held in the West and let aid flow. Political bargaining But Moscow has been reluctant to accord formal recognition, calling for human rights to be guaranteed and more inclusivity in the government, dominated by ethnic Pashtuns from the core leadership of the movement. “A big political bargaining is going on,” President Vladimir Putin’s special representative on Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov, told reporters. He said the expectations of the international community had to be met, adding: “This means both human rights and inclusivity.” The Taliban say they have moved as quickly as possible on opening up their government and guaranteeing rights to women, and that they do not represent a threat to any other country. “Isolating Afghanistan is in no one's interests,” said Abdul Salam Hanafi, the Deputy Prime Minister who led the delegation. Moscow is mainly concerned about the risk of instability in Central Asia, and possible migrant flows and Islamist militant activity directed from Afghanistan. The concerns have intensified after a series of attacks by the local affiliate of Islamic State — dubbed Islamic State-Khorasan after an ancient name for the region — on mosques and other targets that have killed hundreds of people. Mr. Lavrov urged the Taliban “to prevent the use of Afghanistan's territory against third countries, most importantly neighbours”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-presses-taliban-to-open-up-govt/article37101257.ece
21 October 2021||Washington,||Alignment of U.S., India interests makes a great difference: Burns||U.S. President Joe Biden’s nominee for the post of Ambassador to Beijing, Nicholas Burns, said the alignment of U.S. and Indian interests in the Indo-Pacific “makes a great difference” in terms of the challenges posed by China. Mr. Burns was answering a question on the U.S.’s opportunities and constraints in collaborating with different countries while dealing with Beijing. “The comparative advantage that we have versus China is that we have treaty allies. We have partners who deeply believe in us and the Chinese really do not,” Mr. Burns said, highlighting U.S. President Joe Biden’s emphasis on treaty partnerships in the Indo-Pacific, such as with Japan, Australia, South Korea, Thailand and Indonesia. He also mentioned India which is not a treaty partner but a ‘Major Defence Partner’ and a country that regularly holds bilateral and multilateral security exercises with the U.S. “As you know — and I think every administration since President [Bill] Clinton has been working on this — we have a newfound security partner in India, that makes a great difference to have Indian and American interests aligned as they clearly are, strategically, in the Indo-Pacific,” Mr. Burns said. As a foreign services officer, Mr. Burns had played a key negotiating role in the U.S.-India Civil Nuclear Agreement. He held senior positions in both Democrat and Republican administrations — a point that came up during his hearing. Currently Mr. Burns is a professor at the Harvard’s John F. Kennedy School of Government. Giving credit to former President Donald Trump and his Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, for reinvigorating the Quad grouping of countries, Mr. Burns said President Biden had organised two leader-level meetings of the Quad already. He also said the U.S.’s newly launched security partnership with the U.K. and Australia (AUKUS) was “transformational”. Overall, Mr. Burns said he would support the Biden administration’s policy of “vigorously” competing with China in some areas (economy, infrastructure, technology) and cooperating in other areas (such as climate action), while also holding China accountable for its actions in the Indo-Pacific. Mr. Burns also supported the U.S. speaking out against human rights abuses in China, and said that genocide was occurring in Xinjiang. Substantial weaknesses “…The People’s Republic of China is not an Olympian power. It’s a country of extraordinary strength, but it also has substantial weaknesses and challenges, demographically, economically, politically, we should have confidence in our strengths,” he said. Beijing’s recent actions towards Taiwan (China has sent a record number of jets into Taiwan’s Air Defence Identification Zone this month) were “especially objectionable”, Mr. Burns said. However, he added that the U.S. is right to continue its ‘One China’ policy — a policy that recognises that there is only one legal government of China but is compatible with the U.S. providing military assistance to Taiwan (as outlined in the U.S.’s Taiwan Relations Act of 1979). “Given what China has done … I think the Congress and the executive branch have every right to continue to deepen our security cooperation, to expand our arms provisions to Taiwan. That’s the most important thing we can do,” he said, adding that the Act also called for providing the strongest possible deterrent in the ‘Western Pacific’ (Indian Ocean). “As a third measure, we ought to be asking and we are asking our allies, to show a real commitment to Taiwan and we’re seeing that from Japan and other allies,” he said, adding that the U.S. had to be very clear in criticising China on its actions against Taiwan. At various points in his testimony, Mr. Burns said it was important for the U.S. to work with both Indo-Pacific partners as well as European allies with regard to the challenges from Beijing. In response to a question on whether allies were “retreating” , i.e., shying away from confronting challenges with China, he said he was not observing that. “I don’t see retreat. Certainly I think we’re seeing a stiffening of the resolve of Japan, which is so important for us. Australia, rock solid on these issues. India…not a treaty ally but a strategic military partner in the Bay of Bengal …[is] very important for us,” he said. On Europe, he said countries had different views and that the German position would be clear once the new government was formed — the views of the Social Democrats and Greens being key. “I would note that the Greens were very critical of China during the recent campaign,” he said, adding that in France, President Emmanuel Macron had spoke out about China too. The U.S. and France have recently been mending fences over a rift in their relationship over AUKUS. The confirmation hearings of Rahm Emanuel, former Mayor of Chicago, who is the administration’s nominee to Tokyo, and entrepreneur Jonathan Kaplan, the nominee to Singapore, were also conducted conducted on Wednesday. A confirmation date has not been announced for Mr. Biden’s pick for New Delhi, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/alignment-of-us-india-interests-makes-a-great-difference-burns/article37101588.ece
21 October 2021||Brussels,||Jailed Russian Opposition leader wins top EU prize||Imprisoned Russian Opposition leader Alexei Navalny was awarded the European Union’s top human rights prize on Wednesday in a clear slap to President Vladimir Putin. In awarding the Sakharov Prize to Mr. Navalny, the European Parliament praised his “immense personal bravery”. The 45-year-old activist was poisoned with a nerve agent last year and promptly arrested upon his return to Moscow from treatment in Germany and later imprisoned. “He has campaigned consistently against the corruption of Vladimir Putin’s regime, and through his social media accounts and political campaigns, Navalny has helped expose abuses and mobilise the support of millions of people across Russia. For this, he was poisoned and thrown in jail,” Parliament President David Sassoli said in a statement. He called for Mr. Navalny’s immediate release. The recognition of Mr. Navalny will further sour relations between the 27-nation bloc and Russia. These ties have been on the decline for years, especially following Moscow’s 2014 annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula and its support for a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine. The impact reverberated beyond the EU as well. Days after Russia suspended its mission at NATO and ordered the closure of the alliance’s office in Moscow in retaliation for NATO’s expulsion of Russian diplomats, the organisation’s chief said he embraced the news. “I welcome the fact that a strong voice ... in Russia has been awarded this prize,” NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg told reporters. He said the prize was a call for “his unconditional release from prison” and to have an “international investigation” into it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/jailed-russian-opposition-leader-wins-top-eu-prize/article37101260.ece
21 October 2021||Nairobi,||New air strikes hit Tigray||New air strikes hit the capital of Ethiopia’s Tigray region, residents said on Wednesday, as video showed injured people with bloodied faces being rushed to vehicles and thick black smoke rising in the sky. The Ethiopian Government said it targeted facilities to make and repair weapons, which a spokesman for the rival Tigray forces denied. Meanwhile, the United Nations said it is slashing by more than half its Tigray presence as an Ethiopian Government blockade halts humanitarian aid efforts and people die from lack of food. The war in Africa’s second-most populous country has ground on for nearly a year between Ethiopian and allied forces and the Tigray ones who long dominated the national government before a falling-out with Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, the 2019 Nobel Peace Prize winner. There was no immediate word of deaths from the new air strikes in Mekele, reported by Kindeya Gebrehiwot of the Tigray external affairs office and confirmed by a resident and a humanitarian worker. One resident said five people were injured, speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of retaliation. “Indeed there have been air strikes in Mekele today,” Ethiopian Government spokesperson Legesse Tulu said, adding they targeted facilities at the Mesfin Industrial Engineering site that Tigray forces use to make and repair heavy weapons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-air-strikes-hit-tigray/article37101261.ece
21 October 2021||Washington,||U.S. riot panel votes to hold Trump ally Bannon in criminal contempt||Lawmakers investigating the deadly assault on the U.S. Capitol voted unanimously on Tuesday to pursue criminal contempt charges for a key ally of former President Donald Trump for refusing to testify. Former White House adviser Steve Bannon failed to comply with a subpoena to appear before the cross-party January 6 congressional select committee on Thursday last week. The right-wing political adviser had told the panel he would be withholding testimony and documents until Mr. Trump’s claim of “executive privilege”, which allows Presidents to keep certain conversations with aides secret, had been resolved. But the nine-member committee said Mr. Bannon’s position was not a lawful basis to ignore the order and voted unanimously to adopt a report setting out the case against him. “Mr. Bannon has no legal right to ignore the committee’s lawful subpoena,” Representative Liz Cheney, vice-chair of the committee and one of only two Republican members, said on Tuesday. Experts believe Mr. Trump’s claims that he is entitled to block Mr. Bannon giving evidence to investigators are likely baseless, since the presidential “executive privilege” carve-out is not generally understood to apply to former occupants of the White House. Furthermore, Mr. Bannon wasn’t even serving in government at the time covered by the subpoena. The move paves the way for the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives to vote to refer the 67-year-old former strategist to the Justice Department to consider charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-riot-panel-votes-to-hold-trump-ally-bannon-in-criminal-contempt/article37101258.ece
21 October 2021||Bucharest,||Pentagon chief urges more Black Sea security ties||U.S. Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin urged more defence cooperation among Black Sea allies on Wednesday ahead of a NATO Ministers summit. Following talks in Bucharest with Romanian Defence Minister Nicolae Ciuca, Mr. Austin said action was needed by littoral states of the Black Sea amid Russia “militarisation” of the region. “The security and stability of the Black Sea are in the U.S.’s national interest and critical for the security of NATO’s eastern flank,” he said. “The region is vulnerable to Russian aggression and we’ve seen evidence of that by ongoing actions in eastern Ukraine (and) the occupations of parts of Georgia,” he told reporters. Mr. Austin was in Bucharest on the third stop of a tour of the region to build confidence among allie,s including Georgia and Ukraine, both of which are hoping to join NATO, and to promote greater cooperation among military forces. He will then take part in an in-person defence Ministers summit at NATO headquarters in Brussels on Thursday and Friday. The U.S. has nearly 1,000 troops in Romania, a full member of NATO, which Mr. Austin says is good deterrence against potential Russian aggression. Most are stationed at the southeastern Mihail Kogalniceanu airbase but a number are also there to support an Aegis missile defence system, the first installed on NATO’s eastern flank. Talks with Mr. Ciuca focused in part on how to advance current basic defence cooperation by the countries on the Black Sea rim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pentagon-chief-urges-more-black-sea-security-ties/article37101254.ece
21 October 2021||Damascus,||27 killed in Syria capital, rebel territory||A rare bombing of an Army bus in Damascus and shelling shortly after of a town in rebel-held northwest Syria killed at least 27 people on Wednesday, in the deadliest flare-up in months. Two bombs planted on an Army bus in central Damascus were detonated early in the morning, killing 14 people, in the worst such attack in the capital in four years, state news agency SANA reported. There was no immediate claim for the bombing, but government shelling shortly after killed 13 people in Idlib province, parts of which are controlled by groups that have claimed such attacks in the past. “A terrorist bombing using two explosive devices targeted a passing bus” at a bridge in Damascus, the state news agency said, reporting that at least three people were wounded. Images released by SANA sho- wed first responders sear- ching the charred bus and what it said was a bomb squad defusing a third device in the same area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/27-killed-in-syria-capital-rebel-territory/article37101252.ece
21 October 2021||Moscow,||As deaths soar, Putin orders virus curbs||Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday ordered a nationwide week-long paid holiday to curb COVID-19 infections in Europe’s worst affected country and urged Russians to show “responsibility” and get vaccinated. Mr. Putin approved a government plan to declare a non-working week across the country from October 30 as Russia registered a record 1,028 coronavirus deaths in a single day. “The main aim is to protect the lives and health of our citizens,” the 69-year-old Kremlin chief said during a televised meeting. He said the severity of the outbreak in Russia was linked to the country’s vaccination rates that are “unfortunately” low. Infection rates have soared in recent weeks amid a stalled vaccination campaign, with only 35% of the country fully inoculated despite several widely available vaccines, including Sputnik V. Mr. Putin said he was surprised by how many Russians were refusing the vaccine, even among his “close friends”. “It’s strange. People with a good education, scientific degrees... I just don’t understand what is happening.” Mr. Putin has made numerous pleas for Russians to get COVID-19 jabs, and on Wednesday once again called on people to get immunised. “Please, show responsibility,” he said. On Wednesday, the country recorded over 34,000 new virus cases and a total of 226,353 fatalities — the highest death toll on the European continent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/putin-orders-restrictions-as-covid-deaths-soar-in-russia/article37101255.ece
21 October 2021||Washington,||U.S. plans to give jabs to children||Children aged 5 to 11 will soon be able to get a COVID-19 shot at their paediatrician’s office, local pharmacy and potentially even their school, the White House said on Wednesday. Federal regulators will meet over the next two weeks to weigh the benefits of giving shots to children, after lengthy studies meant to ensure the safety of the vaccines. Within hours of formal approval, expected after the Food and Drug Administration signs off and a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advisory panel meeting scheduled for November 2-3, doses will begin shipping to providers across the country, along with smaller needles necessary for injecting young children, and within days will be ready to go into the arms of children on a wide scale. About 15 million doses will be shipped to providers across the country in the first week after approval, the White House has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-plans-to-give-jabs-to-children/article37101264.ece
21 October 2021||ISTANBUL,||AS--Afghanistan-Polio Campaign||UN agencies are gearing up to vaccinate all of Afghanistan’s children under five against polio for the first time since 2018, after the Taliban agreed to the campaign. For the past three years, the Taliban barred UN vaccination teams from doing door-to-door campaigns in parts of Afghanistan under their control.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-afghanistan-polio-campaign/article37101263.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The carbon markets conundrum at COP26||If climate negotiations are compared to a game of diplomatic chess, Article 6 of the Paris Agreement would be the king to be checkmated and captured for concluding the Paris Agreement Work Programme (PAWP) at the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Article 6 of the Paris Agreement introduces provisions for using international carbon markets to facilitate fulfilment of Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) by countries. The success of COP26 at Glasgow hinges, to a great extent, on the conclusion of carbon markets discussions. Despite several rounds of high-level meetings, it remains one of the most technical and highly contentious unresolved issues of the PAWP. A sensitive issue Developing countries, particularly India, China and Brazil, gained significantly from the carbon market under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) of the Kyoto Protocol. India registered 1,703 projects under the CDM which is the second highest in the world. Total carbon credits known as Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) issued for these projects are around 255 million which corresponds to an overall anticipated inflow of approximately U.S.$2.55 billion in the country at a conservative price of U.S.$10 per CER. Therefore, logically, India has a lot to gain from a thriving carbon market. However, with the ratification of the Paris Agreement, the rules of the game have changed. Unlike the Kyoto Protocol, now even developing countries are required to have mitigation targets. Developing countries are faced with a dilemma of either selling their carbon credits in return for lucrative foreign investment flows or use these credits to achieve their own mitigation targets. This has made Article 6 a highly sensitive issue that requires careful balancing of interests and expectations. What should be debated For developing countries, the new market mechanism is much more than a tool for achieving mitigation targets under the NDCs. Much like its predecessor, it should help promote sustainable development and assist climate change adaptation in the developing countries. It should encourage private sector participation and attract foreign investments to support low carbon development. While over 50% of the countries have communicated their intention of using market mechanisms to achieve NDC targets, India is not one of them as it aims to rely on domestic mitigation efforts to meet its NDC goals. It is the developed countries that would rely more on market mechanisms for achieving their climate targets as they would be comparatively low-cost options. The three critical issues that would be hotly debated in Article 6 negotiating rooms are CDM Transition, Accounting rules and Share of Proceeds to the Adaptation Fund. Let us examine them one by one. CDM transition: The CDM projects have gone through due diligence and credits have been issued under UNFCCC oversight. Therefore, the Article 6 mechanism should honour the previous decisions and allow for a smooth transition of these projects and credits to ensure not only the viability of these projects but also inspire trust among the private investors in the UNFCCC decision-making process. However, some countries have cast doubts on the environmental integrity of these credits and while there is greater acceptance for transition of projects/activities, the same is not the case for transition of credits. If the decision regarding transition of CDM is not favourable, it could lead to a loss of billions of dollars worth of potential revenue to India alone. A possible landing zone can be that the new supervisory body to be formed under the Paris Agreement can re-examine the validity and rigour of such credits. Accounting rules: Article 6.4 mechanism is meant to incentivise the private sector and public entities to undertake mitigation activities for sustainable development. Under this mechanism, a country can purchase emission reductions from public and private entities of the host country and use it to meet its NDC targets. However, this does not automatically imply that emission reductions transferred from a host country be adjusted against its NDC targets. It must be appreciated that these reductions represent additional efforts of the private sector or public entities to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, and in fact raise global climate ambition. This is also in line with the provision of Article 6.5 of the Paris Agreement wherein the host country is not required to undertake corresponding adjustment for the projects outside its NDC. The path ahead Being a developing country, India does not need to undertake economy-wide emission reduction targets at this stage of its development. This means, not all mitigation actions fall within the purview of its NDC. Therefore, it can significantly gain from the market mechanism under Article 6.4 by selling emission reductions that lie outside its NDC. The counter view of developed countries, that this will deter raising ambition levels, is flawed as such efforts will in fact be additional to what have been committed in the NDC. Robust accounting will ensure that there will be no double-counting of emission reductions. Share of Proceeds (SOP) to the Adaptation Fund: For developing countries, adaptation is a necessity. However, it remains severely underfunded compared to financing for mitigation activities. While developing countries emphasise that the SOP must be uniformly applied to Articles 6.2 and 6.4 to fund adaptation, developed countries want to restrict its application to Article 6.4. This would disincentivise the Article 6.4 mechanism and limit voluntary cooperation to the cooperative approaches under Article 6.2 favoured by developed countries. In a way, carbon markets allow developed countries to keep emitting greenhouse gases while developing countries benefit from the revenue generated from the sale of their carbon credits. Central to the discussions on Article 6 is equitable sharing of carbon and developmental space. Climate justice demands that developing countries get access to their fair share of global carbon space. As developing countries are nudged to take greater mitigation responsibilities, a facilitative carbon market mechanism that respects the principles enshrined in UNFCCC would greatly help accelerate their transition to low carbon development and would be a win-win solution for all countries. Ravi S. Prasad was Additional Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change and Chief Negotiator, Climate Change – India (till February 2021). He is now Additional Chief Secretary and Agriculture Production Commissioner (Agriculture, Veterinary and Fisheries), Government of Assam. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-carbon-markets-conundrum-at-cop26/article37101241.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||No place for women in Karnataka||Karnataka’s Ministers and other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders are currently outdoing each other in unchecked hate speech against women. A second-time Minister of Health, K. Sudhakar, speaking at a World Mental Health Day event at the prestigious National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) in Bengaluru, decided to expound on the “healing properties” of the “great Indian family”, and regretted that Indian women were either choosing to remain unmarried or not have children, or worse, have children using surrogacy. These bizarre and unrelated “facts” were not drawn from any of the (still fortunately reliable) National Family Health Surveys (NFHS), or even local regional data sets. When he did ground his remarks in the YouGov-Mint-CPR Millennial Survey, which clearly states there is no gender difference in these trends, he managed to change the foot in his mouth, asserting that the “traditional family” and its value system would be a solace to mentally troubled youth. His assertions succeeded in giving his mates a chance to provide further “justifications” that were even more delusional. C.T. Ravi, the National General Secretary of the BJP, who has single-handedly coarsened the political discourse in Karnataka, chimed in to “qualify” this statement. Not all women were like that, he said, adding that only the “modern” ones, or those working in the Information Technology/Biotechnology (IT/BT) sector, lived in micro families and aped women in the U.K. and the U.S. In fact, the “mindset of modern women has broadened too much”, he helpfully added. Delusional statements All these delusional statements would have been laughable had they not come from people in power, who decide not only the priorities of Government policies but put in place the State’s laws. Or, even scarier, they are coming from people in power who are willing to share space with those who resort to violence to confine that alarmingly “broadened” mind of the Karnataka woman. An increasing number of cases are being reported of hyperactive Bajrang Dal, Sri Ram Sene, Hindu Jagarana Vedike and other right-wing men’s groups intervening in inter-faith relationships using violent methods. Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who had recorded with pride the alacrity with which his State’s police had acted in checking the “moral policing” of a woman in a burqa seen with a man (presumably of another faith), chose to justify such assertions of moral values when vultures of the same feather were involved. Such “actions and reactions” of Hindu male vigilantes, he said, speaking at Mangaluru in Dakshina Kannada, a region that has been severely polarised, were not just inevitable but necessary in order to check those “hurting sentiments in society”. The latest round of misogyny, which has gone alarmingly uncontested by those very IT/BT women who are often the face of the State’s, and especially Bengaluru’s, flourishing economic profile, is part of a deepening public discourse on women. The new Home Minister, Araga Jnanendra, in his first reaction to the Mysuru gang rape incident in August 2021, did not hesitate to shame and blame the victim — an MBA student at that — chastising the couple for having visited those “dangerous” places. The University of Mysore obediently followed that “suggestion” of securing women’s safety by confining them to hostels after 6 p.m. (The order was quickly withdrawn). In Karnataka, as now in most of India, love is a four-letter word. Feminist historians, among others, have shown that the tired chant of a “culture in danger” or the “family in danger” has been repeatedly invoked over the last 150 years, particularly at times when women assert and claim their rights to education, jobs, safe public spaces, etc. “Family/tradition in danger” seems to be an inexhaustible capital for those who are alarmed by what Indian women have achieved, particularly hard won legal rights since the late 1970s. What we are witnessing is a backlash against the language of autonomy and rights through an invocation of nationalist and kinship ideals. Such statements must not be isolated from other actions of the Karnataka Government. Karnataka recently decided to shut down close to 187 santwana kendras (mediation and counselling centres), set up in 2001 and easily among the most sought after services by women facing domestic abuse and violence in rural areas and small towns. Ostensibly, this shutdown was proposed on the grounds that the State could not spare Rs. 6 crore from its Budget, and did not want to replicate Central programmes. NCRB data Remember that the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data for 2020 found that 30% of crimes against women were by family members — sons, husbands, fathers and uncles. According to the fifth round of the NFHS, Karnataka witnessed the largest increase in spousal violence, from 20.6% in NFHS-4 to 44.4% in NFHS-5. By raising the volume on “culture” and “society” in danger, the State simultaneously shuts the door, and, therefore, the public eye, on what High Court judges across the country have proclaimed as one of the most dangerous places for women — the home. Santwana kendras were crisis centres providing legal education, psychological counselling and recuperative strength to victims of domestic violence. Reports from as recently as 2015 had confirmed how crucial they had become for women’s mental wellness in all parts of Karnataka, their services largely being availed of by Other Backward Classes (OBCs), Scheduled Castes ( SCs), Muslims and Scheduled Tribes (STs), in short, among the less privileged in the caste/class hierarchy. Overt power has now been conceded to (male) vigilante groups to forcefully intervene in what they believe are assaults on vaguely defined Indian, or more properly, Hindu culture. Brutal and macabre acts of violence in ending interfaith relationships are now becoming commonplace, as in the “beheading” of Arbaaz Aftab Mullah in Belagavi by men who had threatened the victim and have been identified as belonging to the Sri Ram Sene. To date, no arrests have been made in this murder case. It is these acts of violence that the Chief Minister has publicly condoned. At the same time, Karnataka’s eagerness to match if not outdo the Uttar Pradesh model of governance is also taking the form of weaponising the law to show women their place. Raucous demands have been made to pass an “anti-love jihad” law. This twin strategy, of combining law with violence, successfully replaces a language of rights with a discourse on nation and kinship. It replaces women’s recourse to legal strategies and empathetic counselling with the moral authority of nation and kin, largely exercised by men. Perhaps it is not accidental that in a Cabinet that has only one woman member, the Minister in charge of Women and Child Development in Karnataka is Achar Halappa Basappa, a man whom Myneta reports as having one criminal case against him. Only they can be trusted to govern Karnataka’s daughters. Janaki Nair taught Modern Indian History at the Centre for Historical Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-place-for-women-in-karnataka/article37101251.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The outlines of a national security policy||National security concepts have, in the two decades of the 21st century, undergone fundamental changes. These fundamental changes reveal that a large country, in terms of size of geography, population and GDP, will not deter any country. Cyber warfare has vastly reduced the deterrent value of these sizes since cyber weaponry will be available even to small island countries, and the capacity to cause devastation to a large nation by cyber warfare is within the reach of even small and poorer nations. An equaliser Innovations in weapons moved from stones in the pre-historic era, to bows and arrows, and later to cannons and guns in the 19th century. These were followed by aeroplanes, nuclear bombs, and intercontinental missiles in the 20th century. In the 21st century, the world is moving to cyber weapons-based warfare which will also immobilise current tangible advanced weapon systems in a war. Therefore, in the 21st century, after cybertechnology enters as an important variable in nations’ defence policies, the size of a country will cease to matter. Sri Lanka, or North Korea, empowered by cybertechnology, will be equal to the United States, Russia, India or China, in their capability to cause unacceptable damage. Weapons in the 21st century will merely mean a cyber button on the desk of the nation’s military and the leader of the government. Geographical land size or GDP size will be irrelevant in war-making capacity or deterrence. More innovations These fundamental changes are entirely due to the earlier 20th century innovations in cybertechnology and software developments. Drones, robots, satellites and advanced computers as weapons are already in use. More innovations are around the corner. Some examples of further innovations are artificial intelligence and nanotechnology. Warfare, therefore, will be no more just mobilisation of weapons or be dependent on the size of the armed forces of men. It will be cyber warfare. From remote controlled drones to artificial intelligence driven weapons systems, etc., will matter in the 21st century. Hence, national security in the 21st century covers not merely the overt and covert operations but, more crucially, electronic operations from a remote centre beyond the front lines of ground forces or air power to track enemy assets by these newly weaponised cyber instruments of technology. Tracking those cyber warfare centres of the adversary will need a new national security policy. By credible accounts, China, recently, publicly cautioned Indians to sit up and take notice by using cybertechnology to shut down Mumbai’s electric supply in populated areas of the city, for a few hours. This was to overawe Indians as we were clueless for hours as to what went wrong till reports emerged about a possible cyberattack . Thus, each nation will have to prepare more for bilateral conflicts in the 21st century that are based on cyber warfare rather than in multilateral acts of conventional war or rely on military blocs for mobilisation. The four dimensions to this National security at its root in the 21st century will depend on mind-boggling skills in four dimensions: Objectives: the objective of the National Security Policy in the 21st century is to define what assets are required to be defended, the identity of opponents who seek to overawe the people of a target nation, by unfamiliar moves to cause disorientation of people. Although the novel coronavirus is perhaps accidental, it has completely destabilised peoples globally and their governments in all nations of the world over, and also derailed the global economy because nations were most unprepared for such a pandemic, even conceptually. So far, nearly two years of the pandemic have left several millions [or more] dead with most economies having been driven to the edge of disaster. Normal life has been disrupted. Never before has there been such a virus attack of this dimension. This is a preview of the kinds of threats that await us in the coming decades which a national security policy will have to address by choosing a nation’s priorities. Priorities: In such scenarios of uncertainties about the future in the 21st century, national security priorities will require new departments for supporting several frontiers of innovation and technologies such as hydrogen fuel cells, desalination of seawater, thorium for nuclear technology, anti-computer viruses, and new immunity-creating medicines. This focus on a new priority will require compulsory science and mathematics education, especially in applications for analytical subjects. Every citizen will have to be alerted to new remote controlled military technology and be ready for it. Strategy: The strategy required for this new national security policy will be to anticipate our enemies in many dimensions and by demonstrative but limited pre-emptive strikes by developing a strategy of deterrence of the enemy. For India, it will be the China cyber capability factor which is the new threat for which it has to devise a new strategy. The agenda for the new strategy will be critical and emerging technologies, connectivity and infrastructure, cyber security and maritime security. But, alas, India by trying to befriend nations on both sides of the divide ended up with no serious ally internationally. The position of India is much like that of the bat species in the Panchatantra . Methods to use Resource mobilisation: The macroeconomics of resource mobilisation depends on whether a nation has ‘demand’ as an economic deficit or not. That means, for example, if demand for a commodity or service is in deficit or insufficient to clear the market of the available supply of the same, then liberal printing of currency and placing it in the hands of consumers is recommended for the economy to recover the demand supply parity. This then is one way of facilitating resource mobilisation in a demand supply balanced market. A way to increase demand is by lowering the interest rate on bank loans or raising the rates in fixed deposits which will enable banks to obtain liquidity and lend liberally for enhancing investment for production. If it is ‘supply’ that is short or in deficit compared to demand, then special measures are required to incentivise to encourage an increase in supply. The bottomline is that except for endowments of nature, a true economist adept in macroeconomics and inter-sectoral impact, will not despair for a lack of resources. Macroeconomics has many ways to generate resources without taxation. Printing of notes of currency is one way when there is a demand shortage. Dr. Subramanian Swamy is a BJP Member of Parliament and former Union Minister for Law and Justice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-outlines-of-a-national-security-policy/article37101243.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Is the coal crisis over?||Initially, there was a huge debate on whether there was a coal crisis at all. We aren’t discussing coal any more. Hence, wasn’t there a crisis? Or, if there was one, is it all over? “Crisis” is a subjective term. There are no objective criteria of determining whether there is a crisis or not. However, “shortage” can be determined objectively. No one can deny the fact that the supply of coal in India is well below the demand. Whereas the demand is nearly a billion million tonnes (MT), the supply is well below 800 MT within the country. When this shortage becomes acute, in terms of the availability of coal at power plants, it is sometimes called a crisis. The acute shortage can be on the account of production, an increased demand or a failure of supply chain management when the stocks are sufficient at the pit head but requisite supply is not made to the power plants. Coal crises keep recurring in the country primarily due to the shortage in coal production. Ironically, India sits on 300 billion MT of coal and, as mentioned earlier, our annual requirement is around a billion MT per annum. A similar crisis had occurred in 2014. Back then, it was on account of a Comptroller and Auditor General who played to the gallery after making his calculations just like an accountant. It led to devastating consequences and coal production suffered. The crisis was managed through meticulous planning and execution. The immediate coal crisis is attributed to an increase in the demand for power on account of the post-pandemic economic recovery, an increase in international prices of coal, unseasonal rainfall and a mismanagement of the supply chain within the country. Apparently, some of it has been managed and we are no longer discussing the crisis. No one seems to be talking about the stagnation in the production of coal by Coal India Limited (CIL). The production has stood at 600 MT for the past three years. Had the production grown at the rate at which it was increasing (8-9%) during 2014-16, the current production of CIL itself would have been more than 750 MT. Also not being discussed is the stagnant coal production from the non-CIL domain. A number of mines were allocated to entities other than CIL. Why haven’t these mines augmented coal production? Non-CIL coal production fell from 128 MT in 2019-20 to 120 MT in 2020-21. The dependence on imported coal increased and, hence, when the international prices shot up, as they did recently, there is a crisis. The crisis will recur in case the coal production is not augmented. How then can the production of coal be increased? Some of the answers lies in what happened during 2014-16. Supported, not monitored CIL has a fabulous team. It needs to be supported and not “monitored”. The Union Government has an important role to play. CIL should focus on mining. Government officers should interact with the States, but before that, this ongoing “war” between the Union Government and the States will have to stop. Ironically, all the coal resides in States that are ruled by non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA) parties. Officers from the Union Government will have to go down to the States, convey a value proposition and sit with State-level officers to resolve issues related to land acquisition and forest clearances. During 2014-16 not a single meeting with the States was held in Delhi. All meetings were held at the State headquarters. The Union Government will also have to take up clearance-related issues with the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. CIL, which had reserves of around Rs. 35,000 crore in 2015, now appears to be strapped for funds, especially cash flows as power generating companies (GENCOs) owe more than Rs. 20,000 crore to CIL. Funds will have to be arranged for the expansion of existing mines as well as the opening of new ones. First, the Union Government should stop squeezing more funds out of CIL as it has done during the past few years by way of dividends to balance its own Budget, when this money should have been used for opening new mines and expanding existing ones. Second, it should consider providing cash to CIL against the dues owed by GENCOs. Non-CIL production will have to be augmented. There was an inter-ministerial Coal Project Monitoring Group (CPMG), which was set up in 2015 to fast-track clearances, that became dormant. This will need to be revived. The coal crisis may be temporarily over, but if the fundamentals of the crisis are not taken care of, it is likely to recur. What also needs to be looked at is the financial crisis that is brewing in the power sector. GENCOs have a receivable of more Rs. 2,00,000 crore from distribution companies. They, in turn, owe more than Rs. 20,000 crore to CIL. There is, hence, a serious cash crunch though most of these entities show profit in their balance sheets. Anil Swarup is a retired civil servant and a former Secretary in the Government of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/is-the-coal-crisis-over/article37101247.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The global tax revolution||International tax jurisprudence received a shot in the arm when 130 countries agreed to introduce a new global tax regime for taxing multinational corporations (MNCs) operating the globe over. For over a century now, the corporate tax system was based on the application of the twin principles of the source rule and the residence rule. All that a MNC had to do to avoid high tax in a country where they did business was to get registered in a tax haven. Globalisation allowed MNCs to replace fears of double taxation with the joys of double non-taxation by exploiting mismatches between the tax laws of various countries and by cutting taxable profits. A digitalised world made their task easier. Tax havens came in handy for the MNCs. It became easier with the rise of intangible assets, which could easily be shifted from one country to another. But shifting of profits to low tax havens deprived poor countries of revenue by as much as 5% as compared to an alternative system where profits are taxed based on the current location of companies, revenues, their employees and their wage codes. Small countries wanted investments on a grand scale. That could be achieved with low direct taxes. Countries like Belgium, Britain, India and Indonesia brought in Digital Services Taxes on the local sales of foreign firms with online platforms. The U.S. objected and threatened retaliatory tariffs. Hence, realisation dawned on all the countries that the time had come for a radical change in the tax system. U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen announced that it was time to end the “race to the bottom” on corporate tax. Egged on by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), 130 countries achieved a historic agreement in June on a more stable and fairer international tax architecture. As per the agreement, MNCs would no longer pay taxes in the country where they register their headquarters for tax purposes, but would pay in the country where they generate their sales. A minimum global tax of 15% on profits would be introduced in all countries. How did this happen? The Global Financial Crisis of 2008 forced all countries to change the international tax rules to prevent base erosion and profit shifting. Anti-abuse provisions, new transfer pricing documentation provisions, countering harmful tax practices more effectively taking into account transparency and economic substance and the introduction of an effective dispute resolution mechanism were the objectives that were agreed upon. The OECD estimates that the proposal to levy 15% minimum tax on global corporations that do business in each country would fetch additional $150 billion per year and move taxing rights of over $100 billion in profits to different countries. Taxing rights would be reallocated so that a slice of the profits could be levied according to the location of a company’s sales. A minimum rate of 15% would be levied on such a slice of profits. As per the agreement, countries where MNCs operate would get the right to tax at least 20% of the profits exceeding a 10% margin. India, China, Russia, Germany and other countries have signed the agreement, which has to be implemented from 2023. But there are hurdles to cross. India would have to reconsider the equalisation levy. Revenue from the equalisation levy should be compared with the 15% global minimum tax. The Ministry of Finance said significant issues, including the share of profit allocation and the scope of subject-to-tax rules, would have to be addressed and a consensus agreement had been reached on October 8. The draft rules would reset the system for international taxation and subject MNCs to new nexus and profit allocation rules. Simultaneous implementation of the law by all the signatories to the agreement would be a stupendous job. If achieved, it may herald the dawn of the ‘Golden Era’ of direct taxes. Revamping India’s Direct Tax Code to sail with the concept of global minimum tax requires effort, which is easier said than done. T.C.A. Ramanujam is Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (retd.) and an advocate of the Madras High Court. T.C.A. Sangeetha is an advocate of the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-global-tax-revolution/article37101248.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Plugging the leak||Since June, the export of about 500 tonnes of rice from India has triggered an uproar in several European countries on the grounds that it was genetically modified (GM) rice. This emerged during a check by the European Commission’s Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed that was testing rice flour by the French company Westhove. In June, France had issued a notification for unauthorised GM rice flour, identifying India as the point of origin, and alerting Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, the U.K. and the U.S. as the possible destination of products made with the flour. So in August, the American food products company Mars, fearing GM contamination, announced that it was recalling four of its product lines of ‘Crispy M&M’. GM-free rice that is tagged as ‘organic rice’ is among India’s high-value exports worth Rs. 63,000 crore annually. India does not permit the commercial cultivation of GM rice, but research groups are testing varieties of such rice in trial plots. So the suspicion is that rice from some of these test-plots may have “leaked” into the exported product. The Indian government has denied this possibility with a Commerce Ministry spokesperson alleging that the contamination may have happened in Europe “to cut costs”. However, India has indicated that it will commission an investigation involving its scientific bodies. India’s history of crop modification using GM is one of test-plants finding their way to commercial cultivars before they were formally cleared. Thus, Bt-cotton was widely prevalent in farmer fields before being cleared. Though they have not been cleared, Bt-brinjal and herbicide-tolerant cotton varieties too have been detected in farmer fields. Though the Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee is the apex regulator of GM crops, it is mandated that trials of GM crops obtain permission from States. Because of the close connections between farmers and State agriculture universities, which are continuously testing new varieties of crops employing all kinds of scientific experiments ranging from introducing transgenes to other non-transgenic modification methods, and the challenges of ensuring that trial plots are strictly segregated from farms, there is a possibility that seeds may transfer within plots. Because many Indian farmers are dependent on European imports, the Centre must rush to assuage importers that India’s produce is compliant with trade demands. The fractious history of GM crops in India means that passions often rule over reason on questions of the safety of GM crops, and so India must also move to ensure that research into all approaches — GM or non GM — should not become a casualty in this matter of export-quality compliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/plugging-the-leak/article37101236.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||For change||A recent advisory from the National Medical Commission (NMC) emphasising the need to avoid derogatory references to the LGBTQIA+ community in medical textbooks or teaching methods has underscored the value of institutional awareness on issues concerning queer and trans people. The advisory came after the Madras High Court voiced concern over “unscientific and derogatory information” in some textbooks. The NMC cautioned medical universities, colleges and other institutions to avoid such references while teaching subjects relating to gender. The institutions were also asked not to approve books with such references, while textbook authors were instructed to amend what has been written on issues such as virginity and homosexuality. The circular represents the fruition of efforts by Justice N. Anand Venkatesh, who framed guidelines in an order in June, to protect the community’s rights. He had expanded the scope of a writ petition filed by a lesbian couple for protection against harassment into one that went into the status of those who did not conform to gender identity assigned at birth or to hetero-normative sexual orientation. The court’s attention was then drawn to psychiatry, forensic medicine and toxicology textbooks. Justice Venkatesh had suggested that the NMC and the Indian Psychiatric Society bring in necessary changes in the curriculum. The judge had directed the police not to harass sexual minorities, but later noted with consternation that such harassment was not only continuing, but sometimes extended to NGOs and other allies of the LGBTQIA+ community. He mooted changes to the police conduct rules to provide for punishing erring police personnel in this regard. He also noted disparaging references in the media. He found that a psychiatrist had referred a gay man for cognitive behavioural therapy, while prescribing anti-depressants and drugs meant to treat erectile dysfunction under the wrong impression that sexual orientation required some sort of therapy. In the course of the hearing, the judge had subjected himself to counselling so that he could overcome his own mindset, limitations in understanding and lack of exposure to issues of gender non-conformity and to go beyond the binary understanding of sex and sexuality. Judicial intervention generally has a salutary effect on the behaviour of the state, its institutions and structures. However, barring specific directions, the spirit of judicial orders, especially with regard to social issues, rarely percolates to every limb of the administration. The queer and gender non-conforming people have found an ally in the court, but they would need greater effort on the part of the authorities at various levels, if their rights are to be protected. In any case, any change in law in terms of recognising same-sex relations or understanding self-identification of gender must be complemented by an attitudinal change in society at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-change/article37101237.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A congratulatory meeting||Under the joint auspices of the South Indian Liberal Federation, Dravidian Association, the Twenty Club, and the Non-Brahmin Vakil’s Association, a public meeting was held yesterday evening in Egmore to thank H.E. Lord Willingdon for recommending two Non-Brahmins for the High Court Bench, and to congratulate Messrs M.D. Devadoss, and M. Venkatasubbarao on the elevation as High Court Judges. There was a good gathering. Mr. O. Thanikachalam Chetti who presided said that the present appointments were striking instances of the recognition of merit among the Non-Brahmin community and that they were made in spite of the adverse influences at work. Mr. S. Muthiah Mudaliar in moving the resolution “That this meeting of the Non-Brahmins of Madras begs to convey its heartfelt thanks to H.E. Lord Willingdon for the appointment of two Non-Brahmins as Judges of the High Court of Judicature at Madras,” said that the tremendous difficulties and obstacles in the way of the appointments both here and in England had been overcome by the indefatigable exertions of His Excellency Lord Willingdon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-congratulatory-meeting/article37101244.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||French firm offers help||The Government of India has received an offer of assistance from the French manufacturers of “Mirage” jets for its programme to develop new types of aircraft for its military and probably civilian requirements also. The Government is considering the offer and the French party is awaiting the Government’s reply. Further details of the kind of assistance offered by the manufacturers of “Mirage” are not known. It is believed that the offer relates to the design and development of the engine for the new types of aircraft that the Union Government wants to develop within the country. Mr. M.H. Bizot, Honorary Chairman of Banque Nationale de Paris and Chairman of the French economic mission, which is now on a visit to India for discussion with the Government and industrialists on the promotion of Indo-French co-operation, declined to answer questions on the French offer relating to the Mirage jets. He said France was now offering technical assistance to India for the building of a satellite launching site at Sriharikota, near Madras. Mr. Bizot said that the mission was very much impressed with the opportunities available in India for investment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/french-firm-offers-help/article37101245.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘High oil prices will sap global recovery’||India, the world’s third-largest energy consumer, on Wednesday warned that high oil prices will undermine global economic recovery, and nudged Saudi Arabia and other OPEC nations to work towards affordable and reliable supplies. Petrol and diesel prices have hit record highs across the country after relentless price increases since May. “If energy prices remain high, global economic recovery will be undermined,” Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said at the India Energy Forum by CERAWeek. Global oil prices crashed to $19 per barrel in April 2020 as demand evaporated with most nations clamping lockdowns to control the spread of the novel coronavirus. Demand recovered this year as vaccination against the infection revived economies worldwide. International benchmark Brent crude has since rallied to $84 per barrel. This, he said, had made fuel expensive and was stoking fears of inflation. Mr. Puri said India’s oil import bill had climbed from $8.8 billion in June 2020 quarter to $24 billion this year because of a spike in global oil prices. ‘Energy access crucial’ “India believes energy access has to be reliable, affordable and sustainable,” he said adding economic recovery after a devastating pandemic had been fragile and it was further being threatened by the high prices. India, which imports almost two-thirds of its oil needs from West Asia, has told oil producers, including the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), that high crude prices will hasten the transition to alternate fuels and such rates will be counter-productive for the producers. Mr. Puri has in recent weeks flagged the issue of high oil prices to Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Kuwait, Qatar, the U.S., Russia and Bahrain. He conveyed India’s strong preference for responsible and reasonable pricing, which was mutually beneficial for consumers and producers.  Mr. Puri said volatility in international prices was not just hurting India but also industrialised nations. While the world had begun the transition towards cleaner fuels such as electric-powered vehicles and hydrogen, most nations were still dependent on oil to fuel their economies. And high oil prices would hurt the recovery in demand. India is 85% dependent on imports to meet its oil needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/high-oil-prices-will-sap-global-recovery/article37101224.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||Gold imports to climb in coming months: GJEPC||India’s gold imports are expected to grow further in the coming months on account of peak demand due to the festive and wedding seasons, the Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) projected on Wednesday. Gold imports, which have a bearing on the current account deficit, zoomed to about $24 billion in the April-September period. ‘Sharp pickup’ Imports picked up in August, which recorded the second-highest gold imports of 118.08 tonnes. Chairman Colin Shah said the increase in imports during July, August, and September was due to the lifting of lockdowns, revival of domestic and export demand, and the start of the festive season that had resulted in a sharp rise in demand. “We expect that imports of gold will further rise in the forthcoming months as peak festive/wedding season will further boost the demand for jewellery both at home and key international markets,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gold-imports-to-climb-in-coming-months-gjepc/article37101230.ece
21 October 2021||new delhi,||UAE Minister assures energy supplies to India||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Wednesday vowed to meet India’s growing energy demand, saying it will remain the nation’s trusted partner of choice. Minister of Industry and Advanced Technology Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber said the UAE is investing across its energy supply chain to remain a reliable energy provider to India and the world. Stating that the energy demand is outpacing supply, he said the present global scenario calls for continued investment across the entire energy sector to avoid a deeper supply crunch. Speaking virtually at an event, he said India’s economy is returning to “robust, almost double-digit growth” as the world recovers from the pandemic. He acknowledged the challenges facing the sector and explained how the UAE is responding to remain a reliable energy provider to India and the world. “The current demand dynamic is a wake-up call to continue to invest across the energy sector to avoid a deeper supply crunch,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/uae-minister-assures-energy-supplies-to-india/article37101222.ece
21 October 2021||new delhi,||Vodafone Idea presses pause on spectrum dues||Vodafone Idea on Wednesday said its board has approved availing the four-year spectrum payment moratorium being offered by the government as part of the relief package for the telecom sector. The other options offered in the Telecom Department’s notification will be considered by the board of directors within the stipulated timeframe, it said in a regulatory filing. “We wish to inform you that the board of directors of the company has approved the exercise of the option of deferment of the company’s spectrum auction instalments for a period of 4 years (October 2021 to September 2025) in accordance with the notification dated 14 October 2021 issued by the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) to the company,” it said. The government last week wrote to telcos asking them to convey by October 29 if they would be opting for the moratorium. Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal had, last month, said the company would opt for the payment moratorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vodafone-idea-presses-pause-on-spectrum-dues/article37101220.ece
21 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Footwear firm Metro plans to raise Rs. 250 cr.||Footwear retailer Metro Brands Ltd. plans to tap the capital market to raise up to Rs. 250 crore, a large part of which will be utilised for opening 219 new stores under Metro, Mochi, Walkway and Crocs brands. “We are bullish about footwear retailing in India,” said chairman Rafique A. Malik. “We have got the format right and have been profit making. Our online sales are also growing rapidly,” he noted. “Overall, the demand for footwear has reached pre-COVID level. All the new 219 stores will come up in two-and-a-half to 3 years and most of the capital will be utilised for that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/footwear-firm-metro-plans-to-raise-rs-250-cr/article37101217.ece
21 October 2021||mumbai,||‘India may see salaries rise by 9.3% in 2022’||Higher salaries in India are making a comeback with 9.3% hike being expected in 2022, from 8% in 2021, and with firms planning to give employees larger raises as they face mounting challenges of attracting and retaining employees, according to a report by Willis Towers Watson. Salaries are projected to see a median salary increase of 9.3% next year compared with the actual median salary increase of 8% in 2021, according to the ‘Salary Budget Planning Report’ by the global advisory, broking and solutions company. India’s projected salary increase is the highest in Asia-Pacific for the next year, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-may-see-salaries-rise-by-93-in-2022/article37101218.ece
21 October 2021||DUBAI,||Rohit in sublime touch as India wins with ease||India fine-tuned its World Cup preparations with a convincing nine-wicket win over Australia in its final warm-up game on Wednesday. Captaining the side, with Virat Kohli playing only to field and bowl, Rohit Sharma (60, 41b, 5x4, 3x6) showed sublime touch alongside opening partner K.L. Rahul (39, 31b, 2x4, 3x6) as India overhauled Australia’s total of 152 for five in 17.5 overs. Suryakumar Yadav, who came in at No. 3, hit a quickfire unbeaten 38 (27b, 27b, 5x4, 1x6) to guide the team home in the company of Hardik Pandya (14 n.o., 8b, 1x6). Another plus for India was seasoned pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar finding his rhythm after a poor outing against England. Kohli kept things tight with two overs of medium pace but to expect him to do the job in high-pressure scenarios would be asking for too much. India conceding 58 runs in the last five overs could be a concern. Earlier, after losing the toss, India reduced Australia 11 for three in the less than four overs. David Warner’s barren run continued as a failed reverse sweep off R. Ashwin had him trapped in front. With his very next ball, the off-spinner got rid of birthday boy Mitchell Marsh, who edged to the first slip. When Ravindra Jadeja trapped skipper Aaron Finch leg-before with his very first ball, Australia was left with a lot of work to do. Steve Smith (57, 48b, 7x4) and in-form Glenn Maxwell (37, 28, 5x4) arrested the slide with a 61-run partnership. While Maxwell used his reverse sweep to good effect, Smith kept himself busy by rotating the strike. After Maxwell’s dismissal, Smith and Marcus Stoinis (41 n.o., 25b, 4x4, 1x6) provided a much-needed final flourish to the innings.  The scores: Australia 152/5 in 20 overs (Steve Smith 57, Marcus Stoinis 41 n.o., Ashwin 2/8) lost to India 153/2 in 17.5 overs (Rohit Sharma 60, K.L. Rahul 39, Suryakumar Yadav 38 n.o.). Toss: Australia.   India won by eight wkts. with 13 balls to spare .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-in-sublime-touch-as-india-wins-with-ease/article37101560.ece
21 October 2021||Milwaukee,||Antetokounmpo delivers for the Bucks||Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 32 points as the Milwaukee Bucks launched the defence of its NBA crown on Tuesday with a 127-104 victory over the Brooklyn Nets, while LeBron James and the Los Angeles Lakers were outgunned by the Golden State Warriors 121-114. Antetokounmpo picked up where he left off in guiding the Bucks to victory in the NBA Finals last season, leading an emphatic all-round offensive display that included 14 rebounds and seven assists. The two-time NBA Most Valuable Player was one of five Bucks who cracked double figures on a night when Milwaukee’s fans celebrated as the team raised its first championship banner in 50 years at the Fiserv Forum. Khris Middleton had 20 points while Pat Connaughton also made 20 off the bench. Jordan Nwora added 15 points while Jrue Holiday, who left the game with an injury early on, had 12. Missing Irving It was a chastening loss for Brooklyn, who have started the season without the services of Kyrie Irving. The Nets have left Irving out of the line-up for the foreseeable future because of his refusal to take the COVID-19 vaccine, which makes him ineligible for home games in New York due to city laws. In Irving’s absence, Kevin Durant led the Brooklyn scorers with 32 points while James Harden had 20. New signing Patty Mills added 21 — making seven-from-seven from three-point range — while Nic Claxton had 12 points. In Tuesday’s other season-opener, the new-look Los Angeles Lakers was humbled by the Warriors at the Staples Center. James led the Lakers scorers with 34 points while Anthony Davis chimed in with 33. But they were the only two Los Angeles players to make double figures, while blockbuster new signing Russell Westbrook was restricted to eight points, five rebounds and four assists. Instead it was the Warriors who looked the more cohesive unit, with Stephen Curry leading the way with 21 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists — Curry’s first triple-double since 2016. Six Warriors players made double figures, with Jordan Poole just behind Curry with 20 points. The Lakers led 59-53 at half-time but were blown away by the Warriors after the break.  The results: Milwaukee Bucks 127 bt Brooklyn Nets 104; Golden State Warriors 121 bt LA Lakers 114 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/antetokounmpo-delivers-for-the-bucks/article37101644.ece
21 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Unseeded Swastika Ghosh in last four||Unseeded Swastika Ghosh gatecrashed into her maiden women semifinals with three impressive victories in the National ranking table tennis championship on Wednesday. On a day of major upsets when the top four women seeds — Sreeja Akula, Olympian Sutirtha Mukherjee, Ayhika Mukherjee and Reeth Rishya — fell before the quarterfinals, the men’s top-four seeds Sharath Kamal, Manav Thakkar, Soumyajit Ghosh and Sanil Shetty entered the last four. The day’s biggest newsmakers at Panchkula's Devi Lal Stadium were the Airports Authority of India’s duo of Swastika and Surabhi Patwari. Swastika, 18, avenged the loss suffered to former National champion Madhurika Patkar four days ago in the Maharashtra State championship with a 11-3, 11-6, 8-11, 9-11, 6-11, 11-7, 11-6 victory in the round of 32. She then proceeded to end the dream run of the talented Karnataka-girl Kushi Viswanath — the conqueror of second seed Sutirtha — in six sets. Surabhi, who knocked out top seed Sreeja Akula 4-1, lost to eighth-seeded Prapti Sen in the quarterfinals. Earlier, Kushi stunned a jittery Sutirtha 11-8, 11-6, 5-11, 8-11, 11-8, 11-4 before Varuni Jaiswal packed off third seed Ayhika 6-11, 11-8, 11-9, 13-11, 9-11, 12-10. Diya Chithale, among the rising stars, downed fourth seed Reeth in six sets.  The results:   Men: Quarterfinals: Sharath Kamal bt Sudhanshu Grover 11-5, 12-14, 11-4, 11-6, 11-9; Harmeet Desai bt Sanil Shetty 14-12, 6-11, 12-10 11-6, 11-7; Soumyajit Ghosh bt Deepit Patil 11-5, 9-11, 11-7, 11-6, 11-7; Manav Thakkar bt Sarthak Seth 11-7, 11-9, 11-5, 11-7.   Pre-quarterfinals: Sharath bt Jeet Chandra 3-11, 9-11, 11-7, 11-3, 11-2, 11-7; Grover bt Wesley Do Rosario 11-7, 9-11, 11-3, 10-12, 17-15, 12-14, 11-7; Harmeet bt Abhishek Yadav 11-7, 11-5, 7-11, 11-5, 11-4; Sanil bt Payas Jain 11-8, 14-12, 11-7, 11-3, 11-4, 3-11; Soumyajit bt Manush Shah 7-11, 15-17, 11-8, 11-8, 11-9, 6-11, 11-6; Deepit bt Arjun Ghosh 11-7, 5-11, 4-11, 13-11, 14-12, 5-11, 11-5; Sarthak bt Ronit Bhanja 11-8, 10-12, 11-8, 12-10, 8-11, 12-10; Manav bt Shubh Goel 11-7, 11-8, 11-5, 11-7.   Women: Quarterfinals: Prapti Sen bt Surbhi Patwari 8-11, 11-9, 10-12, 11-8, 11-8, 11-9; Takeme Sarkar bt Diya Chitale 8-11, 11-9, 12-10, 11-6, 4-11, 11-13, 11-9, Anusha Kutumbale bt Shruti Amrute 11-7, 11-5, 16-14, 10-12, 11-5, Swastika Ghosh bt Krittwika Sinha Roy 11-6, 11-6, 11-7, 11-3.   Pre-quarterfinals: Surbhi bt Sreeja Akula 12-10, 9-11, 11-9, 11-9, 11-9; Prapti bt Sagarika Mukherjee 13-11, 11-7, 11-4, 9-11, 11-8; Takeme bt Yashaswini Ghorpade 11-9, 11-9, 11-7, 12-10; Diya bt Reeth Rishya 11-9, 3-11, 11-5, 11-6, 5-11, 11-6; Shruti bt Varuni Jaiswal 12-10, 9-11, 11-4, 7-11, 11-8, 11-5; Anusha bt Risha Mirchandani 11-6, 9-11, 11-8, 9-11, 11-5, 11-8; Krittwika bt S. Selenadeepthi 11-3, 11-8, 9-11, 11-9, 11-3; Swastika bt Kushi Viswanath 6-11, 14-12, 11-3, 11-6, 8-11, 12-10 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unseeded-swastika-ghosh-in-last-four/article37101226.ece
21 October 2021||ODENSE (Denmark),||Lakshya cruises ahead; Saina, Prannoy and Kashyap bow out||Lakshya Sen thumped compatriot Sourabh Verma in straight games to enter the second round but it was curtains for H.S. Prannoy, P. Kashyap and Saina Nehwal at the Denmark Open Super 1000 tournament here on Wednesday. Lakshya dished out a superb performance to outclass Sourabh 21-9, 21-7 in 26 minutes. In another men’s singles match, sixth-seeded Jonatan Christie of Indonesia overcame Prannoy 21-18, 21-19 in 46 minutes. P. Kashyap retired while trailing 0-3 against the fourth seed Tien Chen Chou of Chinese Taipei. Saina, who had retired midway through her first match at Uber Cup Final due to a groin injury, couldn’t match Japan’s World No. 20 Aya Ohori and lost 16-21, 14-21 in the opening round. The Indian doubles players had a dismal outing as apart from Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Ashwini Ponnappa, none of the others could put up a fight in their respective matches. While Satwik and Ashwini’s gallant battle ended with a 17-21, 21-14, 11-21 loss to China’s Feng Yan Zhe and Du Yue in mixed doubles, J. Meghana and Poorvisha S. Ram lost 8-21, 7-21 to Indonesian combination of Nita Violina Marwah and Putri Syaikah in women’s doubles. Ashwini and N. Sikki Reddy also went down 17-21, 13-21 to the second-seeded Korean pair of Lee Sohee and Shin Seungchan. On Wednesday, the World No. 25 was up against Sourabh, an opponent against whom he had lost twice in the past but it made no difference as Lakshya dished out a dominating show to blow the latter away.  The results: First round: Men: Lakshya Sen bt Sourabh Verma 21-9, 21-7; Jonatan Christie (Ina) bt H.S. Prannoy 21-18, 21-19; Tien Chen Chou (Tpe) bt P. Kashyap 3-0 retd.   Women: Aya Ohori (Jpn) bt Saina Nehwal 21-16, 21-14; Doubles: Nita Violina Marwah & Putri Syaikah (Ina) bt J. Meghana & Poorvisha S. Ram 21-8, 21-7; Lee Sohee & Shin Seungchan (Kor) bt Ashwini Ponnappa & N. Sikki Reddy 21-17, 21-13.   Mixed doubles: Feng Yan Zhe & Du Yue (Chn) bt Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Ashwini Ponnappa 21-17, 14-21, 21-11 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakshya-cruises-ahead-saina-prannoy-and-kashyap-bow-out/article37101232.ece
21 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Karnataka dominates day two||Ridhima Veerendra Kumar's record-breaking swim in girls' Group II 100m backstroke was the highlight as Karnataka dominated day two of the sub-junior and junior National Aquatic Championships at the Basavanagudi Aquatic Centre on Wednesday. Ridhima's time of 1:04.87s — 0.43 seconds faster than Maana Patel's mark set in 2014 — was one of four new National records set by the home swimmers on the day, with the others being Aneesh S. Gowda (boys' Group I 400m freestyle) and the boys' and girls’ Group I 4x100m medley relay teams. Elsewhere, Assam's Astha Choudhury came up with two of her fastest swims in the Group I 100m butterfly race, rewriting the National record first in the heats, and then again in the final with a time of 1:03.58s. Karnataka's Jas Singh won his fourth individual gold, in the 100m freestyle for Group V boys, to add to the wins in 100m breaststroke, 200m IM and 50m backstroke on day one.  The results: Boys: Group I: 400m freestyle: Aneesh S. Gowda (Kar), 4:00.11 (NMR; OR: 4:00.91, Aryan Nehra (Guj), 2019); 200m backstroke: Utkarsh Gor (Mah), 1:02.95; 100m butterfly: R. Sambhavv (Kar), 55.87; 4x100m medley: Karnataka, 3:56.35 (NMR; OR: 4:00.76, Karnataka, 2018); Group II: 50m breaststroke: Abhishek Kannaujia (SSCB), 32.98; 200m butterfly: N. Deva Ganesh (AP), 2:17.90; Group III: 400m freestyle: M. Yagna Sai (AP), 4:59.32; 100m butterfly: Akshaj Thakuria (Kar), 1:06.55; Group IV: 100m freestyle: Sharan Sridhara (Kar), 1:06.85; 200m IM: T. Kabilan (TN), 2:46.94; Group V: 100m freestyle: Jas Singh (Kar), 1:09.47.   Girls: Group I: 400m freestyle: Aanya Wala (Mah), 4:34.54; 200m backstroke: Sanjana Prabhugaonkar (Goa), 2:28.71; 100m butterfly: Astha Choudhury (Asm), 1:02.71 (NMR; OR: 1:03.58, Astha, 2021); 4x100m medley: Karnataka, 4:32.69 (NMR; OR: 4:37.34, Karnataka, 2018); Group II: 100m backstroke: Ridhima Veerendra Kumar (Kar), 1:04.87 (NMR; OR: 1:05.30, Maana Patel (Guj), 2014); 50m breaststroke: Vihitha Nayana (Kar), 36.10; 200m butterfly: Hashika Ramachandra (Kar), 2:26.56; Group III: 100m butterfly: Tanishi Gupta (Kar), 1:10.12; Group IV: 100m freestyle: Alyssa Sweedal Rego (Kar), 1:08.72; 200m IM: Anwesha Khanikar (Asm), 3:00.85; Group V: 100m freestyle: K. Lasya Sri (AP), 1:12.46   On Tuesday: Boys: Group I: 4x200m freestyle: Karnataka, 7:50.06 (NMR; OR: 7:57.07, Karnataka, 2017); Group II: 100m breaststroke: Surya Jhoyappa (Kar), 1:11.61; Group III: 50m backstroke: Akshaj Thakuria (Kar), 33.60; Group IV: 50m backstroke: Ishan Ghosh (Ben), 35.37; Group V: 50 backstroke: Jas Singh (Kar), 37.58.   Girls: Group II: 100m breaststroke: A.K. Lineysha (Kar), 1:16.66; Group III: 50m backstroke: Pramiti Gnanasekaran (TN), 34.59; Group IV: 50m backstroke: Annika Deborah Paripoornam Ananth (Tel), 37.77; Group V: 50m backstroke: Shreya Binil (Ker), 39.88.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-dominates-day-two/article37101235.ece
21 October 2021||ABU DHABI,||David Wiese powers Namibia home||David Wiese bludgeoned an unbeaten 66 in 40 balls as Namibia stayed alive in the T20 World Cup with a six-wicket triumph over the Netherlands here on Wednesday. The former South Africa international, who played in the 2016 edition, hit five sixes and four boundaries as Namibia chased down the target of 165 with six balls to spare for its first ever win in the World Cup. In the opening game on Monday, it had crashed to 96 all out and lost by seven wickets to Sri Lanka. The Dutch, who lost their opener to Ireland, also by seven wickets, would find it difficult to advance. Wiese was well-supported by captain Gerhard Erasmus who contributed 32 off 22 balls with the pair putting on 93 for the fourth wicket. O’Dowd comes good Earlier, opener Max O’Dowd made a second successive half century to lead Netherlands to 164 for four after being put into bat. The New Zealand-born O’Dowd batted for virtually the entire innings, making 70 off 56 balls with one six and six boundaries. Colin Ackermann also played a solid role hitting 35 off 32 balls, while Scott Edwards added a quickfire, unbeaten 21 to give the Dutch innings added extra impetus.  The scores: Netherlands 164/4 in 20 overs (Max O’Dowd 70, Colin Ackerman 35, Jan Frylinck 2/36) lost to Namibia 166/4 in 19 overs (David Wiese 66 n.o., Gerhard Erasmus 32). Toss: Namibia .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/david-wiese-powers-namibia-home/article37101552.ece
21 October 2021||Al Amerat (Oman),||Bangladesh starts as the favourite||Bangladesh, its campaign back on track, will start as the overwhelming favourite when it faces Papua New Guinea in a must-win Group-B league game of the T20 World Cup here on Thursday. Bangladesh suffered a shock six-run defeat against Scotland. But the Mahmudullah-led side bounced back to defeat Oman by 26 runs on Tuesday. Bangladesh will need a win to keep its chances of making it to the Super12 alive, as it only has two points from two games and is placed third with a net run-rate of +0.500. A win against Papua New Guinea will give it two crucial points and then it would also hope that Oman loses its final game against Scotland, which has already qualified from the group, to ensure its passage into the next stage. The role of star all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan would be crucial for the Asian side. Shakib has been among the runs and wickets and he could pose a serious challenge to the PNG batters on a track that assists the spinners. Mahmudullah had conceded that the team would have to improve in a lot of areas despite the win against Oman. Meanwhile, the Assad Vala-led PNG has lost both its games and is already out of contention. But it would surely like to sign off the tournament on a positive note.  Match starts at 3.30 p.m. IST .   Today’s matches Bangladesh vs Papua New Guinea, 3.30 p.m. Scotland vs Oman, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-starts-as-the-favourite/article37101562.ece
21 October 2021||Chennai,||Shubhan Krishnan spins a web around RBI||Jupiter SC off-spinner Shubhan Krishnan Sridhar’s six-wicket haul (6/7) helped his side script a seven-wicket win over Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in the TNCA third division A- zone recently.  The scores:   III-A: Triplicane CC 183/7 in 30 overs (P.S. Manikandan 74, Vignesh M Mohan 3/44) bt Krishnaraj Memorial 142 in 30 overs (R. Prashanth 39, S. Prabhu 34, J. Jeevanandham 5/45).   Nungambakkam CC 169/6 in 39 overs (T. Muralitharan 38, D. Vignesh Yadav 33, P. Subash 3/33) bt Spic RC 128 in 35.1 overs (S. Mukamadu Abdul Kather Jayalani 36 n.o., B. Karthik 4/25, D. Vignesh Yadav 4/28).   Sounder CC 128 in 45 overs (R. Adhitya Rishi 4/30) lost to Southern Railway Sports Association 129/4 in 35.1 overs (R. Paul Johnson 45 n.o.).   RBI 62 in 30.3 overs (Shubhan Krishnan Sridhar 6/7) lost to Jupiter SC 64/3 in 15 overs (S. Vasanth Saravanan 32 n.o.).   V-C: Lusuraj CC 308/7 in 50 overs (V. Vinoth 53, B. Gowtham 51 n.o., V. Sakthivel 47, D. Yogesh Kumar 94 n.o., M.B. Aswin 3/62) bt B&C Mills 188 in 45 overs (L. Chandrasekar 43, V. Vikram Johnson 68, D. Yogesh Kumar 3/36, V. Vinoth 3/47, S. Vetri Velu 4/36).   St. Mary’s 164 in 46 overs (S. Yugesh 38, R. Krishna Sai 34, T.S. Santhosh Kumar 32, M. Subanandhan 3/41, S. Gunaseelan 3/40) lost to Egmore Excelsiors 165/5 in 25.2 overs (N. Ganesh 58 n.o.).   V-E: HSBC 186 in 48.2 overs (R.G. Sudharsanan 33, Koonal A Khedar 4/61) bt Eagle 183/9 in 50 overs (J. Hari Prasad 41, K. Jagadish 33, S. Kamal Raj 3/37).   Tangedco 174 in 48.1 overs (P. Shanmugapriyan 65, H. Krishanth 3/34, S. Anantharaman 3/39, B. Ramasethu 3/53) bt Unicorn 158 in 43.1 overs (V. Hari Nandan 43, B. Ramasethu 40, V. Prabhakaran 3/30, N. Shyam Prasad 5/38).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shubhan-krishnan-spins-a-web-around-rbi/article37101716.ece
21 October 2021||KOCHI,||Ernakulam retains State junior title||A couple of days after losing the State senior final in a close thriller, host Ernakulam brushed aside Kozhikode 3-0 and retained the Kerala State junior inter-district badminton mixed team title at the Rajiv Gandhi indoor stadium here on Wednesday evening. Quiet affair Unlike the senior clash which went the full distance and which was won by Kozhikode, the junior final was a quiet affair. And though both the teams had players who had featured in the senior championship, Ernakulam won all the three matches without dropping a game through Sanjay Nair, Kerala’s youngest State women’s champion Pavithra Naveen and the men’s doubles pair of S. Abhishek and Adhin Ajay.  Kozhikode also had to sweat through a five-match semifinal against Kannur in the morning and that was probably another reason why its players were not at their sparkling best in the final. The Kerala Badminton (Shuttle) Association president K. Anil Kumar gave away the prizes.  The results (junior inter-district mixed team championship):   Final: Ernakulam bt Kozhikode 3-0 (Sanjay S. Nair bt Uday Prakash 21-14, 21-15; Pavithra Naveen bt Nayana S. Oasis 21-14, 21-17; S. Abhishek & Adhin K. Ajay bt P. Abhijay & Vimal Kumar Pullanhi 21-4, 21-7).   Semifinals: Ernakulam bt Alappuzha 3-1 (S. Abhishek bt S. Akshit 21-18, 16-21, 21-15; Pavithra Naveen bt S. Megha 21-14, 21-15; Adhin K. Ajay & Dain Maxen lost to S. Akshit & Robens V. Roney 15-21, 14-21; Diya Arun & Pavithra Naveen bt S. Megha & Pavithra Jayaraj 21-17, 28-26).   Kozhikode bt Kannur 3-2 (Vimal Kumar Pullanhi lost to Shehil Muhammed 5-21, 9-21; Nayana S. Oasis bt C.H. Keerthika 15-21, 21-17, 21-19; P. Abhijay & Abhishek Rupesh lost to C.H. Chandrajith & Shehil Muhammed 4-21, 11-21; Gayathri Nambiar & Zainaba Reem Siraj bt M.K. Eliza Drona & Sreeyuktha Sreejith 16-21, 21-16, 21-16; Nayana Oasis & Uday Prakash bt C.H. Chandrajith & C.H. Keerthika 14-21, 21-14, 21-12).   Ernakulam won all the three matches without dropping a game in the final In the semifinals, Kannur gave Kozhikode a tough fight||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ernakulam-retains-state-junior-title/article37102024.ece
21 October 2021||BEIJING,||Olympic flame arrives in Beijing||The Olympic flame arrived here on Wednesday amid calls from overseas critics for a boycott of the February 4-20 Winter Games. Communist Party secretary Cai Qi, the top official in the Chinese capital, received the flame at a closely-guarded airport ceremony.  Beijing is the first city to be awarded hosting rights to both the Summer and Winter Games, largely as a result of the reluctance of European and North American cities to bid for the 2022 edition. At Wednesday’s flame handover ceremony, Beijing Deputy Mayor Zhang Jiandong said the City was committed to holding a “simple, safe and an excellent Games”. The flame will be placed on display over the next few months, with a three-day relay scheduled to start on Feb. 2 involving around 1,200 torchbearers in Beijing, suburban Yanqing and Zhangjiakou in neighboring Hebei province where ski jumping and other outdoor events will be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-flame-arrives-in-beijing/article37101645.ece
21 October 2021||Melbourne,||Stars urged to get jabs or miss the Australian Open||Elite tennis players should get vaccinated against COVID-19 or risk missing the Australian Open in January, Australian officials said Wednesday. Some players, including men's No. 1 Novak Djokovic, have advocated that the decision to get the vaccine should be a personal choice. But Australia's health minister Greg Hunt said the rules were straightforward: everyone arriving in the country needed to be double-vaccinated. "Our rules are very clear, they apply to everyone without fear or favour," he said. "It doesn't matter whether you are number one (tennis player) in the world or anything else, our rules are about protecting Australians and they apply to everybody." Djokovic, who has won the Australian Open title a record nine times and shares the men's Grand Slam record of 20 titles with Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, hasn't confirmed whether he has been vaccinated for COVID-19.  High stakes If he doesn't get vaccinated, he risks missing the tournament he has won for the last three years. Asked if he had a message for Djokovic, Australian immigration minister Alex Hawke indicated that tennis stars would have to follow the same rules as anyone else. "I don't have a message to Novak, I have a message to everybody that wishes to visit Australia: you'll need to be double vaccinated," he said. Ahead of the Australian Open earlier this year, all players had to quarantine for two weeks and be regularly tested under Australia's strict regulations on COVID-19 measures. Most were allowed a limited time to practise, but any who tested positive or we deemed to be close contacts of a positive case — which in some cases meant simply being on the same charter flight — had to do a hard lockdown. Those players weren't allowed to leave their hotel rooms. There are plans to have crowds at the Australian Open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stars-urged-to-get-jabs-or-miss-the-australian-open/article37101647.ece
21 October 2021||Washington,||‘Biennial World Cups needed to attract youth’||FIFA president Gianni Infantino told European football leaders that introducing biennial World Cups would help keep youngsters interested in the sport at a time when they are increasingly “running after” other activities. The Associated Press obtained a recording of Infantino speaking on Tuesday during a meeting that was closed to the media, where UEFA member associations also voiced a stream of opposition to his plans to double the frequency of World Cups. Infantino was challenged by presidents of national federations on the damage that would be caused to not only club competitions but also national teams if FIFA radically overhauls the international game despite European opposition. But Infantino pitched the reshaping of world football as being necessary to safeguard the future of the sport. “I believe as well that the enemy of football is not the World Cup or is not FIFA but it is other activities that young boys and young girls are running after today,” Infantino said in closing remarks to the meeting that lasted more than an hour. “And we need to see how jointly and together we can bring them back to be interested in football. And we want to, as far as I’m concerned, do this all together as we have always been doing in the last few years.” Infantino did not specify what those “other activities” were. He did not respond to a phone call from the AP seeking comment and FIFA had no immediate comment expanding on the remarks. Leaders from the Finnish, Italian, Germany, Portuguese, Romanian, Scottish, Spanish and Swiss federations told Infantino they want to continue having the World Cup every four years. Player welfare They cited the impact on player welfare of having more frequent tournaments, the pitfalls of having only one block of qualifiers across October and November, and the potential damage caused to the growing profile of the women’s game by having more men’s competitions. No country spoke in favor of the plans during the call with Infantino.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/biennial-world-cups-needed-to-attract-youth/article37101649.ece
21 October 2021||Paris,||UEFA estimates €3b shortfall||A report commissioned by UEFA estimates a shortfall of between €2.5 and 3 billion over four years for European federations if FIFA adopts its controversial plan to switch to a biennial World Cup, AFP has learned. European football’s governing body presented the findings of the study to the leaders of its 55 member federations on Tuesday. The report does not take into account the possible additional shortfall for each of the national championships, say French newspapers Le Monde and L’Equipe , who revealed the contents of the document. UEFA has already opposed FIFA’s proposed change to the international calendar which is looking to hold the World Cup every two years from 2028, instead of the usual quadrennial rhythm. UEFA president Aleksander Ceferin said last month that the change would “lead to more randomisation, less legitimacy, and it will unfortunately dilute the World Cup itself”. His sentiments have been echoed by leagues, federations and supporters around the world. FIFA president Gianni Infantino, however, insists the change would benefit federations and is determined to plough ahead with the idea, saying this week that a final decision will be made “before December.” Single window In addition to the biennial World Cup, the project plans to bring together qualifying matches into a single window in October, or even two in March and October, instead of the current spread of windows throughout the year. According to Le Monde , the recently-created Nations League, would disappear with the European Championships also moving to a biennial programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uefa-estimates-3-billion-shortfall/article37101652.ece
21 October 2021||Al Amerat (Oman),||Scotland looks to keep slate clean||Scotland will fancy its chances of maintaining its unbeaten run and enter the Super 12 on a winning note when it meets Oman in the Group-B league game of the T20 World Cup here on Thursday. Scotland shocked fancied Bangladesh in the tournament opener and then got the better of Papua New Guinea in the second group match on Tuesday, taking another huge step in their cricketing journey by qualifying for the Super 12 stage. There is power and touch at the top and middle-order including Richie Berrington and Calum MacLeod. Possessing a wide array of strokes, MacLeod remains one of Scotland’s best players of spin. Hosts Oman got off to an excellent start with a convincing win against PNG but lost to Bangladesh. Playing at home, Zeeshan Maqsood’s side has the players who can help the team get the better of an in-form rival.  Match starts at 7.30 p.m. IST .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/scotland-looks-to-keep-slate-clean/article37101565.ece
21 October 2021||Paris,||Pique helps Barca to its first CL win of the season||Gerard Pique scored the vital goal to earn Barcelona a nervy 1-0 win over Dynamo Kyiv in Champions League Group E on Wednesday and keep alive the Spanish side's hopes of reaching the knockout rounds. Pique volleyed home Jordi Alba's cross in the 36th minute to register Barca's first goal of this season's competition and secure its first victory after 3-0 defeats by Bayern Munich and Benfica. There was a goal rush on Tuesday and it was hardly a surprise to see Lionel Messi and Mohamed Salah among the scorers. By converting coolly taken penalties late in their games, Messi and Salah sealed 3-2 wins for Paris Saint-Germain and Liverpool, respectively, on a chaotic night when 35 goals were scored across eight group matches. Ajax produced perhaps the best performance of the lot in overwhelming Borussia Dortmund 4-0, with Sebastien Haller netting his sixth goal of the group stage in just three rounds of games. Messi rescued the French club in its 3-2 win over Leipzig, equalising in the 67th and then producing a cheeky “Panenka” penalty down the middle to complete PSG’s comeback. Salah became the first player in Liverpool’s 129-year history to score in nine straight games in all competitions, clinching a 3-2 victory at Atletico Madrid.  The results: Group A: PSG 3 (Mbappe 9, Messi 67, 74-pen) bt RB Leipzig 2 (Andre Silva 28, Mukiele 57).   Group B: Atletico Madrid 2 (Griezmann 20, 34) lost to Liverpool 3 (Salah 8, 78-pen, Keita 13); Porto 1 (Diaz (65) bt AC Milan 0.   Group C: Ajax 4 (Reus 11-og, Blind 25, Antony 57, Haller 72) bt Borussia Dortmund 0;   Group D: Shakhtar Donetsk 0 lost to Real Madrid 5 (Kryvtsov 37-og, Vinicius Jr 51, 56, Rodrygo 64, Benzema 90+1); Inter Milan 3 (Dzeko 34, Vidal 58, de Vrij 67) bt Sheriff 1 (Thill 52) .   Group E: Barcelona 1 (Pique 36) bt Dynamo Kiev 0.   Group G: Salzburg 3 (Adeyemi 3, Okafor 65, 77) bt Wolfsburg 1 (Nmecha 15) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/goal-glut-as-liverpool-and-psg-post-fighting-wins/article37101573.ece
21 October 2021||KOLKATA,||India men in Pool B for junior World Cup||Defending champion India has been placed along with Canada, France and Poland in Pool B for the men’s Junior World Cup hockey tournament to be played at the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar from November 24. According to the schedule released by the International Hockey Federation (FIH) on Wednesday, the host will begin its campaign against France at 7.30 p.m. on the opening day before meeting Canada (November 25) and Poland (November 27) in its subsequent pool engagements. India won the title when it hosted the last edition of the event in Lucknow in 2016. The quarterfinals will be played on December 1 and the semifinals on December 3. Final on December 5 The final will take place on December 5. India has been slotted in Pool C for the women’s Junior World Cup to be held in Potchefstroom, South Africa, from December 5 to 16. India will face Russia (December 6), Argentina (December 7) and Japan (December 9) in the pool stage. The quarterfinals will be held on December 12 followed by the semifinals on December 14 and the final on December 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-men-in-pool-b-for-junior-world-cup/article37101574.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India pugilists leave for World championships||The Indian men’s boxing team, comprising the likes of Asian medal-winners Deepak Kumar (51kg), Shiva Thapa (63.5kg) and Sanjeet (92kg), left for Belgrade on Wednesday to compete in the World championships starting on October 24, hopeful of coming over the disappointment of an underwhelming Olympics campaign. The three form the experienced core of the 13-member squad, which is made up of this year’s National champions. Of these, Thapa is the only one with prior experience of competing in the World event, having claimed a bronze in 2015. Support staff The boxers are accompanied by the support staff, led by High Performance Director Santiago Nieva and newly-appointed head coach Narender Rana, with former Commonwealth Games silver-medallist L. Devendro Singh as one of the assistant coaches. This will be Nieva’s last assignment with the Indian team after the Boxing Federation of India decided against giving him a long-term extension at the end of the Tokyo Olympics. The preparation for the Worlds has been far from ideal as the boxers got just about 10 days to practice in a camp after the Nationals. The five men who competed in Tokyo, including last World championships silver-medallist Amit Panghal (51kg), could not make the squad after skipping the Nationals owing to niggles and “lack of preparation time”.     The squad: Govind Sahani (48kg), Deepak Kumar (51kg), Akash (54kg), Rohit Mor (57kg), Varinder Singh (60kg), Shiva Thapa (63.5kg), Akash (67kg), Nishant Dev (71kg), Sumit (75kg), Sachin Kumar (80kg), Lakshya (86kg), Sanjeet (92kg), Narender (+92kg) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-pugilists-leave-for-world-championships/article37101633.ece
21 October 2021||BENGALURU,||India International Challenge from today||The Infosys Foundation India International Challenge badminton tournament will commence at Padukone-Dravid Centre for Sports Excellence here on Thursday. The tournament, conducted under the auspices of the Karnataka Badminton Association (KBA) and organised by Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy (PPBA), carries a prize purse of $25,000. Around 300 shuttlers from India and four other countries will compete in men’s and women’s categories. The qualifying rounds of the tournament concluded on Wednesday. Subhankar Dey and Kiran George (men’s singles), and Aakarshi Kashyap and Mugda Agrey (women’s singles), have been named as the top two seeds in their respective categories. “The Infosys Foundation India International Challenge tournament offers a unique opportunity to young badminton talent who are keen to prove their mettle against both promising and established players on an international platform, and gain invaluable international ranking points,” PPBA co-founder Prakash Padukone said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-international-challenge-from-today/article37101634.ece
21 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Manish Pandey to lead||Manish Pandey will lead Karnataka in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament at Guwahati from November 4 to 9. Karnataka will miss the services of batter K.L. Rahul, who is away with the Indian team for the ICC T20 World Cup. The likes of Mayank Agarwal, Devdutt Padikkal and Prasidh Krishna, who competed in the IPL, are part of the State squad. Pacer Ronit More, who was in probables list but had fitness concerns, missed the bus.  The squad:   Manish Pandey (Capt.), Mayank Agarwal, Devdutt Padikkal, K.V. Siddharth, Rohan Kadam, Anirudha Joshi, Abhinav Manohar, Karun Nair, B.R. Sharath, Nihal Ullal, Shreyas Gopal, K. Gowtham, J. Suchith, Pravin Dubey, K.C. Cariappa, Prasidh Krishna, Prateek Jain, V. Vyshak, M.B. Darshan, Vidyadhar Patil.   Head coach: Yere Goud; Bowling coach: S. Arvind; Fielding coach: Deepak Chougule .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manish-pandey-to-lead/article37101632.ece
21 October 2021||ABU DHABI,||Sri Lanka makes the Super 12 with a clinical victory||Wanindu Hasaranga and Pathum Nissanka hit half-centuries as Sri Lanka thrashed Ireland by 70 runs on Wednesday to reach the Super 12 stage of the T20 World Cup. Hasaranga, who smashed 71, and Nissanka, who made 61, put on a key stand of 123 to guide Sri Lanka to 171 for seven after being in trouble early on in the first round match. Then its bowling attack, led by spinner Maheesh Theekshana who returned figures of three for 17, dismissed Ireland for 101 in 18.3 overs despite a valiant 41 from skipper Andy Balbirnie. Hasaranga stood out with his maiden T20I half-century and economical figures of one of 12 as Sri Lanka remained top of Group A with four points after a second successive win. Put in, Sri Lanka stumbled to eight for three in the second over before Hasaranga and Nissanka started the recovery. Paul Stirling claimed the wicket of Kusal Perera for nought with the second ball of the innings and Josh Little took two in two the following over to remove Dinesh Chandimal and Avishka Fernando. Hasaranga, an all-rounder who bowls leg-spin, took the attack to the opposition with four straight boundaries off spinner Simi Singh to lay the foundation for Sri Lanka’s challenging total. He reached his fifty in 38 balls and kept up the charge to punish the Ireland bowlers, blasting a towering six before falling to Mark Adair. Nissanka also recorded his first fifty in the shortest international format as he hit six fours and a six in his 47-ball knock. Little returned impressive figures of four for 23 and Adair claimed his 50th T20I wicket before the Lankan skipper Dasun Shanaka finished the innings with a six and a four in his unbeaten 21 off 11 balls.  The scores: Sri Lanka 171/7 in 20 overs (Wanindu Hasaranga 71, Pathum Nissanka 61, Joshua Little 4/23) bt Ireland 101 in 18.3 overs (Andy Balbirnie 41, Maheesh Theekshana 3/17, Lahiru Kumara 2/22, Chamika Karunaratne 2/27). Toss: Ireland.   Sri Lanka won by 70 runs to qualify for the Super 12 .   Sri Lanka win by 70 runs Chasing a target of 172, Ireland was skittled out for 101 in 18.3 overs. Maheesh Theekshana (3/17), Lahiru Kumara (2/22) and Chamika Karunaratne (2/27) were the main wicket-takers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hasaranga-nissanka-bail-out-sri-lanka/article37101554.ece
21 October 2021||Karachi,||If we don’t get results, we start searching for scapegoats: Misbah||Former captain Misbah-ul-Haq said that there will be no improvement in Pakistan cricket unless it changes its culture and stops hunting for scapegoats. Speaking for the first time since his sudden resignation as head coach last month, Misbah said “cosmetic surgery” will not change anything. “The problem is that in our cricket we only look at results and we don’t give time or have patience for planning ahead and improving the system. “We don’t focus on the fact that we have to develop our players at domestic level and then in the national team. We want results and if we don’t get the desired results we start searching for scapegoats,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/if-we-dont-get-results-we-start-searching-for-scapegoats-misbah/article37102092.ece
21 October 2021||HISAR,||National boxing from today||In the absence of Olympic medalists M.C. Mary Kom and Lovlina Borgohain, Olympians Simranjit Kaur and Pooja Rani will be the star attractions in the National women’s boxing championships beginning at the St. Joseph’s International School here on Thursday. World championships medallist Simranjit will compete in 60kg, while Pooja, a reigning Asian champion, will feature in the 81kg draw instead of 75kg, in which she boxed in the Tokyo Games. The presence of Worlds medallist Jamuna Boro (54kg), defending champion Pwilao Basumatary (60kg), Asian medallists Jasmine (60kg) and Nikhat Zareen (52kg), World youth champions N.Babyrojisana Chanu (54kg), T. Sanamacha Chanu (75kg) and Arundhati Choudhary (70kg) promises some exciting action. The event, being staged with Covid-19 protocols, will be held as per the revamped weight divisions — 48kg, 50kg, 52kg, 54kg, 57kg, 60kg, 63kg, 66kg, 70kg, 75kg, 81kg and +81kg. The gold and silver medallists will earn places in the National coaching camp. Two more boxers in each category will be selected on the basis of performances in the selection trials, which will take place after the National championships. In the trials, the bronze medallists will compete alongside the boxers representing the second string teams of top-three outfits (Railways, Haryana and All India Police) in the last National championships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-boxing-from-today/article37102003.ece
21 October 2021||JHAJJAR,||Suryanshi in semifinals||Qualifier Suryanshi Tanwar beat Shruti Gupta 6-7(5), 7-5, 6-1 in the quarterfinals of the Rs. 100,000 AITA women’s ranking tennis tournament at the Joygaon Academy on Wednesday. In the semifinals, Suryanshi will challenge the top seed Renne Singla. The other semifinal will be between second seed Reshma Maruri and Sandeepti Singh Rao.  The results:   Singles (quarterfinals): Renne Singla bt Priyam Kumari 6-1, 6-3; Suryanshi Tanwar bt Shruti Gupta 6-7(5), 7-5, 6-1; Sandeepti Singh Rao bt Paavani Pathak 6-2, 6-2; Reshma Maruri bt Mirdhula Palanivel 7-6(2), 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suryanshi-in-semifinals/article37102090.ece
21 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Top seed Vijay knocked out||S. Venkataraman knocked out top seed Vijay Kumar 6-7(6), 6-4, 6-3 in the men’s over-45 quarterfinals of the ITF seniors tennis tournament at the Roots Academy, Zirakpur, on Wednesday.  The results (quarterfinals):   Over-35: Dilip Mohanty bt Anindito Guha 7-5, 6-1; Harmeet Singh bt Mohit Pandey 6-1, 6-1; Raj Kumar bt Kiran Kumar 6-0, 6-0; Varun Makkar bt Prasang Raheja 6-0, 6-2.   Over-45: S. Venkataraman bt Vijay Kumar 6-7(6), 6-4, 6-3; Yogesh Kohli bt Avnish Chandra Rastogi 6-4, 6-1; Shyam Jagat bt Gopal Soni 6-3, 3-6, 6-1; Monty Roy bt Sunil Lulla 7-5, 6-1.   Over-55: Nirmal Kumar Ranjan bt Anil Nigam 6-1, 6-0; Sanjai Kumar bt Omprakash Choudhary 6-2, 6-0; Kuldeep Singh bt Rakesh Kohli 7-5, 6-3; Ajeet Bhardwaj bt Naresh Vij 6-1, 6-2.   Over-65: Narender Janweja bt Mahender Kakkad 6-2, 6-0; Mridulal Barkakoti bt Darshan Lal Maria 6-1, 6-0; Vinayak Gujrathi bt Sudhir Kumar 6-2, 6-0; Suresh Murthati bt Pala Ram Sehgal 6-0, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-seed-vijay-knocked-out/article37102093.ece
21 October 2021||Moscow,||Bopanna and Qureshi advance||Rohan Bopanna and Pakistan’s Aisam-Ul-Haq Qureshi beat top seeds Raven Klaasen and Ben McLachlan 6-2, 6-4 in the first round of the $779,515 ATP tennis tournament here on Wednesday.  Other results: First round: $235,238 WTA, Tenerife, Spain: Eri Hozumi (Jpn) & Shuai Zhang (Chn) bt Rosalie van der Hoek (Ned) & Ankita Raina 6-4, 6-3.   €44,820 Challenger, Veli Losinj, Croatia: Geoffrey Blancaneaux (Fra) & Arjun Kadhe bt Marco Bortolotti (Ita) & Sergio Martos Gomes (Esp) 6-2, 7-5; Anirudh Chandrasekar & Vijay Sundar Prashanth bt Admir Kalender & Milli Poljicak (Cro) 6-2, 6-7(3), [10-5].   $15,000 ITF men, Girona, Spain: Yan Bondarevskiy & Matvey Minin (Rus) bt Max Alcala Gurri (Esp) & Manish Sureshkumar 6-4, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Doha, Qatar: Yanki Erel (Tur) bt Dev Javia 6-1, 4-1 (retired).   $15,000 ITF, Monastir, Tunisia: Men: Vivien Versier (Fra) bt Niki Poonacha 7-6(5), 6-4; Sidharth Rawat bt Stefano D’Agostino (Ita) 3-6, 6-1, 6-4. Doubles: Ankit Chopra & Aaditya Tewari bt Taketo Takamisawa (Jpn) & Krithik Shivaram 6-4, 6-3; Wissam Abderrahman & Mohamed Amin Oueslati (Tun) bt Ajay Pruthvi Nemakal & Dharmil Shah 6-3, 6-2; Julien Cagnina (Bel) & Louis Tessa (Fra) bt Josef Southcombe (GBr) & Rishabdev Raman 6-2, 4-0 (retired).   Women: Kathleen Kanev & Chiara Tomasetti (Ger) bt Emma Van Poppel (Ned) & Jennifer Luikham 6-7(5), 6-2, [10-8].   $25,000 ITF women, Hamburg, Germany: Zeel Desai bt Karman Kaur Thandi 6-4, 6-4.   $25,000 ITF women, Seville, Spain: Caijsa Wilda Hennemann (Swe) & Ku Yeon Woo (Kor) bt Angeles Moreno Barranquero (Esp) & Vasanti Shinde 6-1, 4-6, [10-8] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-and-qureshi-advance/article37101233.ece
21 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Abhay to apply for fielding coach’s job||Abhay Sharma, who has worked with India-A, India under-19 and the national women’s side, has emerged as one of the candidates for the senior men’s team fielding coach’s position in place of the outgoing R. Sridhar. The 52-year-old is set to apply for the role with the Indian team. “He will be applying for the role soon,” a BCCI source confirmed. The application deadline is November 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhay-to-apply-for-fielding-coachs-job/article37101555.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||India U-23 team departs for Asian Cup Qualifiers||The India U-23 football team departed for Dubai on Wednesday to compete in the forthcoming Qualifiers for the AFC U-23 Asian Cup. India, which has been clubbed in Group E along with Oman, UAE and the Kyrgyz Republic, begins its campaign against Oman on October 24. “Every country has talented youngsters, and U-23 players who are already playing at the senior level for their respective countries, and so do we. But we need to find the balance in this team,” head coach Igor Stimac said. “The good thing for us is that we already had a number of players from this bunch of players here who have been a part of the National Team, and are aware of what kind of weather is to be expected, and also the expectations from the fans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-u-23-team-departs-for-asian-cup-qualifiers/article37101635.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||100 days to go for Women’s Asian Cup||The impending football fever in India is fast approaching as Wednesday marked the three-month countdown for Asia’s flagship tournament for women’s football — AFC Women’s Asian Cup India 2022, set to commence on January 20 next year. The best 12 teams from the continent will battle it out for the top honours in the competition which will be played across Navi Mumbai, Mumbai and Pune till February 6, 2022.The Asian Football Confederation (AFC), which unveiled ‘Our Goal for All’ as the official tagline of the prestigious tournament on the 100 days to go milestone date, has confirmed 10 teams for the competition and two more teams will be finalized this week. Bala Devi, who bagged her third AIFF Women’s Footballer of the Year Award earlier this year, urged the football fans of India to show support for their nation at the AFC Women’s Asian Cup India 2022 and the FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup India 2022. “I was overcome with joy when I learnt that in 2022 India will host both, the AFC Women’s Asian Cup India 2022 as well as the FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup India 2022,” said Bala in an official release. “I was very happy because these tournaments will be a fantastic stepping stone for our young girls to progress. When you look at the support for our team that participated in the FIFA U-17 World Cup India 2017, it is really unbelievable. “I would humbly request everyone to show similar support to the women who will be participating in the AFC Women’s Asian Cup India 2022 in January next year, as well as to those who will play in the FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup India 2022 in October next year,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/100-days-to-go-for-afc-womens-asian-cup/article37101654.ece
21 October 2021||Al Amerat,||Shakib show takes Tigers home||Star all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan took three wickets and scored 42 as Bangladesh hammered host Oman by 26 runs on Tuesday to win its first match of the Twenty20 World Cup and stay alive in the competition. Bangladesh came into the contest needing a win to stay in the hunt for the Super 12 stage and was bowled out for 153 after electing to bat. Mustafizur Rahman (4/36) and Shakib then shared seven wickets between them to keep down Oman to 127 for nine and help Bangladesh bounce back from the opening Group B loss to Scotland.  The scores:   Bangladesh 153 in 20 overs (Mohd. Naim 64, Shakib Al Hasan 42, Bilal Khan 3/18, Fayyaz Butt 3/30) bt Oman 127/9 in 20 overs (Jatinder Singh 40, Mustafizur Rahman 4/36, Shakib Al Hasan 3/28).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shakib-show-takes-tigers-home/article37101549.ece
21 October 2021||Dubai,||Hardik expected to bowl||India vice-captain Rohit Sharma on Wednesday said that all-rounder Hardik Pandya is expected to be “ready” to bowl when the team starts its T20 World Cup campaign here on Sunday. Rohit said the team needs a sixth bowler during the showpiece. “Hardik is coming along pretty well, but it’ll be a while before he will start to bowl. He hasn’t started bowling, but he should be ready by the start of the tournament,” said Rohit. “We have quality in the main bowlers, but you need an option for a sixth bowler,” he added. India plays Pakistan in its opening match here on Sunday. Hardik’s fitness has been a concern heading into the tournament as he did not bowl at all in the IPL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hardik-expected-to-bowl/article37101563.ece
21 October 2021||BENGALURU,||RUFC on verge of qualification||Rajasthan United Football Club put itself in pole position to secure the I-League berth after recording a 2-0 win over Madan Maharaj FC in the Qualifiers at the Bangalore Football Stadium here on Wednesday. Rajasthan, on six points from two games, can only be challenged by Kenkre FC, which is on four points. Kenkre played out a 1-1 draw against the fancied Delhi FC, a result which sent the latter out of the reckoning.  The results: Rajasthan United Football Club 2 (Surag Chettri 88, Harpreet Singh 90+4) bt Madan Maharaj FC 0; Delhi Football Club 1 (Sergio Barboza Junior 79) drew with Kenkre FC 1 (Kiran Pandhare 56) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajasthan-united-on-verge-of-qualification/article37101636.ece
21 October 2021||Melbourne,||Pattinson quits international cricket||Australian fast bowler James Pattinson on Wednesday retired from international cricket after realising that he won’t be in the reckoning for the Ashes series due to fitness issues. The 31-year-old, who has played 21 Tests and 15 ODIs, though will continue to play domestic cricket. Pattinson had recently suffered a knee injury during an intra-squad Victorian trial game.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pattinson-quits-international-cricket/article37101557.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Gemini Friends bests Deccan Chronicle in final||Gemini Friends scored a 48-run win over Deccan Chronicle in the final of the inaugural Nawab MAK Pataudi Tiger Cup T20 cricket tournament organised by Hyderabad Cricket Association here on Tuesday. Batting first, Gemini Friends, thanks to a fine opening stand of 67 in 9.3 overs between Sai Pragnay Reddy (42, 32b, 4x4, 1x6) and Thakur Tilak Varma (26, 28b, 2x4), posted 147/5 in 20 overs. In reply, Deccan Chronicle folded up for 99 in the face of an accurate spell by Rishith Reddy (four for 16).  The scores:   Final: Gemini Friends 147/5 in 20 overs (Sai Pragnay Reddy 42, Kamal Sawariya 38) bt Deccan Chronicle 99 in 17 overs (Rishith Reddy 4/16) .    D. Ramya will lead Hyderabad in the BCCI senior women’s one-day cricket tournament to be held in Bengaluru from October 23.   The team:   D. Ramya (capt), Pranavi Chandra (vice-capt), Anuradha Nayak (wk), Keerthi Reddy, K. Anitha, G. Trisha, M. Mamatha (wk), Yashasree, Trisha Poojitha, B. Shravani, B. Anjali, Tehniyat Fatima, P. Parvathi, Sai Leha, Kranthi Reddy, Vanka Pooja, Ishita Koduri, A. Pranathi, Pooja Shree, Aashritha Reddy and C.S. Sadvi. Stand-byes: M. Anitha, G.K. Sravya (wk), T. Chandana, Shivani Goud and Merlin John. Coach: Vidyuth Jaisimha. Assistant coach: Harsha Harinarayan.   Fielding coach: Sravanthi Naidu .    P. Ravali and Tanuja Kameshwar won a gold and a bronze respectively in the recently-held sailing Youth Nationals held in Mumbai. Ravali also won the Maj Gen Harry Kapoor Trophy for the best sailor without a discard by a whopping 60-point lead and also set a record in the process. Tanuja, relatively junior in experience, shocked the fleet with many top five positions in the 10 races and closed with a bronze, her first at a National event and that will shoot her up in the National ranking, according to Suheim Sheikh, head coach of Yacht Club of Hyderabad.. “Ravali sailed like never before and in fourth race had a stupendous lead of 2.5 minutes over the next sailor while normally sailors finish within seconds of each other. Her reading of the winds and ability to take a lead and cover the fleet was a sheer joy to watch,” Suheim Sheikh said. “As we move from regatta to regatta our sailors from Telangana are surpassing themselves and proving that the land locked state of Telangana is far superior to all the coastal states. I congratulate Ravali and Tanuja and wish them the very best at the international level in the near future,” said Lt. Gen. KS Rao, president Telangana Sailing Association.     Top-seeded V. Thanish and second-seeded Aylin Miriam Cornelio, both from Karnataka, won the boys and girls singles titles respectively in the AITA Championship Series under-12 tennis tournament at Ash Tennis Academy (Shamirpet) near here. Thanish defeated unseeded K. Hruthik 2-6, 6-3, 6-4 in the boys’ final while Cornelio put it across sixth-seed E. Yashitha of Telangana 6-2, 7-5 in the girls’ final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gemini-friends-bests-deccan-chronicle-in-final/article37101948.ece
21 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||SBL basketball from today||The SBL all-Kerala basketball tournament will get underway at the St. Joseph's HSS floodlit basketball stadium here on Wednesday. Central GST & Customs (Kochi), KSEB, Kerala Police (both from Thiruvananthapuram) and Sree Kerala Varma College (Thrissur) are the teams taking part in the main tournament. The teams will play in a round-robin league to decide the winners. Mar Ivanios College, Thiruvananthapuram and SB College, Changanassery pulled out, reducing the tournament to a four-team affair. A district-level tournament figuring eight teams will be held along with the main event. St. Joseph's Club and Christ Youth Movement have been seeded directly into the semifinals. The other six teams have been divided into two groups and the group winner will qualify for the semifinals.       P.S. Aathira will lead the Kerala senior women's hockey team that will take part in the senior national championships. Jayakumar has been appointed as the coach while Sandhya will be the manager.  The team: P. Aathira (captain), S. Ammu, R. Anjali, Blessy John, K.V. Aiswarya, Anju Shaji, K.M. Arya, T.K. Navya, Reshma, Anagha Rajan, M. Ashmi, M. Simran, K. Anju, V. Aathira, S. Swetha, Vishnu Priya, S. R. Varsha and S. Sibiya .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sbl-basketball-from-today/article37102021.ece
21 October 2021||London,||Steve Bruce leaves Newcastle by 'mutual consent' after takeover||Steve Bruce has left his position as Newcastle manager by “mutual consent”, 13 days after a Saudi-led takeover at St James’ Park, the Premier League club announced on Wednesday. Brucetook charge of his 1,000th match as a manager in Sunday’s 3-2 defeat by Tottenham — his only game under the new owners. His assistant, Graeme Jones, will be in charge for Saturday’s trip to Crystal Palace.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/steve-bruce-leaves-newcastle-by-mutual-consent-after-takeover/article37101639.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Krishna’s infancy||None could have enjoyed the beauty of the Krishna avatara more than the Azhvars, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Periyazhvar imagines himself to be Yasoda, and his verses celebrate Krishna’s infancy and childhood. There are verses dedicated to combing the baby’s hair, to feeding Him etc. There is a genre of poetry in Tamil, known as Pillai Tamizh, wherein the hero of the poem is imagined to be a child. Each stage in the child’s life is then described. Periyazhvar’s verses about Krishna may be considered to be the forerunner of this kind of poetry. Peiryazhvar imagined himself to be Yasoda, and so, there were many possibilities for him to compose verses about baby Krishna. After all it was Yasoda to whom this blessing of witnessing His growing years was given. But Kulasekara Azhvar put himself in the place of Devaki and wrote about Krishna, the child. Devaki had never enjoyed Krishna’s childhood, for she did not bring Him up. Kulasekara Azhvar’s verses are called “Devaki’s lament,” for they express Devaki’s grief at being separated from her child Krishna. One verse has Devaki crying over her husband’s misfortune. The baby Krishna is the darling of everyone in Gokula, and people claim kinship with Him, so that they can pick up the baby. One of them asks the baby where His father is. Krishna is only some months old, and has not yet begun to speak. But He is at that age where He can understand a simple question that is put to Him. So, when asked where His father is, His eyes wander, until He locates Nandagopa. Then, with His hands, He points to Nandagopa, much to the delight of all those gathered. Should this joy not have been Vasudeva’s by right, for after all, he was Krishna’s father, cries Devaki in anguish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/krishnas-infancy/article37101295.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 07:39 IST,||Sudoku — October 21, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-21-2021/article37102325.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Freshly roasted in Chennai||When Divya Jayashankar set up Chennai’s first roastery, Beachville, back in 2018, the city was just beginning to look beyond traditional dark roasts and filter coffee. Back then, her imported small-batch roaster, grinder, and farm-sourced coffee blends with “no chicory, no robusta” were enough to take customers by surprise, she recalls. Now, encouraged by adventurous customers, Divya is exploring naturally sun-dried coffee cherries as against washed Arabica, and the various ways they can be put to use. The latter, she says, “has what many consider to be a cleaner taste. But sun drying lets the flavour of the cherry leech into the bean with time, making it much more heavy-bodied and fruity: The market is moving towards more funky tasting coffees, and I want to experiment.” She is not alone — a fraternity of coffee entrepreneurs alongside Divya are trying out a variety of processes, working with farmers, discoving different beans and playing with flavour profiles. The growing competition is keeping him on his toes, admits Akshay Vaidyanathan who founded Kapi Kottai in 2019. While Divya looks into what she calls “the naturals”, Akshay’s latest product Hamir Kalyani is a test slow-controlled fermentation. “It’s a very technical process, but fermented coffee is definitely a trend now,” says Akshay, adding that his 2020 product named Curveball is double-fermented, resulting in an intensely fruity, admittedly polarising brew with a niche, but loyal, following. These experiments are taking roasters into coffee estates, to the turf of growers and plantation owners, in an attempt to heighten flavours in coffee before they even take the form of beans. The latest in the fray, began their process plantation-first. Kat & Kin Coffee Roasters was started by husband-wife duo Kathryn and Anek Ahuja in the middle of lockdown earlier this year. “I have been interested in coffee-making for 25 years, and was looking for a challenge,” says Kathryn. They began with a visit to plantations in Chikmagalur after restrictions eased, where a patch of Ethiopian-origin heirloom coffee at MF Estate caught her fancy, “I knew I wanted to start with that bean”. The smooth-tasting floral coffee lends itself to multiple brewing styles, found the couple, making it the ideal launch for a new customer-base with varied preferences. Then followed the investments: a roaster that took three months to be imported from Taiwan (“there are no roasting machines made in India,” says Anek), a commercial-scale grinder, and a years’ stock of coffee beans. “Harvest happens only once a year, so we must commit to the grower for that long,” explains Anek, adding with a laugh, “We burnt a lot of beans before we managed a good roast.” Continued on page 2   Up ahead Now, Kat & Kin offers six coffees, including the popular Monsooned Malabar and a naturally processed product named Iced Honey. The roasters have also left their imprint beyond city and state limits — “While most of our customers are in Chennai, we are also getting repeat orders from a few people in Bengaluru and Hyderabad,” says Anek, adding, “In Chennai, the community of people brewing coffee other than filter coffee is growing. Some look at the process as an art form; I know people who prefer slow pour overs just because they find it calm and therapeutic.” Meanwhile, Kapi Kottai sells not only to individual customers, but also to cafes and restaurants around the country. The bread bar in Mumbai, Mearth cafe in Chennai, One Dollar Moffee in Raipur, Three Beans Coffee Bar in Nagpur and Pot Boiler Coffee House in Kolkata are part of Akshay’s clientele. Beachville, on the other hand, is putting more energy into serving its local, post-lockdown customers at the cafe that opened in October 2020. “The current trend is towards finding more interesting coffees and interesting ways of processing them,” says Divya, “But right now, the experiential angle seems more important than the blends per se. In the past year, we have been experimenting with what we serve at the cafe: kinds of cold brew, espresso-based beverages like a coconut water, coffee and mint espresso drink, and other beverages with tonics.” It is only in the upcoming harvest season that Divya really plans to get into naturally processed coffees, and also importing coffees from Ethiopia and Columbia. “It is usually difficult for a grower to maintain consistency when the process is natural, but there are some estates that are doing some really good work,” she says. She sees reason for optimism not only in the rising customer base, but also in the growing retail price of coffee, which is an indicator of how much people value speciality products and “green products”. In the end, she says, it all comes down to the relationship you have with those who grow coffee, and how much you are willing to pay them for their labour.  Some look at the process of brewing coffee as an art form; I know people who prefer pour overs because they find it therapeutic Anek Ahuja, Kat & Kin||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/freshly-roasted-in-chennai/article37101462.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Being an ally||After garnering fandom for her performances in projects like Axone, Margarita with a Straw and Four More Shots Please! , actor Sayani Gupta is now venturing into audio shows. Having already been part of Buri Nazar for Audible Suno, Sayani is now gearing up for the release of her latest,Mine and Yours,a modern-day love triangle where she plays the role of a bisexual woman, who explores and questions sexuality and queerness. Ahead of its release, also featuring Nakuul Mehta and Kubbra Sait, Sayani talks to us about what to expect. How did you prepare for this role? To be honest, the preparation was very light. The character is not very complex; she is a regular human being and she just happens to be bisexual. However, I did a lot of research earlier when I played the role of Khanum in Margarita with a Straw . A part of my workshop then was going and speaking to people from the LGBTQIA+ community. I also visited a bunch of gay bars and pubs in New York to observe and understand the culture better. I am an ally, and some of my close friends belong to the community, so I could empathise with the character. How different is the script for an audio show compared to a conventional TV show or movie?  The script is not that different, but the screenplay definitely is. But since I had already done a show earlier for Audible, it wasn’t that difficult to adapt to it. Even as a kid I dabbled in a lot of s hruti nataks… which literally translates to ‘audio shows’. That experience helped me too, as the syntax is the same. What can people expect from your character?  The personalities of the characters are very specific and different, and there is a lot of drama and comedy. I just want people to watch it because we have done some very good voice-work, if I may say so myself. (laughs)  Do you see yourself working in audio shows or podcasts again?  Definitely! India has a very old tradition of audio shows: radio plays. In fact, my father worked at All India Radio, so I was brought up on radio shows. Podcasts and audio shows have taken that old tradition and married it with technology, so that people can easily access and consume this type of content in today’s day and age. What are your future projects?  I am currently shooting for the next season of Four More Shots Please , which I am very excited about. Season three ofInside Edge is going to release soon, and some of my films are in post-production.  Season 2 of Mine and Yours is currently available on Audible||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/being-an-ally/article37101446.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||gulab jamun||Oil-free, sugarless, no-dairy gulab jamuns? Shalu Nijhawan, a whole plant-based nutritionist, says it is possible. After two years of trial and error, she has succeeded in creating a vegan version, which she will teach during an online pre-Deepavali cookery class aptly titled ‘Impossible Sweets’ . The session is being hosted by Sanctuary for Health and Reconnection to Animals and Nature (SHARAN), an Auroville-based organisation dedicated to spreading awareness about holistic health. Shalu will also be sharing recipes for vegan versions of traditional sweets like ras malai , khoya gujiya and Bombay Karachi halwa . “I am so excited about getting it right; I feel it’s a dhamaka (blast) in the world of traditional vegan sweets,” she says, adding that she adopted a vegan lifestyle after it helped reverse her husband’s auto-immune disorder. A growing market for vegans has encouraged sweet makers and food innovators to experiment with mithai for the upcoming festive season. V Aravindan’s Coimbatore-based Vijay Sweets specialises in vegan treats. His trademark offering, Mysore Pak, is made with coconut milk instead of ghee with barely a difference in taste. It now comes in five varieties: beetroot, carrot, palm jaggery, coconut milk and mixed nuts. This year, he is curating customised Diwali hampers priced between Rs. 500 and Rs. 2,000, which are filled with everything from cashew pedas to the Ironman laddoo incorporating dates, cashew, melon, cucumber and pumpkin seeds. Aravindan’s family turned vegan four years ago, and converted their sweet shop to vegan-only sweets. Being one of the pioneers in this field, they were faced with many challenges. One of the biggest was training their existing staff to work with alternative ingredients. As trendsetters, they had no products to compare theirs with and no one to take inspiration from. “We had to understand the behaviour of these alternative products and test out their shelf life,” says Aravindan. He adds that the family concentrates on “cracking tough traditional sweets” into vegan ones. Trials are on for baked rasmalai and gulab jamun . “Our motto is to make vegan sweets accessible to all,” states Aravindan. Though ingredients are expensive, he keeps the price 20% lower than dairy-based sweets. Mumbai-based chef Vandana Tiwari, who turned vegan seven years ago to reverse her hyperthyroidism, made chocolate modak sfor Ganesh Chaturthi this year. “We can convert any dessert into its vegan form,” she says. Vandana completely did away with ghee and used dates to sweeten the chocolate modak , made with a mix of almond and cocoa powder. She also makes modak swith red rice flour, stuffed with a mix of grated coconut, cardamom and dry dates powder. She’s planning Deepavali hampers under her label Vegan Essence, that will include mithai s, cakes and snacks like gujiya s, chakli s, chivda and more. Vandana substitutes all processed ingredients in her recipes. Gautam Agicha’s kitchens at AAA Gourmet Foods, Mumbai, are also buzzing with trials of laddoo smade with a mix of jaggery, to which are added unprocessed flours like bajra (pearl millet), sattu (roasted horsegram flour) or quinoa. “These will be part of boxes of vegan sweets for Diwali,” says Gautam, who set up the business of health foods in August last year and is surprised by the growing niche market. His sweet shop sees movement in a ratio of 90:10 in the sweet versus the vegan sweets market. Reyna Rupani, head of SHARAN’s Mumbai team, points out that there’s vegan and there’s healthy vegan. “Sugar and Jaggery are vegan, but we are for healthy veganism and so we use dates for sweetening,” she says. Reyna, who recently tasted gulab jamun smade from sweet potatoes, believes that gifting a box of healthy sweets is more accepted now than ever before. When she turned vegan seven years ago, there were “hardly any options” but now there is plenty to choose from. Shalu recalls her dogged resolve to get the flavour of gulab jamun right. She used cashew and wheat in the recipe and tofu for the ras malai. “The look is almost similar but not milky white,” says Shalu, who is set to open a plant-based delivery kitchen in Bengaluru, where she resides. Rose Pinto converted to veganism and now conducts Millet workshops and runs an organic store in Mumbai. Rose places orders for vegan cakes and sweets with her ‘students’ to encourage them to cook and cater. She makes laddoos using pulses, mainly green gram. Meanwhile, Gautam is trying hard to get the Mohanthal and Lola, a Sindhi dessert, right for this season, using kapli (emmer wheat) flour. “The trials are on and we should get the sweet ready in time for Diwali.”  Do it yourself! You can learn how to make gulab jamun,ras malai, raj bhog,khoya, gujiya, anjeer roll and Bombay Karachi halwa at a vegan cookery class organised by SHARAN on October 21. To know more, visit www.sharan-india.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/gulab-jamun/article37101458.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Koogai Thiraipada Iyakkam, Valsaravakkam||For readers interested in cinema, this is a treasure trove. Started by filmmaker Pa Ranjith and designed by his wife Anitha, the small library invites film makers for events following strict COVID-19 protocols. Shelves are stacked with books donated by filmmakers, with sections on Marxism, Periyar and Ambedkar. There is also a rare collection of screenplays including Veedu , Sethu , Paruthiveeran and  Salaam Bombay!   Poet-writer Murugan Manthiram says footfall has been steady since restrictions were lifted, “We have a stream of aspiring assistant directors. Twenty to 25 readers join us regularly to discuss short stories, and the same goes for film discussions usually held on Friday and Saturday.”  Subscription: The library has no subscription fee, but invites members of the film industry to contribute resources.  Timings: 10 am to 8 pm, everyday.  Contact: Murugan Manthiram at 9841869379||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/koogai-thiraipada-iyakkam-valsaravakkam/article37101507.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Remake run||When the trailer of his Oh Manapenne released recently, Harish Kalyan excitedly sent it to all his family members and friends. While doing so, there was one person he sorely missed: actor Vivekh. “He would have immediately replied with words of encouragement,” says Harish Kalyan in a telephonic interview. Harish has reason to miss the late comedian, who passed away earlier this year: Vivekh played an important role in last year’s Dharala Prabhu . “He acted like it was his first film and would excitedly ask about rehearsing, and keep looking at improving himself.” That film was a remake of Hindi film Vicky Donor , and Harish’s upcoming, Oh Manapenne ,  is a remake too: Telugu superhit Pelli Choopulu. That he stars in its lead role is, in Harish’s own words, “destiny”. Because it was way back in 2016 when he watched the Telugu original and discussed it with an assistant director friend called Kaarthikk. “I remember us chatting about the film, and him mentioning that I would be a good fit if it were remade in Tamil.” But the conversation ended there. Cut to 2019, and Harish was approached for its remake, and suggested Kaarthikk’s name for director. One thing followed another, and slowly, Oh Manapenne fell in place. “Remaking a film is all about striking the right balance in the script. We faced a lot of difficulty while doing that for Dharala Prabhu , as the concept (of sperm donation) might be difficult for Tamil audiences to accept. With Oh Manapenne , we tread familiar topics like arranged marriages and the relationship dynamics within a family. All we wanted to do was retain the freshness of the original,” he says about Oh Manapenne , in which he plays a happy-go-lucky youngster who starts a food truck. While Priya Bhavani Shankar plays the female lead, the friends of the lead character — played by stand-up comedian Abishek Kumar and Anbuthasan — will have important roles too. “We had a workshop to ensure that the banter on-screen comes out well,” he reveals. Harish debuted in the Tamil film industry in 2010, and has since then, come to be known for his romantic-at-heart characters. But he stresses that his outing in TV reality show Bigg Boss in 2017 changed his perspective on what people expect out of him. “It brought in a lot of self-understanding. The only thing we could do inside the house was to communicate with people, so it taught a lot about how to manage my emotions. It also taught to me to be grateful and appreciate small things, something that is keeping in good stead even now,” he says. When he is not on a set or listening to scripts, Harish is occupied with songs. His initial ambition was to break into the music industry. Currently, he has a small music programming setup and has banked a range of tunes. “It is mostly channelling my inner emotions. I love listening to all the latest hits. In fact, I have re-programmed Anirudh’s ‘Soul of Doctor’ theme from Doctor . Someday, I hope to work on a music video of my own….” Oh Manapennewill stream on Disney + Hotstar from October 22  I love music. Whenever I can, I create tunes, I recently re-programmed Anirudh’s ‘Soul of Doctor’ BGM harish kalyan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/remake-run/article37101440.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Built strong, locally||The air at Mannurpet’s network of streets is punctuated by sounds of machining: of steel hitting steel, metal drilling into slabs of concrete, and the sparks of welding. At the periphery of Ambattur Industrial Estate, these streets are lined with small-scale shops involved in the production of automobile components for companies such as TVS, BharatBenz, Nissan and Hyundai. Criss-crossing these lanes on their bikes, Mathew Fernandes and Prasanna Perumal say that this mecca of automobile manufacturing is the base for their fitness startup, Sthenos. Along with Muthu Veeran, the three Rajalakshmi Engineering College graduates have founded a make-in-Chennai company, locally manufacturing fitness equipment such as poles, multibars, metal parallets for push-ups, Swedish bars (for gymnastics) and resistance bands. Sthenos is their pandemic baby; they struck upon the idea when in their fourth year, their college life hit pause due to the lockdowns. “We realised that everyone on Instagram was either becoming a baker or a fitness influencer,” laughs Prasanna, who was drawn into the world of callisthenics and strength training by Mathew, a parkour enthusiast. “Prasanna made a plastic parallet for himself using tools from college and posted a video. Soon, friends began asking us if we could make it for them,” says Mathew. Discovering a potential market, the three began experimenting with callisthenics and resistance equipment at Mathew’s house. “But we eventually realised that the manufacturing job would be of a better quality here,” says Prasanna, gesturing at the 12x7 feet shop where he gets the poles made. Standing next to the lathe machine is the owner S Vijay Kumar. “Vijay anna helped us understand the manufacturing techniques, beyond the design part of it,” says Prasanna, adding lightly, “I think we learnt more engineering in these shops than we did in four years of theory classes.” Two streets across, 55-year-old welder Arumugam confirms that engineering students often come to him for help with their projects. “All they need to do is come to me with a design idea,” he says. The Stenos team struck when the metaphorical iron was hot — their collaboration with these manufacturers came at a time last year when the automobile industry was on a dip and jobs were dwindling, allowing them time to take up this small but steady side business of fitness equipment. “This sort of decentralised supply chain works for us too because we don’t have an inventory or factory,” says Mathew. Adds Prasanna, “Plus the advantage of manufacturing locally is better service: if any part breaks down or if you lose any part, you can get it supplied within 15 days.” Up the success pole The equipment that Sthenos is hoping will give them elbow room in a crowded market is the fitness pole. The company is one of the few in India to manufacture their own, most pole-setups are imported. The idea came out of a discussion with city-based choreographer and pole fitness coach Anusha Swamy. “Poles generally work on body grip, which requires you to be minimally clothed. I wanted a pole that was suitable for the Indian subcontinent, which would allow more women to try pole fitness,” she says. Sthenos’ solution was to introduce a silicone sleeve that adds grip. Anusha has been using these poles for her newly launched pole camp at Tattva, ECR and workshops at Chetpet Ecopark. The Sthenos team is relying on this blooming interest in pole fitness to dig their feet firmly in the market. “Seeing all our classmates get good jobs gives us FOMO for sure, and offers from IT companies are tempting,” says Prasanna, “But with every sale we realise we are doing something offbeat and that makes it worth it.”  Visit sthenos.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/built-strong-locally/article37101482.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Czech this out||In the mood to catch some international films? Attend the Czech Film Festival in the city in the next few days. The Indo Cine Appreciation Foundation, along with the Embassy of the Czech Republic and Honorary Consulate of the Czech Republic, have put together a few films for cinephiles in the city. The films are: Women on the Run, October 22 (Friday), 7.15 pm  Vera has lived a wonderful life, but she has a wish: to run a marathon. The mother of three wants her family to team up to overcome the 42-kilometre long challenge as a family relay team. Will they succeed? Kolya, October 23 (Saturday), 6pm  A 1996 drama, directed by Jan Sverak, about a bachelor who is in for a big surprise when a get-rich scheme backfires.  I Enjoy the World with You, October 23 (Saturday), 7.45 pm   Three middle-aged men go for a vacation with their children. With their wives not around, they have grand plans, but what materialises is something different.  All the films will be screened at Tagore Film Centre NFDC, Music College Road, RA Puram. For details, call 9840151956||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/czech-this-out/article37101444.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Right foot forward||“Pullingo,” he calls in his deep voice. “Yes coach!” the footballers answer as a team. This isn’t a scene from Bigil . It is coach Francis Sebastian’s way of calling his female students, who flash a smile when asked about their sport: blind football. Tamil Nadu Blind Football Association partnering with the Indian Blind Football Association is all set to host the national level championship for both men and women from October 26 to October 30 with sixteen men’s teams and six women’s teams taking part. About 200 players from West Bengal, Karnataka and many other states are expected to participate. While this is the sixth edition for men, it is the first ever edition for the female army. “I have always wanted to come out big in football, and to represent Tamil Nadu in this sport is a dream come true,” says player R Vijayalakshmi, 21, at a press meet at The Savera. “The first day I entered the field, I was so afraid that I stood rooted in the same spot. My mother convinced me to keep playing and with the support of my family, I am here. I wish to become an international player. I really feel grateful to have coach Sebastian sir who is helping us pursue our interests,” she adds. With the support of the Montfort School, the association conducted a three-day residential camp in September. With a turnover of over 80 players, the camp lay the foundation for TNFBA to host the national level tournament. “We struggled for funding the national level contest because we are privately funded by family, friends and well wishers. But these children were like, ‘Sir do it, we will work hard’. So here we are, six days away from the game,” beams Francis. “Our plan is to get them into a small prep camp before the competition,” he adds. Explaining the game, he says that each player has three reference points: the jingling sound ball, side boards and audio commands from goal keeper, head coach and goal guide. “There is no opportunity for sports for people with disabilities in most special schools. Regular schools focus on academics, but without physical activities it becomes monotonous,” adds Dipti Jha, CEO of the association, adding that the goal was for the players to reach Paralympics. The long term vision of TNFBA is to host an international tournament in Chennai by 2024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/right-foot-forward/article37101472.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||When Lalettan flexes||The first time Aynus Antony met Mohanlal, he was floored. “I forgot that I had gone to train him. It took me a couple of minutes to regain my senses,” he says. Having trained the actor for four years, Aynus says he is still in awe of the superstar. “His energy is remarkably high. There is nothing he [Lalettan] cannot do. He never asks questions; expresses doubt and never says no to working out, however strenuous the session might be.” Mohanlal has been sharing videos of his high-intensity fitness regimen — from lifting weights, doing battle ropes to bench press — on his social media, motivating fans to “keep exercising every day for a healthy mind and healthy body”. His routine workout session lasts about one-and-a-half hours, says Aynus, adding that his workout sessions are often at the end of a film shoot. “On a normal session, we start with warm ups and stretchs. Core conditioning and balancing are absolutely essential too. We also add progressively overloaded forms of resistance training on most workout days,” Aynus explains. It was 2018 and Mohanlal was shooting for Priyadarshan’s period film Marakkar , when he was introduced to Aynus by his friend.  “We had to build his core strength to increase stamina for the character, since there was a lot of action scenes involved. It helped that he was extremely flexible, but we did special cardio workouts for two muscle groups.” Mohanlal usually discusses his characters with Aynus, who helps him get physically toned. “While Marakkar required strength, Drishyam needed him to be fit. He plays a family man and there was no need to have a bulky body,” says Aynus, adding, “He understands the plan I have for his fitness and works towards it.” “During the shoot of Marakkar , Lalettan came in at 10 pm. In between, I saw him dozing off. He was super tired after a long day of shoot and yet showed up for training. It was only after I told him that we could take it easy, did he leave,” says Aynus. The duo works out together every time Mohanlal visits Kochi says Aynus, who started working out since he was 13. He adds, “I am amazed by how Lalettan keeps up with me. And I am inspired by his impeccable work ethic. He always pushes himself to do more.”  Aynus’ tips on fitness  A balanced diet— fruits, vegetables, complex carbohydrates, complete proteins and healthy fats like fish oils and flax seeds  Hydration— Drink three to four litres of water a day  Fat loss— Think of food as fuel and stop calorie counting  Walk— At least 5,000 steps a day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-lalettan-flexes/article37101452.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Have a farm-first Deepavali||Forty-three-year-old Hima Kiran, once an engineer by profession, is now a full-time agriculturist, cultivating over 60 acres of land in Komakkambedu, Thiruvallur district, as well as in four other villages in Thindivanam and Villupuram. “By funding and supporting other small scale farmers in the region, we at Namma Farm are promoting organic food production. We started offering hampers last year,” says Hima. “We collaborate with Chennai’s Organic Positive, to make sweets and savories from our produce,” he adds. This Deepavali, Namma Farm offer kambu Mysore pak , thinai laddu , Mappilai samba rice-based adhirasam , samai mixture and varagu murukku .  Shipped across India.   Visitwww.nammafarm.com   Call: 9962257249     Chennai-based Spirit of the Earth’s Deepavali hamper features heritage rice sourced from their farm at Manjakudi near Thanjavur. That is not all. “The chillies are from Palani, urad dal from Chidambaram, oil from Thiruvannamalai, Thooyamalli from the delta belt, nattu sarkarai from Anthiyur in Erode, cashews from Adhanakottai, desiccated coconut from Batlagundu, Kadalaiparuppu from Karur....” lists Jayanthi Somasundaram coordinator of Spirit of the Earth. Ingredients are cast iron pan roasted, sun dried and stone ground to make it easy to cook three sweet, savoury and spiced heritage rice blends. The hamper includes notes on each grain, ingredients, and cooking instructions.  The hamper is priced at Rs. 1250, and the cost includes free shipping across India.   Visit www.spiritoftheearth.in   Call: 9500082142     In 2014, when the company was launched, 1,000 farmers contributed Rs. 1,000 per head and became shareholders. The organisation helps them by procuring their produce, developing value-added products, and selling them. “Our products include rice and millet flours (for dosa, adai, puttu), rice flakes, sweets and snacks. ,” says Ahila Bharathi, the CEO. “We avoid processed sugar, and use jaggery, palm jaggery ( karupatti ) and nattusakkarai ,” she adds. For Deepavali, they have Mappilai samba seedai , Karuppugavuni adhirasam , Thinai mixture, three types of murukku made with different heritage rice and millet karasev .     Visit www.pudhigaiorganics.org.in   Call: 6383112234     The name means ‘unto perfection’ in Tamil. Patham was launched in 2017 by a group of five friends in Chennai, and expanded to Madurai this year. Perumal Raj, one of the founders, says that they wanted to popularise traditional rural sweets and savouries made of palm jaggery and palm sugar crystals. Patham procures traditional snacks from two manufactures, in Sivakasi and Madurai. “We are also collaborating with palm tree climbers to motivate them to make karupatti on a larger scale, and are also researching dishes that can be made using plam fruit ( panam pazham ) and palm roots ( panam kizhangu ),” he says. Pala dhanya karupatti halwa made of multiple millet flours and coconut oil, seeraga samba karupatti jangri and kambu coconut oil cookies are their bestsellers.  Shipping across Tamil Nadu.   Call: 9940545122||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/have-a-farm-first-deepavali/article37101487.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Muscles built with cement and ghee||Nineteen-year-old Kuwar Amritbir Singh doesn’t really know what a gym looks like. He can’t describe it to you. But here is what he can do: 118 knuckle pushups in one minute. He currently holds the World Records of India title for the youngest to perform knuckle push ups in a minute and an India Book of Records for the youngest to perform maximum (35) Superman push-ups in 30 seconds. This year, he has been nominated for the Karmaveer Chakra Award, presented for commitment and courage by walking the path less trodden and initiating a wave of change in society. Interestingly, this fitness enthusiast from the nondescript village of Umarwala in Gurdaspur district of Punjab, now has a following of 56.9k on Instagram, with followers from all around the world. He also has a YouTube channel focussing on workout techniques minus the frills. “You don’t need to have fancy equipment or supplements to get fit,” says Kuwar Amritbir on a call, adding that there are no gyms in his village or nearby. “People here cannot afford protein supplements. They had this misconception that without these they cannot build their bodies. To motivate them I started exercising at home and setting records,” he says. Kuwar Amritbir’s collection of equipment includes a variety of dumbells and barbells, starting at 10 kilograms and going up to 45 kilograms. The small ones are made using plastic bottles that are cut to size, then filled with cement and dried in the sun for a couple of days; they are held together using an iron rod. Others are made using cement tiles, bamboo sticks, tubes of waste tyres, and bricks among others. There is also a device for bench presses made using an iron table, wooden plank and tyre tubes. He says he tries to innovate and make equipment that targets different body parts. For example, to strengthen his forearms, he has created a gadget made with an iron rod, rope and bricks. Punjab, among other things, is known for its wrestlers, says Kuwar Amritbir. In the past, they built their strength and bodies by doing workouts at home. These included traditional exercises like dand baithak , sapate , bethaka , he explains, adding that he started incorporating these into his daily schedule at the age of 17. His daily diet is basic but he includes milk, curd, ghee, butter and lassi in his breakfast, lunch and dinner. Kuwar Amritbir trained himself by learning from his PT teachers in school, his father and uncle, and from YouTube. Last year, his rock solid abs made their television debut on Hunar Punjab Da , a talent show. This year he has, for now, reached the semi finals of Punjabiya Di Dadagiri , a programme hosted by cricketer Harbhajan Singh, focussing on general knowledge and talent. “Inspired by Sardar Bhagat Singh, Kartar Singh Sarabha, Uddham Singh among others, I wanted to do something different so people remember me,” says Kuwar Amritbir, adding, “Creating a healthy nation will be my contribution.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/muscles-built-with-cement-and-ghee/article37101497.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Home is where the art is||Should art remain confined within the four walls of a gallery? And moreover, what happens to an artwork once it is acquired? These are a few questions that the International Foundation for the Arts (IFA) attempts to answer through its series ArtNites, which conducts tours of private homes that house an impressive collection of artworks in the city. This way, private collections that are rarely visible to the public eye come to light. A tour through art collector and writer Ashwin Subramaniam’s home this weekend, is the first. This chain of tours hopes to provide young artistes and connoisseurs with the opportunity to learn the ropes from established names, and inculcate an interest in collecting itself. “Ashwin’s home is a real testimony of his love for arts,” says Upasana Asrani, founder of IFA, who also curated the event. “The way in which he has juxtaposed the contemporary with the traditional, is phenomenal. We wanted to give people who are genuinely interested in the arts that perspective. It is a rare glimpse into somebody’s life and home.” She has lined up three more established collectors in the city to make this a monthly affair. For Ashwin, home has always functioned as a studio space where he deals with artefacts, kilims, furniture, pottery, basketry and more as part of his work. “I started buying art about 13 or 14 years ago. I was absolutely clueless back then. Initially, we just wanted something that appealed to our senses,” Ashwin says. It all came together between 2009 and 2011 when he decided to acquire art of established names, both modern and contemporary. “I also realised that traditional Indian art was not getting its due. I decided to reach out to artisans and started conducting traditional art shows in Chennai until the pandemic hit,” he adds. Three stories of art, artefacts, sculptures, carpets and vintage furniture, along with about 140 paintings, await the audience. The collection is an amalgam of traditional art forms including the tangkas , right up to works of Modern masters like Raza and Ram Kumar and contemporary artists like Jayashree Burman and Sujata Bajaj. “I believe in mixing and matching and don’t believe in one particular rule in which things have to be displayed. It is more the question of how they all work together,” says Ashwin. Upasana states that the most exciting part of the tour is the intimacy, and getting an insight into the collector’s own journey. “Art should be something that we should be able to interact with on a daily basis.”  The tour is on October 22, from 6 to 7.30 pm. To register contact 9840030063.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/home-is-where-the-art-is/article37101484.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Freshly roasted in Chennai||When Divya Jayashankar set up Chennai’s first roastery, Beachville, back in 2018, the city was just beginning to look beyond traditional dark roasts and filter coffee. Back then, her imported small-batch roaster, grinder, and farm-sourced coffee blends with “no chicory, no robusta” were enough to take customers by surprise, she recalls. Now, encouraged by adventurous customers, Divya is exploring naturally sun-dried coffee cherries as against washed Arabica, and the various ways they can be put to use. The latter, she says, “has what many consider to be a cleaner taste. But sun drying lets the flavour of the cherry leech into the bean with time, making it much more heavy-bodied and fruity: The market is moving towards more funky tasting coffees, and I want to experiment.” She is not alone — a fraternity of coffee entrepreneurs alongside Divya are trying out a variety of processes, working with farmers, discoving different beans and playing with flavour profiles. The growing competition is keeping him on his toes, admits Akshay Vaidyanathan who founded Kapi Kottai in 2019. While Divya looks into what she calls “the naturals”, Akshay’s latest product Hamir Kalyani is a test slow-controlled fermentation. “It’s a very technical process, but fermented coffee is definitely a trend now,” says Akshay, adding that his 2020 product named Curveball is double-fermented, resulting in an intensely fruity, admittedly polarising brew with a niche, but loyal, following. These experiments are taking roasters into coffee estates, to the turf of growers and plantation owners, in an attempt to heighten flavours in coffee before they even take the form of beans. The latest in the fray, began their process plantation-first. Kat & Kin Coffee Roasters was started by husband-wife duo Kathryn and Anek Ahuja in the middle of lockdown earlier this year. “I have been interested in coffee-making for 25 years, and was looking for a challenge,” says Kathryn. They began with a visit to plantations in Chikmagalur after restrictions eased, where a patch of Ethiopian-origin heirloom coffee at MF Estate caught her fancy, “I knew I wanted to start with that bean”. The smooth-tasting floral coffee lends itself to multiple brewing styles, found the couple, making it the ideal launch for a new customer-base with varied preferences. Then followed the investments: a roaster that took three months to be imported from Taiwan (“there are no roasting machines made in India,” says Anek), a commercial-scale grinder, and a years’ stock of coffee beans. “Harvest happens only once a year, so we must commit to the grower for that long,” explains Anek, adding with a laugh, “We burnt a lot of beans before we managed a good roast.” Continued on page 2   Up ahead Now, Kat & Kin offers six coffees, including the popular Monsooned Malabar and a naturally processed product named Iced Honey. The roasters have also left their imprint beyond city and state limits — “While most of our customers are in Chennai, we are also getting repeat orders from a few people in Bengaluru and Hyderabad,” says Anek, adding, “In Chennai, the community of people brewing coffee other than filter coffee is growing. Some look at the process as an art form; I know people who prefer slow pour overs just because they find it calm and therapeutic.” Meanwhile, Kapi Kottai sells not only to individual customers, but also to cafes and restaurants around the country. The bread bar in Mumbai, Mearth cafe in Chennai, One Dollar Moffee in Raipur, Three Beans Coffee Bar in Nagpur and Pot Boiler Coffee House in Kolkata are part of Akshay’s clientele. Beachville, on the other hand, is putting more energy into serving its local, post-lockdown customers at the cafe that opened in October 2020. “The current trend is towards finding more interesting coffees and interesting ways of processing them,” says Divya, “But right now, the experiential angle seems more important than the blends per se. In the past year, we have been experimenting with what we serve at the cafe: kinds of cold brew, espresso-based beverages like a coconut water, coffee and mint espresso drink, and other beverages with tonics.” It is only in the upcoming harvest season that Divya really plans to get into naturally processed coffees, and also importing coffees from Ethiopia and Columbia. “It is usually difficult for a grower to maintain consistency when the process is natural, but there are some estates that are doing some really good work,” she says. She sees reason for optimism not only in the rising customer base, but also in the growing retail price of coffee, which is an indicator of how much people value speciality products and “green products”. In the end, she says, it all comes down to the relationship you have with those who grow coffee, and how much you are willing to pay them for their labour.  Some look at the process of brewing coffee as an art form; I know people who prefer pour overs because they find it therapeutic Anek Ahuja, Kat & Kin||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/freshly-roasted-in-chennai/article37101502.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Flour, sugar and the flavour of theyyam||It took a little over 25,000 biscuits to make a 24-foot-tall portrait of the theyyam . Artist ‘Da Vinci’ Suresh, who has been on a mission to create 100 portraits using non-traditional art material, created the artwork for Bake Story Live Bakery in Kannur. This is his 79th portrait. After 15 hours of work that included putting together tables, drawing, sorting and stacking cookies, Suresh completed the portrait, which captures the incredibly nuanced face of the theyyam . Themukhathezhuthu(face painting) of the theyyam , a traditional art form which has its origins in the Malabar region of Kerala, is extremely intricate. “I had to recreate each line and curve accurately. I had to research in order to get the patterns on the headgear and the face right,” says Suresh. Sketching took two to three hours. Then came sorting the confection according to colour, size and shape. “The initial idea was to use just cookies made at the bakery. But the artist had to use bread, buns, dried fruits, puffed rice, jalebis and laddoos to capture the complexity of the mukhathezhuthu ,” says cook book author and chef consultant of the bakery, Rasheed Muhammed, who conceived the idea. Out of the box The bakery had held a week-long festival to mark its second anniversary in July this year, showcasing 150 kinds of traditional handmade biscuits. The cookies sold at the bakery are made by a family of bakers at Faridabad. “The idea was to create awareness and appreciation for our own diverse traditions of sweet-making in a creative way,” says Rasheed. The cookies in the portrait were sent to a veterinary farm for recycling, he adds. “Being in the open for 15 hours would turn the cookies soggy and we did not want it to go to waste,” Rasheed adds. For artist Suresh, who has created photographic portraits of celebrities and national heroes with everything from nails to gold ornaments, the creative process most often involves physical labour. For instance, his 80th and most recent portrait was of Mahatma Gandhi: he made it using over one lakh inflated balloons at the Kerala University campus in Thiruvananthapuram. The 182-foot installation needed over 100 people to set it up. “But it is a labour of love,” he says. Most of his portraits are installations — he made a 3D installation of Messi after the Copa America win for a sports shop in Mathilakam in Kodungallur. The 25-foot work was done using football jerseys, boots and other sports gear. “When you are re-creating people’s faces with materials, your options for colours are limited. You have to make do with what you have. If the placement of one object in the portrait changes, the person’s face changes,” says Suresh. He adds, “I don’t know how to explain my process, but I started out painting hoardings and I get my experience from there. The thing about doing such portraits is that there is no rehearsal or a do-over. You just go with the flow.”   Ancient art Theyyam is a ritual form of dance worship traditionally performed in the northern regions of Kerala. The art form is believed to be thousands of years old.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/flour-sugar-and-the-flavour-of-theyyam/article37102005.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Love Actually||“Love is complicated, messy, glorious,” says author Parinda Joshi over phone from San Francisco. “Especially for youngsters today who are grappling with dating and relationships, trying to juggle reality and perceptions.” It is not just romantic love that is complicated, all kinds are, especially in families. And despite a salacious-sounding title, Parinda’s latest book, A House Full of Men, is a drama about a dysfunctional family, with multiple romances woven in. The mantle of running a home falls on the shoulders of Kritidhara, the 25-year-old protagonist, after the death of her mother. Her father, grandfather and twin brothers, each dealing with their own challenges, seem oblivious to her emotional plight. “We often don’t give our loved ones enough credit. By assuming her family would not understand her, Kritidhara is guilty of making the same mistake.” Set in Lucknow, House Full... (published by Harper Collins)  is drawn from experiences most Indian readers will identify with. However, Parinda treats topics such as second marriages, burdensome secrets, nosy neighbours and sibling rivalry, with a large dose of humour that makes her characters relatable, worth emulating even. Throw in a know-it-all housemaid, a lingering ex and a temperamental pet, and you could be reading about someone you know, maybe even yourself. Fans of chess, Wodehouse and pop culture will enjoy generous references sprinkled throughout the book. “Each character is navigating their own way through some form of emotional turbulence. Though House Full... might not be voluminous, there is enough scope to flesh out the characters into an episodic series,” says the author whose book Made in China was made into a Bollywood film in 2019 and starred Rajkumar Rao, Mouni Roy and Boman Irani. Talking about the age-old debate of book versus movie versions, Parinda believes an ‘as is’ adaptation is not always possible. “Subtext needs to be added for on-screen characters,” she says, adding actors bring depth to a character with their gestures, mannerisms, expressions and costumes. “Against popular ‘author’ ethic, each of my books comes under different genres — the previous two were a dark comedy and a social thriller. I am always writing in the background,” says Parinda, who works in a fashion start-up. An avid traveller and a humour junkie, Parinda, who toyed with the idea of becoming a stand-up comic, says it is easier to deliver a message, “wrapped in humour, rather than served straight up.” “My fascination with words began in middle school and I had a penchant for exaggerating as a child. The colourful art of storytelling found its way through pen pals, blogs, articles and now, books.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/love-actually/article37102006.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A-game to Puma||In 2016, India was playing West Indies in a two-T20I series in Florida, a rather unusual venue for a cricket match. For someone watching cricket for the first time, KL Rahul would’ve stood out that day for two reasons. One: he made the most number of runs that game (116 off just 51 balls) even as his team lost by a run. Two: his hairstyle. Rahul looked more like a West Indian player with his cornrow braids. The team’s coach, Anil Kumble, was mildly shocked.  The Beckham inspiration  “My mantra has always been: ‘Try things. If something doesn’t come off, I don’t mind it’,” says Rahul, 29, of his fashion choices, ahead of the launch of Puma’s 1DER, an athleisure range he is designed with the sporting brand. This mantra applies to his life, too. In school, Rahul , the son of two professors, used to turn up in flip-flops and coloured hair. He admits to being a rebellious teenager, but this was not just to provoke people. An ardent David Beckham fan, he had an idea of how he wanted to look even then. “I was more interested in his lifestyle, and less about the football,” adds the cricketer, who now follows personalities like Justin Bieber and Travis Scott. “They are artists who also dipped their hands into fashion. That interested me and I thought I could do this too.” And, he did. Two years ago, Rahul launched his street-wear label, Gully, with retail partner Zeko Online. 1DER, too, is an avenue to express his fashion ideas and the range (recently released on Flipkart) includes low-boot sneakers (crafted in leather, with mesh upper) in bright hues of orange and blue, caps, and  an apparel line comprising hoodies, pants and the like.  “It was so cool to work with the Puma team [he’s been associated with the brand since 2018]. I discuss designs and colours, especially for the sneakers, as I am a massive sneakerhead.”  Expressions in ink   Aftercricket, fashion is his second love. His mother was shocked when he got his first tattoo (wings on his back) at 16. Rahul went on to tattoo his mother’s name, Rajeshwari, on his right wrist. He says, “Every tattoo has a unique story.” This is especially true for the one on his right forearm — it reads, ‘ deshi basara ’ — an inspiring chant from Christopher Nolan’s The Dark Knight Rises, which roughly translates to ‘rise’. Rahul, after a horrific Test debut in Melbourne, bounced back within a week in Sydney with a fine century. This year, too, he was among India’s key performers in their Test wins in England. This, after being dropped from the Test side for a while. His journey has seen many and rises. He concludes, “I would not have wanted it any other way.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-game-to-puma/article37102094.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||More than wives and wombs||Marriage is in the air. Last week, a friend shared a most edifying Twitter conversation. It started with a lady from Chennai complaining that her family’s 35-year-old well-heeled and “suave” priest was still unmarried. She scolded “uppity, Brahmin girls” for not marrying him even though he earns tons of money and has his own house and car. To this, one distressed male replied, “Most Brahmin girls are only attracted to money”. Irony did not even whimper as it died quietly. Another man got business-like: “We have to import from Uttar Pradesh where there are enough poor Brahmin girls,” he suggested. A third guy roared, “Educated Girls of Brahmin Community Must Come Forward to Marry VEDHIC COMMUNITY.” At this point, one gentleman expressed bafflement that a deserving priest couldn’t get a bride and suggested he look among othervarnasfor a woman “so long as she is ready to upgrade her thinking and lifestyle fit for the saubhagyavati of apurohit.” When someone suggested that the man could stay unmarried, he was told that this might mean a “next generationpurohitshortage for us.” Meanwhile, the aforementioned unfeeling and uppity girls remained firmly absent from the discussion, expressing no willingness whatsoever to purify their thoughts on the flame of a nearby holy fire and lie down on the altar of marriage. At this stage of impasse, a new lament was introduced. An engineer-banker said he knew a boy working in a Tata factory in a small town who could not get a bride because most women did not want to move to a Tier 3 city. This was greeted with more chest-beating about how modern women had become ungrateful, greedy, and picky. This was roughly when I realised my BP was rising gently. So, I decided to head off and vacuum my car. (Note: Any vigorous cleaning activity makes you feel like you have scoured the filth off your Twitter feed.) But I was stopped short again. Clearly, it was not to be my happy BP day. This time, someone shared the speech that Karnataka Health Minister Dr. K. Sudhakar had given for World Mental Health Day at Bengaluru’s NIMHANS. Lo and behold, the minister too was lamenting that women were turning down the fantastic opportunity that marriage offers. “I am sorry to say,” he said ominously, “lots of modern women in India want to stay single.” Anyone will stay single when the option is to marry a giant blimp bloated with chauvinism, misogyny, entitlement and opinions, but who will tell the minister that? In fact, if the good minister had done his homework, he would have stumbled upon the latest National Crime Records Bureau statistics, which finds housewives accounting for the highest number of female suicides in India, at 51.5%. Besides, divorce rates are rising. Clearly, not all is sunshine and light in the hallowed corridors of marriage. But the minister had a further grievance. “Even if they get married,” he continued, “they don’t want to give birth. They want surrogacy.” Gosh, the horror. Imagine not yearning to throw away nine months of your life or career on pregnancy. The audacity with which men decide what women should or should not do with their lives is breathtaking. As is the notion that women are hard-wired for marriage and motherhood, and that not wanting either somehow diminishes them or makes them responsible for ‘stress’ in society. Women’s actions don’t cause stress in society, it’s society that makes life a living hell for women, so let’s clean those Augean stables first. The minister called all this “a paradigm shift in our thinking, which is not good,” but didn’t specify who exactly it isn’t good for. For women, the shift is excellent — for their physical, mental, and financial health. As for Indian men, they need to grow up, grow smart and grow a pair before whining on and on about why women don’t want to marry them. This ‘paradigm shift’ might cause them some mental agony but whoever said adulthood was easy. That Twitter thread I began with rippled with this same astonishment — that women aren’t jumping up to marry any darned bachelor who owns a house and a car. Sorry lads, dream on. Women don’t need to wash your clothes and bear your brats to get a car. They buy their own. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-than-wives-and-wombs/article37102004.ece
21 October 2021||October 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering their sacrifice||Amainstay to ensure law and order, the police have been an integral part of every society in some form or the other. The term police have been derived from the Latin word ‘politia’ which means the condition of a State. The term means, a system of regulation for the preservation of order. It broadly refers to the purposeful maintenance of public order and protection of persons and property. Representing the civil authority of government, police typically are responsible for maintaining public order and safety, enforcing the law, and preventing, detecting, and investigating criminal activities. Empowered by the State, the police force is tasked primarily with ensuring the safety and well being of citizens by enforcing the law of the land. An integral part of today’s society, the police are the first responders in any emergency, invariably risking their own lives to assist and rescue. Ensuring that such deeds of valour are recognised and valued, the National Police Commemoration Day, also referred to as the Police Martyrs' Day, is observed every year on October 21 by police departments nationwide. It is on this day that the memory of every police-personnel who sacrificed their life while discharging his or her duty is honoured. This day honours every police martyr who died for ensuring the safety of ordinary citizens. The day commemorates an incident that took place on the Indo-Tibetan border in Ladakh during a China-Indian border dispute in 1959. While on patrol, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was ambushed by Chinese forces. The attack is referred to as the ‘Kongka Pass incident’. In October 1959, Indian troops crossed the Kongka Pass while attempting to establish posts at Tsogstsalu, Hot Springs, and Shamal Lungpa. On 20 October, an initial Indian reconnaissance team was captured by the Chinese forces. On 21 October, a larger search party was formed for the missing reconnaissance team. Chinese troops opened fire and threw grenades at the party of 20 police personnel near the Kongka Pass. Chinese forces had a more favourable position in this engagement. Ten were killed in the incident, which left seven others injured, who were later taken as prisoners. Three weeks later, China returned the bodies of the ten personnel which were later cremated with full police honours at Hot Springs in North Eastern Ladakh. Incidentally, the incident contributed to the heightening of tensions that led to the Sino-Indian War in 1962. Back then, the Indian media described the event a "brutal massacre of an Indian police party." Police personnel had been responsible for manning the 2,500-mile-long border of India with Tibet until the autumn of 1959. A memorial was erected at Hot Springs and members of Police Forces from different parts of the country trek to Hot Springs to pay homage to the martyrs. Since the year 2012, the Police Commemoration Day Parade is being held at the National level at the Police Memorial, Chanakyapuri. In the year 2018, India's first national police museum was inaugurated in Delhi on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day. The museum - depicting the history, artefacts, uniform and gear of central and state police forces - is as an underground facility in the premises of the national police memorial in Delhi’s Chanakyapuri. In Andhra Pradesh, it is the Director-General of Police (DGP) who heads the Police Department of the State. He is assisted by Additional DGPs, each heading various departments like Law and Order, Crime Investigation, Personnel, Intelligence and Security, Recruitment and Training, Armed Police, Technical Services. Every year, the Director-General of Police (DGP) reviews the commemoration day parade, and pays tributes to the police martyrs on October 21. As is done every year, the Police Commemoration Day is marked with parades and tributes to the martyred police personnel on October 21. This year, the Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will attend the Police Commemoration Day parade at the Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium, Vijayawada, where he will take the guard of honour and pay tributes to the police personnel who laid their lives down in the line of duty. The Chief Minister will also be releasing a book written on the sacrifices made by police. In Vizag, the annual Police commemoration day is held at RK beach at the Police Martyrs’ Memorial. Usually, personnel from the city police, rural police and traffic police participate, offering their respect and homage to the personnel who laid down their lives in action. In the last two years, especially when the pandemic was at its peak, many police personnel lost their lives to Covid-19, while policing the areas rampant with the virus, and safeguarding the rest of the population. But in spite of the risks involved, the police force marched ahead and did not shirk from their duty. Truly a force that deserves to be honoured and revered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/remembering-their-sacrifice/article37102152.ece
21 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab Police, BSF foil bid to smuggle arms, drugs||In an intelligence-led operation, the Punjab police on Wednesday said they have recovered arms and ammunition besides heroin during a search operation from near the fencing on the border in Tarn Taran district. The operation was jointly conducted by the Border Security Force (BSF) and the Counter Intelligence Amritsar in Mianwali Hithaar in the Khemkarn sector. Officiating DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota said on receipt of information that Pakistani operatives have concealed a huge consignment of arms and heroin, the Counter Intelligence Amritsar was sent to the spot and a search operation was planned with the BSF authorities. He said that during the combing operation, the teams have recovered 22 pistols (most of them .30 bore Star mark) along with 44 magazines and 100 live rounds besides a packet of heroin (weighing 934 grams) packed in a black-coloured kit bag concealed in a paddy field. Mr. Sahota said during preliminary investigation, it has come to light that the consignment was placed by Pakistani smugglers in the Indian territory as part of their ‘conceal and clear’ modus operandi . A case under Sections 511 of the IPC, Sections 21, 28, 29 of the NDPS Act, Section 25 of the Arms Act and Section 14-Finance Act has been registered at the police station SSOC Amritsar on October 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-police-bsf-foil-bid-to-smuggle-arms-drugs/article37101810.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. announces compensation for farmers||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced Rs. 50,000 per hectare as compensation for farmers whose crops have been damaged in the unseasonal rain. Mr. Kejriwal claimed that this amount was the highest in the country and that efforts were on to ensure that farmers receive it within two months. The officials concerned, the CM said, had been directed to complete surveying the damaged crops in a fortnight following which the compensation would reach the affected farmers’ accounts. “A few days ago, I met a delegation of farmers who apprised me of how the unseasonal rain had ruined their crops. I want to tell all the farmers of Delhi that they need not worry about the situation,” Mr. Kejriwal said at a digital briefing. “I stand with you. Ever since we came to power 6-7 years ago, we have been giving a compensation of Rs. 50,000 per hectare whenever crops have been damaged in Delhi,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said this compensation amount was the highest provided by a government in the country with most States disbursing around Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 10,000 per hectare. “I want to assure all the farmers that we will help and support them; their compensation will reach their accounts as soon as possible,” he added. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri termed the announcement a victory for, and a result of pressure from, the BJP. Amount less: BJP He, however, said that the amount of compensation was less and it must be increased along with the fulfilment of other outstanding demands of the Capital’s farmers. “The compensation amount is very less and should be increased to Rs. 50,000 per acre. The farmers should also get subsidy for the purchase of diesel, electricity and agricultural machinery like in other States,” Mr. Bidhuri demanded. “If these demands are not met, the BJP will launch an agitation in the interests of Delhi’s farmers after Diwali,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-announces-compensation-for-farmers/article37102018.ece
21 October 2021||Pune,||MVA betrayed farmers, says Raju Shetti||Taking aim at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) chief Raju Shetti accused the ruling powers of betraying the interests of Maharashtra’s farmers by considering the payment of the fair and remunerative price (FRP) to them in separate installments instead of at one go. Speaking at the 20th annual ‘sugar conclave’ held in Jaysingpur in western Maharashtra’s Kolhapur district, Mr. Shetti urged farmers to protest against the MVA leaders by showing black flags. While the SSS chief, nominally an MVA ally, is known for targeting the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre over farmer issues, Mr. Shetti has been increasingly vocal in his criticism of the tripartite MVA government of the Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress in recent months. He particularly criticised Mr. Pawar after the latter approved of the sugar factory owners’ stance to pay FRP to farmers in three separate installments. “Mr. Pawar, during his famous ‘speech in the rain’ in Satara district [ahead of the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly election] had promised that the new government would usher in change for farmers. Accordingly, the farmers of the State had supported the NCP but Mr. Pawar seems to have forgotten them… we thought Mr. Pawar would stand by us [read farmers] in our hour of crisis, but he is unfortunately backing powerful sugar factory owners,” Mr. Shetti alleged. Exhorting farmers to make the upcoming Diwali of MVA leaders “bitter”, Mr. Shetti said that both the Uddhav Thackeray government and the Modi-ruled Centre had turned their backs on farmers issues. He reminded Mr. Pawar that when all powerful sugar factory owners were defecting to the BJP prior to the 2019 Assembly elections, only the farmers had supported the NCP and the Congress who were now part of the MVA. “For all the devastation wrought by floods in the Konkan and western Maharashtra and by the retreating monsoon in the Vidarbha and Marathwada regions, farmers are being given a compensation of a mere Rs. 150 per guntha of cropland [0.025 acres] as opposed to the Rs. 900 per guntha they were given in 2019… farmers had great aspirations when Uddhav Thackeray’s MVA came to power. They thought they would at least get the full FRP at one go. But neither will they get that nor receive adequate recompense for flood and rain-related destruction of crops,” he said. Mr. Shetti said that while the BJP-led Centre was primarily to blame for advocating the payment of the FRP in three installments, he ticked-off the leadership of the MVA, notably Mr. Pawar, for advocating the same and siding with factory owners instead of sugarcane cultivators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mva-betrayed-farmers-says-raju-shetti/article37102251.ece
21 October 2021||Uttarkashi,||11 on trek to Chitkul go missing||Eight trekkers and three cooks accompanying them on a trek to Chitkul, in neighbouring Himachal Pradesh, have gone missing, Uttarkashi officials said on Wednesday. The team of eleven people was on a trek to Chitkul via Harsil in Uttarkashi district of Uttarakhand, said District Disaster Management Officer Devendra Patwal. The group comprising seven tourists from Kolkata and one from Delhi, had left Harsil for Chitkul on October 11 and was supposed to reach there on October 19. However, when the team did not reach Chitkul on Tuesday, worried organisers informed the Uttarkashi District Disaster Management Office, Mr. Patwal said. A State Disaster Response Force team is preparing to trace the missing trekkers by a helicopter, he said. The team members have been identified as Anita Rawat (38) from Delhi; Mithun Dari (31), Tanmay Tiwari (30), Vikash Makal (33) Saurav Ghosh (34) Saviayan Das (28), Richard Mandal (30) and Suken Manjhi (43) (all from Kolkata). The cooking staff have been identified as Devendra (37), Gyan Chandra (33) and Upendra (32), all from Purola in Uttarkashi. Pilgrims safe Meanwhile, 96 people from Karnataka are stranded in Uttarakhand following heavy floods and landslides, of whom 92 are confirmed safe, an official said in Bengaluru. According to the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority commissioner Manoj Rajan, arrangements have been made to bring back those who are confirmed safe. He said that among the four people, about whom the KSDMA has no information, as of now three are marooned in Badrinath and are incommunicado. “We have no information about them because they are not reachable due to connectivity issue. We hope they too are safe,” said Mr. Rajan. The fourth missing person from Karnataka is a soldier with the Border Security Force (BSF) and the BSF control room has been informed about it, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/11-on-trek-to-chitkul-go-missing/article37102014.ece
21 October 2021||Mumbai,||‘Sex tourism’ racket busted||The Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Wednesday said they have busted a ‘sex tourism’ racket with the arrest of two of its women operators at the city airport. The police also rescued two women, who were scheduled to go to Goa with dummy customers, after the racket was busted on Monday evening, a senior officer said. He said the crime branch had specific information that a womanwas in the business of sex tourism with other partners at various popular destinations in the country. Her modus operandi was to offer a client to take a woman along for sex to a tourist destination for two days, the officer said. After fixing a deal with the client, the woman, who is the main accused in this case, used to give a choice of place in the country, he said, adding that Goa was the most preferred destination among customers. The accused woman used to charge Rs. 50,000 for the two-day schedule and other all expenses were to be borne by the client, the officer said. Working on the information, unit-7 of the crime branch arranged two decoy customers to contact the accused, he said. Accordingly, a trip was organised to Goa along with two females by paying Rs. 45,000 and Rs. 40,000 for them, the officer said. The police laid a trap at the Mumbai airport on Monday evening when a flight to Goa was scheduled from here. At the airport, a woman operator came along with the two females who were to go to Goa. They approached the client, who was actually a police officer and was supposed to go to Goa with them along with one of his friends. Exchange of money After the exchange of money between the two sides, the police officer, who was posing as a customer, alerted his team following which the woman operator and the other two females were apprehended, the officer said. During their questioning, the crime branch team came to know that the main accused woman had already entered the flight departure gate , Deputy Commissioner of Police Datta Nalawade said. She was nabbed with the help of personnel of the CISF, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sex-tourism-racket-busted/article37102016.ece
21 October 2021||CHENNAI,||It’s a shame that two police officers are facing criminal case: HC judge||It is a “shame” that a special Director General of Police (since suspended) has been accused of making sexual advances towards a woman Indian Police Service (IPS) officer and a Superintendent of Police (also under suspension now) has been charged with waylaying her when she was on the way to lodge a complaint, said Justice P. Velmurugan of the Madras High Court on Wednesday. The judge made the oral observation during the hearing of a criminal revision petition filed by the suspended SP D. Kannan against the refusal of a Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) in Villupuram to discharge him from the criminal case. He said if women IPS officers could face such an affront to their dignity, less said was better about the plight of women police personnel in lower ranks. The judge asked how the common man would have faith in the police department if high-level officers were accused of lowly acts. He said the department was “highly polluted.” People approach police with great expectations but the investigation conducted in most of the cases under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act of 2012 was not upto the mark, he lamented. “Even now, I only wish and pray that the allegations (levelled against the two top police officials) remain to be allegations. I am not making any conclusions. Let things be decided in the trial... Let God save the department,” the judge said after expressing his disinclination to reverse the CJM’s order and discharge the suspended SP from the case without having to face trial. The suspended SP had contended that he was unaware of the unsavoury events that had transpired between the suspended special DGP and the complainant and that he had only obeyed his superior’s orders by making her talk to him on the phone at Paranur toll plaza on the day of the incident. However, Justice Velmurugan said it could, at best, be a defence to be taken during trial. After finding that his arguments could not cut ice with the judge, the petitioner’s counsel chose to withdraw the criminal revision petition. The judge permitted the withdrawal and issued a direction to the trial court to complete the trial proceedings within three months. Subsequently, the judge heard another criminal revision petition filed by the suspended special DGP Rajesh Das challenging the CJM's jurisdiction to try the case and reserved orders. In a related development, Justice C. Saravanan of the High Court on Wednesday directed a government counsel to take instructions by Friday to a writ petition filed by the suspended special DGP challenging the inquiry conducted by the Internal Complaints Committee constituted by the State government under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act of 2013.  How will the common man have faith in the police if high-level officers are accused of lowly acts?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/its-a-shame-that-two-top-police-officials-are-facing-criminal-case-says-hc-judge/article37101737.ece
21 October 2021||Mumbai,||CBSE prints Minister’s photo as ‘gram sevak’||Maharashtra Minister of State for Home and Congress leader Satej Patil has found himself in a new position, that of being a ‘gram sevak’, thanks to the Central Board of Secondary Education. Mr. Patil’s photograph from a public function has been printed with a caption calling him a ‘gram sevak’ in a CBSE book. Photo in Class III book The picture has been printed on page number 70 in a chapter on the duties and importance of Gram Panchayat. The lesson is in the Social Science book of Class III. Mr. Patil’s office on Wednesday sent an email to CBSE chairman Manoj Ahuja demanding immediate removal of the photograph. Second-term Minister “It is surprising that the reputed Central board has printed the photograph without any verification. Satej Patil is a senior Congress leader and reputed politician from Maharashtra. He has been serving his second term as the Minister and has been a member of the Legislative Council. No wrong should be taught to the children of this country. We hope the error is rectified by the board immediately,” the mail said. When contacted, Mr. Patil said, “Our office has already communicated this issue to the CBSE Chairman and I hope they will resolve this issue at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cbse-prints-ministers-photo-as-gram-sevak/article37101846.ece
21 October 2021||Mumbai,||With polls in sight, BMC told to speed up projects||As political parties stare at the upcoming civic polls to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday directed the civic administration to speed up beautification projects, demolish unauthorised constructions and maintain utmost transparency in road contracts to be awarded. “No illegal constructions will be tolerated in Mumbai. Each ward officer is responsible to ensure this. Pressure from anyone should not be tolerated as the State government stands with you,” said Mr. Thackeray at a meeting of the BMC officials. Flak over contracts As the BMC faces flak over awarding road contracts to tainted contractors and perennial potholes on city’s roads, The Chief Minister asked the civic administration to demonstrate utmost transparency in the road tender process. “Nobody should be able to point finger at the process,” he said. The Shiv Sena controls the BMC for over a two decades now and the civic polls are likely to be held between December 2021 and January 2022 if the positivity rate of COVId-19 patients remain on the downward slope. “The Mumbai model of controlling the spread of the pandemic was appreciated the world over and we must continue this by focusing on bettering civic amenities,” he said. Directions have been given to set up special squads on the lines of sanitation squads to clean debris to ensure construction material is picket up at the earliest. Adding that the Mumbai beautification project has to be completed on a war footing, Mr. Thackeray has directed the civic officials to fill potholes on city’s roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/with-polls-in-sight-bmc-told-to-speed-up-projects/article37102019.ece
21 October 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat to give Rs. 546 cr. compensation to farmers||The Gujarat government on Wednesday announced a special relief package of Rs. 546 crore to compensate the farmers affected by heavy rain and floods in the four districts of Saurashtra, who suffered crop losses and other damages in September. The package was announced after the Cabinet cleared it on Wednesday. Each eligible farmer would get a compensation of Rs. 13,000 per hectare with a limit of two hectares if the crop loss was equal or above 33%. Before announcing the package, the government had carried out a survey of crop losses and damages in four districts — Jamnagar, Rajkot, Junagadh and Porbandar — in the Saurashtra region. State government spokesman and Education Minister Jitu Vaghani said the government is also in the process of surveying other crop loss-affected areas and suitable relief measures will be announced later. He said, “The government has announced a Rs. 546-crore package...will benefit 2.82 lakh farmers of 662 villages in 22 tehsils.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gujarat-to-give-rs-546-cr-compensation-to-farmers/article37101812.ece
21 October 2021||Mumbai,||Heroin worth Rs. 21.70 cr. seized in Mumbai||The Anti-Narcotics Cell (ANC) of the Mumbai Police arrested a 53-year-old woman supplier of drugs and seized 7.2 kg heroin worth Rs. 21.70 crore from her possession in Sion Koliwada area, an officer said on Wednesday. The ANC sleuths nabbed the alleged drug supplier, identified as Amina Hamza Shaikh alias Lali, a resident of suburban Mankhud, on Tuesday night, he said. The seized heroin was meant to be distributed to other drug suppliers operating in Mumbai and to Lali’s customers, the officer said, adding the ANC has launched a search to nab Lali’s contacts. Arrested twice before She was previously arrested by the Worli and Ghatkopar units of the ANC for her alleged role in supplying banned drugs in 2015 and 2018, he said. “Officials of the Ghatkopar unit of the ANC acted on specific information that Lali was smuggling a huge quantity of heroin following which a trap was laid in Sion Koliwada and she was arrested with drugs,” said DCP (ANC) Datta Nalawade. An FIR was registered under sections 8 (c) and 21 (c) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), he said. The accused told the police that she had procured the drugs from two smugglers from Naugama village in Rajasthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/heroin-worth-rs-2170-cr-seized-in-mumbai/article37102015.ece
21 October 2021||New Delhi,||Actor appears before ED in ‘conman’ case||Actor Jacqueline Fernandez appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday for questioning in connection with an over Rs. 200 croremoney laundering case filed against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekar, officials said. The actor deposed before the federal agency at 3.30 p.m. after skipping its summons at least thrice earlier. Ms. Fernandez, 36,has once appearedbefore the agency in August and had recorded her statement under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in this case. It is understood that the agency wants to confront her with the main accused in the case — Mr. Chandrashekhar and his actor wife Leena Maria Paul — and also record her statement again. The agency, they said, wants to understand some trail of funds and transactions that are allegedly linked to Ms. Fernandez in this case. Actor and dancerNora Fatehi, 29, recorded her statement with the ED last week in this case. Ms. Fatehi’s representative had said that she has been the victim in the case and being a witness, she is cooperating and helping the officers in the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/actor-appears-before-ed-in-conman-case/article37101808.ece
21 October 2021||New delhi,||Naqvi visits flood-hit areas in Rampur||Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Wednesday visited the flood-affected areas in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur and distributed relief material among the people. Instead of an aerial survey, Mr. Naqvi undertook a ground survey and even got on a boat to reach far-flung areas inundated due to the massive rain that have wreaked havoc in adjoining Uttarakhand. “Visited the severely affected areas of Rampur in Uttar Pradesh adjoining Uttarakhand. Distributed relief material to the people affected by the floods and met people living in various relief camps,” Mr. Naqvi tweeted and shared a video of him handing over relief materials while on a boat. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath are leaving no stone unturned to provide relief to the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/naqvi-visits-flood-hit-areas-in-rampur/article37102011.ece
21 October 2021||Gangtok,||Heavy rain, landslides cut off Gangtok||Torrential rains pounded the Himalayan State of Sikkim and the tea growing region of North Bengal, causing landslides which cut off National Highway-10, the main road linking Gangtok with the rest of the country. Normal life in parts of the tea growing north Bengal was also affected on Wednesday as torrential showers in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri districts triggered landslides causing damages to roads and bridges, halting or constricting traffic in various places, officials said. Hundreds of tourists, who have thronged the hills during the Durga Puja season, are facing difficulties to return home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/heavy-rain-landslides-cut-off-gangtok/article37102012.ece
21 October 2021||Mumbai,||HC asks NIA to file reply on Teltumbde’s bail plea in Elgaar Parishad case||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to file a reply on a bail plea of Professor Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. Prof. Teltumbde (71), who is in jail for the last one-and-a-half years, had approached the HC last month, challenging the order of a special court denying him bail in July. A Bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and S.V. Kotwal directed the NIA to file its reply within two weeks. In his plea filed through senior counsel Mihir Desai, Prof. Teltumbde has denied all charges levelled against him and urged the court to grant him bail. On July 12 this year, the special NIA court had rejected Prof. Teltumbde’s bail plea, observing in its order that there existed a prima facie case against him under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. The academician, however, challenged the order and said the NIA had picked and chosen electronic evidence to suit its case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-asks-nia-to-file-reply-on-teltumbdes-bail-plea-in-elgaar-parishad-case/article37101806.ece
