22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC says farmers have right to protest, but can’t block roads||The Supreme Court on Thursday said public roads could not be blocked to hamper free movement even as farmers and the Government verbally clashed during the physical hearing, over who is responsible for the nearly two-year blockade. Farmers, represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Prashant Bhushan, said roads were deliberately blocked to turn public sentiments against them. They should be allowed to enter the Ram Lila Maidan and Jantar Mantar to continue their protests against the agricultural laws. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for Haryana, reminded the court about the Red Fort violence in January that left several hundreds injured and others killed. A Bench led by Justice S.K. Kaul acknowledged that “there is a problem with movement, we are not going to accept there is no problem”. It stated that a solution needed to be found for the nearly two-year impasse between farmers and the Government. Shaheen Bagh case The court noted that it had laid down the law in the Shaheen Bagh protests case that the right to protest should not hamper the right to movement of the public. Justice Kaul observed, “The law is laid down. There is no reason for the SC to lay down the law again and again... Ultimately, some solutions have to be found — roads cannot be blocked...” Mr. Dave contended that the right to protest was a fundamental right. The roads were blocked by the police. The government’s view on violence by protesters seemed to be skewed. He asked why farmers were not being allowed at Jantar Mantar when Tuesday saw massive protests organised by the BJP in the area over the attack on Hindus in Bangladesh during Durga Puja. “The solution is allow us to agitate at Jantar Mantar...” Mr. Mehta submitted, “Last time they came, it became a serious issue... something much more than a serious issue”. He insinuated that “sometimes it is felt the farmers’ agitation is not for the cause but for something else...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-says-farmers-have-right-to-protest-but-cant-block-roads/article37119034.ece
22 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Over 37 lakh doses of vaccine administered||With Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts administering more than 37 lakh doses of vaccines till Thursday, the share of fully vaccinated people in the region crossed 34%. This comes at a time when the country has administered more than 100 crore doses of vaccines. According to the Co-Win dashboard of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 23,09,823 people have been vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada till 6 p.m. on Thursday. Of these, 34.08% (7,87,167) have been fully vaccinated and 65.92 % (15,22,656) have been partially (first dose) vaccinated. Women are leading with 50.18 % (11,58,542) share, while the share of men is at 49.82 % (11,50,750). The portal said that vaccination is being administered at 100 sites, 87 government and 13 private, in Dakshina Kannada. The Ministry said that of the 14,06,175 persons who have been vaccinated in Udupi, the share of those who have been fully vaccinated stood at 34.91% (4,90,857). And, the percentage of those who have been partially vaccinated is 65.09 (9,15,318). The percentage of women vaccinated is 52.32 (7,35,521) and the percentage of men vaccinated stands at 47.68 (6,70,467). Melas today Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi district administrations have organised Vaccination Melas across the two districts on Friday. Udupi District Health and Family Welfare Officer Nagabhushana Udupa H. said that vaccines will be given in 73 sites in Udupi, Kundapur and Karkala taluks. 400 sites According to Dakshina Kannada District Health and Family Welfare Officer Kishor Kumar, vaccine will be administered in more than 400 sites. Both Covaxin and Covishield are available under first and second doses. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra told a meeting in his office that the government has set a target of administering 1.20 lakh doses of vaccine on Friday. Of the target, 65,000-67,000 doses are for Mangaluru taluk, 15,000 for Bantwal, 18,000 for Belthangady, 14,000 for Puttur and 6,000 doses are for Sullia taluk. He asked the Health Department officials to give priority to administering the second dose of the vaccine for those eligible. The Deputy Commissioner also asked ASHAs to visit houses and motivate people to take both the first and second doses of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-37-lakh-doses-of-vaccine-administered/article37119622.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India crosses 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses||India completed 100 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines on Thursday, in about nine months since the drive began. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his gratitude to doctors, nurses and all those who worked on crossing the milestone. He tweeted, “India scripts history. We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. Congrats India on crossing 100 crore vaccinations.” “The vaccine has brought pride and protection in the lives of our citizens,” Mr. Modi noted. He visited the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here and interacted with healthcare workers and people receiving the vaccine. To mark the occasion, the Union Health Ministry held a series of events and released a two-minute video on the nation’s fight against COVID-19. Hailing the achievement, UNICEF India representative Yasmin Ali Haque said, “As Indian families recover from the recent devastating COVID-19 wave, for many, this milestone means hope.” Regional Director of WHO South-East Asia Poonam Khetrapal Singh also termed it an extraordinary feat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-crosses-100-cr-covid-19-doses/article37119029.ece
22 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka ranks third among larger States in administering first dose||Karnataka has administered the third highest number of first doses among larger States in the country. In terms of coverage per million population, Karnataka is in the fifth position. Contributing 6.2% of the total 100 crore dosesadministered in the country till Thursday, Karnataka has covered 84.7% (4,15,10,701) of the 4.9 crore eligible population with the first dose. Gujarat has covered90.2% of its population with one dose, and Madhya Pradesh 89.5%, according to data from CoWIN. From 21,013 average vaccinations per day in January, when the process was rolled out, the State’s daily average shot up to 4,83,144in September, the highest. September also saw 1,40,11,162 doses administered, the highest so far. In October, an average of 2,66,106 doses have been administered daily. With 2,06,44,821 people of the eligible 4.9 crore fully vaccinated (with both the doses), over 42% has been covered so far. As of October 21, the State has received a total of 5,97,55,360 doses of COVID-19 vaccines. Of these, 5,26,88,540 doses are of Covishield and 70,66,820 doses are of Covaxin. Arundhathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, said nearly 45,000 people who have taken their first doses are due for second doses in the next few days. “We have told our officials to prioritise people who come for second doses during the Lasika Utsava on Friday,” she said. Future challenge “The remaining population is the group that needs motivation. We have started a door-to-door survey to identify those who are yet to get their first dose and motivating them. Those who cannot visit the vaccination centre due to old age and health issues are being vaccinated at their place. Covering this remaining population is a challenge but we are still determined to cover at least 90% of the eligible population by December-end,” she said. She said the remaining 10% may spill over beyond December due to the 84-day gap between two doses of Covishield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-ranks-third-among-larger-states-in-administering-first-dose/article37119049.ece
22 October 2021||Belagavi,||Four injured in group clash in Belagavi district; situation is peaceful now||Four persons were injured in a group clash in Ranakunde village near Belagavi late on Wednesday night. Trouble began when seven or eight men from the city tried to stop the construction of a place of worship in the village. They objected to the construction saying that it was being taken up on their private property. But the workers and neighbours said that prayers were being offered at the place for the last several years now. A crowd gathered and there was a street fight. Out of danger All the injured were admitted to the district hospital. They are all out of danger. Commissioner of Police K. Thiyagarajan and Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amathe, among other officers, visited the spot. The villagers complained that members of the Inamdar family had demolished a part of a wall that was being built. They also said that the accused had attacked them using lethal weapons. Belagavi BJP Rural District unit president Dhanjaya Jadav said that the Inamdars had no claim over the land as they had sold it long ago. The Assistant Commissioner of Police and others held a peace committee meeting in the village past midnight. It was decided that the appropriate court will decide the ownership of the disputed land. It was also agreed that no one will take the law into their hands till the civil suit is decided. A City Armed Reserve police van is stationed in the village. The situation is peaceful now. A case is being registered in the Rural Police Station. The police have registered a case against five persons of the Inamdar family. The case includes Indian Penal Code provisions relating to causing injuries or defiling a place of worship with intent to insult religion of any class, attempt to murder, rioting and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-injured-in-group-clash-in-belagavi-district-situation-is-peaceful-now/article37119169.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM to attend climate meet in Glasgow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will travel to Glasgow on October 31 to attend the UN Climate Change Conference (COP26), India has conveyed to the British Government this week, sources confirmed. The decision comes even as climate negotiation delegations from the United States, the European Union and the United Kingdom travelled to Delhi to discuss India’s climate goals. Mr. Modi and U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson are expected to jointly launch the “one world, one solar, one grid” initiative at the summit where at least 120 world leaders have confirmed their attendance. British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss will land in Delhi on Friday, and will meet with Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav to finalise details of Mr. Modi’s programme. Meanwhile, a senior U.S. delegation led by Robert Blake, a retired diplomat appointed by U.S. Special Envoy John Kerry to coordinate with India on the climate financing and clean energy partnership, is also in Delhi for talks with the Environment Ministry. On his previous two visits to India, Mr. Kerry had pressed hard for India to update its climate goals, as only a few countries have done thus far after the Paris climate accord, and also to announce a deadline for phasing out coal and achieving a “Net Zero” carbon emission target. Mr. Blake’s visit coincides with that of European Union Executive Vice President for the “European Green Deal” Frans Timmerman, who has been in Delhi for the International Solar Alliance. ‘A positive sign’ Mr. Modi’s decision to attend the summit in Glasgow, where he will fly directly from the G-20 summit in Rome (October 30-31) is seen as a positive sign that India will announce an updated plan at the conference, diplomats said. India was expected to update its Nationally Determined Commitments (NDCs) to reflect its ambition to install 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030, but the deadline for submitting updated NDCs to the United Nations, ahead of the Glasgow summit, was passed on October 12 without the announcement. “The truth is, apart from China, India, as a growing economy, and a major contributor to carbon emissions, is also the most important country in terms of ensuring the world meets its deadlines on countering climate change, and all eyes are on the clear time-bound commitments Prime Minister Modi will make at the COP26 in Glasgow,” a western diplomat told The Hindu , explaining the rush of delegations to Delhi this week. Both Mr. Kerry and COP-26 President-Designate from the U.K., Alok Sharma, have also made two visits each to India this year with this on the agenda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-to-attend-climate-meet-in-glasgow/article37119035.ece
22 October 2021||MYSURU,||Heavy rains lash Mysuru, nearby districts||Heavy rains lashed Mysuru and surrounding districts through Wednesday night till the early hours of Thursday. While the district received 36 mm of rainfall, Mysuru taluk recorded 55.6 mm during the 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. In the region, Arakere in Srirangapatna taluk of Mandya district received 130 mm of rain, Marahalli in Mysuru taluk 127 mm, and Thandavpura in Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru district 124 mm of rain. There are fears of damage to standing crops as agricultural fields at many places have been waterlogged while canals and waterbodies were overflowing in the rural hinterland, according to farmers’ organisations. The rainfall was uniform and widespread and the 36 mm recorded in the district was as against a normal of 3.7 mm for the same period while the normal for the taluk – which received 55.6 mm of rainfall – was 4.9 mm. Hunsur recorded 36.2 mm of rainfall as against the normal of 2.9 while Nanjangud received 25.2 mm of rainfall during the same period. The other taluks in Mysuru recorded rainfall higher than the average and H.D. Kote received 36.6 mm of rain as against the normal of 4 mm while T. Narsipur received 57.3 mm of rainfall as against the normal of 2.6 mm for the same period, according to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). Periyapatna recorded 17.4 mm as against the a normal of 4.3 mm, K.R. Nagar 25.2 mm as against the normal of 3.9 mm and Sargur 40.4 mm as against the normal of 2.9 mm. The adjoining Mandya district received 43.4 mm of rainfall as against the normal of 4.1 mm while Chamarajanagar received 18.8 mm as against the normal of 4.9 mm. Within Mandya district, Srirangapatna recorded 75.4 mm of rainfall as against the normal of 2.5 mm, Mandya taluk 62.8 mm as against the normal of 7.9 mm and Malavalli received 36.9 mm of rain as against the normal of 2.2 mm. Pandavapura, Nagamangala, and K.R. Pet also received above-normal rainfall, according to the KSNDMC. Havoc in city In Mysuru city, low-lying areas were flooded. Water overflowed from the storm-water drains across many parts of the city, including Chamaraja Double Road, Alanahalli, Udaygiri, Ramakrishna Nagar, Mahadevapura Road, Paduvarahalli, and Kumbarakoppal. Many houses in Janata Nagar, Gangotri Layout and surrounding areas were flooded. A giant tree was uprooted near the Deputy Commissioner’s office and the MCC’s Abhaya team was deployed to clear it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rains-lash-mysuru-nearby-districts/article37119292.ece
22 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||New forms of crime emerging out of malice against govt.: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the police to accord top priority to ensuring law and order in the current situation where “new forms of crimes are emerging out of malice against the government.” Speaking on the occasion of the Police Commemoration Day here on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said technology and societal changes only increased the responsibilities of the police. “The police are dealing with various crimes – from white-collar to cyber. Crime is taking new forms,” the Chief Minister observed. Indirectly referring to the TDP, the main opposition party, the Chief Minister said, “We have been witnessing a new form of crime in the State in the last more than two years. We have seen what these people are up to. Just because they couldn’t win (elections), they vandalised idols and burnt chariots in temples. They created conflicts between castes. They are not hesitant to create conflicts between religions. They moved courts and stopped the construction of houses for the poor. They even opposed English medium education to the poor students.” “Their TV channels and newspapers are filled with debates and stories that are full of lies. They even abused the Chief Minister, a constitutionally elected person, referring to his mother. Is it right to do such things? Is it right to abuse the Chief Minister in such a way? By doing so, they want the Chief Minister’s followers to retaliate and cause disturbance to law and order in the State and, in turn, derive political mileage out of it,” Mr. Jagan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crime-is-taking-new-forms/article37118996.ece
22 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||Online gaming, gambling banned to protect poor families, says CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that the State Government has enacted a strict law against online gaming and gambling with the sole objective of protecting the health and peace of mind of poor families. Speaking at the Police Commemoration Day at Old CAR Grounds in Hubballi on Thursday after paying tributes to police martyrs, he said that the stringent law has been brought in to prevent youths from taking the extreme step after losing all their money in online games. The law facilitated strict action against gambling clubs too, he said. The Chief Minister said that for the growth and prosperity of the nation, internal security and peace are very much essential and it is everyone’s responsibility to acknowledge the service and sacrifice of police personnel who laid down their lives while on duty. Commending the police personnel and officials for their selfless service, the Chief Minister said that the government is ready to extend all facilities to them apart from reviving several welfare schemes meant for them. “Earlier, there was a feeling that promotion and other benefits were only meant for senior officials. Now, it has been extended to lower cadre also. Nearly 16,000 police personnel are being recruited and grants have been provided for covering police personnel under Arogya Bhagya scheme. Several reforms too have been introduced along with pay revision,” he said. Mr. Bommai said that while 10,000 residential quarters for the police personnel have been constructed, it has been planned to construct 11,000 more houses. While the police ensured safety of citizens, the citizens are also required to cooperate with them in ensuring maintenance of law and order, he said. Earlier, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram read out a list of 377 police officials and martyrs who laid down their lives while on duty between October 1, 2020 and August 31, 2021 in the country. Of them, 16 are from the State. Paying tributes to police martyrs during the Police Commemoration Day in Dharwad, Vice-Chancellor of Karnatak University K.G. Gudasi emphasised the need for remembering police personnel who were responsible for the common people sleeping peacefully at night. He also stressed the need for people to cooperate with police personnel in maintenance of law and order. Superintendent of Police of Dharwad P. Krishnakant read out the names of police martyrs. Deputy Conservator of Forest Yashpal Ksheersagar, Joint Director of Gungargatti Forest Academy Sonal Vrushni, various police officials, assistant directors of various departments and journalists laid wreaths at the martyrs memorial and paid tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/online-gaming-gambling-banned-to-protect-poor-families-says-cm/article37119173.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||AICC announces list of KPCC office-bearers||In a bid to organisationally revitalise the flailing Congress in Kerala, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) has announced the much-awaited list of 51 Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) office-bearers after a protracted delay. The AICC has attempted to engineer a generational shift in the party in Kerala and tried to achieve a social balance by accommodating leaders from different communities and castes. Space for groups It has also ensured women representation to some measure. It has also given space to the choice of the powerful ‘A’ and ‘I’ groups. The new vice presidents are N. Sakthan, V.T. Balaram, V.J. Paulose and V.P. Sajeendran. The AICC has nominated Prathapa Chandran as treasurer. The AICC has co-opted five women, including three general secretaries and two executive committee members, into the KPCC leadership hierarchy. The women general secretaries are K.A. Thulasi, Alipatta Jameela and Deepthi Mary Varghese. The executive committee members are Padmaja Venugopal and P.R. Sona. General secretaries There are 23 KPCC general secretaries in all. They are A.A. Shukoor, Prathapa Varma Thampan, S. Ashokan, Mariapuram Sreekumar, K.K. Abraham, Sony Sebastian, K. Jayanth, P.M. Niyas, Aryadan Shoukath, C. Chandran, T.U. Radhakrishnan, Abdul Muthalib, Josy Sebastian, P.A. Salim, Pazhakulam Madhu, M.J. Job, K.P. Sreekumar, M.M. Nazeer, G.S. Babu, and G. Subhodhan. Notable KPCC executive committee members are KPCC president K. Sudhakaran, Congress Legislature Party leader V.D. Satheesan, KPCC working presidents Kodikunnil Suresh and T. Siddique, both MPs, and P.T. Thomas, MLA. V.S. Sivakumar, Varkala Kahar and T. Saratchandra Prasad have made it to the new KPCC executive committee. A.V. Gopinath, the Congress veteran from Palakkad who had rebelled against the KPCC leadership, has found no place in the rejigged KPCC. ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions had protested against the secretive nature in which the KPCC had prepared the final list. Mr. Sudhakaran said no Congress leader would publicly protest against the revamp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aicc-finally-announces-list-of-kpcc-office-bearers/article37119190.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan retained on FATF’s ‘greylist’ again||The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) on Thursday retained Pakistan in the ‘greylist’ yet again, observing that it needed to further demonstrate that investigations and prosecutions were being pursued against the senior leadership of UN-designated terror groups, which include the Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, al-Qaeda and the Taliban. At a press meet, FATF President Marcus Pleyer said Pakistan remained under increased monitoring. The FATF also announced the ‘greylisting’ of Jordan, Mali and Turkey. At the previous Plenary, the FATF had kept Pakistan in the list of “jurisdictions under increased monitoring” owing to its failure in prosecuting the top operatives of terror groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pakistan-retained-on-fatfs-greylist-again/article37119288.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Organised crime charges valid in Gauri case’||The Supreme Court on Thursday revived the organised crime charges against a man accused of harbouring the alleged killers of journalist Gauri Lankesh, who was shot dead outside her home in Bengaluru in 2017. A three-judge Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, upheld the appeal filed by Kavitha Lankesh, Gauri’s sister, that the prior approval given by the Bengaluru City Police Commissioner to invoke offences under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes Act against accused Mohan Nayak was valid. Ms. Kavitha’s appeal before the top court came after the Karnataka High Court dropped the organised crime charges against Nayak earlier this year, saying he was not engaged in “continuing unlawful activity” to be a part of a gang involved in organised crime. The prosecution said Nayak had taken a house on rent on the instructions of co-accused Amol Kale. The house was, in fact, meant to accommodate the killing crew. Gauri’s assassins hid out in the same house after the murder, the prosecution said. Justice Khanwilkar said the Police Commissioner needed only to focus on whether there was credible information before him about the involvement of an “organised syndicate” behind the crime. It was not necessary at that point of approval to look into the role of the individual offenders. “Therefore, the specific role of the accused concerned [Nayak] is not required to be and is not so mentioned in the stated prior approval. That aspect would be unravelled during the investigation,” the Supreme Court clarified the procedural law. It noted that the HC had examined the circumstances of the Police Commissioner’s approval by applying “erroneous scale”. The High Court had “glossed over the core and tangible facts”. Besides, the top court said the Police Commissioner’s approval seemed not to “suffer from any infirmity including qua Nayak having noted his intimate nexus with the brain behind the entire event, being none other than Amol Kale and master-arms trainer Rajesh D. Bangera, who are part and parcel of an organised crime syndicate and committed organised crimes as such”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/organised-crime-charges-valid-in-lankesh-case-sc/article37119032.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Marking an achievement||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/marking-an-achievement/article37119168.ece
22 October 2021||Belagavi,||Woman killed in road accident||A woman died while her daughter was injured in a road accident in Belagavi on Thursday. Forty-five-year-old Pooja Mahesh Gawde died as her scooter hit a divider near Krishnadevaraya Circle or Kolhapur Circle in Nehru Nagar. Her daughter, 18-year-old Tanvi, who was riding pillion, was injured. She has been admitted to hospital. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-killed-in-road-accident/article37119170.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Marking a milestone||photo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/marking-a-milestone/article37119290.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Do you want to revisit Rs. 8 lakh slab, SC asks Govt.||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Government if it wants to revisit the limit of Rs. 8 lakh annual income fixed for determining the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) category for reservation in NEET admissions for medical courses under the all-India quota. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud expressed its annoyance at the Government for not filing an affidavit explaining how it reached the Rs. 8 lakh figure to identify the EWS category for grant of reservation. “Tell us if you want to revisit the criterion or not. If you want us to discharge our duties, then we are ready to do so. We are formulating questions... you need to answer them,” Justice Chandrachud addressed Additional Solicitor-General K.M. Natraj, for the Government. The court said it might even “stay the Government notification fixing Rs. 8 lakh for determining the EWS”. “You cannot just pick Rs. 8 lakh out of the thin air and fix it as a criterion. There has to be some basis, some study. Tell us whether any demographic study or data was taken into account in fixing the limit. How do you arrive at this exact figure? Can the Supreme Court strike down the criterion if no study was undertaken?” the Bench asked. In the previous hearing on October 7, the Government assured the court that it would file an affidavit on oath explaining the reasons and statistics which led to the figure of Rs. 8 lakh as the annual income criterion to identify EWS among forward classes of society for grant of 10% reservation in medical admissions under the all-India quota. The Supreme Court’s query is significant as the One Hundred and Third Constitutional Amendment of 2019, which introduced the 10% EWS quota, is itself under challenge before a larger Bench. The Amendment is under question for making economic criterion as the sole ground for grant of reservation benefits. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by NEET aspirants challenging a July 29 notification of the Centre announcing 27% quota to OBCs and 10% reservation to EWS in the All India Quota category. The court had insisted on the affidavit though Mr. Natraj urged it to leave the “larger” issue of what led to income criterion of Rs. 8 lakh for the Constitution Bench to examine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/do-you-want-to-revisit-rs-8-lakh-slab-sc-asks-govt/article37119030.ece
22 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Naidu begins protest||TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday began his 36-hour protest against the recent attacks on his party offices. Mr. Naidu sought the Union government’s intervention in the matter to restore peace. Addressing the cadres at the TDP headquarters, near Mangalagiri, which had been ransacked by a mob on October 19, Mr. Naidu said the attacks were a fallout of the criticism of the government’s “failure to curb the smuggling of drugs, and its negligence in probing the links to the recent haul of heroin at Mundra Port in Gujarat.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/naidu-begins-protest/article37119025.ece
22 October 2021||Bengaluru,||CM’s remark on moral policing condemned||A coalition of progressive organisations held a protest against Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday condemning his recent statements “condoning moral policing”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cms-remark-on-moral-policing-condemned/article37119051.ece
22 October 2021||Chennai,||1.74 lakh formal jobs added in T.N. in Aug.||About 1.74 lakh jobs were created in Tamil Nadu’s formal sector in August this year, according to provisional data from the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). This marks an increase of 6.1%, from about 1.64 lakh jobs in July. The new jobs are measured in terms of the number of net enrolments with EPFO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/174-lakh-formal-jobs-added-in-tn-in-aug/article37119137.ece
22 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Man booked on conversion charges in Uttar Pradesh||A man from Fatehpur district in U.P. was booked under the new anti-conversion law in the State for trying to convert his wife to Islam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-booked-on-conversion-charges-in-uttar-pradesh/article37119570.ece
22 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sidhu and Amarinder clash over farm laws||As the turmoil within the Congress’s Punjab unit continues, party State chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and former CM Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.) engaged in a sharp exchange of words on Thursday over the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sidhu-and-amarinder-clash-over-farm-laws/article37119571.ece
22 October 2021||Chennai,||1.74 lakh formal jobs added in T.N. in Aug.||About 1.74 lakh jobs were created in Tamil Nadu’s formal sector in August this year, according to provisional data from the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). This marks an increase of 6.1%, from about 1.64 lakh jobs in July. The new jobs are measured in terms of the number of net enrolments with EPFO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/174-lakh-formal-jobs-added-in-tn-in-aug/article37119547.ece
22 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Man booked on conversion charges in Uttar Pradesh||A man from Fatehpur district in Uttar Pradesh was booked by the police under the new anti-conversion law in the State for trying to convert his wife to Islam. The Allahabad High Court had recently granted bail to the accused man, a truck driver by profession. In the High Court, he had pleaded that he and his wife were both Hindus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-booked-on-conversion-charges-in-uttar-pradesh/article37119213.ece
22 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sidhu and Amarinder clash over farm laws||As the turmoil within the Congress’s Punjab unit continues, party State chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and former Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.) engaged in a sharp exchange of words on Thursday over the farm laws. Mr. Sidhu tweeted an old video clip of Capt. Singh and accused the former Chief Minister of being an architect of the three farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sidhu-and-amarinder-clash-over-farm-laws/article37119215.ece
22 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Vittal Malekudiya, his father acquitted||A city court here on Thursday acquitted Vittal Malekudiya, a journalist, and his father, Lingappa Malekudiya, seven years after they were charged with treason. The case had drawn national attention back in 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vittal-malekudiya-his-father-acquitted/article37119625.ece
22 October 2021||KALABURAGI,||Three Bidar PHCs bag quality certification||Of the five PHCs in the State that received the Union Government’s quality certification, three are in Bidar district. As per information provided by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the PHCs in Chintaki, Dhannura (S) and Kushnoor (T) villages in the district have bagged the certification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-bidar-phcs-bag-quality-certification/article37119171.ece
22 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||Tegur villagers oppose water meters||Opposing the installation of fare meters for water supply connections in rural areas, residents, led by women, took out a protest march in Tegur village of Dharwad taluk on Thursday. Taking out the protest march under the aegis of Raitha Krishikarmika Sanghatane, the village residents, led by women, marched through the village raising slogans like “water is not a commercial commodity”, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tegur-villagers-oppose-water-meters/article37119175.ece
22 October 2021||mangaluru,||Scribe, father acquitted of treason charge||A city court here on Thursday acquitted Vittala Malekudiya, a journalist, and his father, Lingappa Malekudiya, nearly seven years after they were charged with treason. The case had drawn national attention back in 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scribe-father-acquitted-of-treason-charge/article37119293.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||Fix accountability for deaths: Congress||The Congress on Thursday congratulated health sector workers for helping India achieve the milestone of administering 100 crore vaccine doses but posed several questions to the Narendra Modi Government and demanded an “impartial commission” to fix accountability of political leaders and officials whose “criminal negligence” had led to the deadly second wave of the pandemic. At a press conference, chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said though the Government’s own figures had put COVID-19 deaths at 4.53 lakh, most independent surveys and assessments put the figure between 40 lakh and 65 lakh deaths. The Congress also asked for a fresh survey to ensure a wider coverage of compensation to all those who had lost their loved ones to the novel coronavirus. “All parties should be consulted to set up an impartial commission that will include health experts, an honourable judge and all those who went out of their way to help fight corona. Many countries appointed such commissions… Is no one responsible for the 4.53 lakh deaths that even Modi ji admits to. Is no one responsible for the 40 to 65 lakh deaths that independent surveys have talked about and published in the media. Were these people responsible for their own deaths?” Mr. Surjewala asked. He said that among the top 20 nations that had vaccinated their populations with both doses, India ranked 19th as only 21% of the eligible population had been covered so far. Many still waiting He said about 32 crore adults were yet to get any dose and about 42 crore were waiting for the second dose. Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted, “A billion vaccinations is a landmark. But celebrations? Modi Govt. has abandoned it’s own target of fully vaccinating all adults by year end. Only 21% are fully vaccinated. Unless this reaches 2/3rd of India, dangers loom large. Accelerate vaccinations.” CPI secretary D. Raja said, “Time has come now for public spending on health to go up and the Centre should ensure adequate supply of vaccines to State Governments so that people have access to vaccines.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fix-accountability-for-deaths-congress/article37118979.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||64 killed in Uttarakhand floods||Home Minister Amit Shah said on Thursday that so far, 64 people had been found dead from Uttarakhand floods and more than 11 were missing. Mr. Shah, who took an aerial survey of the flood-affected region in the hill State, said that 535 people had been rescued and more than 16,000 people evacuated. He said due to the timely weather warning by the Centre, the State government could prepare better and many lives could be saved. The Home Minister said 80% of the phone lines had been restored, but some roads had been completely washed away. “New roads will have to be constructed by cutting through the mountains. A portion of the railway track has also been washed away; efforts are on to fix it,” he said. The Minister, flanked by Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni, briefed the media after the aerial survey. He said the Char Dham Yatra had been resumed and none of the pilgrims were missing or killed in the floods. “This was possible because of advance alert sent by the Centre. Alert was sent around 2.30 p.m. on October 16, mobile phone users were alerted and people were asked to stay indoors, this minimised the loss of lives,” he said. Trekking teams Of the two trekking teams that were missing, one had been tracked and efforts were on to rescue them, he said. Electricity has been restored in 60% of the area affected. A team of officials from the Home Ministry will soon visit the State to assess the damage. Mr. Shah said that a few days ago, Rs. 250 crore was released to the State for disaster management. The Minister added that 17 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and 60 of the State Disaster Response Force, 15 companies of the Provincial Armed Constabulary and 5,000 policemen were involved in relief and rehabilitation work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/64-killed-in-uttarakhand-floods/article37118645.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan retained on FATF’s ‘greylist’ again||The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) on Thursday retained Pakistan in the ‘greylist’ yet again, observing that it needed to further demonstrate that investigations and prosecutions were being pursued against the senior leadership of UN-designated terror groups, which include the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), al-Qaeda and the Taliban. At a press meet, FATF President Marcus Pleyer said Pakistan remained under increased monitoring. “The Pakistan Government has two concurrent action plans with a total of 34 action plan items. It has addressed or largely addressed 30 of the items. Its most recent action plan from June this year, which largely focused on money laundering deficiencies, was issued after the FATF’s regional partner APG, that is the Asia-Pacific Group, identified a number of serious issues,” said Dr. Pleyer. Stating that Pakistan was making good progress overall on the new action plan, in which four of the seven items had been addressed or largely addressed, Dr. Pleyer said regarding the earlier action plan, which focused on terrorist financing issues and dated back to June 2018, Pakistan was still assessed to have largely addressed 26 of the 27 items. The FATF also announced the ‘greylisting’ of Jordan, Mali and Turkey, following the conclusion of the Plenary session. At the previous Plenary in June, the FATF had kept Pakistan in the list of “jurisdictions under increased monitoring” owing to its failure in prosecuting the top operatives of the Security Council-designated terror groups. “The FATF recognises Pakistan’s progress and efforts to address these CFT [Combating the Financing of Terrorism] action plan items and notes that since February 2021, Pakistan has made progress to complete two of the three remaining action items on demonstrating that effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions are imposed for TF [Terror Financing] convictions and that Pakistan’s targeted financial sanctions regime was being used effectively to targeted terrorist assets,” it had said. The FATF had asked Pakistan to work on the remaining recommendation by demonstrating that terror financing investigations and prosecutions targeted leaders and commanders of UN-designated terror groups. It had advised that Pakistan should continue to work to address its six strategically important deficiencies, which included enhancing international cooperation by amending the money-laundering law and demonstrating that assistance was being sought from foreign countries in implementing the UNSCR 1373 designations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pakistan-retained-on-fatfs-greylist-again/article37118658.ece
22 October 2021||Mumbai,||No raid at Shah Rukh’s house: NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday visited ‘Mannat’, actor Shah Rukh Khan’s house, to collect certain material related to the investigation in the case of his son, Aryan Khan, who is in judicial custody over his alleged chats related to drugs on WhatsApp. The agency on Thursday also summoned actor Ananya Pandey to record her statement after her name appeared in the WhatsApp chats. She visited the NCB office in the afternoon along with Chunky Pandey, her father and an actor himself. Earlier in the day, Mr. Khan visited his son at the Arthur Road Jail. NCB Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede, in a press release, said, “Today on October 21, a team of NCB Mumbai zonal unit officials visited Mannat, the residence of Shri Aryan Khan in connection with Cr 94/21 for seeking certain material related to the investigation of the case from Mr. Shah Rukh Khan, f/o Aryan Khan, by following due procedure of notice, etc. It wasn’t a raid as erroneously reported in certain sections/channels of media.” Continuing his series of allegations against Mr. Wankhede, Nationalist Congress Party leader and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik said the extortion money collected by the NCB from Bollywood was collected in the Maldives when the officer’s relatives, including his sister, Jasmeen Wankhede, also known as Lady Don, were there when many Bollywood stars, too, were there. “Was he also there?” the Minister asked, demanding an answer. Mr. Malik also released photographs of Ms. Wankhede when she was in the Maldives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-raid-at-shah-rukhs-house-ncb/article37118656.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gene editing guidelines facing delay||Even as the Centre investigates allegations that unauthorised genetically modified (GM) rice was exported to Europe, it is yet to decide on a research proposal from its own scientists which would allow plants to be genetically modified without the need for conventional transgenic technology. Scientists at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute are in the process of developing resilient and high-yield rice varieties using such gene editing techniques, which have already been approved by many countries, and they hope to have such rice varieties in the hands of the Indian farmers by 2024. However, the proposal for Indian regulators to consider this technique as equivalent to conventional breeding methods, since it does not involve inserting any foreign DNA, has been pending with the Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee for almost two years. The IARI has previously worked on golden rice, a traditional GM variety which inserted genes from other organisms into the rice plant, but ended trials over five years ago due to agronomic issues, said Director A.K Singh. The Institute has now moved to newer technologies such as Site Directed Nuclease (SDN) 1 and 2. They aim to bring precision and efficiency into the breeding process using gene editing tools such as CRISPR. “In this case, you are just tweaking a gene that is already there in the plant, without bringing in any gene from outside. When a protein comes from an outside organism, then you need to test for safety. But in this case, this protein is right there in the plant, and is being changed a little bit, just as nature does through mutation,” said Dr. Singh . “But it is much faster and far more precise than natural mutation or conventional breeding methods which involve trial and error and multiple breeding cycles.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gene-editing-guidelines-facing-delay/article37118641.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC has physical hearing after 18 months||Nearly 18 months after the pandemic forced it to go virtual, the Supreme Court opened its courtrooms for its first day of full-fledged physical hearings on Thursday. The court’s long corridors once again saw some brisk activity. Additional waiting rooms had lawyers sitting patiently for their cases to be called from inside the courtrooms. Entry for media persons into the courtrooms faced initial hiccups from the security personnel manning the courtroom doors. However, the court, it is learnt, is working to make coverage of proceedings seamless. The judges sat behind glass partitions. The court staff worked behind a second glass divide. Junior lawyers were seen passing case documents to the court staff through partially opened glass doors on the sides. The atmosphere inside the courtrooms was subdued, compared to the pre-COVID jostle and bustle. However, lawyers and judges were heard expressing relief at the return to normalcy. Justices S.K. Kaul and D.Y. Chandrachud said they were happy to have lawyers once again argue in person. Modified SOP The court took the first step by modifying its standard operating procedure on October 7 to have mandatory physical hearings on Wednesdays and Thursdays. However, the SOP did meet with reservations from some lawyers, including senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who had urged Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana to not make physical hearings a “hard-and-fast rule” on the two days. It is reliably learnt that Chief Justice Ramana and other senior judges held an extensive meeting with Mr. Sibal, Attorney General K.K. Venugopal, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president Vikas Singh, senior advocate C.U. Singh, Bar Council of India chairperson Manan Kumar Mishra and other office-bearers of lawyers’ bodies on the issue on Thursday. Sources said the CJI has asked the Supreme Court Registry to tweak the SOP so that the Bench could consider and approve a lawyer’s genuine request for a virtual hearing on Wednesdays and Thursdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-has-physical-hearing-after-18-months/article37118652.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. failed to measure scale of hunger to tailor its responses’||While the Government has launched a scathing attack against the publishers of the Global Hunger Index for India’s poor ranking, experts argue that not only were steps taken by the Government to check rising levels of hunger in a pandemic year inadequate, it also failed to measure the scale of hunger to tailor its responses. Following the launch of the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2021, which ranks India 101 out of 116 countries, and worse than Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, the Government questioned the methodology used. It also enumerated various schemes it announced since the pandemic to counter hunger. But how was the coverage and were these schemes adequate? Purnima Menon, Senior Research Fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), says there are no answers to these questions because India didn’t conduct a data collection exercise. “I think what was promising was that nutrition was at a high point in terms of political agenda and visibility before the pandemic hit. In the minds of frontline workers and everyone else the idea that you need to continue to do things for nutrition was helped by the fact that pre-pandemic it was a strong agenda system-wide. There was a response from the Government too, be it food allocation from the Centre or more nuanced State government responses. But we don’t know whether that was adequate or inadequate. And the only way to know is to relentlessly measure to determine who is hungry, what is the nature and depth of food insecurity, what is it that people want, etc? What we need are population-wide rapid surveys and to make such data available in the public domain,” says Dr. Menon. When data were available, they were concealed, says economist Jayati Ghosh, who criticised the Government for its response to the GHI. “A responsible Government should acknowledge the problem and say we will do something about it. They suppressed the consumption data of their own National Sample Survey because they didn’t like the results,” Ms. Ghosh says. “We should have given 10 kg of foodgrains and not five kg, and we should have been continuing to offer them today. We should immediately bring back functional anganwadis providing food, and open schools and provide mid-day meals. These are steps that should have been taken months ago. We should also look at the issue of livelihoods, by massively expanding the rural employment guarantee scheme,” demands Ms. Ghosh. Dipa Sinha, Member of the Right to Food Campaign and Assistant Professor (Economics), Ambedkar University, questions the Government defence that there were only 3.9% malnourished children identified across various anganwadis. “This can only mean that the Government has not been able to carry out growth monitoring and record the data.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-failed-to-measure-scale-of-hunger-to-tailor-its-responses/article37118976.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||International flights not to resume fully||The Government is unlikely to allow full resumption of international flights in the near future as it believes that demand for foreign travel is still tepid, according to the Civil Aviation Ministry. “The current frequencies available under the bubble arrangements are adequate to meet the demand. There isn’t much demand for international routes, as the visa regime is very restrictive. On certain sectors such as the U.S. and Canada, airlines have 30% to 40% load factors [seat occupancy] for mid-December 2021. We can surely consider opening once the demand nears the pre-COVID-19 levels,” Rajiv Bansal, Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation, told The Hindu . The comment comes at a time when it is widely believed in the tourism and travel industry that the Government could reopen international flights fully after it announced free tourist visas to those arriving on chartered planes from October 15 and on non-chartered planes from November 15. Mr. Bansal is also in charge of Air India as its Chairman and Managing Director. In his first comments on the privatisation of Air India, he observed, “Disinvestment of Air India will lead to further growth of the airline in a professional manner as it will allow an upgrade of services such as in-flight catering, seats, onboard Wi-F connectivity.” Investment on maintenance of aircraft would ensure better utilisation, resulting in more flights to top destinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/international-flights-not-to-resume-fully/article37118977.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,||System to track prisoners on parole||The Union Home Ministry has advised the States to update recent photographs of prisoners released on parole/furlough/premature release in the “ePrisons” and Interoperable Criminal Justice System database to generate immediate alerts and facilitate easy tracking in the event of their violating the law. In an advisory sent to the Chief Secretaries, the Ministry said the States and the Union Territories were advised to review the existing practices and procedures governing grant of parole, furlough and premature release to inmates, as per provisions under the Model Prison Manual, 2016, and guidelines issued by the Home Ministry, the National Human Rights Commission and the Supreme Court. It was also advised that in order to ensure that the inmates released on parole, furlough and premature release do not violate law, systems must be put in place for monitoring and follow-up of each such case. Generate alerts Taking into account the importance of initiating timely action in the event of any inmate absconding/escaping from custody/prison, it was considered necessary to have recent photographs of the prisoners updated in the system and also generate immediate alerts which would enable tracking of such inmates by the law enforcement agencies. The ‘ePrisons’ and ‘Interoperable Criminal Justice System’ platforms could be deployed to address such issues. Prison departments were told to update the details of any escape from the prison/custody on ‘ePrisons’ on a real time basis. Quick availability of this information would facilitate police and other authorities concerned in nabbing the escapee/absconder. States/Union Territories should leverage ‘ePrisons’ application for updating the profile of inmates on a regular basis, the advisory said. The Ministry called for appropriate systems to be put in place for monitoring and follow-up of each case of an inmate released on bail, parole, furlough and premature release etc. so that they do not indulge in criminal activities. “Any person who either attempts to escape from prison or absconds from custody should not be considered for grant of bail, parole or furlough.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/system-to-track-prisoners-on-parole/article37118638.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||No poll events in areas near byelection seats, says ECI||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Thursday told political parties not to hold election events in areas adjoining the constituencies where byelections are being held. The ECI said its existing instructions on the model code of conduct (MCC) provided that it would be applicable to the district comprising the Assembly or Lok Sabha constituency where byelections are being held. In case the seat was in State capitals, metropolitan cities and municipal corporations, then the MCC would be applicable in the area of the constituency concerned only. “In all other cases, aforesaid instructions would be enforced in the entire district(s) covering the Constituency going for byelection(s),” an ECI statement said. It advised parties not to organise any activity directly related to the bypolls, which would be held on October 30, in adjoining areas. The ECI also “clarified that if any electioneering activities connected to ongoing byelection are organised anywhere within the district, then all instructions related to enforcement of MCC, COVID and expenditure monitoring shall apply as done in case of political activities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-poll-events-in-areas-near-byelection-seats-says-eci/article37118659.ece
22 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Turmoil continues as Sidhu and Amarinder clash over farm laws||As the turmoil within the Congress’s Punjab unit continues, the party’s State president, Navjot Singh Sidhu, and former Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.) engaged in a sharp exchange of words on Thursday over the farm laws. Mr. Sidhu tweeted an old video clip of Capt. Singh and accused the former Chief Minister of being an architect of the three farm laws. “The Architect of 3 Black Laws … who brought Ambani to Punjab’s Kisani … who destroyed Punjab’s Farmers, Small traders and Labour for benefiting 1-2 Big Corporates!!” he said in his tweet. Hitting back, Capt. Singh said Mr. Sidhu was clueless about Punjab and the farmers’ interests. “What a fraud and cheat you are @sherryontopp [Navjot Sidhu]! You’re trying to pass off my 15-year-old crop diversification initiative as connected with #FarmLaws against which I’m still fighting and with which I’ve linked my own political future!” he said on Twitter. “It’s obvious @sherryontopp you’re clueless about Punjab’s & its farmers’ interests. You clearly don’t know the difference between diversification & what the #FarmLaws are all about. And yet you dream of leading Punjab. How dreadful if that ever happens!” he added. Capt. Singh also questioned Mr. Sidhu’s timing in posting the video. “And it’s hilarious @sherryontopp that you’ve chosen to post this video at a time when @INCPunjab govt is going all out to promote its upcoming Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit. Or are you opposed to that too?” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/turmoil-continues-as-sidhu-and-amarinder-clash-over-farm-laws/article37118663.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘377 policemen died while on duty last year’||In the past one year, as many as 377 police personnel died in the line of duty, Intelligence Bureau Director Arvinda Kumar said on Thursday. Over 3.54 lakh police personnel were infected with COVID-19 since last year, while 2,548 died of the infection, he said. Mr. Kumar was speaking on the occasion of the Police Commemoration Day. The day is observed in the memory of 10 Central Reserve Police Force men who were killed on October 21 in 1959 in an ambush by Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Hot Spring area. Since Independence (till August, 2020), 35,780 police personnel had laid down their lives in the service of the nation, Mr. Kumar said. Without naming China, Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said a few days ago, “Our troops gave a befitting reply to the expansionist activities of our neighbouring country and neutralised their attempt successfully. This gave a message that India will never compromise on its sovereignty and security”. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) deployed along the Line of Actual Control made a “vital contribution” during this action. Mr. Rai, along with another Minister of State in the Home Ministry Ajay Kumar Mishra and chiefs of various police organisations and forces, laid a wreath at the police memorial in honour of the personnel killed in the line of duty. Union Home Minister Amit Shah said in a Twitter message that the nation bows to the brave police personnel who laid down their lives to protect the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/377-policemen-died-while-on-duty-last-year/article37118646.ece
22 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||SC panel tells Assam to act on illegal construction||The Central Empowered Committee (CEC), constituted by the Supreme Court, has asked the Assam government to act on illegal construction in the identified wildlife corridors of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve. In a letter to the State’s Chief Secretary on October 6, CEC Member-Secretary Amarnatha Shetty said an action taken report should be submitted to the panel within four weeks. The CEC had taken note of an inspection report submitted by Hemen Hazarika, scientist and head of the Guwahati-based Integrated Regional Office of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, on September 10. Violation of court order The report on violation of the court’s order on April 12, 2019, was based on the inspection conducted by Laetitia J. Syiemiong, Deputy Inspector-General of Forest (Central) and additional in charge of the regional office. The court’s order disallowed new construction on private lands that form part of the nine identified animal corridors of the tiger reserve. The court had also banned all types of mining in these corridors. In August, Ms. Syiemiong inspected construction work in eight corridors along with park director P. Sivakumar. This followed a complaint by Assam-based activist Rohit Choudhury, pointing to new construction in the corridors in contempt of the court order. “It was found that there has been illegal construction all along” the eight corridors during inspection, the report said while noting that the court order had been violated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-panel-tells-assam-to-act-on-illegal-construction/article37119021.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||HC rejects CISF officer’s plea against his dismissal||The Delhi High Court has rejected the petition of a former Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) officer, who was discharged from service after being found under the influence of liquor during duty, noting that his behaviour reflects “gross indiscipline”. A Bench declined to interfere with the CISF order directing the removal of Pradeep Kumar from service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-cisf-officers-plea-against-his-dismissal/article37118637.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Young World painting contest to be held online||Club Mahindra and The Hindu Young World have announced the national painting competition 2021 to be held online. The topics for the prelims are as follows: Sub-juniors (Classes 3-5): My best holiday memory, Best resort holiday with family, The perfect holiday destination. Juniors (Classes 6-8): Holiday with grandparents, Best recreational activity at a resort, My favourite holiday memory with cousins. Seniors (Classes 9-12): The best view from our resort room, My dream destination, An unforgettable holiday memory with friends. Participants can choose any one of the above topics as per their category and paint on a blank A3 size (11.7 x 16.5 inches) drawing sheet. They may log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com/clubmahindra for registration and other details. The online registration and submission portal closes on November 23. Participants should ensure that their physical art work reaches the nearest The Hindu office before November 25. If the participant qualifies for the finale, the date and details will be intimated through the registered email ID. There will be three top winners and seven consolation prize winners in each category. Winners will get attractive prizes and the winning paintings also stand a chance to be displayed at select Club Mahindra resorts. In case of any queries or clarifications, students or parents may call at toll-free number 1800 102 1878 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (Monday to Saturday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/young-world-painting-contest-to-be-held-online/article37118643.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Do you want to revisit Rs. 8 lakh slab, asks SC||“Can the Supreme Court strike down the criterion if no study was undertaken?” the Bench asked. In the previous hearing on October 7, the Government assured the court that it would file an affidavit on oath explaining the reasons and statistics which led to the figure of Rs. 8 lakh as the annual income criterion to identify EWS among forward classes of society for grant of 10% reservation in medical admissions under the all-India quota. The Supreme Court’s query is significant as the One Hundred and Third Constitutional Amendment of 2019, which introduced the 10% EWS quota, is itself under challenge before a larger Bench. The Amendment is under question for making economic criterion as the sole ground for grant of reservation benefits. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by NEET aspirants challenging a July 29 notification of the Centre announcing 27% quota to OBCs and 10% reservation to EWS in the All India Quota category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/do-you-want-to-revisit-rs-8-lakh-slab-asks-sc/article37118647.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Organised crime charges valid in Gauri case: court||The prosecution said Nayak had taken a house on rent on the instructions of co-accused Amol Kale in the guise of running an acupressure clinic. The house was, in fact, meant to accommodate the killing crew. Gauri’s assassins hid out in the same house after the murder, the prosecution said. Justice Khanwilkar said the Police Commissioner, while giving approval, needed only to focus on whether there was credible information before him about the involvement of an “organised syndicate” behind the crime. He just needed to be prima facie satisfied about it after looking at the material before him. It was not necessary at that point of approval to look into the role of the individual offenders. “Therefore, the specific role of the accused concerned [Nayak] is not required to be and is not so mentioned in the stated prior approval. That aspect would be unravelled during the investigation, after the registration of offence of organised crime,” the Supreme Court clarified the procedural law. It noted that the High Court had examined the circumstances of the Police Commissioner’s approval by applying “erroneous scale”. The High Court had “glossed over the core and tangible facts”. Besides, the top court said the Police Commissioner’s approval seemed not to “suffer from any infirmity including qua Nayak having noted his intimate nexus with the brain behind the entire event, being none other than Amol Kale and master-arms trainer Rajesh D. Bangera, who are part and parcel of an organised crime syndicate and committed organised crimes as such”. Ms. Kavitha, represented by advocate Aparna Bhat, had said a special investigation team investigation revealed that Nayak was indeed part of a syndicate that was behind several instances of organised crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/organised-crime-charges-valid-in-lankesh-case-sc/article37118648.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers can protest but not block roads, says SC||Mr. Dave said the right to protest was a fundamental right. The roads were blocked by the police. The government’s view on violence by protesters seemed to be skewed, he said. Mr. Dave asked why farmers were not being allowed at Jantar Mantar when Tuesday saw massive protests organised by the BJP in the area over the attack on Hindus in Bangladesh during Durga Puja. “The solution is allow us to agitate at Jantar Mantar,” he said. Mr. Mehta submitted, “Last time they came, it became a serious issue... something much more than a serious issue”. He insinuated that “sometimes it is felt the farmers’ agitation is not for the cause but for something else...” Mr. Dave retorted that farmers felt the same way about the Government’s agricultural laws. “We also feel that the farm laws are not for the farmers but for something else... If you are going to make allegations against the farmers, we will make allegations against you.” He repeated that the only solution to the problem would be to allow farmers’ entry to the Ram Lila Maidan. The court issued notice on new petitions filed by other private citizens seeking the removal of the blockades. The Bench posted the hearing on December 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-can-protest-but-not-block-roads-says-sc/article37118649.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||PM to attend climate meet in Glasgow||Meanwhile, a senior U.S. delegation led by Robert Blake, a retired diplomat appointed by U.S. Special Envoy John Kerry to coordinate with India on the climate financing and clean energy partnership, is also in Delhi for talks with the Environment Ministry. On his previous two visits to India, Mr. Kerry had pressed hard for India to update its climate goals, as only a few countries have done thus far after the Paris climate accord, and also to announce a deadline for phasing out coal and achieving a “Net Zero” carbon emission target. Mr. Blake’s visit coincides with that of European Union Executive Vice-President for the “European Green Deal” Frans Timmerman, who has been in Delhi for the International Solar Alliance. Mr. Modi’s decision to attend the summit in Glasgow, where he will fly directly from the G-20 summit in Rome (October 30-31) is seen as a positive sign that India will announce an updated plan at the conference, diplomats said. India was expected to update its Nationally Determined Commitments (NDCs) to reflect its ambition to install 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030, but the deadline for submitting updated NDCs to the United Nations, ahead of the Glasgow summit, was passed on October 12 without the announcement. “The truth is, apart from China, India, as a growing economy, and a major contributor to carbon emissions, is also the most important country in terms of ensuring the world meets its deadlines on countering climate change, and all eyes are on the clear time-bound commitments Prime Minister Modi will make at the COP26 in Glasgow,” a western diplomat told The Hindu . Independent analysts say that the West’s insistence on net zero targets could mean differences will emerge at the meeting in Glasgow. “For the developed world, significant outcomes would be net-zero pledges and enhanced NDC ambition, hard targets on coal phase-out by countries that have not done so yet, and some progress on methane reduction plans. For the developing world, it would be delivery on climate finance for both mitigation and adaptation, legacy carbon credits, technology transfers, and introducing equity in the net-zero debate. If the developed world continues hammering on the net-zero, coal or methane reduction issues while dragging feet on climate finance, legacy carbon credits, and tech transfer issues, we could end up seeing Copenhagen 2.0,” said Vaibhav Chaturvedi, Fellow, Council on Energy, Environment and Water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-to-attend-climate-meet-in-glasgow/article37118650.ece
22 October 2021||PATNA,||President attends Bihar House’s centenary event||President Ram Nath Kovind said on Thursday that he was delighted to have got an opportunity to carry forward the legacy of the first President, Rajendra Prasad, who was also from Bihar. “The soil of Bihar is ratnagarbha [a treasure trove]. I have always been moved by the affection showered by its people. And this is why a visit here always brings me joy,” said the President in his address as the chief guest at an event to mark the centenary of the State’s Assembly building. Mr. Kovind said the entrepreneurial energy exhibited by the Bihari Diaspora had made Chhath [a four-day festival for Sun god] a global event, known from Nawada to New Jersey and from Begusarai to Boston. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Governor Phagu Chouhan, and Deputy Chief Ministers Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha and Chairman of the Legislative Council Awadhesh Narayan Singh were among a host of leaders and dignitaries present. The Chief Minister welcomed Mr. Kovind, calling him a “Bihari President”. Before becoming President of India, Mr. Kovind was the Governor of Bihar. Mr. Kovind reached Patna for the event on Wednesday. He is scheduled to visit Patna Gurdwara, Buddha Smriti Park and Mahavir temple near Patna railway station before returning to Delhi on Friday. Tejashwi skips event Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly Tejashwi Yadav skipped the event. Mr. Yadav was present at the Patna airport to welcome the President on Wednesday. “Warmly welcomed President Ram Nath Kovind at Patna airport. I’ve reached Darbhanga and due to prior commitment for by-poll campaign in Kusheshwarsthan, I’ll be absent at the assembly building’s centenary celebrations,” Mr. Yadav had tweeted on Wednesday. Ruling NDA leaders were critical of Mr. Yadav. “By remaining absent at the dignified event in which President Ram Nath Kovind was present, Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav insulted a very humble person coming from Dalit community,” tweeted senior State BJP leader and the party’s Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-attends-bihar-houses-centenary-event/article37118653.ece
22 October 2021||MUMBAI,||HC to hear Aryan’s bail petition on October 26||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said it would hear actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan’s bail petition on October 26. The matter was mentioned before a single Bench of Justice Nitin Sambre by advocate Satish Maneshinde, appearing for Mr. Aryan. The special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court extended the judicial custody of Mr. Aryan, his friend and co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha till October 30. Mr. Aryan was arrested on October 3 and is currently lodged in the Arthur Road Jail here, along with Mr. Merchant. His appeal before the High Court follows the rejection of bail by the special court on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-to-hear-aryans-bail-petition-on-october-26/article37118661.ece
22 October 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal sees a slow rise in COVID-19 cases||West Bengal is witnessing a small but steady rise in the number of COVID-19 cases following Durga Puja festivities, with doctors divided on whether this should be a cause for alarm. But both sides agree that a clear picture will emerge in the next one to two weeks. On Thursday, the number of daily cases recorded in the State stood at 867, from 726 on Wednesday and 690 on Tuesday. Positivity rate stood at 2.43% on Thursday and had even climbed up to 3% last weekend. “Positivity rate had fallen to below 1% but it is rising again. This is clearly connected to the Durga Puja celebrations. We had cautioned the State government well in advance,” said Punyabrata Gun, convener of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum. Koushik Lahiri, a founding member of the forum and a well-known skin specialist, said, “In contrast to other States, the positivity rate is rising in West Bengal. The next couple of weeks are going to be crucial. We are doing less number of tests but the number of cases is still over 800.” ENT specialist Arjun Dasgupta attributed the current rise in cases to the pre-puja shopping — when large crowds were seen in commercial hubs — and said the coming days would reveal whether pandal-hopping during puja was going to make things worse. “The relaxation that was given by the government should be tackled again. There should be an absolute restriction on mass congregation,” Dr. Dasgupta said. Internal medicine specialist Rahul Jain said that the rise in the number of cases was modest and that most patients showed only mild symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-sees-small-rise-in-covid-cases/article37118962.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||WHO, UNICEF hail vaccine milestone||As India hit a milestone of administering 100 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines on Thursday, Regional Director of WHO South-East Asia Poonam Khetrapal Singh termed it an extraordinary feat. This would not have been possible in a short span without a strong political leadership, inter-sectoral convergence, dedicated efforts of the entire health and frontline workforce and the people themselves, she said. “India’s progress must be viewed in the context of the country’s commendable commitment and efforts to ensure that these life-saving vaccines are accessible globally,” she said. UNICEF India representative Yasmin Ali Haque welcomed the strides India had made in recent months to ramp up vaccination. She said, “This is a tremendous achievement, given the logistical complexity of administering 1 billion doses in less than a year, in a country as vast and diverse as India. As Indian families recover from the recent devastating COVID-19 wave, for many, this milestone means hope.” “UNICEF has supported these efforts by procuring and supplying over 4,195 pieces of electrical cold chain equipment, including walk-in coolers, freezers, ice-lined refrigerators, and deep freezers. We also supplied more than 4,20,000 pieces of cold chain boxes and vaccine carriers.” “As part of the Risk Communication and Community Engagement response, UNICEF continues to actively support the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare through national communication campaigns to promote behaviours to prevent COVID-19 and speed up India’s vaccine drive.” UNICEF India was in the process of procuring millions of syringes and other equipment as per the needs of the Government of India, the statement added. Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech Krishna Ella observed that reaching the one billion mark of vaccination in just nine months was a remarkable achievement for the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-unicef-hail-vaccine-milestone/article37118970.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||KRMB’s operation protocols in violation of KWDT-I: TS||The rule curves in respect of Srisailam reservoir have to restrict the consumptive use of water by Andhra Pradesh to 34 tmcft, the maximum drawals that can be permitted as per the Inter-State Agreement and the Planning Commission approval, Mr. Rajat Kumar wrote to KRMB. Further, he pointed out that taking seven years data from 2014-15 onwards for working out the average utilisations was not only a violation of the KWDT-I award, but would also strengthen the illegitimate claims of AP for transferring Krishna waters to outside the basin areas through Pothireddypadu Head Regulator and Handri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS). The Special Chief Secretary stressed the need for an integrated rule curve both for Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar projects as the latter does not have any catchment area of its own and it is a critical source for agricultural, industrial and drinking water needs of both the States and major source of water for Nagarjunasagar is the release of water from Srisailam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/krmbs-operation-protocols-in-violation-of-kwdt-i-ts/article37119380.ece
22 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Man booked on conversion charges in U.P.||A man from Fatehpur district in Uttar Pradesh was booked by the police under the new anti-conversion law in the State for trying to convert his wife to Islam. The Allahabad High Court had recently granted bail to the accused, a truck driver by profession. In the High Court, he had pleaded that he and his wife were both Hindus. On June 26, an FIR was lodged against Vijay Kumar Sonkar, 28, at Khakhreru police station under Sections 3, 5 (1) of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020. Mr. Sonkar was also booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 295 (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Rajesh Kumar, Additional Superintendent of Police, Fatehpur, said that Mr. Sonkar was booked on a complaint lodged by his wife Poonam Devi, 22, who accused her husband of putting pressure on her and her family to convert to Islam. Mr. Sonkar had allegedly befriended a Muslim truck diver and accepted Islam as his faith, Mr. Kumar said in June. On July 6, a local court refused bail to Mr. Sonkar. Abused, thrashed According to details in the bail rejection order, Poonam Devi said that her husband wanted her to convert. On June 25, she alleged, Mr. Sonkar abused and thrashed her to force her to convert. She added that her father-in-law did not intervene when her husband hit her. Mr. Sonkar’s lawyer told the court that he was falsely implicated in the case. The accused stated that on the day of the alleged incident, the couple had a domestic dispute. Some people in the neighbourhood who bore animosity against him maliciously persuaded his wife to file an FIR on fabricated charges. Mr. Sonkar also submitted that he was happily married with Poonam and that the allegation of use of force or inducement to get her converted to Islam was false and unfounded. The lawyer arguing the case for the State opposed the bail and submitted that police had recovered the Quran and other articles from the accused. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Kumar Chaurasia denied bail to Mr. Sonkar saying the charges against him were “very serious in nature”. Mr. Sonkar then approached the Allahabad High Court. On September 27, Justice Sanjay Kumar Pachori granted him bail without expressing opinion on the merit of the case. Mr. Sonkar submitted in the High Court that he and his wife were both Hindus by religion and that she was living with him.  Mr. Sonkar was booked on a complaint lodged by his wife Poonam Devi, who accused her husband of putting pressure on her and her family to convert to Islam Rajesh Kumar Additional Superintendent of Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-booked-on-conversion-charges-in-up/article37118636.ece
22 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Protests rise against Odisha Minister||There have been growing protests against Odisha’s Minister of State for Home Dibya Shankar Mishra following the murder of a woman teacher in Kalahandi district last week. The Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress accused Mr. Mishra of having close relationship with Gobinda Sahu, promoter of Mahaling Anchalik Mahavidyalaya, who has reportedly confessed to killing the teacher. The police said on Wednesday that Sahu killed Mamita Meher, a teacher in Sunshine English Medium School, to stop her from revealing his extramarital affairs. After observing a 12-hour-bandh in Kalahandi district on Wednesday, the BJP enforced a 12-hour bandh in Balangir district demanding the Minister’s ouster. It demanded the immediate arrest of the Minister and a CBI investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protests-rise-against-odisha-minister/article37118639.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘NGOs cannot get unbridled foreign funds’||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that NGOs have no fundamental right to receive “unbridled foreign contributions” without regulations. It was responding to petitions challenging amendments made in the Foreign Contributions Regulations law in 2020. The petitions had argued that the amendments severely restricted the use of foreign funds by the NGOs for their activities. The petitioners had also found it cumbersome that the new law expected 23,000 NGOs to open accounts in the main branch of the State Bank of India (SBI) in the capital to receive their foreign funds. The Centre said the amendments were meant to ensure that foreign funds were not used to impinge upon the functioning of parliamentary institutions, political associations and other organisations in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngos-cannot-get-unbridled-foreign-funds/article37119017.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SKM suspends Yogendra for a month||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Thursday decided to suspend its core committee member, Yogendra Yadav, from all its activities for one month because he visited the family of one of the BJP workers who died in Lakhimpur Kheri. “It was a collective decision taken by all members of the SKM to take this action against him for going to the BJP worker’s house and for his tweet about it also,” said Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who attended the general body meeting at the Singhu border. “Many farmers had expressed concern and were hurt... We took note of it and acted,” he added. Mr. Yadav defended his actions during the meeting. “I was asked to say that I made a mistake by going there. I refused to say that. I said that for me, it is a matter of principle and policy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/skm-suspends-yogendra-for-a-month/article37119018.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||Final report on data Bill to be out in Nov.||The Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) on the Personal Data Protection Bill has completed its deliberation on the long-pending Bill and will be submitting the final report in the upcoming winter session in November. The Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in December 2019 and was referred to the JPC. It got its fifth extension in the monsoon session in July. Sources said the contentious Clause 35 of the legislation, which, in the name of “sovereignty”, “friendly relations with foreign states” and “security of the state”, allows any agency under the Union Government exemption from all or any provisions of the law, had been retained. More than 10 MPs in the panel had objected to it. “While the clause will remain, the committee has recommended that the reasons for seeking such an exemption should be submitted in writing by the Government,” one of the members said. The draft report would be circulated among the members in the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/final-report-on-data-bill-to-be-out-in-nov/article37118654.ece
22 October 2021||Mumbai,||Court rejects Kangana’s plea to transfer case||A court here on Thursday rejected actor Kangana Ranaut’s petition seeking a transfer of the criminal defamation case filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. The actor filed the transfer petition before the chief metropolitan magistrate last month, stating that she had “lost faith” in the magistrate’s court hearing the case as it had indirectly “threatened” her with a warrant if she failed to appear before it in a bailable offence. Mr. Akhtar had earlier opposed the petition, stating that it was “devoid of all merits”. After hearing both sides, the court rejected Ms. Ranaut’s petition. However, a detailed order is yet to be made available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-rejects-kanganas-plea-to-transfer-case/article37118660.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||100 monuments illuminated||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on Thursday illuminated 100 monuments in the tricolour to celebrate the milestone of 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses. Thanking frontline workers, the ASI said in a statement that 100 monuments, including UNESCO World Heritage Sites — Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb and Qutub Minar in Delhi, Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri in Uttar Pradesh, Konark Temple in Odisha and Mamallapuram Rath temples in Tamil Nadu — were lit up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/100-monuments-illuminated/article37118971.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||Mirage 2000 fighter crashes in Madhya Pradesh||A Mirage 2000 aircraft of the Indian Air Force crashed in Bhind district of Madhya Pradesh on Thursday. “An IAF Mirage 2000 aircraft experienced a technical malfunction during a training sortie in the central sector this morning. The pilot ejected safely,” the IAF said. An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident. The aircraft had taken off from the Maharajpura airbase at Gwalior in the morning, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mirage-2000-fighter-crashes-in-madhya-pradesh/article37118973.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||DA hike for Central employees||The Union Cabinet on Thursday approved an increase of dearness allowance (DA) given to Central Government employees and dearness relief (DR) to pensioners from 28% of the basic pay or pension to 31%. The Cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the release of an additional instalment of DA and DR with effect from July 1 to compensate for price rise, a government statement said. “This will benefit about 47.14 lakh Central Government employees and 68.62 lakh pensioners,” a statement said. The combined impact on the exchequer would be Rs. 9,488.7 crore a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/da-hike-for-central-employees/article37118974.ece
22 October 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha court upholds death penalty of nine villagers||A local court in Odisha on Thursday upheld the death penalty imposed on nine persons, who killed three members of a family by injecting them with pesticide in 2016. The three were killed on the suspicion that they practised witchcraft. The crime took place in the remote Kitum village under the Putasingh police station limits in Rayagada district on September 9, 2016. The additional district judge, Gunupur, convicted the nine persons on April 11, 2018, and handed out the death sentence. Those convicted had filed an appeal against the sentence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-court-upholds-death-penalty-of-nine-villagers/article37118963.ece
22 October 2021||Guwahati,||Minor porn addicts kill 6-year-old girl in Assam||The police in central Assam’s Nagaon district arrested two minor “porn addicts” who allegedly stoned a six-year-old girl to death for resisting sexual abuse. An eight-year-old boy was also arrested for abetting the crime along with the parents of one of the two boys, both aged 11, for trying to suppress the incident and tamper with evidence. The girl was killed on October 18 at a village under the Uluoni police station. Found lying unconscious inside the toilet of a stone-crushing mill, she was declared dead on arrival at a local hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minor-porn-addicts-kill-6-year-old-girl-in-assam/article37118965.ece
22 October 2021||Bureau,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 89 new cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 89 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday taking the total number of cases to 1,03,617. While 84 persons were discharged, 878 continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll to 681. Fifty-nine positive cases were reported in Salem. In Namakkal, 45 cases were reported. One death was reported in Namakkal on Thursday. Krishnagiri recorded 19 cases, and 35 cases discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 257 cases as of Thursday. Dharmapuri recorded 20 fresh cases, and 34 cases discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-89-new-cases-in-erode-district/article37119143.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. identifies places in need of culverts to prevent floods||As the Meteorological Department has asked the Greater Chennai Corporation to prepare for the onset of the northeast monsoon by October 28, the civic body has started work to prevent flooding in low-lying areas. At a recent meeting with railway officials, the Corporation shared a list of 25 locations, where culverts must be built for mitigation of flooding in major residential areas near railway lines. The work is expected to be completed ahead of the onset of the monsoon. The Southern Railway has given a list of places where it will need the cooperation of the Corporation and the Public Works Department (PWD) to undertake the work, civic officials said. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the work on development of culverts, near the Police Commissioner’s office, Egmore, had been taken up and would be completed shortly. “Based on the request of the Corporation, the PWD has already put in its floating JCBs in places like Basin Bridge junction and Vysarpadi, where the Buckingham Canal needs to be desilted,” he said. Over 27 locations in various parts of the city and the suburbs will get new culverts, constructed by the Highways Department. As a result, many of the residential areas along Poonamallee High Road, Grand Southern Trunk Road and Grand Northern Trunk Road are expected to get the required infrastructure for flood mitigation. “We are desilting the Walltax area of the Buckingham Canal, where it gets clogged near the railway line junction. Similar work will be taken up in other such areas,” Mr. Bedi said. The Corporation has started work on removing silt underneath the Egmore railway station. The work will be completed before the onset of the monsoon, and work on removal of water hyacinth in waterbodies, such as the Velachery lake, is under way. The civic body has also pressed into service its seven super-sucker machines at various locations. Nodal officers monitoring flood preparedness at the zonal level have readied machines to remove trees and bale out water from low-lying areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-identifies-places-in-need-of-culverts-to-prevent-floods/article37119526.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police crack down on vehicles carrying unauthorised stickers||With rampant misuse of government labels or ‘G’ stickers or ‘police’ or ‘advocate’ or ‘press and media’ on number plates of private vehicles, the city has launched a special drive to crack down on those vehicles, and booked cases against 1,892 motor vehicle owners in the city over the last two months. The police said as per Section 50 and 51 of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989, the number plate should be displayed both at the front and the rear of all motor vehicles clearly and legibly in the specified format. The inscribing or affixing of other words, symbols or pictures on the number plates is prohibited. A senior police officer said: “Recently, following a series of complaints on the rampant use of stickers such as ‘G’, ‘government’, ‘police’, ‘advocate’, ‘human rights commission’ and ‘press & media’, City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal had ordered the inspectors of law and order and traffic wings in their respective jurisdictions to take appropriate action against violators. The special teams under the inspectors have been taking action against those who violate the rules.” In continuation of their efforts, a special team seized an SUV bearing A.P. registration number in New Washermanpet since it had an additional plate with the words ‘Social Justice for World Human Rights Council, District Chairman, Chittoor’. The police said that the car owner, S. Suresh, of Tirupati, was found to be not part of any recognised organisation as claimed by him. The police have registered a case against him, and seized the vehicle. Similarly, the police seized an SUV bearing a number plate saying ‘National Anti Crime and H R Council of India, Joint Secretary’ in the Neelankarai police station limits and it owner G. Vijayakumar, of Kottivakkam, has been booked. The crackdown will continue and action would be taken against those violating the rules, and driving with fictitious and defective number plates, the official added.  As per Section 50 and 51 of Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989, the number plate should be displayed both at the front and the rear of all motor vehicles clearly and legibly in specified format||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-crack-down-on-vehicles-carrying-unauthorised-stickers/article37119535.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sewage plant in Nesapakkam to be ready by Jan., says Minister||The tertiary treatment plant using ultrafiltration (TTUF) coming up at Nesapakkam is expected to become operational by January-end next year. The plant, being constructed at a cost of Rs. 47.24 crore, is part of the ambitious project to implement the indirect use of reclaimed water in the city. During an inspection on Wednesday, Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru instructed the Metrowater officials to complete the work and begin a trial for commissioning the facility. Nearly 88% of the work has been completed in the plant, which has the capacity to treat 10 million litres a day. Treated wastewater will be sent through a 12-km-long pipeline and blended in Porur lake, where it will be treated again and fed into the drinking water network. The project, which is being carried out based on designs provided by the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, aims to reduce the stress on freshwater sources, and also recharge the groundwater table. Nearly 140 mld of the generated sewage is being recycled so far, the Minister said. Measures are under way to expand the infrastructure, and recycle up to 800 mld of sewage in the city. Once the pilot projects are implemented, similar ones will be chalked out for the tertiary treatment of sewage, and the treated water will be blended in various waterbodies around the city to conserve resources. Mr. Nehru inspected the old sewer pipeline at the Anna Main Road-M.G.R. Nagar Market junction, which was being replaced at a cost of Rs. 2.2 crore, and the construction of three deep-sewer maintenance holes. He asked officials to complete other work, including repairing the sewer lines at the Anna Main Road-Alagirisamy Salai junction. Desilting in progress Work is in progress to desilt the sewer infrastructure across the city ahead of the northeast monsoon. Schemes are being planned to enlarge capacity and replace pipelines that are over 50 years old. Ward-level committees have been constituted to redress residents’ complaints during the monsoon, he said. Metrowater’s Managing Director C. Vijayaraj Kumar, South Chennai MP Thamizhachi Thangapandian, and Virugambakkam MLA A.M.V. Prabhakara Raja were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sewage-plant-in-nesapakkam-to-be-ready-by-jan-says-minister/article37119515.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||11 districts log under 10 fresh cases each||Fresh COVID-19 infections in the State fell further on Thursday, with 11 districts recording less than 10 cases each. As many as 1,164 people tested positive, taking Tamil Nadu’s tally to 26,91,797. Its active caseload touched 13,790. Chennai continued to lead the tally with 152 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 137. Chengalpattu reported 98 infections, Erode 89 and Tiruppur 73. Salem saw 59 cases and Thanjavur 55. As many as 1,412 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,42,039. Twenty more people died of the infection — five in private hospitals and 15 in government facilities — taking the toll to 35,968. Cuddalore accounted for the most number of deaths at three. Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Erode, Dindigul and Coimbatore recorded two deaths each. Ariyalur, Chennai, Kancheepuram, Namakkal, Ramanathapuram, Tiruvallur and Tiruppur logged one death each. All the deceased had co-morbidities. The oldest among the deceased was an 85-year-old man from Coimbatore with type-2 diabetes and severe hypertension. He was admitted on October 13 to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital after testing positive for COVID-19 the previous day. He died on Tuesday due to COVID-19 pneumonia. As many as 1,29,820 RT-PCR tests were carried out, taking the total number of tests to 4,99,22,030. Vaccine update A total of 1,73,994 people were vaccinated, taking the total number of inoculated people to 5,15,69,301. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan thanked government officials, NGOs and elected representatives, besides the citizens, for willingly getting vaccinated. “We still have a long way to go for complete vaccination, and for that we need all-round efforts and micro-level plans,” he said. The Union government had released data regarding the States and their vaccination uptake. According to the data, Dr. Radhakrishnan said the State ranked ninth in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-districts-log-under-10-fresh-cases-each/article37119117.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Winners of The Hindu Kolu Kondattam 2021 announced||The Hindu Kolu Kondattam 2021 brought together participants who came out with innovative and thematic ways to display their ‘kolu’ through Navaratri, which is a timeless tradition across the State. This year, the contest was spread across 4 cities — Chennai, Madurai, Tiruchi and Coimbatore. Based on various criteria, three winners were picked from each city. Chennai In Chennai, Padmavati Raman from Alwarpet won the first place while Kala Nagarajan from Ambattur was the runner up. The third place went to Vaishnavi Arul from Adyar. Tiruchi In Tiruchi, M.K. Prema from Goundur was the winner and the second place went to Amudha Siva from Thillai Nagar. Harani Karthik won the third place. Madurai Raja Lakshmi Ashokan from Jaihindpuram was declared the winner in Madurai. The second and third place went to Jeyalakshmi Subramaniam from Surveyor Colony and Lakshmi Praba from TVS Nagar respectively. For Coimbatore, Sreekala Ramanathan from Kovaipudur won first place and Prakash from NGGO colony was placed second. The third place went to Arvind Subramaniam from Tatabad. From among the regional winners, the top 3 from Tamil Nadu were subsequently selected. Raja Lakshmi Ashokan, the winner from Madurai, won the first place and was awarded a cash prize of Rs. 25,000 and a Vidiem Tusker mixer grinder. Padmavati Raman from Chennai was placed second and won Rs. 15,000 and a Vidiem Vstar Premium mixer grinder. The third place went to Sreekala Ramanathan from Coimbatore and she was awarded a cash prize of Rs. 10,000 and a Vidiem Viva SS 3B gas stove. Vidiem Kitchen Appliances was the title sponsor for Kolu Kondattam 2021. The event was powered by Mangaldeep in association with Naga Food Products. The education partner was SSVM Institutions. Nippon Paint was the colour partner and Saraswathi Vidyalaya, the school partner. The associate sponsors were: Kancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks and Freshey’s. TV partner was News18 Tamil Nadu. The gift sponsors were: Aachi Masala, Cotton House, G Organics, Estilo Clothing , Saaral Foods, PS Tamarind , RCL Foods , Selai Nayaki, and Supreme Furniture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/winners-of-the-hindu-kolu-kondattam-2021-announced/article37119100.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport bracing to handle an increase in traffic||In a few months, Chennai airport may be handling more number of domestic and international flights as the daily tally of COVID-19 cases is dipping, and more passengers are taking flights. The airport must handle passenger and cargo aircraft efficiently with a single ground-handling agency (that carries out a host of jobs from handling baggage to assisting airlines on the tarmac). Air India Airport Services Ltd. took over as the ground-handling agency early this year after the previous contractor Bhadra’s term ended in December last year. Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials said till last year, two firms were used for ground-handling operations but there was only one operator now. “At present, there are about 200-230 domestic flights, 30-40 international and 20-25 cargo flights. This is only half of the pre-COVID traffic. There have been no hassles so far, and we have been able to manage. But we understand that from early next year, the number of flights may increase considerably. There will be adequate manpower added, and we should be able to handle it without any issues,” an official said. Officials said the staff of the ground-handling agency were being trained regularly to handle the situation whenever there was increase in the number of flights. “This will be a challenging task but we will find a way to handle it,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-airport-bracing-to-handle-an-increase-in-traffic/article37119359.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents of Pallikaranai demand more bus services||The increasing cost of petrol has forced the residents of several residential areas to demand more bus transport facilities. The residents of Pallikaranai, a locality sandwiched between Medavakkam and Velachery, said bus connectivity to several areas, including Kelambakkam on Rajiv Gandhi Salai, Porur, Poonamallee and Avadi, was poor. They complained that being located on the arterial Velachery-Tambaram Main Road, they had to go to either Medavakkam or Velachery for buses. In some cases, they need to switch three buses to reach their destinations. Vidyasagar Jagadeesan, a resident of Pallikaranai, said the locality, having merged with the Greater Chennai Corporation, had been attracting a large number of IT professionals due to its proximity to Rajiv Gandhi Salai. However, the poor bus connectivity was an inconvenience to them. In an e-mail representation to the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC), the residents said they were seeking bus facilities originating from Kelambakkam and passing through Perumbakkam and Pallikaranai. They want the new routes to link Kelambakkam to Porur, the Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminus and K.K. Nagar via the southern arm of Inner Ring Road and Thiruvanmiyur to Kelambakkam. A senior official of the MTC said there were plans for operating buses from Medavakkam to Porur. Regarding the residents’ request, the official said the petition would be looked into, and appropriate action would be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-of-pallikaranai-demand-more-bus-services/article37119519.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cataloguing of captive elephants in State has been completed, PCCF informs HC||The Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) on Thursday informed the Madras High Court that the department has prepared a catalogue of all captive elephants in the State. The court had last month ordered video recording of the elephants together with complete profile of each elephant including its age, sex and also the lineage, if possible. First Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu also wanted the Forest Department to make every endeavour to indicate how the elephants came to be captured or domesticated. Government counsel C. Harsha Raj said the catalogue was ready and that it would be presented in the court in a thumb drive. Recording his submission, the judges ordered that a thumb drive containing a copy of the catalogue should also be forwarded to the public interest litigant Rangarajan Narasimhan who had complained about the ill treatment meted out to elephants in captivity, especially those that had been domesticated in various temples spread across the State. The case was adjourned to November 11 for further hearing. The direction to catalogue the captive elephants was issued after Elsa Foundation, an animal protection organisation, intervened in the case and gave a power point presentation to the court stating that almost all captive elephants were those that had been procured illegally in violation of Wild Life (Protection) Act of 1972. In so far as the cataloguing of temple elephants were concerned, the court had directed the PCCF to assign appropriate officials, along with doctors from the relevant areas, to inspect the elephants and ascertain the state of their health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cataloguing-of-captive-elephants-in-state-has-been-completed-pccf-informs-hc/article37119090.ece
22 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘UGC, AICTE can allow online classes, even post pandemic’||Stating that the lockdown to fight COVID-19 had opened up new vistas such as conduct of online classes for school and college students and virtual courts for lawyers and litigants, the Madras High Court has impressed upon the need to continue the virtual mode of education for the benefit of those in need of it. Disposing of a public interest litigation petition, Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu said nodal agencies such the University Grants Commission (UGC) and All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) could consider extending online classes in future too “without being unnecessarily rigid.” Authoring the order, the Chief Justice said one of the “side effects” of the pandemic was the conduct of court hearings on the virtual mode.  Virtual hearing “While it is still stressful to participate in a virtual hearing, primarily because of the quality of connectivity at times, if the quality of the connection is appropriate, it opens up a lot of possibilities,” he wrote. The Bench pointed out that lawyers and litigants were spared of the need to travel long distances to attend court hearings and got to enjoy the convenience of attending court from their chambers. “If nothing else, a lot of resources involved in the travelling, not to speak of time, is saved,” it added. Similarly, online classes too became a norm for both school and college students during the pandemic. “While the atmosphere of being together in a school or in a college or a university must also be experienced as much as the education imparted there, students may exercise the choice of attending classes on the virtual mode, subject to obtaining permission or in cases when they are unwell or the like,” the court said. The judges were of the view students who had to travel long distances for their studies and those with locomotor disabilities and the like could be spared of the daily trouble by choosing to attend certain classes on physical mode and the others on virtual mode subject to rules and regulations that could be prescribed by the nodal agencies. Analysis The Bench said that that the online classes could be conducted as an alternative to physical classes or in addition to physical classes or as a combination of both depending upon the course. It left it open to the authorities concerned to take a call after a thorough analysis but without being rigid, the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ugc-aicte-can-allow-online-classes-even-post-pandemic/article37119542.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Martyrs remembered on Police Commemoration Day||Director General of Police (DGP) C. Sylendra Babu led police personnel, defence staff, and retired officers in paying homage to colleagues who had died in the line of duty on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day on Thursday. Police Commemoration Day is observed on October 21 every year to pay tribute to the 10 policemen who were killed by Chinese troops in an ambush near Ladakh on October 21, 1959. Mr. Sylendra Babu paid his respects to the personnel at the martyrs’ column at the DGP office campus on Kamarajar Salai. M.K. Narayanan, former Governor of West Bengal and former National Security Adviser; Major General Prakash, on behalf of the General Officer Commanding, Dakshin Bharat area; Rear Admiral Puneet Chadha, Flag Officer Commanding, T.N. and Puducherry naval area; Group Captain Manju Pandey, on behalf of the Air Officer Commanding, Chennai; and Sanatan Jena, Deputy Inspector General, Coast Guard Region, East, also paid homage. As many as 377 personnel, who lost their lives between September 1, 2020, and August 31 this year, were remembered across the country during the day. The DGP read out the names of those who had died. He said, “This year, 370 police personnel have laid down their lives, leaving their grieving families behind in order to secure and ensure the twin goals of peace and freedom. Their sacrifices shall not go in vain.” City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal, Director Generals of Police Karan Singha, A.K. Viswanathan, Abhash Kumar, and Seema Agarwal, Chennai Collector J. Vijaya Rani and former police officers also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/martyrs-remembered-on-police-commemoration-day/article37119517.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1.74 lakh formal jobs added in T.N. in August||About 1.74 lakh jobs were created in Tamil Nadu’s formal sector in August this year, according to provisional data from the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). This marks an increase of 6.1%, from about 1.64 lakh jobs in July. The new jobs are measured in terms of the number of net enrolments with EPFO. Drop in May In April, about 1 lakh jobs were created. The number dropped to 33,421 in May, amid the second wave of COVID-19. The situation improved in June with the creation of 65,968 jobs. “Tamil Nadu remains among the top three States in India that add new subscribers to EPFO. We are seeing a re-start of economic activities in the services industry and enrolment of new employees in the sector,” said Aditya Mishra, chief executive of CIEL HR Services, a recruitment company. The manufacturing, engineering and construction sectors have seen a lot of churn in manpower. “We are seeing new people join organisations in these sectors too,” he added. Mr. Mishra said that with the fillip to digitisation, the information technology industry had expanded rapidly. The information technology services and business process management industries have been adding people quickly; so are fintech, edtech and healthtech companies. Tamil Nadu, as expected, has performed better than the other southern States, said K.E. Raghunathan, former national president of the All India Manufacturers Organisation and a member of the Central Board of Trustees of EPFO, representing employers. He attributed the performance to the good COVID-19 vaccination drive and improved activity in the services, export and manufacturing sectors. The increase in demand during the festival season, the execution of backlog orders and the shifting of employees from the informal sector to the formal sector are the other possible reasons, he said. Political stability and a visible thrust on industrial growth had prompted the employers to expand workforce. According to the Union Government, the payroll data are provisional since the data generation is a continuous exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/174-lakh-formal-jobs-added-in-tn-in-august/article37119078.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital treats woman for colorectal cancer||A 60-year-old woman, who was treated at a city hospital for stage 4 colorectal cancer, is disease-free eight months later, said doctors. Madhavi Muralidharan visited several hospitals seeking relief for the cancer in the junction of the colon and rectum that had metastased to her liver as well. She had nine lesions in her liver. She had lost weight and appetite, and was unable to lead a normal life. Her family consulted Thiagarajan Srinivasan, director of Institute of Liver Transplant and GI surgery at MGM Hospital, who suggested a single-stage surgery. 3D volumetry done A team of radiologists did a 3D volumetry of the liver lesions. It took them six hours to simulate the surgical removal of all the lesions, an exercise carried out to prevent missing any lesion, thus leading to liver failure later. Post removal of lesions, she underwent biological tumour antibody therapy and cancer chemotherapy for six months. “We are happy to report that after a rigorous follow-up of eight months, the patient has no detectable tumour in her body, which was confirmed by PET CT scan,” Dr. Thiagarajan said. He further said that if at a later stage lesions did reappear in the liver it would be treated similarly. He recalled that in Japan, a person with 23 lesions had undergone eight surgeries over a period of 13 years. “That patient is still alive. There is hope, especially for persons with colorectal cancers, we can prolong their life,” he added. The patient regained weight and had resumed a normal, healthy life, Dr. Thiagarajan said. Karthik Mathivanan, associate director, called for more awareness and recommended routine annual screening for people over 45 years of age. A consultant medical oncologist said close coordination among members of a multi-disciplinary team is extremely important to boost the chances of survival for patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-treats-woman-for-colorectal-cancer/article37119523.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||25 years on, tea stall owner serves food for Rs. 5||Tucked away in a corner of C.P. Ramaswamy Road, Laksmi Tea Stall that has policemen, security personnel and autorickshaw drivers sipping hot tea and munching on masal vadai , suddenly starts buzzing with activity at quarter past twelve. After a long morning, many who skip their breakfast are here to buy their first meal of the day. Each of them pay Rs. 5 and buy hot parcels of sambhar rice or curd rice and pickle that arrive fresh from the kitchen. Inside, 62-year-old M. Ganesan, who runs this tea stall and fast food stall nearby, is wrapping up parcels of sambhar rice and curd rice, in a jiffy, handing them over to his assistants, who take them out for distribution immediately. “I started this tea stall in 1996 and just before that, I saw an old man serving food at a reasonable price for the poor then. I didn’t know him but he inspired me. I started then, and for nearly 25 years now, I have been selling food packets for Rs. 5,” he says. Every day, there will be a variety rice available — either lemon rice, tomato rice, sambhar rice, curd rice or Puliyodharai (tamarind rice). Though the prices of essential commodities have risen drastically, he continues to sell food at the same price. “The idea is anyone who is hungry should be able to afford a meal here. I do little things like adding raisins to curd rice and purchasing good quality rice, which most of my customers cannot afford. I had to reduce the quantity a little, but I will never compromise on the quality. That’s the reason why even after 25 years, so many come to buy our food parcels,” he adds. He used to serve the food on plates but nowadays, to avoid crowding, he has started giving parcels. Every day, within an hour, they give away nearly 800 packets, he says. “At the end of each day, I return home with satisfaction, knowing that I was able to serve the hungry,” Mr. Ganesan says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-years-on-tea-stall-owner-serves-food-for-rs-5/article37119529.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hindus-alone appointment challenged in HC||A writ petition has been filed in the Madras High Court questioning the appointment of only Hindus to teaching as well as non-teaching posts at educational institutions run by the Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE). A. Suhail, 37, an aspirant to the post of office assistant at the Arulmigu Kapaleeswarar Arts and Science College at Kolathur in Chennai, filed the petition. He said teaching and non-teaching posts had nothing to do with religious functions; everyone should be allowed to compete for them, irrespective of their religion.  In an affidavit filed through his counsel S. Doraisamy and V. Elangovan, the litigant pointed out that Article 16 of the Constitution guarantees equality of opportunity in public employment without any discrimination on the ground of religion. Article 16(5) permits appointment of people professing faith in a particular religion only to offices connected to the affairs of a religious institution. It would effectively mean a Muslim could not be appointed as a temple priest and a Hindu could not be appointed as a Moulvi. The exemption to the general rule of equality of opportunity could not be stretched to the extent of appointing only people professing faith in a particular religion to faculty and non-faculty positions at educational institutions run by religious institutions, he said. Mr. Suhail urged the court to quash a recruitment notification issued by the Kolathur college on October 13 calling only Hindu candidates to appear for a walk-in interview for the posts of assistant professor, physical director, librarian, assistant, junior assistant, office assistant, watchman, cleaner and sweeper on October 18.  The petitioner said he could not approach the court before the conduct of the interview since the court was closed for Dussehra vacation. He wanted the notification to be quashed now and insisted that he be permitted to compete for the post of office assistant.  Article 16(5) permits appointment of people professing faith in a particular religion only to offices connected to the affairs of a religious institution||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindus-alone-appointment-challenged-in-hc/article37119111.ece
22 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||HC closes case against HR&CE Minister||The Madras High Court on Thursday closed a habeas corpus petition seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe against Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister P.K. Sekarbabu. The case was closed after a reportedly missing youngster appeared in person before the court and it did not find him to be in illegal detention under the State police as alleged. A Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and S. Srimathy closed the case and said the youngster would be free to go anywhere as he pleased. Protection When he insisted on protection fearing threat to his life, the judges asked him to consult a lawyer who had been engaged by his father to file the habeas corpus petition and take steps to either approach the police or file a direction petition in the court. K. Murugan, 51, of Otteri in Chennai had filed the petition alleging that his son M. Sathish Kumar, functioning as Tiru.Vi.Ka. Nagar joint student organiser of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), had some personal dispute with the Minister. The youth went missing on August 18. Thereafter, the police harassed the petitioner’s family members and even threatened to foist false cases, he alleged. In an affidavit filed through his counsel Diwakar Selvaraj, the petitioner claimed that the Minister was behind the police excesses. ‘False cases’ “Some false cases are foisted against my son and an attempt is being made to implicate my son in false cases and project him as a history-sheeter to the public and the press,” the affidavit read. The petitioner also claimed to have learnt that his son was in illegal custody of the police. Since allegations had been levelled against a Minister and the State police, the litigant had insisted on ordering a CBI probe to find out the whereabouts of his son.  An attempt is being made to implicate my son in false cases and project him as a history-sheeter to the public and the pressPetitioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-closes-case-against-hrce-minister/article37119088.ece
22 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Painting and essay contests to be conducted as part of Vigilance Awareness Week||Kamarajar Port Limited, Ennore, and Hindu Tamil Thisai are conducting contests for schoolchildren on Vigilance Awareness Week Vigilance Awareness Week will be observed from October 26 to November 1, with the theme ‘Independent India @75: Self Reliance with Integrity’. Under the junior category (Classes VI to VIII), contestants can draw paintings on the theme of ‘ Oozhal Illatha Indhiya ’, and send them to — The Circulation Dept., Hindu Tamil Thisai , 124 Walajah Salai, Chennai-2. Under the senior category (Classes IX to XII), contestants can write an essay, either in Tamil or English, on ‘ Puthya Indhiyavai Uruvakku - Oozhalalai Ozhithal ’, and mail them to kpt.vigilweek@thehindu.co.in. The last date for entries is October 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/painting-and-essay-contests-to-be-conducted-as-part-of-vigilance-awareness-week/article37119527.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK against opening of sand quarries||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Thursday criticised the State government for discontinuing sand imports, and starting 15 sand quarries in Tamil Nadu. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said the State government should build check dams every 5 km, across its rivers, to improve the water table. “The State government must increase the import of sand and the production of M-sand to ensure that there is no shortage for construction,” he said. The State government will not benefit economically by starting sand quarries, as it had earned a maximum of just Rs. 80 crore every year since 2003. “The middlemen make profits worth thousands of crores. The State should not destroy the ecosystem for Rs. 80 crore,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-against-opening-of-sand-quarries/article37119539.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||6 lawyers facing murder, other charges suspended||The Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (BCTNP) has prohibited six lawyers from practice until completion of disciplinary proceedings initiated against them following their alleged involvement in murders, sexual offences against children, lending of money at exorbitant rates of interest and so on. According to BCTNP president P.S. Amalraj, the council had received complaints from various sources. A notification issued by BCTNP secretary C. Raja Kumar on Thursday said the police at Chunambedu in Kancheepuram had booked a murder case against Y. Vigneswarraj of Cheyyur taluk, and the Krishnagiri town police had booked a similar case against G. Krishnakumar of T. Nagar in Chennai. The Home Secretary had made a complaint to the Bar Council that advocate P. Seetharaman of Madurai had acquired assets disproportionate to the known sources of his income and lent money at exorbitant rates when he was a Special Public Prosecutor. The Dharapuram Sub Judge had accused advocate K. Rajendran of Tiruppur of having filed fake court fee stamp papers in motor accident claim cases. Advocate M.G. Ashok of Coimbatore had been booked under the POCSO Act in a case filed at the Madipakkam all-women police station in Chennai. Advocate M. Gopinath of Mylapore was accused of having pursued a law course while serving as a bus conductor.  The Home Secretary had made a complaint to the Bar Council that advocate P. Seetharaman of Madurai had acquired assets disproportionate to the known sources of his income||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6-lawyers-facing-murder-other-charges-suspended/article37119112.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNEA supplementary counselling begins||Over 9,000 candidates are taking part in supplementary counselling for engineering admissions that began on Thursday. The Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA) 2021 committee released the rank list for supplementary counselling on Thursday. Of the 9,463 applications that were received, 9,113 candidates have been found eligible. The committee has given time till Friday noon to submit grievances at any one of the TNEA facilitation centres. The committee has also opened two links for students eligible under the 7.5% special reservation for those who have studied from Class VI to XII in government schools to enable them to fill in their choices under the government as well as the general quota. Candidates have been provided time till 5 p.m. on Friday to fill in their choices. The tentative allotment will be published on Saturday and candidates will have time to confirm their allotments till 7 p.m. the same day. On Sunday, the committee will provide provisional allotments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnea-supplementary-counselling-begins/article37119115.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Venu Srinivasan appointed goodwill envoy to Republic of Korea||Venu Srinivasan, chairman of TVS Motor Company and managing trustee of Srinivasan Services Trust, was appointed as the Goodwill Envoy for Culture and Diplomacy of the Republic of Korea on Thursday at a function in the city. The title was presented by Young-seup Kwon, Consul General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai. He was chosen in recognition of his efforts to foster enhanced friendship and cooperation between India and Korea. He has been presented with several prestigious titles from the country, including a distinguished civilian honour the Order of Diplomatic Service Merit (Heung-In Medal), Honorary Commanding Officer, Honorary Citizen of Busan from the Busan metropolitan city, and the Goodwill Envoy for Public Diplomacy of the Republic of Korea. A press release said he had enhanced cultural exchanges between Korea and India by the dissemination of the Korean language ‘Hangul’ in south India, through the InKo Centre, a non-profit society, established in 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/venu-srinivasan-appointed-goodwill-envoy-to-republic-of-korea/article37119513.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stay on local body polls extended till Nov. 11||The Madras High Court on Thursday extended till November 11 an interim order passed by it on October 10 directing the Puducherry Government and the State Election Commission (SEC) to keep in abeyance all further proceedings related to the local body polls proposed to be held in the Union Territory without reserving wards for candidates from the Backward Classes and the Scheduled Tribes. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu extended the interim orders after senior counsel Vijay Narayan, representing the government, sought time to file a counter affidavit to a batch of three cases which challenged the Government’s decision to hold civic polls by reserving wards only for Scheduled Caste candidates. Advocate V. Chandrasekaran, representing the SEC, filed a counter affidavit on Thursday, and claimed that the commission had only limited points to answer in the batch of cases. He said the Puducherry government was the sole authority to notify reservation of wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stay-on-local-body-polls-extended-till-nov-11/article37119360.ece
22 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Lands identified for construction of homes for senior citizens: Minister||Consultants have submitted detailed project reports (DPR) for the construction of homes for senior citizens on temple lands in Chennai, Tirunelveli and Palani, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu said on Thursday. Addressing presspersons during a day-long review of works ( Thiruppani ) at temples, he said that lands had been identified for the purpose, and the homes would be designed in such a manner that they can accommodate 200 persons each. Lands measuring over an acre had been chosen so that plenty of space would be available for elders to walk around and stretch themselves, he added. The homes would take in senior citizens free of cost and be maintained using funds from temples. “This was one of the 112 announcements made in the Assembly this year. Once Chief Minister M.K. Stalin approves the designs, the tenders would be called for construction. These three homes are to be constructed in the first phase,” the Minister added.  He reviewed works pertaining to the construction of rope cars at hill temples, preparation of master plans for development of facilities around temples, renovation of temple cars and repairs to temple structures across the 20 regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lands-identified-for-construction-of-homes-for-senior-citizens/article37119160.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||When the first mobile library hit the road||A bullock cart laden with books at Melavasal, a village near Mannargudi, on October 21, 1931 evoked the curiosity of people. It was perhaps the first mobile library in India. The brainchild of Rao Bahadur S.V. Kanagasabai Pillai, a Mannargudi-based engineer, the library was inaugurated by S.R. Ranganathan, the father of Indian Library Science. Ninety years have passed since the mobile library started its journey. Book expo “Kanagasabai Pillai was one of the engineers who had worked for the construction of the Mettur dam. He launched the library to inculcate the reading habit in people,” said R. Kamaraj, head of the department, Folk Studies, Tamil University, Thanjavur. A book exhibition was organised for a week at Mannargudi to mark the start of the mobile library. Mr. Kamaraj said the mobile library carried books printed in bold letters and dealt with beekeeping and other cottage industries aimed at providing vocational training to farmers. “The cart, in the shape of a small stall, would visit nearby villages, especially in the Tamil months of ‘Chithirai’ and ‘Aippasi’ when there would not be much farming activities. A replica of the cart, now at Tamil University, reminds visitors about the idea of non-formal education conceived 90 years ago,” he said, underscoring the need to improve the branch library situated at Melavasal. T. Selvakumar, a librarian of Mannargudi, said Kanagasabai Pillai was the founder of the Theosophical Society in the town, and it was named Samarasa Sanmarkka Sangam in Tamil, instead of Brahmagnana Sabhai. The Society had also run classes for those who could not go to school. “As willed by Kanagasabai Pillai, a public library is functioning from a part of the land which once housed the Theosophical Society. Kanagasabai Pillai also started Kowmara Gurukulam for vocational training,” Mr. Selvakumar said. The mobile library worked for a few years even after the death of Kanagasabai Pillai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-the-first-mobile-library-hit-the-road/article37119094.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter held for petrol bomb attack||Personnel from the Tondiarpet police station on Thursday arrested a history-sheeter for allegedly hurling a petrol bomb on a house. The police said unidentified persons hurled a petrol bomb on the house of Rupakanthan, 70, at Kailasa Mudali Street, Tondiarpet, in the early hours of Thursday. No one was injured in the attack. The police conducted investigations and arrested Manikandan alias Kullamani, 27, of Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar. Investigation revealed that he was in relationship with a transperson, who used to be a tenant at Mr. Rupakanthan’s house. Last July, he attacked the transperson. Manikandan was arrested and lodged in prison. He came out on bail recently, and carried out the bomb attack to settle scores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/history-sheeter-held-for-petrol-bomb-attack/article37119524.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized||Five passengers were arrested for attempting to smuggle 5.06 kg of gold and electronic goods at the airport. Ten passengers, who came from Dubai, were stopped at the gate, according to a press release. When their baggage was opened and checked, officials found gold foils hidden inside used laptops and tablets. There were undeclared electronic goods worth Rs. 48.6 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-and-electronic-goods-seized-at-chennai-airport-five-arrested/article37119161.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Holidaying possible again’||Even as travel restrictions were being lifted, many were still not aware that domestic and international destinations were open for holidaying, said S. Santhosh Kanna, national sales head (holidays), Thomas Cook (India) Ltd. He said over the past few months, as restrictions had begun to ease, customers had questions about operation of flights and vaccination/RT-PCR procedures for different destinations. “At least 35 countries are open for holiday travel without quarantine...,” he said, adding that it was a good time to travel. In one-and-a-half years, at least 50,000 passengers had travelled using the company’s services, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holidaying-possible-again/article37119543.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M, Japanese firm in pact to offer VR course||The Indian Institute of Technology-Madras has tied up with a Japanese research firm, Monolith Research and Training Labs, to offer an advanced diploma programme in virtual reality (VR) in online and offline mode. Anyone enrolled in an engineering programme across the country or a graduate with an engineering degree is eligible to apply for the programme, for which applications would be available from November. The course will commence from January 2022. In each batch, 50 students would be admitted. Devendra Jaliha, chairman, Centre for Continuing Education at the institute, and Yathirajan Varadarajan, director of Monolith Research, signed the agreement. M. Manivannan, professor in the Department of Applied Mechanics at the institute, said virtual reality was a practical and interdisciplinary course. Mr. Yathirajan said the aim of the Memorandum of Understanding was to create a learning path in emerging technologies and provide visibility to employment opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-japanese-firm-in-pact-to-offer-vr-course/article37119166.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS admitted to hospital||Former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was admitted to a private hospital on Thursday. He arrived around 5.30 a.m. and was treated for gastroenterological issues. He was discharged later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-admitted-to-hospital/article37119108.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Heartening that MDT23 captured alive’||“It is heartening to note that tiger MDT 23 has been captured alive,” the Madras High Court said on Thursday, appreciating all those involved in the arduous operation of capturing the animal after it was suspected to be on a killing spree, involving humans and livestock, in the Nilgiris. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu made the observations while closing a PIL petition filed by the Chennai-based People For Cattle in India, challenging the hunt order issued by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF)-cum-Chief Wildlife Warden of Tamil Nadu. When the case was taken up for admission on October 5, the Chief Justice had asked Forest Department officials not to go for the kill immediately, since the tiger might not be a habitual man-eater.  The first Division Bench had also requested the officials to strive to capture the animal alive. The PCCF too, told the court that the term ‘hunt’ included trapping and capturing, and shooting would be resorted to only in unavoidable circumstances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heartening-that-mdt23-captured-alive/article37119113.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. declines AIADMK’s plea for maintaining Jayalalithaa statue||Holding that the statue of late AIADMK leader and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education campus in Chennai would continue to be maintained by the Public Works Department, the DMK government on Thursday contended that handing over the maintenance of statues to private individuals or organisations was not in practice. In a statement, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudy was responding to plea made by AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam, who had requested the State government to allow his party to undertake the maintenance of the statue of the former Chief Minister installed during the erstwhile AIADMK regime. “It has been the practice to honour that statues of freedom fighters and leaders by paying floral tributes on the birth and death anniversaries of those personalities. In future too, floral tributes would be paid to the statue of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on her birth anniversary on February 24," Mr. Ponmudy said. Local bodies The site where the statue of the former Chief Minister has been installed on the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education campus, was being maintained by the Public Works Department, the Minister pointed out and added that the PWD and the local bodies have been maintaining all statues that have been installed by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-declines-aiadmk-plea-for-maintaining-jayalalithaa-statue/article37119540.ece
22 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||FSSAI seals café for selling desserts containing liquor||The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) on Thursday sealed a café in Coimbatore on charges of selling desserts containing liquor. ‘Rolling Dough Café’ at P.N. Palayam in Coimbatore, was sealed by the FSSAI on Thursday noon after Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian ordered officials to inspect and seal the café. Officials who inspected the café found two bottles of liquor from the kitchen. An official statement said that a complaint was received against the use of liquor in the café on Wednesday, based on which the Minister issued the order. The FSSAI team led by Designated Officer for Coimbatore, K. Tamilselvan, inspected the café on Thursday and sealed it by noon. An official said that some of the desserts served at the cafe had liquor as an ingredient. Liquor as an ingredient of these items was mentioned on the menu. The statement said that the FSSAI team found expired ingredients at the cafe and also found that those handling food did not have medical fitness certificates. Flies were found in the kitchen, which was unhygienic. The café failed to maintain records of pest control measures taken and periodical testing of potable water used for the preparation of food. Those working at the café did not wear masks, caps and gloves. Also, the licence issued by the FSSAI was not displayed prominently, the statement said. The FSSAI team collected samples of food items for laboratory examination and seized several materials including two liquor bottles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fssai-seals-caf-for-selling-desserts-containing-liquor/article37119558.ece
22 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Co-optex sets Rs. 12 crore sales target||Co-optex is looking at Rs. 12 crore sales during Deepavali season from its five outlets in the district. District Collector G.S. Sameeran inaugurated Deepavali sales at Marudham outlet on Thursday. The five outlets registered Rs. 4.4 crore sales last year during the festival season and the sales expected this year was nearly Rs. 12 crore. Several new varieties of saris and home textile products had been introduced this year targetting the youth. Soft silk saris, saris in different price ranges, and light weight bedsheets had been introduced, said an official of Co-optex. The special sales, with 30 % discount for handloom products, would go on till Deepavali. Mobile sales counters would be set up at government institutions where the staff could purchase for payment in instalments too. The Co-optex was also focusing on online sales as several customers preferred online purchases because of the pandemic, said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/co-optex-sets-rs-12-crore-sales-target/article37119552.ece
22 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tributes paid to martyrs on Commemoration Day||Police personnel who laid down their lives in the line of duty were remembered on Thursday as the force observed the National Police Commemoration Day in Coimbatore. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor, Inspector General of Police (West Zone) R. Sudhakar, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Coimbatore range) M.S. Muthusamy, Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police R. Selvanagarathinam, Area Commander of Home Guards (Coimbatore city) T.K. Dhanashekar, Deputy Commissioners, Assistant Commissioners, Deputy Superintendents of Police and other senior police officers paid respects at the martyrs column on the Police Recruits College campus. Three rounds were fired in the air in honour of the martyrs died in the line of duty. “They gave their today, for our tomorrow. Proudly remembering the valour and sacrifices of all our police personnel who laid down their life, in the line of duty”, Mr. Sudhakar tweeted. The National Police Commemoration Day is observed to commemorate the martyrdom of Indian jawans who were ambushed by the Chinese force at Hot Springs, Ladakh, on October 21 in 1959.  Singanallur inspector P. Arun visited the house of Rajarathinam, a policeman who died in the line of duty on April 29, 1985, at Neelikonampalayam and paid respects before his portrait.  In Tiruppur, senior police officers from the Tiruppur City Police and Tiruppur District Police paid their tributes at the memorial pillar in the Armed Reserve grounds. City Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha, District Superintendent of Police G. Shashank Sai and other officers laid wreaths at the memorial in Tiruppur and paid tributes, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tributes-paid-to-martyrs-on-commemoration-day/article37119560.ece
22 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||How can you have cordial ties with BJP, VCK chief asks PMK||VCK leader Thol. Thirumavalavan has criticised PMK founder S. Ramadoss for being friendly towards the BJP that has a history of opposing reservation for the OBCs while painting the VCK, which has long supported quota for the OBCs, as its political enemy. Speaking at a conference in Cuddalore by his party on Wednesday night, he said the OBCs and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes should be called “social justice communities”. He said the RSS was inducting non-Brahmins but was implementing “social order” through them. He asked why Dr. Ramadoss was not raising the issue of lack of representation for OBCs in the judiciary. “Even today, the judges in the Supreme Court are Brahmins. How did this happen? Shouldn’t leaders like Dr. Ramadoss be speaking against it? He should be asking why people from my community are unable to become Supreme Court judges... How many High Court judges are non-Brahmins?” he asked. He said Dr. Ramadoss could have become one of the most influential Bahujan leaders but he decided to confine himself to a smaller identity. “I would like to ask him and others who claim to be the saviours of the OBCs, ‘Which party protested violently against the implementation of the Mandal Commission recommendations?’ Who is your enemy? Is it the BJP that opposed the Mandal Commission’s report or the VCK that welcomed it?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-can-you-have-cordial-ties-with-bjp-vck-chief-asks-pmk/article37119545.ece
22 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CMCH doctors save 22-year-old woman from losing uterus||Doctors at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) saved a young woman from losing her uterus by performing an interventional radiology procedure for abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB) instead of doing a hysterectomy – the surgical removal of the uterus. The procedure, uterine artery embolization, was performed on a 22-year-old woman from Udumalpet who was recently brought to the hospital with complaints of AUB on October 14. CMCH Dean A. Nirmala said this was the first uterine artery embolization done at the hospital. CMCH was the second government hospital in the State to have performed the uterine artery embolization after the Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital, Omandurar. The minimally invasive procedure was performed in the catheterisation laboratory of CMCH by a team of doctors comprising N. Murali, Head of the Department of Radio-Diagnosis, K. Sathish, Interventional Radiologist, M. Praveen Kumar, Assistant Professor, Radio-Diagnosis, and Mohanana Sundari, Associate Professor, Department of Gynaecology. According to doctors, the woman had a preterm normal delivery at the Government Hospital, Udumalpet, on October 4. She developed AUB some days later and she was brought to CMCH on October 14. Her blood levels were low and four units of blood was transfused. After her condition was stabilised, the team of doctors performed uterine artery embolization on the woman on October 19, saving her from losing her uterus at a very young age. Doctors said the cost of the procedure ranged from Rs. 2 to Rs. 3 lakh if done in private hospitals. Dr. Nirmala said the woman would be discharged from the hospital after a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmch-doctors-save-22-year-old-woman-from-losing-uterus/article37119561.ece
22 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MDMK State youth wing secretary V. Eswaran quits||MDMK State youth wing secretary V. Eswaran resigned from the party a day after the appointment of Durai Vaiko, son of party leader Vaiko, as its headquarters secretary. In a statement posted on Facebook on Thursday, he said he had worked for the MDMK for 28 years, and had led agitations over various issues of Coimbatore district. “When contradictions start to come up between the movement’s general mentality and my actions, it is neither good for me nor for the movement that I continue my work here,” Mr. Eswaran wrote without explicitly mentioning the reasons. To float new outfit Mr. Eswaran announced that he would float a new non-political organisation called ‘Marumalarchi Makkal Iyakkam’, which would be “used to cleanse politics”. He said he was “not in agreement” with the way Mr. Durai Vaiko was appointed and projected as the next-in-line leader. “Has he [Mr. Vaiko] been unable to cultivate even a single leader to lead the party all these years,” Mr. Eswaran asked. The non-political outfit would be launched in a week, Mr. Eswaran said. He noted that he was yet to formally submit his resignation to Mr. Vaiko and had conveyed his decision through senior functionaries of the party and through the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdmk-state-youth-wing-secretary-v-eswaran-quits/article37119120.ece
22 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TEA plea to clear pending amount||The Tiruppur Exporters’ Association (TEA) has appealed to the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs to clear the pending RoSCTL amount for exporters. President of the Association Raja Shanmugham said in a release that though it was said that the RoSCTL dues would be cleared every month, the pending amount remained. Bonus payments The garment exporting units in Tiruppur, 95 % of which were MSMEs, were struggling to cope with liquidity crisis and the units were yet to make bonus payments to workers for Deepavali. The Board should take steps to clear the pending RoSCTL amount immediately so that exporting units could disburse bonus to workers and meet their financial commitments, according to the release issued here. Office-bearers P. Nallathambi has been elected president of Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association for 2021-2023. S. Loganathan will be the secretary and C. Rajasekaran, the treasurer of the Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-plea-to-clear-pending-amount/article37119567.ece
22 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Six held for cheating Kerala natives of Rs. 25 lakh in iridium deal||The Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Thursday arrested a six-member gang on charges of cheating two Kerala natives of Rs. 25 lakh by assuring them profit from iridium trade. The arrested have been identified as Dinesh Kumar (34), R. Suryakumar (24) of Ranipet, M. Bojaraj (42) of Tiruppur, S. Murugesan (36), B. Senthilkumar (41) and Venkatesh Prabhu (26) of Coimbatore. According to the police, the accused collected Rs. 25 lakh from Abdul Kalam (44) and E. Mahroof (58) from Kozhikode, by promising to involve them in iridium trade as investors. The accused claimed that they were having iridium worth several crore and lured the duo to invest money to sell the same to potential buyers. The money was collected from Kalam and Mahroof towards the expenses of buying protective suit to handle iridium and the equipment to test its power. To convince the duo, the accused donned different roles. According to the police, Murugesan posed as a tribal man who possessed the iridium and Bojarajan acted as an intermediary. Dinesh Kumar and Suryakumar posed as qualified persons who assess the power of the iridium. Senthilkumar and Prabhu aided the four accused and acted as bouncers for their protection. The accused convinced Kalam and Mahroof that the iridium in their custody could be sold for several crores and they would get a share of the profit. The police said Kalam and Mahroof met the six accused in a house at Chettipalayam on Wednesday. The duo grew suspicious of the activities of the accused and asked them to produce certain documents to check the authenticity of the rare metal in their custody. The accused gave a few bundles of currencies to Kalam and Mahroof and asked them to vacate the place. However, the two men continued to argue with the accused. Murugesan, according to the police, attempted to assault them with a knife. They managed to escape from the place and reported the incident to Coimbatore District Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam. A police team arrested the six accused and recovered fake iridium, fake currencies with a face value of Rs. 99.20 lakh, a knife, two cars and equipment for examining iridium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-held-for-cheating-kerala-natives-of-rs-25-lakh-in-iridium-deal/article37119565.ece
22 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman run over by lorry||A 47-year-old woman was killed in an accident at Somanur on Thursday. The police said M. Jayalakshmi, a resident of Krishnapuram near Somanur, was hit by a two-wheeler while crossing the road. She was thrown off and ran over by a truck. She died on the spot. Chain snatched Two men, who came on a two-wheeler, snatched the chain of a woman near Kuniyamuthur on Wednesday. The police said a 5.5 sovereign chain belonging to S. Dhanalakshmi at K.G.K. Road at Kuniyamuthur was snatched. A surveillance camera visual obtained by the police showed two men coming on a two-wheeler near the provision store run by the woman. One of them entered the shop on the pretext of purchasing cigarette, snatched Ms. Dhanalakshmi’s chain and escaped on the two-wheeler which his accomplice kept standby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-run-over-by-lorry/article37119568.ece
22 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Meeting held||State Bank of India organised a meeting here on Wednesday with representatives from the construction sector. The bank has announced home loan offers for its customers. The meeting was held to facilitate a discussion between the customers and builders. SBI General Manager Neeraj Kumar Panda said the bank’s home loan scheme offered a variety of benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-held/article37119548.ece
22 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Postal week celebrated||The Department of Post celebrated National Postal Week in Coimbatore Postal division from October 11 to 16. A release said Savings Bank melas were conducted in Nachipalayam, Ganesapuram, Kurumbapalayam and Vellarugupalayam. As many as 50 Sukanya Samirithi Accounts were gifted by Surya Sweets, Peelamedu, to 50 poor girl children of AD Colony and Pathalamman Koil Street areas of Peelamedu. Further, 759 Accounts in various categories were opened. Aadhar camps were conducted at seven locations during the week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postal-week-celebrated/article37119549.ece
22 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industry heads meet Chief Minister||The trade and industry in the western districts of the State have sought formation of a separate Ministry by the State government to focus on connectivity needs. A. Sakthivel, chairman, Vanitha Mohan, vice-chairperson, and directors of Kongu Global Forum met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in Chennai on Thursday. They said a separate Ministry for Connectivity could look at issues related to aviation, rail and shipping, which were critical for development of the economy. The delegation also met the officials and discussed road, rail and air connectivity and water bodies in these districts. The team also thanked the Chief Minister for various measures taken to support growth of MSMEs in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industry-heads-meet-chief-minister/article37119550.ece
22 October 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Install more CCTV cameras, say police||Explaining the importance of CCTV cameras and their role in prevention of crime and swift detection of criminals, Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan asked textile and spinning mill owners to contribute and install the gadgets on their premises. Speaking at an interaction meeting with the textile mill owners and their representatives on Thursday, he said that the district had over 7500 CCTV cameras and another 3700 cameras in town and rural areas. Whenever the police received complaints about chain snatching or robbery, the police nab criminals with the help of the cameras. The district, with a good number of textile mills, should have more such “third eye” fitted on their premises. By doing so, the role of the police would be easier and more cameras would result in cracking almost all cases. About 30 representatives from various mills attended the meeting and understood the importance of cameras. “Even if each mill fitted 10 cameras in front of their premises, highway robbery and other crimes can be prevented,” he said. Some police officers explained a few complex crimes reported in the recent past and how the CCTV cameras helped in zeroing in on the suspects in no time. An exclusive 24x7 control room was functioning at the Dindigul Town North Police Station monitoring the CCTV cameras through wi-fi network, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/install-more-cctv-cameras-say-police/article37119127.ece
22 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Villagers oppose move to divert water from farm land||Opposing the move to draw water from a farmland near Gunderipallam Reservoir and supply it to farm lands located 6 km away, people of many villages staged a road blockade at Vinoba Nagar at T.N. Palayam here on Thursday. A borewell was drilled at a land belonging to Thangavel near the reservoir that comes under Kongarpalayam panchayat. It was proposed to supply water through a 6 km pipeline to lands owned by Murugesan, Andamuthu, Eswaran, Chellappan and Rani. Two years ago, pipelines were laid for 4.5 km while it was not laid for 1.5 km due to stiff opposition from the villagers. People said that if water from the borewell is drawn and utilised for farmlands located in another area, groundwater would be affected in the villages of Vinoba Nagar, Kongarpalayam and Vaniputhur and wanted the project to be dropped. The project was halted for two years. All the five land owners approached the court and obtained orders for laying pipelines and also wanted police protection to be given for the work. On Thursday, over 300 police personnel, led by Additional Superintendent of Police Janagiraman, four Deputy Superintendents of Police and 12 inspectors, were posted at the panchayat to execute the pipeline laying work. Over 250 people blocked the road at Vinobanagar disrupting the flow of vehicles. Gobichettipalayam DSP, Revenue Divisional Officer Palanidevi, and Tahsildar Thiyagaraj held talks with the protestors. Villagers sought 15 days time to approach the court and obtain a stay order for the work. They also wanted works to be stopped during the intervening period. Officials assured them that works will not be taken up after which the protest was withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-oppose-move-to-divert-water-from-farm-land/article37119146.ece
22 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘CM should intervene in Electricity dept. affairs’||Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Annamalai has expressed confidence that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin would intervene and take the right decision regarding the State electricity department. He alleged that artificial power shortage was being created in the State to purchase power at higher price from private power companies. “Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji denied that they procured power at Rs. 20 a unit. But now, he says that many States are procuring power at the same price,” the BJP leader pointed out and alleged that 4% commission was being paid by the company for bill clearance. Mr. Annamalai said that efforts were being made to turn a sick company into a healthy one and wanted the Minister to answer the people on what he had done, so far. He also said that an artificial coal shortage was being created in the State and demanded a white paper to be released on coal usage from April to October, this year. “We are confident that, if the CM intervenes now, he can stop corruption,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-should-intervene-in-electricity-dept-affairs/article37119096.ece
22 October 2021||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||More police to regulate traffic||With more and more visitors arriving here, roads on the hill station have become congested on holidays. Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan has ordered deployment of additional personnel to regulate traffic especially on weekends and public holidays. So, a DSP-led team, assisted by two Inspectors, five SIs (traffic), 20 policemen, 20 from Armed Reserve Police and another 20 personnel from Tamil Nadu Special Police, would be on duty on the hill station. The team would regulate vehicles at tourism spots. No parking violations and playing of high-decibel music would be punishable. Tourist vehicle drivers would be instructed to park vehicles on the spaces earmarked. The police would ensure that the vehicles are parked only on a single side of roads. Similarly, strict surveillance would be made on two-wheeler riders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-police-to-regulate-traffic/article37119128.ece
22 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Awareness campaign against child marriage launched||Minister for Social Welfare and Women Empowerment P. Geetha Jeevan on Thursday launched an awareness campaign against child marriage at Gundalpatty village in Kaveripattinam. The month-long campaign in the district will create awareness against child marriages and the dangers of teenage pregnancies, she said. Gundalpatty village witnessed highest number of child marriages, she said. “I was told there was a case of maternal death in Krishnagiri last week, the baby was saved but the mother died,” said the Minister. That is why it is important that women are not burdened with motherhood at a young age, she said. Pointing out that no child marriage can happen without the knowledge of the local panchayat heads, Ms. Jeevan insisted that the public and the local bodies alerted the officials to stop the marriage. The dream was to turn Tamil Nadu into a child-marriage free State in the country, the Minister said. To a query that poverty and distress migration was forcing families to marry off their underage girls, Ms. Jeevan said the awareness campaign aimed to provide solutions. The campaign underlines the importance of education as the solution and “if you can’t educate, let us give them a place to stay and learn, instead of marrying them off,” said the Minister. There are Social Welfare Department-run hostels to enable girls of locals migrating for work to complete their education, she said. To another query on the often lax response and coordination between various departments in stopping child marriages, Ms. Jeevan said, the District Child Protection Officer has been given a vehicle and the coordination between the departments, including the police, will be worked out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-campaign-against-child-marriage-launched/article37119142.ece
22 October 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Lax govt. intervention led to a spike in child marriages: Minister||There has been a high incidence of child marriages in the last five years, especially in Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Salem, Theni and Erode. Since 2016, the percentage of child marriages has spiked from 0.9 to 3.1. That the previous government failed to pay attention to the problem is one of the reasons, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on the sidelines of the launch of a campaign against child marriage in Guldalpatty, Kaveripattinam, on Thursday.  Speaking about vaccination, he said about 68% of the population had got the first dose. About 25% had taken the second dose as well. The next mass vaccination camp on Saturday would target 57 lakh people due for the second dose, he said. He said the pace of vaccination under the AIADMK government was lukewarm, with a daily average of 61,441 jabs. However, after the DMK came to power, since May 7, the daily average rose to 2,72,000. As of date, 5,40,08,521 doses have been administered, he said. Speaking on the implementation of the ‘Makkalai thedi maruthuvam’ scheme, he said 23.16 lakh people had benefited as of Thursday morning. This was a marked increase from 20 lakh people who were visiting hospitals for various medical care, including for diabetics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lax-govt-intervention-led-to-a-spike-in-child-marriages-minister/article37119122.ece
22 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure drugs are available only for medicinal purpose’||Considering the fact that youth fell prey to drugs, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court said that duty was cast on the Drugs Controller to sensitise authorities and ensure that drugs were made available only for medicinal purposes. Justice B. Pugalendhi observed that circulars should be issued to all pharmacies referring to the provisions of law. Periodical checks should also be conducted by the Drugs Controller of the region to ensure that the drugs were used only for medicinal purposes. Students fall prey and younger generations are innovating the types of sedations. It must be ensured that drugs consisting of narcotics and psychotropic substances are not made easily available to the people, the judge said. The court made the observation while hearing the bail petition filed by Jayaraman alias Sony of Pudukkottai district. He was in possession of five tablets which contained narcotic drugs and a single-use syringe. It was submitted that he misused the drugs. According to the prosecution, the tablets contained chemicals used in painkiller pills. Such pills were used only on prescription by doctors. But the petitioner was in possession of the drug and used it for sedation. The court took into account the fact that he was in judicial custody for the past 90 days and granted him bail with conditions. It was said that while the petitioner had attempted to escape from the police, he was arrested and the tablets and a syringe were recovered from him.  It must be ensured that drugs consisting of narcotics and psychotropic substances are not easily available Justice B. Pugalendhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-drugs-are-available-only-for-medicinal-purpose/article37119091.ece
22 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Nine sub-divisions for City Police||Madurai City Police have increased the number of ranges from the existing five to nine after integrating the functional duties of law and order and crime with one Assistant Commissioner of Police for each range. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said that this follows the State government’s announcement of redesignation of the role of Deputy Commissioners of Police - Law and Order and Crime. Instead of separate DCPs for Law and Order and Crime, the State Government has redesignated them as DCP North and DCP South, who would take care of both Law and Order and Crime in their respective geographical jurisdictions. Consequently, the offices of Assistant Commissioners have been located in each of the nine sub-divisions. People can meet the Assistant Commissioners at their new offices located on the police station premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-sub-divisions-for-city-police/article37119619.ece
22 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||ITIs in the State will be revamped: Minister||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had proposed to revamp all the government run 90 Industrial Training Institutes, said Labour Welfare Minister C.V. Ganesan on Thursday. He visited Theni, Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga districts to take stock of their functioning, infrastructure facilities and requirements during the last two days. Director (Employment) K. Veera Raghava Rao accompanied him. He told reporters that he had so far visited over 30 ITIs and had a discussion with principals and instructors. Girl students evinced more interest in tailoring at Andipatti in Theni district. So, the ITI there would focus on providing more sewing and cutting machines to help the students learn easily at practical sessions. Most of the ITIs in Tamil Nadu were established about 50 years ago and it was time to upgrade and revamp the infrastructure to meet the modern requirements, he said. There might be private ITIs attracting more students but the government had institutes in all districts. The government run ITIs would soon get a new look and admissions in these institutes would be doubled from the next academic year. In Madurai, he hinted at introduction of new courses. Those students who left the ITIs successfully would be trained with the help of resource persons/experts in association with Skill Development Corporation. It would make the students ready to work from the very first day of joining any company, he said and added that the skills would be fine-tuned by experts in such a way that there would be 100% placement. In Theni district, MLAs K.S. Saravana Kumar and A. Maharajan and District Employment Officer Narayanamoorthi accompanied him. In Ramanathapuram district, he visited the ITIs at Ramanathapuram, Paramakudi and Mudukalathur and interacted with the students about the courses they had opted and the career opportunities before them. In Madurai, he visited the ITI at K. Pudur and addressed the students. In Sivaganga district, he visited Muthupatti ITI. The government would provide additional infrastructure facilities, including trained faculty and equipment, at the ITI. He said there was a huge demand for trained technicians such as plumbers, electricians and AC mechanics. So, the government would prepare them on these lines, he said. Collector P. Madhusudan Reddy, Joint Director (Training) Amala Rexalin, Regional Director (Employment) Subramanian and District Employment Officer Mani Ganesh accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/itis-to-be-revamped-minister/article37119134.ece
22 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sympathy, sentiments no grounds for service regularisation, says HC||Sympathy and sentiments should not serve as grounds for passing any order of regularisation in the absence of a legal entitlement, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed while dismissing a plea filed by a part-time sweeper seeking service regularisation. The court was hearing the petition filed by P. Sridevi of Nagercoil. She was appointed as a part-time sweeper in a government school in 1989. The State government passed an order in 2006 regularising the services of daily wage workers who had rendered a minimum of 10 years of service. Since the petitioner had rendered more than 32 years of service, she sought service regularisation. But her representation was not considered. So she filed the petition before the High Court. Justice D. Krishnakumar took cognisance of a government order issued in 2013 that revised the 2006 order. It stated that full-time daily wage workers who completed 10 years of service should be regularised, but not part-time and casual workers. Referring to a Supreme Court judgment, the judge said that mere continuation of service by a temporary or daily wage worker on the strength of some interim orders of the court would not confer upon the petitioner any right to be absorbed into service. It would tantamount to ‘litigious employment.’ Every temporary, ad-hoc or daily wage service for a long number of years will not entitle such employees to claim regularisation, the court said and dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sympathy-no-grounds-for-service-regularisation-hc/article37119433.ece
22 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Contempt petition closed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court closed a contempt petition after the court was informed that the encroachment on a water channel in Poolampatti, Thenur village in Tiruchi district was removed. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar closed the petition filed by S. Thirupathi of Tiruchi district. He had filed the contempt petition as the authorities concerned had failed to remove the encroachment. Tiruchi Collector was present at the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contempt-petition-closed/article37119614.ece
22 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Re-establish DPC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered notice to the State in a petition that sought a direction to the authorities to re-establish a Direct Purchase Centre in Pattathikadu in Pudukkottai district. The petition was filed by S. Shanmugam of Pudukkottai district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/re-establish-dpc/article37119616.ece
22 October 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Counselling held||In-person counselling for candidates who had applied for undergraduate degree courses for the year 2021-22 under special categories was held at the Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, Nagapattinam on Thursday. Students of special categories such as sports, ex-service personnel, persons with disabilities, fisherfolk wards, students who studied in State government schools and vocational streams were admitted during the session. A total of 97 candidates were called for filling 44 seats falling under various special categories. G. Sugumar, Vice Chancellor of the University, awarded the provisional admission letters to the selected students. The counselling process was conducted in the presence of A. Srinivasan, Registrar, P. Jawahar, Chairman, UG Admission Committee, and Deans of the various colleges. Counselling for the general/community categories will be conducted online from October 22 to 26 said, Dr. G. Sugumar, Vice-Chancellor of the University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counselling-held/article37119095.ece
22 October 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Baby’s body retrieved from Puthanar Channel||Police retrieved the body of a newborn male from Puthanar Channel in Thazhakkudi on Thursday. Passers-by saw the body of athe baby in the channel and informed Aralvaimozhi police station. Police rushed to the spot and sent the body of the male baby to Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam for post-mortem. Aralvaimozhi police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/babys-body-retrieved-from-puthanar-channel/article37119423.ece
22 October 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||3,000 litres of adulterated diesel seized||The Civil Supplies CID seized 3,000 litres of adulterated diesel during vehicle at Kosavampatti here. According to the police, vehicle checks were conducted on Thuraiyur road in Namakkal during the early hours of Thursday and they intercepted a truck. On inspection, police found 3,000 litres of adulterated diesel in the vehicle. Police seized the truck and arrested Abiraman, driver of the vehicle. Police are on the lookout for owner of the truck and further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3000-litres-of-adulterated-diesel-seized/article37119150.ece
22 October 2021||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Collector takes stock of dengue preventive measures||Do not self diagnose and self medicate when running a fever, Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya warned residents of the district on Thursday. The district administration has set up 24-hour round-the-clock fever wards at all taluks to contain the spread of dengue fever. The Collector inspected the dengue preparedness measures on Thursday and said that the fever wards have been set up at the District Headquarters Hospital, three taluk hospitals and the Primary Healthcare Centres (PHC) at Labbaikudikadu, Ammapalayam, Poolambadi and Kolakkanatham. The public is advised to visit these hospitals to consult a doctor if they fell sick. In order to keep a check on the spread of dengue fever in the Perambalur district, 30 field workers have been deployed in each taluk, 10 field workers in each town panchayat and 40 field workers in the Perambalur municipality limits to conduct inspections door-to-door. People must clean their water storage tanks and utensils with bleaching powder once in three days, dry them in sunlight, and only then fill them with water, the Collector instructed. After the water is filled, it must be kept closed to avoid breeding of mosquitoes, she added. Dispose of broken pottery, tires, coconut husks and other plastic items which may have been collected for various reasons, she urged. Rainwater could collect in these items and mosquitoes could breed in them. Further, only boiled water must be consumed, the Collector said. The people are requested to cooperate with the workers conducting door-to-door checks. If an individual is affected by dengue, their details are collected by the workers and prevention measures are undertaken immediately, she assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-takes-stock-of-dengue-preventive-measures/article37119105.ece
22 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Damaged roads irk Lawspet residents||The poor condition of pothole-ridden interior roads has become a cause for concern among residents of Lawspet, where commuting has become difficult. The condition of roads in Kurunji Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Avvai Nagar, Kumaran Nagar and Kannamma Nagar has gone from bad to worse after the recent rain. Even pedestrians find it challenging to walk at night. “The roads have not been repaired for five years. Their condition continues to remain the same. Driving two-wheelers or even walking at night has become extremely difficult with the street lights not functioning,” said R. Ramesh, a resident of Kurunji Nagar. The road towards the planetarium has been completely damaged, he said, and added that people find it difficult to drive. “Just a few days of rain is causing us misery as the roads are broken. We don’t know what will happen after the monsoon sets in. The uneven surfaces around the manholes pose a great danger to motorists as well as to pedestrians because they are submerged when the road is water-logged,” said R. Praveen, another resident. For senior citizens, Mr. Praveen, said riding a two-wheeler will only add more physical stress-related health problems due to the uneven roads. According to Vidhya Ravi of Thillai Kannamma Nagar, this has been the state of affairs for 12 years now. “We are faced with lack of motorable roads. Senior citizens are finding it difficult to even walk. Walking on the streets itself has become an arduous task,” she charged. Lack of funds M. Govindaraj, a resident and senior Congress functionary, said enquiries with municipal authorities revealed that shortage of funds was the main reason for not taking up repair work in the last five years. The repair and construction of interior roads used to be done utilising constituency development funds of MLAs. “These funds have not been released for the last four years,” Mr. Govindaraj added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/damaged-roads-irk-lawspet-residents/article37119363.ece
22 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No death in Puduchery, 43 fresh cases detected||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory as 43 new cases were detected on Thursday. Puducherry logged 25 of the new cases, which were confirmed from 2,953 tests, followed by Karaikal (11) and Mahe (7). No fresh case was reported in Yanam. With 50 patients recovering from COVID in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 454. Of this, 100 patients were in hospitals and 354 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.46%, case fatality rate 1.45%, and recovery rate 98.19%. The cumulative toll in the Union Territory remained at 1,852 — Puducherry (1,449), Karaikal (250), Yanam (107) and Mahe (46). The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,27,564 cases and 1,25,258 recovered patients. Of an estimated 18.84 lakh tests conducted so far, over 15.91 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 4,501 people took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has to date administered 10,89,046 doses of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-death-in-ut-43-fresh-cases-detected/article37119351.ece
22 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puppet plays to spotlight health causes||Children at government schools will soon be showcasing their own puppet plays to highlight health causes relevant to peer communities under an initiative supported by the Department of Science and Technology. The project, led by Sri Aurobindo Society’s Svarnim Puducherry initiative, is being implemented at 10 government schools, in collaboration with the Directorate of School Education, Puducherry, with the support of the NCSTC Division of the Department of Science and Technology. “As top-down form of health communication can be monotonous for children, we thought we would replace passive learning with a participatory model that would be an entirely student-driven exercise,” said T.P. Raghunath, Svarnim Director. The initiative, launched under Svarnim’s School Health Action Research Project (SHARP), looks at tapping into the simpler tools of traditional theatre with the aim of disseminating key health-related communication for action-oriented results among schoolchildren. A one-day brainstorming session was held for nodal teachers drawn from the 10 government schools. The workshop would develop key information content. It would then be converted into live and fun-filled puppetry programmes by children themselves who will make their own puppets and create health communication skits at their schools and in neighbourhood-communities, which would result in a participatory people’s movement for better health awareness and hence preventive healthcare. The workshop was led by R. Senthilkumar, Programme Coordinator, SHARP, Sri Aurobindo Society. About 20 teachers and health professionals are participating in the workshop which will lead to people’s health initiatives as a model for preventive healthcare. “As soon as schools reopen some time in the second week of November, we are looking at the prospect of having a smaller workshop for children selected by teachers to outline the possibilities of puppet theatre. The programme is designed in such a way that teachers confine themselves to a catalyst role and leave the rest to the creativity and imagination of children. They will have the freedom to choose whether to make puppets from socks or recycled fabric, determine the storyline and cast the characters they want to convey their message through,” said Mr. Raghunath. After school performances, the plays will be staged in communities. He pointed to the need for conceived health communication in adolescent groups as an SAS health survey sometime ago had flagged key concerns that included both dimensions of malnutrition — obesity and low BMIs — and hygiene issues. The SAS expects to complete the pilot project by the year-end and get the children ready with the 15-20-minute puppet shows by the Pongal season. Based on the response, the SAS-Education Department collaboration is likely to roll out the project at more schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puppet-plays-to-spotlight-health-causes/article37119365.ece
22 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Police Commemoration Day observed||The territorial police on Thursday observed Police Commemoration Day. The day is observed annually on October 21 to remember the services of policemen who laid down their lives in the line of duty. Led by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy and Home Minister A. Namassivayam, policemen cutting across ranks paid homage at the Police Martyrs’ Memorial at the Police Training Ground in Gorimedu. According to senior police officials, 12 serving policemen died in the past year in the Union Territory. A 21-gun salute was given to honour the departed police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-commemoration-day-observed/article37119349.ece
22 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Implement long-pending promotion of assistant professor cadres’||The Indira Gandhi Medical College Association has urged authorities to implement long-pending promotion of assistant professor cadres. In a memorandum to the IGMCRI Director, the Association pointed out that doctors had been working in the cadre of Assistant Professors since 2010 and had completed more than the six years service needed to be placed as Associate Professors as per the Career Advancement Scheme notified by the government in September. Doctors currently placed in Pay level 11 (Assistant Professor - entry level for faculty) are eligible to Pay level 13 (Associate Professor). As per the new G.O., a new cadre at Pay level 12 (Assistant Professor- senior scale) has been introduced, wherein an Assistant Professor after 2 years of entry into service is eligible. The memorandum stated that the Assistant Professors, who have completed 6 to 11 years and more, as of today/as on G.O. notification date, if placed at this cadre of Assistant Professor-senior scale, stand to lose many years of service (4 years to 9 years at least). Besides, they would be deprived of promotion to an MCI recognised cadre (Associate Professor, which also is the existing cadre in IGMCRI prior to the G.O.). The memorandum urged the authorities to consider these facts and provide an exemption to the cadre of Assistant Professor and senior scale be given to all Assistant Professors who have already completed 6 years as on notification date of the mentioned G.O. It also submitted that the monetary benefit may be given prospectively as may be deemed feasible by the IGMCRI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/implement-long-pending-promotion-of-assistant-professor-cadres/article37119352.ece
22 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G hails nation’s feat||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Thursday hailed the nation’s milestone of administering over a billion COVID-19 doses of vaccine. “It is even more remarkable that not only have we administered indigenous vaccines, but we are also exporting them to about 100 countries,” Ms. Soundararajan said in a video message. She congratulated the researchers who developed the vaccines, the health workers who administered them widely, and the people who volunteered for the jab. Ms. Soundararajan, who is in Hyderabad in her role as Telangana Governor, celebrated the achievement with doctors, nurses and students at the ESIC Medical College and Hospital, Hyderabad. The Health Department used the occasion to drive home an appeal to the unvaccinated population to volunteer for the jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-hails-nations-feat/article37119353.ece
22 October 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||NABARD projects credit flow potential of Rs. 6,343 crore for Pudukottai||The potential linked credit plan, prepared by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), projects a credit potential of Rs. 6,343.51 crore in Pudukottai district during 2022-23. This plan document would serve as a guiding tool for bankers in optimal utilisation of credit advances in priority sector lending. Based on the infrastructure and natural resources available, the potential for credit flow has been assessed at Rs. 6,343.51 crore as against Rs. 5,918 crore during 2021-22, reflecting an increase of 7.2%. The credit flow potential for agriculture sector has been put at Rs. 4,600.75 crore, of which crop loan amounted to Rs. 3,316.43 crore and term loan Rs. 1,284.30 crore. A credit flow of Rs. 360.43 crore has been envisaged for the MSME sector in the district. Collector Kavita Ramu, who released the plan document on Monday, said that the plan had vital inputs required for planning by banks at the branch level. She advised the bankers to step up advances to the MSME sector and term lending for agriculture as there was a good potential to promote animal husbandry, horticulture, farm mechanisation, storage and marketing infrastructure and agro processing. S. Jayashree, District Development Manager, NABARD, elaborated on the credit potential of each sector and urged banks to focus on lending for agricultural infrastructure such as rural godowns /warehouses, cold storage for storing agricultural produce to avoid distress sale and reduce storage losses. Formation and promotion of farmers producers organisations is another thrust area to increase income of farmers, she said. R. Ramesh, Lead District Manager, Indian Overseas Bank, Pudukkottai, said that the banks should increase their lending to self-help groups so as to achieve the target. Banks should focus on lending under MUDRA, Stand Up India, PMFME in convergence with schemes of TNSRLM, District Industries’ Centre and TAHDCO, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nabard-projects-credit-flow-potential-of-rs-6343-crore-for-pudukottai/article37119107.ece
22 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Kottaipattinam fishers still on hunger strike||Fisherfolk from Kottaipattinam in Pudukottai district continued their hunger strike for the second day on Thursday, condemning the Sri Lankan Navy for the “recurring attacks” on Indian fishermen. The fishers of the coastal hamlet have been abstaining from fishing since Wednesday, holding the Sri Lankan Navy responsible for the death of Rajkiran, 30, on Monday night. He drowned after a Sri Lankan naval vessel intercepted and collided with a boat of Kottaipattinam fishermen. The Sri Lankan Navy detained two others who were in the boat. However, the Sri Lamkan Navy said it had “rescued” the two fishermen from the boat. The incident occurred when its patrol units were chasing away Indian trawlers “poaching in Sri Lankan waters”. A large number of fishers and their families joined the hunger strike on Thursday, expressing anguish over the death of Rajkiran and the detention of the two fishermen. The fisherfolk wanted the Union government to put an end to the “recurring attacks” by the Sri Lankan Navy on fishers from the State. “This has been going on for years, and has turned into a never-ending story. The Union government should put an end to it and ensure the safety of fishermen so that they can take up fishing without hindrance. Such incidents should not occur again, and the Union government should extract a written commitment from Sri Lanka,” M. Asan Mohaideen, president, Mechanised Boat Fishermen Welfare Association, Kottaipattinam, told The Hindu . Demands listed The fishermen demanded that the body of Rajkiran be returned at the earliest and the two detained fishermen be freed. They wanted the affected families to be compensated adequately. “Rajkiran got married only about 40 days ago; his widow is a graduate, and she should be given a government job. The family should be given a compensation of Rs. 1 crore and the boat owner Rs. 25 lakh,” Mr. Mohaideen said. Tiruchi MP Su. Thirunavukkarasar urged External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar to press Sri Lanka for the return of Rajkiran’s body and the release of the detained fishermen. In a statement, he demanded compensation for the family of the deceased and the owner of the fishing boat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kottaipattinam-fishers-still-on-hunger-strike/article37119119.ece
22 October 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Relief for death of fisherman sought||Hundreds of fishermen from Thangachimadam near here staged a demonstration here on Thursday. When three fishermen ventured into the sea two days ago and engaged in fishing near Katchatheevu, the Sri Lankan Navy personnel allegedly attacked their mechanised boat. They drowned. Suganthan and Xavier managed to survive but they and were taken to Kankensanthurai shore by the navy but Rajkiran (30) from Kottaipattinam in Pudukottai district died. The fishermen urged the Union and State governments to take up the issue with the Sri Lankan government. The Navy personnel should be booked for murder charge and punished. Fishermen leader Sesu Raja told reporters that the government should give a compensation of Rs. 1 crore to the family of Rajkiran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-for-death-of-fisherman-sought/article37119130.ece
22 October 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Villagers oppose operation of stone quarry||Residents of several villages, most of them faremrs, opposed the operation of a rough stone quarry and its crushing units at the foothills of a hillock in Walajah taluk at a public hearing held on Thursday. Ranipet Collector P. Bhaskarapandian presided over the hearing, which was organised at Walajah by the Ranipet administration and the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. Tension prevailed as many farmers and the workers of the quarry faced off. A large team of policemen was deployed at the venue. The quarry, which belongs to M.M. Aravindaraj, has been in operation since 1996, covering one hectare. Dust and noise pollution remains the major concern for the residents of the surrounding villages. “The dust sent out by the quarry has made our farmland useless. We do not know anything other than farming,” said A. Arumugam, 60, a farmer of Anandalai. Similar concerns were raised by farmers at the meeting, which was held after many years. Anandalai, Pudupettai, Sankara Mottur, Tharakuppam, Edakuppam, Valluvambakkam, Chegkadu Mottur, Musuri, Kadappathangal, Pothigai Nagar and Anathalai are the most affected villages. Paddy cultivation and cattle-rearing are the major source of livelihood in these villages. Farmers also cultivate green chilli, brinjal, groundnuts and mango to supplement their income from paddy. “We do not have a government school in our village. Our children have to travel to Walajah. We need more government facilities than crushing units and quarries,” said A. Manikandan, a young farmer from Ayilam. Ponds, wells polluted Over the years, the dust from the stone-crushing units and the quarry has polluted ponds and farm-wells. Villagers said regular blasts at the quarry had resulted in cracks at many houses. As most of these blasts were done before sunrise, senior citizens and children were the most affected by noise pollution, they said. The round-the-clock operation of the stone crushing units and the quarry had damaged the roads, making it difficult for farmers to transport their produce and the sick to be taken to hospitals. The employees defended the operation of the quarry saying it gave them their livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-oppose-operation-of-stone-quarry/article37119439.ece
22 October 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Goods train derails||Commuters, especially suburban travellers between Chennai Central and Tiruttani, were affected during the rush hour after three wagons of a goods train derailed near Arakkonam on Thursday evening. Police said that around 5.30 p.m., the wagons of the goods train got derailed when the train was heading to Mukundarayapuram railway station near Walajah to unload the consignment of rail tracks to a private company. Due to the derailment, local train services on the Arakkonam route were affected. Chennai - Tirupati Express got delayed. On information, Chennai division officials rushed to the spot. Wagons are being removed by railway workers, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goods-train-derails-near-arakkonam/article37119446.ece
22 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Woman slips from train, run over||A 30-year-old unidentified woman died at Salem Railway junction on Thursday after she slipped from the train and went under the wheels while trying to alight from a running train. According to the police, the passenger was travelling standing by the door in Mangalore-Kacheguda train on Thursday. When the train resumed the journey from the Salem junction, the deceased who was travelling standing by the side of the door slipped into the gap between the train and the platform and was run over by the train. Government Railway police recovered the body and sent it to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Police are inquiring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-slips-from-train-run-over/article37119155.ece
22 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Seven officers suspended for helping accused meet kin||Seven police personnel, including a sub-inspector of the Salem City police armed reserve, were suspended by the Salem Police Commissioner for permitting the Pollachi sexual assault case accused to meet their relatives, on Wednesday, in violation of rules. Vasanth Kumar, Thirunavakarasu, Manivannan, Sathish and Sabarirajan — all accused in the assault case, lodged in the Salem Central Prison, were taken to Coimbatore and produced at a Mahila Court in connection with the case on Wednesday. While returning to Salem, the police personnel who escorted the accused permitted them to meet their relatives on the outskirts of Coimbatore, violating rules. City Police Commissioner Najmul Hoda suspended sub-inspector Subramaniam, grade-I constables Prabhu, Velkumar and Karthi, and police constables Rajkumar, Natarajan and Rajeshkumar for facilitating the meeting. A senior police officer said the personnel were suspended for delinquency of duty and facilitating the meeting, despite there being strict instructions with regard to the escort of the accused. A further probe will be initiated, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-officers-suspended-for-helping-accused-meet-kin/article37119110.ece
22 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Measures being taken to prevent irregularities in marriage scheme’||Minister for Social Welfare and Women Empowerment P. Geetha Jeevan on Thursday said that measures are being taken to prevent irregularities in the distribution of benefits under ‘Thaliku Thangam’ scheme. Ms. Jeevan visited the Government Observation home in the Salem Court complex, Annai Sathya Ammaiyar Government Children’s Home and Binda Girls Children Home here. Ms. Jeevan interacted with the authorities and inmates and inquired about the facilities. Talking to presspersons, Ms. Jeevan said that measures have been taken to prevent irregularities in the distribution of benefits under the ‘Thaliku Thangam’ scheme and added that steps have been taken to ensure only true beneficiaries are benefited. Ms. Jeevan said that Rs. 762 crore has been allotted by the State government for the scheme and tenders have been invited. She added that authorities have been advised to verify the weddings. Ms. Jeevan said that mukiya sevikas and grama sevikas are provided with smartphones and have been told to take pictures of the bride’s house and the wedding to prevent irregularities. All the weddings are being documented. She added that no irregularities are taking place in the adoption process at the 21 government adoption centres in the State. The Minister said that awareness programmes would be conducted at districts where high number of child marriage cases are reported. The Minister added that special attention would be given to Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Erode, Karur and Theni districts where more number of child marriages have been reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/measures-being-taken-to-prevent-irregularities-in-marriage-scheme/article37119149.ece
22 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Railway Division bags awards||The Salem Railway Division has won the inter-divisional overall efficiency shield during the 66th Railway Week celebrations held in Chennai on Thursday. This is the third consecutive year that Salem Railway Division is winning the overall shield, a release said. A. Gautam Srinivas, Divisional Railway Manager, Salem Division, received the shield and certificate from John Thomas, General Manager, Southern Railway during the event. Five departments under the division- engineering, electrical, mechanical, accounts and safety - also received efficiency shields during the event. Heads of various departments received the shields from the general manager. The Signal and Telecommunication Training Centre at Podanur won the Best Training Institute Shield and the Signal and Telecommunication Workshop at Podanur received the Personnel Efficiency Shield – Workshop, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-railway-division-bags-awards/article37119154.ece
22 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Police to further probe death of Jaya’s driver||The Salem rural police on Thursday took up an old case pertaining to the death of C. Kanagaraj, former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s driver, for further investigation. Kanagaraj, 36, was killed in a road accident near Attur in April 2017. On the day of the accident, Kanagaraj was reportedly on his way to Thalaivasal, on the Salem-Ulundurpet Highway, on a two-wheeler. When he took a right turn to move to the service lane, a car heading towards Perambalur allegedly hit his vehicle, and Kanagaraj was thrown off. He was rushed to the government hospital at Attur where doctors declared him dead. Kanagaraj was named the prime accused in the murder of the watchman at the Kodanad Estate bungalow of Jayalalithaa. Kanagaraj’s family members, including his brother Dhanapal, have been demanding a detailed probe into his death, alleging that he was murdered. Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav confirmed the development and said the case had been taken up for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-to-further-probe-death-of-jayas-driver/article37119124.ece
22 October 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Police Commemoration Day observed||Police Commemoration Day was observed at the Salem City Armed Reserve police grounds on Thursday. City Police Commissioner Najmul Hoda, DIG-Salem Range C. Mageshwari, Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav, Deputy Police Commissioners M. Mohanraj, M. Madasamy, and C.R. Boopathirajan, Assistant Commissioner (Intelligence) and other senior officials took part in the event. The district police officers paid tributes at the memorial pillar. A team of Armed Reserve police personnel led by Assistant Commissioner (Armed Reserve) E. Ettiyappan, and Armed Reserve Police Inspector R. Venkatachalam fired 48 shots in the memory of the martyred police personnel. In Namakkal, Superintendent of Police Saroj Kumar Thakur paid tributes to the memorial pillar at an event held at Namakkal District Police Armed Reserve grounds. A total of 21 police personnel fired three rounds of shots in commemoration of the martyred police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-commemoration-day-observed/article37119158.ece
22 October 2021||SANKARANKOVIL,TAMIL NADU||Will work hard to take MDMK to greater heights, says Durai Vaiko||While asserting that there was no ‘dynast politics’ in MDMK, the party’s newly elected headquarters secretary and MDMK general secretary Vaiko’s son Durai Vaiko on Thursday said he accepted the responsibility given to him and would take the party’s vote bank to greater heights by winning the people’s trust through hard work. In his maiden press conference here after he was elected for the post through secret voting, Mr. Durai Vaiko said he bagged 104 of the 106 votes polled in the secret voting by party office-bearers and would win the confidence of the remaining two through hard work. “I will work hard in such a way that the two office-bearers, who did not back me during secret voting, will regret after seeing my work. It is a responsibility given by the party. “Even when the party office-bearers wanted and exerted pressure on my father to field me as the party’s candidate in Sattur Assembly segment, he rejected the idea instantly. Hence, I am shouldering a herculean task and will fulfill the expectations of our party leaders and the cadre even though it is a challenging and difficult assignment,” Mr. Durai Vaiko said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-work-hard-to-take-mdmk-to-greater-heights-says-durai-vaiko/article37119434.ece
22 October 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Two women killed as cars collide||Two women of a family were killed in a road accident involving two cars on Madurai-Rajapalayam highway under Nathampatti police station limits on Wednesday. The police identified the deceased as R. Chokkammal (52) and her daughter-in-law Archana (21) of Virudhunagar. Both of them had sustained head injuries. The victims, along with other family members - N. Ramakrishnan (62), his son Ramesh Babu (32) and his daughter Samyuktha (2) - were returning home at Virudhunagar after offering prayers at the Andal Temple. When the car was proceeding near a cotton mill at N. Lakshmiyapuram, it collided head on against another car that was proceeding to Tenkasi from Melmaruvathur at around 4 p.m. The car driver from Melmaruvathur P. Sundar (28) tried to overtake another vehicle and came into the middle of the road and dashed against the other car coming from the opposite direction. While Chokkammal died at the Government Hospital in Srivilliputtur, Archana succumbed to injuries at a private hospital in Madurai. Other family members had sustained grievous injuries including fractures Family members of Muthuvinayagam (46) were going to Tenkasi at attend a function. All the five persons, including two children, travelling in this car too were badly injured. The Nathampatti police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-killed-as-cars-collide/article37119131.ece
22 October 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies after fall from moving bus in Tenkasi||A 45-year-old woman fell down from a moving bus near Kuruvikulam in the district and died of injuries on Wednesday. Police said P. Maheshwari, a match factory worker from Ramalingapuram near Kuruvikulam, was returning home in a bus in the evening after shopping at Kazhugumalai. As the driver negotiated a curve ahead of Ramalingapuram bus stop, Maheshwari got up from her seat to disembark even before the vehicle came to a halt. She lost balance and fell through the front entry of the moving bus. She suffered head injury and was taken to the government hospital in Kuruvikulam, where she was referred to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for treatment. However, she died on the way. Kuruvikulam police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-dies-in-fatal-fall-from-moving-bus-in-tenkasi/article37119139.ece
22 October 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway’s move welcomed||Associations working for the betterment of public amenities in Adhiramapattinam and other towns in Pattukottai taluk have thanked the Southern Railway for its decision to continue and expand the deployment of ex-servicemen at the railway level crossings in Tiruvarur-Karaikudi section. The Associations which have closely followed the guage conversion work on this section, heaved a sigh of relief after the introduction of a DEMU (diesel-electric multiple unit) service between Tiruvarur and Karaikudi a few years ago. However, their expectations were short-lived as the operation of this service failed to serve the purpose since the train was operated on this route with ‘on-board’ level crossing gate (LCG) keepers a concept hitherto not witnessed by the commuters. Subsequently, several suggestions such as roping in the local bodies to shoulder the responsibility of manning the LCGs and deployment of ex-servicemen as gate keepers were mooted by the Associations such as the Shamsul Islam Sangam Muhalla Australia (SISMA), New South Wales, Australia, the Adiramapattinam Rural Development Association, Adiramapattinam and the Pattukottai Taluk Railway Passengers’ Welfare Association, Pattukottai and were passed on to the Railway Board through the Members of Parliament elected from Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts. Following these representations, a group of ex-servicemen were engaged for the operation of around two dozen LCGs on a pilot basis during the COVID-19 pandemic, sources said. But a few months back these ex-servicemen were shown the doors and the DEMU service was revived with ‘on-board’ gate keepers agonising the rail users. Meanwhile, the Associations have managed to get the attention of the MPs once again and succeeded in impressing upon the Southern Railway to continue with the deployment of ex-servicemen at the LCGs in this section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railways-move-welcomed/article37119081.ece
22 October 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Private school buildings are well-constructed’||The quality and stability of the buildings constructed and donated to schools by private parties are far more superior than the schools buildings constructed through government tenders, according to K. Selvaperunthagai, chairman, Tamil Nadu Legislative Public Accounts Committee. After inspecting various ongoing infrastructure development projects, the PAC chairman told reporters here that as per the CAG report several projects implemented during the previous AIADMK regime were not up to the mark. While school buildings sponsored by private sector were in good condition, those constructed using government funds was disappointing, he said and added that in some schools the students were unable to use toilets constructed with government funds as these remain covered by bushes and were a den for reptiles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-school-buildings-are-well-constructed/article37119092.ece
22 October 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Training for physically challenged taking up IBPS exam||The SASTRA Academy for Growth and Excellence (SAGE) has planned to organise free training programmes exclusively for the physically challenged persons residing in Thanjavur district and aspiring to take up the examinations to be conducted by the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) for the post of Probationary Officer/Management Trainees in December. The Department of Training and Placement, SASTRA Deemed University, said it will be conducting a six-day free training programme with food for IBPS aspirants falling in the category of physically challenged from Nov. 15 to 20. The training will be conducted at the SASTRA, Thirumalaisamudhram, and at Srinivasa Ramanujan Centre, Kumbakonam. Candidates who are eligible to appear for the IBPS examinations (eligibility and other criteria available atwww.ibps.in) and aspiring to avail the free training are requested to send their name, gender, age, date of birth, educational qualification, present occupation, type and percentage of disability, residential address to the Dean, Corporate Relations and Extension Activities, SASTRA Deemed University, Thanjavur – 613401 by post or mail the details to sage@sastra.ac.in on or before October 31, 2021 to register their names for the programme. They can also provide the details over phone by dialling 04362 – 264101 – 108, Extension 2211 within the due date. The SAGE is also conducting training for TNPSC, Banking and weekend coaching classes for the UPSC examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-physically-challenged-taking-up-ibps-exam/article37119101.ece
22 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Construction of domestic terminal begins at Thoothukudi airport||Construction of a domestic terminal and allied facilities began at the airport here on Thursday with bhumi puja performed by officials of Airports Authority of India. R. Madhavan, Regional Executive Director, AAI-Southern Region, Chennai, who visited the airport on Thursday to review the ongoing runway expansion and other development works, performed the puja to mark commencement of construction of the 10,800-sq m modern domestic terminal with three aerobridge and soothing interiors so as to achieve four-star rating, air traffic control tower-cum-technical block and fire station, all at a total cost of Rs. 195.32 crore. He also took a look at the newly acquired 600.97 acres for runway expansion, master plan, domestic terminal building plan and associated works and the floor plans showcasing ongoing development activities at the airport. He dedicated a renovated first aid room at the fire station. Mr. Madhavan said the new domestic terminal building and the allied facilities would bring more air routes, economic growth and employment opportunities to the region. He thanked forest officials for issuing mandatory wildlife clearances and nod for providing solar-powered aviation obstruction light atop Vallanadu hillock and thanked Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi for facilitating the clearances. Mr. Madhavan made a special mention about the role played by Collector K. Senthil Raj for obtaining ‘Consent to Operate’ and the environment clearances for the project from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. Special invitees Arvind Sharma, Deputy Inspector General, Indian Coast Guard, Ilangovan, Additional Superintendent of Police, Abhishek Thomar, District Forest Officer, A. Radhakrishnan Joint General Manager, Engineering - Civil Project (in-charge), and N. Subramanian, Airport Director, planted trees to mark the occasion. Under the first phase, AAI got 3C Instrument Flight Rules Licence for allowing landing of ATR72-type of 70-seater aircraft and approval for night landing facility up to June 19, 2023. Thoothukudi airport, which handles three daily Chennai flights and three weekly flights to Bengaluru, receives between 400 to 600 passengers every day. After widening of the runway from the existing 1,349 metres X 30 metres to 3,115 metres X 45 metres for handling wide-bodied aircraft, it would handle A-321-type aircraft once the project was completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-of-domestic-terminal-begins-at-thoothukudi-airport/article37119427.ece
22 October 2021||TIRUCHENDUR,TAMIL NADU||600 kg beedi leaves seized near Tiruchendur||A gang of beedi leaf smugglers from Alanthalai attacked policemen in plainclothes when they tried to nab them at Amali Nagar beach near here on Wednesday night. The gang members were loading beedi leaves in two boats when the incident took place. Since smuggling of turmeric, ganja and beedi leaves to Sri Lanka has increased in the recent past as these products fetch attractive prices in the island nation, police have intensified surveillance along the coastal areas of Thoothukudi district. When Q Branch police received information about smuggling of beedi leaves from Amali Nagar near Tiruchendur, a police team in plainclothes, led by Sub-Inspector J. Jeevamani Dharmaraj, went to the spot on Wednesday night. When they saw 20 people loading huge polythene bags on two fibreglass boats anchored at the beach, they inquired about the consignment pretending to be passers-by. The smugglers said they were loading beedi leaves packed in 50 bags to be smuggled to Sri Lanka on behalf of Raja of nearby coastal hamlet of Alanthalai. When the policeasked them to surrender, the gang members, carrying iron rods and other lethal weapons, tried to attack them. However, they managed to escape from the spot and alerted their higher-ups. In the meanwhile, the boats loaded with 1,275 kg of beedi leaves packed in 34 bags ventured into the sea at high speed as each boat had been fitted with two outboard engines. The gang members left behind 16 bags of beedi leaves, which were handed over to Tiruchendur Taluk police. The bags contained 600 kg of beedi leaves valued at Rs. 3 lakh. Tiruchendur Taluk police filed a case based on the complaint from Mr. Jeevamani Dharmaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/600-kg-beedi-leaves-seized-near-tiruchendur/article37119428.ece
22 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Has ‘Namma Toilet’ initiative gone down the drain?||The Namma Toilet complex set up near the SETC bus bay of the Central Bus Stand lies in shambles. The toilets installed in the bus stand area over five years ago were supposed to provide ‘toilets for all’, a solution to open urination. Namma Toilets, an initiative under the Swachh Bharat Mission saw 17 pre-fabricated structures installed at Srirangam, Ariyamangalam and Ponmalai zones of the Tiruchi Corporation. Its special features- solar-powered lights, modular designs, quality fittings and hassle-free usage attracted users. The project claims to eliminate open defecation, and emerge as an environment-friendly initiative that will ensure adequate water supply and use solar panels for lighting. However, the initiative has been rendered useless in various parts of the city, much like the public toilets it aimed to replace. The toilets at the Central Bus Stand have not been used in at least a couple of years, shopkeepers nearby say. The civic body is unable to maintain it and therefore had to close it. “Foul smell used to come from it all the time but with its closure the problem has solved. However, the water stagnant in front of it is unhygienic and could put us at risk,” a fruit seller said. The fittings, the door and even some of the lightings were stolen by miscreants, a seller added. Despite its quality features, the toilet complex required manpower to run. It requires people to be deputed to clean it on a regular basis and to guard it to avoid theft. Initially, the upkeep of the toilets was handed over to Self-Help Groups. However, they did not earn enough to sustain the services, a sanitation officer at the Tiruchi Corporation told The Hindu . Adjacent toilet complexes built by the civic body under the Smart Cities Mission too, are ill-kept for similar reasons. A senior official of the Tiruchi Corporation said that while the Namma Toilets may not be in use, the civic body's toilet complexes were better maintained. “We will take a report of the condition of the Namma Toilets and look into it,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/has-namma-toilet-initiative-gone-down-the-drain/article37119103.ece
22 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Festival rush has Shastri Road bursting at the seams||Once a quite residential neighbourhood, the Shastri Road that runs parallel to the Thillai Nagar Main Road in the city has now turned a teeming commercial locality and is facing several attendant problems, unregulated parking on the roadsides being the foremost. The road has witnessed swift commercial development in recent years along with the Karur By-pass Road which runs straight across. But most commercial establishments that have come up along the Shastri Road do not have any parking space for visitors. The parking space in basements in a few buildings is used by the owners or tenants. With the festival shopping season heading towards a peak after the pandemic induced lull, the traffic woes have turned worse as the road is literally bursting at its seams due to indiscriminate parking of vehicles, especially cars of customers visiting the slew of textile outlets, hotels, hospitals and banks situated along the road. The fairly broad road has been constricted due to unrestricted parking, often slowing down traffic and triggering traffic snarls. “The Shastri Road along with the Karur By-pass Road is a busy shopping area these days as the city’s main commercial centre around Rockfort has turned too congested. During peak hours, the entire road running a length of about a km is full of cars parked on either sides leaving very little space for manoeuvring for other motorists,” observed Ranjith, a commuter. Often police patrol vehicles, accompanied by a department tow truck, could often be seen criss-crossing the road advising shoppers against parking their vehicles along the roadsides. Although the police personnel announce that the parked vehicles would be issued ‘challans’ online for the violation, it hardly seems to be a deterrent. The Karur By-pass Road was widened and developed under the Smart City Mission in recent months and the Shastri Road too was also relaid end-to-end. But the roadsides markings for two-wheeler lanes are conveniently used as parking area. With mofussil buses and other vehicles headed towards Cantonment preferring to go via Shastri Road and the Anna Nagar Link Road, it is essential that the traffic police come with a plan to ease the congestion, residents say. “With corporation and city traffic police not willing to implement any measures to regulate the haphazard and undisciplined parking, the only solution left for the corporation would be to put the onus on the owners of commercial complexes and shops to regulate parking of vehicles of their customers,” observed P. Jude Armstrong, a resident. At present no attempt is made by the shopkeepers or commercial establishments to regulate the parking of vehicles by their customers. Imposing penalties on shops and complex owners would give immediate results, he suggested. Though the city police create temporary parking lots during the festival season near Main Guard Gate, no such facility is provided in Shastri Road or Thillai Nagar, regrets N. Jamaludeen, a consumer activist. People are being asked to park their vehicles on the Thillai Nagar cut roads, but they too are choc-a-block with parked vehicles, much to the chagrin of residents there. “Just as they do in Main Guard Gate area, the authorities should take steps to make at least temporary arrangements for shoppers to park their vehicles,” he said.  Just as they do in Main Guard Gate area, the authorities should take steps to make at least temporary arrangements for shoppers to park their vehicles N. Jamaludeen Consumer activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festival-rush-has-shastri-road-bursting-at-the-seams/article37119086.ece
22 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts continue to report dip in cases||The central region reported 174 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, reflecting a downward trend across most districts. Five deaths due to the viral infection were registered in the region. Thanjavur district continued to witness a dip in the number of COVID-19 cases. On Thursday, 55 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported 43 fresh cases of COVID-19. The other seven districts in the region reported less than 25 fresh cases. In Tiruvarur, 22 patients reported COVID-19 positive, while both Nagapattinam and Karur reported 15 each. Pudukottai district registered 10 cases, and Mayiladuthurai, eight. In Perambalur, four patients tested positive while Ariyalur district registered a marked dip in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases, the lowest in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-continue-to-report-dip-in-cases/article37119083.ece
22 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Minor bike rider fatally hits homeless man||A minor rammed a motorcycle on a man sleeping near Amma Mandapam road, killing him instantly. It was said that the victim, an unidentified man, would sleep there often. The incident occurred on Thursday afternoon when the minor, a 17-year-old boy was riding a two-wheeler and lost control, running over the man who was resting by the side of the road. “The man looked like he was around 45-years-old. A 108 ambulance was called and his body has been sent to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital,” a police official said. A case will be registered after further investigation. The police will also try to determine the identity of the man, they said. Since the person riding is a minor, his parents too, will be questioned, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minor-bike-rider-fatally-hits-homeless-man/article37119082.ece
22 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||World Sight Day celebrated||A human chain was organised by Joseph Eye Hospital along with the NSS Cell of Bharathidasan University, Rotary Clubs of Tiruchi Butterflies and Diamond City to commemorate the occasion of World Sight Day. Over 300 students from various colleges in the city took part in the event where ‘love your eyes’ was observed as the theme. D. Daniel Jeyaraj, Bishop, Tamil Evangelical Lutheran Church and Deputy Commissioner of Police, M. Sakthivel inaugurated the event and released balloons along with I. Jerald, Rotary District Governor to mark the occasion. The day is observed to draw attention to the importance of eye health. The aim of the initiative was to encourage the government, institutions and individuals to support universal access to eye health, the organisers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-sight-day-celebrated/article37119104.ece
22 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Pharmaceutical meet at VCRI||The fifth Pharmaceutical Meet of Veterinary College and Research Institute (VCRI) at Ramaiyanpatti was held here on Thursday. The meet, organised by the Department of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology for the benefit of final-year students, provided the much-needed platform to showcase their expertise on the subject and highlight the opportunities in drug industry. Final-year B.V.Sc. and Animal Husbandry students and faculties of VCRI participated in the meet in which 21 veterinary pharmaceutical companies displayed their products. Vice-president of Students’ Association and Professor and Head, Livestock Farm Complex, VCRI, S.C. Edwin, who presided over the function, emphasised the importance of modern drugs in the field of veterinary science and the job opportunities available for veterinary graduates in the pharmaceutical industry. He also distributed prizes to three toppers in Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology and prizes to the winners of ‘Pharma Quiz - 2021’ competition organised as part of the meet. Coordinator of Education Cell and Professor and Head of the Department of Animal Nutrition M. Chellapandian felicitated the winners and other participants. Assistant Professor and Head of the Department of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology V. Suresh Kumar welcomed the gathering and Assistant Professor of the Department of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology V. Ramakrishnan proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pharmaceutical-meet-at-vcri/article37119436.ece
22 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Police Commemoration Day observed in districts||The National Police Commemoration Day was observed in Tirunelveli district on Thursday. The day is observed on October 21 every year to commemorate the killing of 10 members of central forces at Hot Spring in Ladakh by the Chinese army, Tirunelveli City Police Commissioner N.K. Senthamaraikannan, Deputy Inspector General of Tirunelveli Range Praveen Kumar Abinapu, Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan, Deputy Commissioners T.P. Suresh Kumar and K. Suresh Kumar and other senior police officials placed wreaths at the memorial on Armed Reserve Police ground in Palayamkottai. Fifty-four rounds were fired in the air to pay tributes to 377 policemen who died in harness. In Thoothukudi, police officers led by Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar placed wreaths on the memorial column on Thoothukudi South Police Station premises. Additional Superintendents of Police Gopi, Karthikeyan and Ilangovan, ASP Harsh Singh and others placed wreaths. In Tenkasi, Superintendent of Police R. Krishnaraj and other senior police officers placed wreaths in the memorial and Superintendent of Police, Kanniyakumari, V. Badrinarayanan led the police officers in offering floral tributes to policemen who laid down their lives while discharging their duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-commemoration-day-observed-in-districts/article37119425.ece
22 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC bus stranded in subway rainwater||A Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation bus got stranded in a pool of stagnant rainwater in the subway at Valliyoor on Thursday. As incessant drizzle drenched Valliyoor since Thursday morning, rainwater got collected in the subway on Valliyoor - Radhapuram Road. Since the subway was built without proper structures to drain the rainwater getting collected there, it became a pool following the drizzle. Without sensing the danger, the driver of a TNSTC bus with 43 passengers coming from Radhapuram to Valliyoor entered the inundated subway. The muddy rainwater entered the bus as the vehicle was midway and the engine stopped forcing the crew and the passengers to abandon the bus. The bus was not retrieved till 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-bus-stranded-in-subway-rainwater/article37119429.ece
22 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||800 vaccination camps planned for tomorrow||With the target of administering over a lakh vaccines to uncovered people and those who are awaiting their second dose, the district administration has planned to organise 800 camps across the district on Saturday. According to Collector V. Vishnu, the mega COVID-19 vaccination camp to be held on Saturday, the sixth camp in this series, will be conducted at 600 places, including 61 mobile units, in rural Tirunelveli and in 200 places, including 100 mobile units, in the Corporation area. The objective of organising 800 camps is to cover over a lakh people since the district has set the target of administering vaccines to over 85% of the people above the age of 18 by October-end, he said. Appeal for cooperation Since the camps will be organised in most of the villages, even as the mobile vaccination units will be on the move with qualified medical personnel, the public should cooperate with the district administration to achieve the target. As vaccination is the only solution to protect everyone from COVID-19, people should cooperate with the officials and get vaccinated, Mr. Vishnu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/800-vaccination-camps-planned-for-tomorrow/article37119430.ece
22 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Taxi owners in Tiruppur demand payment of dues||A group of taxi owners and drivers from Avinashi staged a demonstration at the District Collectorate here on Thursday urging the administration to pay back the dues for hiring their vehicles for election duty during the State Assembly election earlier this year. R. Soundhira Raju, a tourist taxi driver in Avinashi for around five years, claimed that 67 taxis were roped in by the district administration in February for election duties from Avinashi taluk alone. The vehicles were handed over every day to the Avinashi taluk office when the Model Code of Conduct was in force from February 26 to April 6 and these were used by officials from the Flying Squad, Static Surveillance Teams and Video Surveillance Teams. “For my vehicle, the due amount is Rs. 19,750,” Mr. Raju claimed, adding that the district administration owes around Rs. 13.43 lakh for the 67 vehicles from Avinashi taluk alone. He added that nearly 10 drivers met District Collector S. Vineeth on Thursday to explain their financial situation particularly after the second COVID-19 wave and urged him to provide the pending amount at the earliest. Sources in the Revenue Department said Tiruppur district administration hired around 350 tourist taxis for election duty and the pending amount was almost Rs. 1 crore. This situation persisted in all districts and the State government was yet to sanction funds in this regard, which could then be used to pay back the taxi owners, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taxi-owners-in-tiruppur-demand-payment-of-dues/article37119554.ece
22 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 7 lakh beneficiaries for health insurance scheme’||Over seven lakh beneficiaries in Tiruppur district have received the identity cards under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS), said District Collector S. Vineeth. In a statement, he said 7,16,398 beneficiaries received the CMCHIS cards in the district. Between May 7 and October 10, a total of 7,226 patients received treatment worth Rs. 30.57 crore at various hospitals. A total of 36 hospitals in Tiruppur district provided treatment under CMCHIS to patients. This included the Government Medical College Hospital, Tiruppur and taluk hospitals at Dharapuram, Udumalpet, Kangeyam, Palladam, Avinashi, Madathukulam and Uthukuli along with 28 private hospitals. Those with an annual income of Rs. 72,000 shall visit the Collectorate with the necessary documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-7-lakh-beneficiaries-for-health-insurance-scheme/article37119553.ece
22 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur briefly||The State government must increase the bonus for government employees in the current financial year, urged former MLA and State president of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) A. Soundararajan. The bonus was slashed by the AIADMK government from 20% to 10% in sectors such as TNSTC, Aavin and Tangedco in the previous year, he told press persons on Wednesday. The government must ensure weekly off for women working in private garment companies in Tiruppur district, he added.   As part of the ‘Zero Waste Tiruppur’ project, the Tiruppur Corporation recently launched ‘Adopt a Neighbourhood’ initiative wherein NGOs adopt a locality to ensure that waste does not accumulate and the collected waste has been recycled. A release said the NGO Carbon Dynamix with the support of Madaan Foundation adopted 795 residences in Thiyagi Palanisamy Nagar in Zone-I, Ward No. 10 and 11. Members of the NGOs in the presence of Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati distributed garbage bins to 200 houses on October 12. This initiative aims at ensuring Zone-I of Tiruppur Corporation to be ‘zero waste’ in four months, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-briefly/article37119555.ece
22 October 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Bagging a goat in lucky draw||Goats have found a place in the list of prizes to be offered to the winners of the ‘Deepavali’ lucky draw to be conducted at a textile shop in Tiruvarur. Inclusion of the livestocks in the list has surprised the regular customers of this shop which used to organise lucky draw during ‘Deepavali’ season for more than five years until the business was hit due to COVID-19 pandemic. While four grams of gold is to be offered as the first prize to the winner of the lucky draw to be held on November 4, the winners of the next three places will get a goat, each, and the fifth prize will be shared by 25 winners as each of them will get a silk saree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bagging-a-goat-in-lucky-draw/article37119080.ece
22 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases reported in boarding schools across Nilgiris||A number of private residential and boarding schools in the Nilgiris have reported COVID-19 cases among students over the last month, revealed School Education Department officials. Recently, seven students at a boarding school in Udhagamandalam tested positive for COVID-19, leading to the school’s closure for a week, the officials said. A. Nasrudeen, Chief Education Officer (Nilgiris), said that over the last month, five boarding schools reported COVID-19 cases amid their student-body. “Schools in Udhagamandalam and Kotagiri have reported cases among students. Instructions were given to close the schools temporarily, while the Health Department tested all the students for COVID-19,” said Mr. Nasrudeen. Mr. Nasrudeen said more cases were being reported in boarding schools due to the close proximity that students shared. All protocols to contain the spread of COVID-19 among students were being followed by the schools. “The students, who tested positive, were all mostly asymptomatic and have been admitted to COVID-19 wards where they are recuperating,” the officials added. School education officials said all schools had been instructed to ensure that students maintained personal distancing norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19. All teachers and staff at the schools had been vaccinated, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-reported-in-boarding-schools-across-nilgiris/article37119566.ece
22 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Martyrs remembered||The Superintendents of Police (SPs) in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur led police personnel, retired officers and the public, including women and senior citizens in paying homage to police personnel who had died in the line of duty, on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day, on Thursday. According to a press release, S. Selvakumar, SP, Vellore, placed a wreath and paid his respects at the martyrs’ column at the Armed Reserve (AR) parade ground in the Fort Town. His counterpart in Tiruvannamalai, A. Pavan Kumar, witnessed the Armed Reserve Police personnel, who opened fire 120 times in the air to pay respect to their slain colleagues. At the AR parade ground, Deepa Satyan, SP (Ranipet), placed wreaths and paid her respects. In Tirupattur, the District Collector, Amar Kushwaha, joined with the district police force led by its SP, K. Balakrishnan, to pay their respects at the memorial that was erected for the martyrs in Jolarpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/martyrs-remembered/article37119442.ece
22 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Aavin launches new sweets for Deepavali||This Deepavali, Aavin has introduced a special range of sweets — Ghee laddu, badam halwa, dates khoa, milk cake and Mysorepa. These special sweets were launched by K. Ravikumar, general manager, Aavin (Vellore Region). According to a press release, apart from milk procurement centres in Vellore Region, which also includes Ranipet and Tirupatur, the sweets are available in Aavin parlours, temporary Aavin booths in these districts. A half kg pack of Mysorepa is priced at Rs. 230, while 250 grams of milk cake costs Rs. 120, dates khoa (250 grams) Rs. 120, 200 grams ghee laddu Rs. 120, 100 grams badam halwa Rs. 100. The Vellore District Cooperative Milk Producers Union Limited has taken special efforts to ensure quality of these special sweets for Deepavali celebrations, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-launches-new-sweets-for-deepavali/article37119440.ece
22 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 14 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,710 with 14 new cases reported on Thursday. While 48,376 people have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 205. The district's death toll is 1,129. In Ranipet district, 10 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,342. In Tirupattur district, 6 new cases were reported on Thursday, and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,230. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 18, taking the total to 54,789. Out of this, 53,906 have been discharged, and the number of active cases stands at 216.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-14-new-cases/article37119347.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 137 new cases||A total of 137 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The district had 1,488 active cases on Thursday, while 148 persons recovered. The toll increased to 2,392 after two more persons died of COVID-19. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.5 % on Wednesday. Tiruppur reported 73 fresh cases, taking the case tally to 94,669. The toll touched 972 following the reporting of one new death. The positivity rate based on Wednesday’s data was 1.5%. In the Nilgiris, 20 persons tested positive and the district’s tally stood at 33,343. The toll was 208 while 324 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-137-new-cases/article37119563.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||1.74 lakh formal jobs added in T.N. in August||Mr. Mishra said that with the fillip to digitisation, the information technology industry had expanded rapidly. The information technology services and business process management industries have been adding people quickly; so are fintech, edtech and healthtech companies. Good vaccination rate Tamil Nadu, as expected, has performed better than the other southern States, said K.E. Raghunathan, former national president of the All India Manufacturers Organisation and a member of the Central Board of Trustees of EPFO, representing employers. He attributed the performance to the good COVID-19 vaccination drive and improved activity in the services, export and manufacturing sectors. The increase in demand during the festival season, the execution of backlog orders and the shifting of employees from the informal sector to the formal sector are the other possible reasons, he said. Political stability and a visible thrust on industrial growth prompted the employers to expand workforce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/174-lakh-formal-jobs-added-in-tn-in-august/article37119125.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Session on ‘Challenges of Training Employees Virtually’, 11 a.m.  KG College of Arts and Science: Webinar on ‘Career Opportunities in Agribusiness’, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37119556.ece
22 October 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Jains protest||Members of various Jain community organisations took out a protest in Belagavi on Thursday against the alleged attempts to convert Jains into Christianity in Tigadolli village recently. They marched to the Deputy Commissioner’s office and submitted a memorandum. They alleged that Jains were being forced to convert into Christianity across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jains-protest/article37119184.ece
22 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sanjay Belgaonkar is BUDA chairman||BJP activist Sanjay Belgaonkar took charge as chairman of Belagavi Urban Development Authority (BUDA) in Belagavi on Thursday. He replaces Ghoolappa Hosmani. The new BUDA chairman told journalists that he would work for the all-round development of the city and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sanjay-belgaonkar-is-buda-chairman/article37119177.ece
22 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State better equipped to combat third wave, if it happens: Experts||With Karnataka having covered nearly 85% population with at least one dose and over 42% with both doses of COVID-19 vaccine, experts say the State is better equipped to tackle a third wave, if it were to hit. Although third wave was predicted in September-October, there is no sign of it as yet. While the first wave of infections ebbed in October 2020, the second wave began in mid-March 2021 and continued till early June, before tapering off. Current rate Experts said that at the current rate of vaccination, Karnataka should be able to cover at least 80% of the eligible population with both doses by December. “If our second dose coverage crosses at least 80% and if vaccination for children begins at the earliest, the intensity of a third wave, if it happens, will be very low as vaccinations will reduce hospitalisations and mortality,” said C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the state’s COVID-19 taskforce. He said the only glitch is the 84-day interval between two doses of Covishield. “If this is reduced, a majority of the population will be fully vaccinated and the government has to write to the centre regarding this,” he said. V. Ravi, member of the state’s COVID-19 TAC, said vaccination reduces disease severity and prevents death. “More importantly, it reduces hospitalisation and there is enough data to show this. One example is Kerala, which has the lowest mortality although the caseload is high,” he explained. However, it is important that the state sustains the momentum of vaccination. “Covering the remaining 15% of population that is yet to get the first dose will be a challenge as this group needs to be motivated,” he said. Dr. Ravi said the mistakes that led to the second wave should be avoided. “All social, political and religious congregations and crowding in closed spaces should be avoided. People should follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour for at least three months,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-better-equipped-to-combat-third-wave-if-it-happens-experts/article37119056.ece
22 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC upholds information commission’s fiat to CID||The High Court of Karnataka has upheld the State Information Commission’s direction to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the State to provide copies of ‘B’ report related to the investigation conducted into a suicide case, under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005. “In my view, the commission was absolutely justified in directing furnishing of ‘B’ report and its enclosures as sought for by respondent especially when the investigation in the matter had been concluded,” observed Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda while dismissing a petition filed by the Public Information Officer of the CID. The CID had questioned the commission’s March 18, 2021 direction to furnish the copies of the ‘B’ report along with enclosures to one Malleshappa M. Chikkeri of Dharwad, who had sought the copies of the investigation report and connected documents related to the case of death of his son. The commission had noticed that there was no prohibition to give information sought for by the father of the deceased since the investigation was already completed while pointing out that there is a bar for providing information under the RTI when the investigation is under progress and not completed. The contention of the counsel for the CID that it was open for the applicant before the commission to secure the ‘B’ report and its enclosures from the magistrate court concerned cannot be a ground to deny the information sought for under the RTI, the High Court made it clear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-upholds-information-commissions-fiat-to-cid/article37119067.ece
22 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Notice to govt. on appointment of BDA chief, members||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday ordered issue of notice to the State Government on a PIL petition questioning the manner of appointment of chairperson and members to the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) without framing rules or guidelines. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on the petition filed by Harisha A.S., a city-based advocate. The petitioner had contended that though Section 3 of the BDA Act, 1976, empowers the government to appoint persons to the posts of chairperson and members representing finance, engineering, town planning, architecture, women, SC/ST, labour, etc., there is no rules or guidelines framed to appoint or select persons. Not framing rules or guidelines and non-fixation of qualification for persons to be appointed to these posts, who together form the board of the BDA, has rendered the law ineffective leaving the process of appointment at the whims and fancies of the government sans any accountability, it was contended in the petition. The petitioner sought a stay on the operation of the government’s notification of November 24, 2020, appointing S.R. Vishwanath, MLA of Yelahanka constituency as chairperson of BDA, and making appointment to the posts of other whole-time members till the government frames rules or guidelines for selection and appointment to fill these posts. It was contended in the petition that framing of rules or guideline by fixing qualification and method of selection and appointment is essential as BDA is an expert body for city’s development and town planning on the lines of qualification fixed for appointing chairperson and members of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board in terms of the law laid down by the apex court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notice-to-govt-on-appointment-of-bda-chief-members/article37119062.ece
22 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nirani says many firms have offered to invest in Karnataka||Describing his recent visit to ‘Dubai Expo 2020’ as very fruitful, Large and Medium Industries MinisterMurugesh Nirani on Thursday said several reputed industrialists had come forward to make investments in the State and expressed hope that this would create more jobs. At a press conference here, the Minister said the state delegation that visited Dubai had succeeded in convincing several companies about the thriving business ecosystem and investor-friendly atmosphere in Karnataka. He said that LuLu group, Mubadala, KEF Holdings, Ducab, Electric Way, DP World, Aster Healthcare, Al Shamsi Travels, BLS International, United Park and Service, Export Bahrain, AIML, and Taghleef Industries were among those who had shown interest in investing in Karnataka. UAE-based Gulf Islamic Investment (GII) group had decided to open its office in Bengaluru and it would invest Rs. 3,500 crore in the next three years, the Minister added. “Investors have been expressing interest to invest in our State due to world-class infrastructure facilities,” he said. He said the State expected a huge flow of investments and creation of jobs when a global investors’ meet would be organised in Bengaluru in November 2022. Explaining the investment opportunities in the space sector, Mr. Nirani said the ‘Space Week’ at Dubai Expo from October 15 to 21 helped Karnataka to project itself as an ideal destination for investments in aerospace, defence, and space sectors and the huge opportunities in the State. ISRO and several start-ups in the space sector took part in the symposium at India Pavilion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-firms-have-offered-to-invest-in-karnataka-nirani/article37119069.ece
22 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP set to welcome primary school students||The BBMP is preparing to welcome students of classes I to V back to the classroom on Monday. Facilities in the 16 civic-run primary schools will be sanitised over the weekend. “Most children in BBMP-run education institutions belong to lower socio-economic groups. No online classes have been held since schools closed. The teachers interacted with children when they accompanied their parents to collect ration,” an education official said, and added that all teachers and non-teaching staff in BBMP schools were fully vaccinated. There are around 3,000 students in the 33 high schools in BBMP. The strength of students in classes I to V will be ascertained only after physical classes resume. Schools across the State are also set to open doors to students from classes I to V from Monday. While attendance to physical classes is not mandatory, classes will be held only for half-day from Monday to Friday. Full-day classes will resume on November 2. According to a circular issued by the Department of Public Instruction, classes should be held from 10 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. from Monday to Friday and from 8 a.m. to 11.40 a.m. on Saturday. From November 2, classes will be held from 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. and from 8 a.m. to 11.40 a.m. on Saturdays. Students attending physical classes must get a consent letter from their parents. Midday meals will resume for students in Classes 1-5 from November 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-set-to-welcome-primary-school-students/article37119058.ece
22 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown today||There will be disruption in power supply on Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in areas serviced from the 220/66/11KV HSR MUSS, in view of maintenance works. According to a release from BESCOM, the areas to be affected are: HSR Layout 1st to 5th Sectors, 7th Sector, 24th, 25th, 27th main road, Agara, ITI layout, M.M. Palya main road, Old M.M. Palya, Muneshwara Nagar, part of G.B. Palya, Hosur Main Road, Jakkasandra Extension, Koramangala 1st and 3rd blocks, Bommanahalli, Kudlu, Kaikondrahalli, Somasundarapalya, Hosapalya, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown-today/article37119063.ece
22 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man gets 20 years jail term for assaulting niece||The City Civil and Sessions Court, on Thursday, sentenced a 28-year-old man to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 after he was found guilty in a POCSO case. The man had sexually assaulted his seven-year-old niece during the school holidays in March 2017. The victim and her brother used to visit their father who was living with their uncle. The girl’s brother witnessed one of the assaults but his uncle threatened him. However, when they returned to their mother’s house, the girl narrated what had happened. Public prosecutor K.V. Ashwathnarayan argued the case. While pronouncing the quantum of punishment, the judge directed the district legal service authority to provide compensation of Rs. 4 lakh to the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-gets-20-years-jail-term-for-assaulting-niece/article37119070.ece
22 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||RSS national executive to be held in Dharwad from October 28||The all-India executive committee of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) will have a three-day meeting on the outskirts of Dharwad from October 28. RSS national president Mohan Bhagwat and national general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale will participate in the meeting to be held at Rashtrothana Vidya Kendra at Madhavanagar. About 350 delegates from all over the country will participate in the meeting, according to a press release. The meeting is said to be a follow-up action for the Akhil Bharatiya Prathinidhi Sabha (ABPS) that met in Bengaluru in March which finalised various programmes to be taken up by the organisation. The meeting in Dharwad would review the progress of these works and look into various issues such as extension of the organisation and training for the volunteers, among others, stated a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rss-national-executive-to-be-held-in-dharwad-from-october-28/article37119073.ece
22 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||150 ITIs upgraded by Tatas to start on Nov. 1||About 150 industrial training institutes (ITIs), which are being upgraded by Tata Technologies Ltd. (TTL) under UDYOGA programme, are ready to be inaugurated in two weeks. They will begin training of students with advanced courses from November 1, according to Higher Education and Skill Development Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. Addressing a press conference after inspecting an ITI at Peenya in Bengaluru on Thursday, the Minister said admissions to the advanced courses were in progress. The trades that had been permitted as part of the curriculum include Advanced CNC Machining, Basics of Design and Virtual Verification, Artisan Using Advanced Tools, Industrial Robotics and Digital Manufacturing, Manufacturing Process Control, and Automation and Mechanic Electric Vehicle, he said. The total cost of the project was Rs. 4,636 crore (State Government 12% and TTL 88%) and in addition to this, the Government was spending Rs. 220 crore for creation of new civil infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/150-itis-upgraded-by-tatas-to-start-on-nov-1/article37119306.ece
22 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ED attaches assets of former BWSSB official||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday attached assets amounting to Rs. 7.48 crore belonging to S.M. Basavaraju, retired chief engineer of Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. Assets attached included bank accounts, 3.41 kg of gold and diamond jewellery, as well as two residential sites, a commercial complex, and six residential flats in Bengaluru and Mysuru.  The ED had initiated a money laundering investigation on the basis of an FIR registered by the Lokayukta under Prevention of Corruption Act. As per the chargesheet filed in 2018, Basavaraju was in possession of disproportionate assets worth Rs. 4.45 crore in excess to income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ed-attaches-assets-of-former-bwssb-chief-engineer/article37119060.ece
22 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees 365 new cases||Karnataka on Thursday reported 365 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,84,849. Bengaluru Urban reported 210 cases and four deaths. With eight deaths, the toll rose to 37,984. As many as 443 persons were discharged on Thursday. The State now has 8,988 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.31%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 2.19%. As many as 1,17,713 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-365-new-cases/article37119057.ece
22 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deadline extended||The last date for submitting application for admission to PG courses at Bengaluru City University and its affiliated colleges for 2021-22 has been extended. The last date for submitting an application without fine is October 30 and with fine of Rs. 100 is November 6, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deadline-extended/article37119065.ece
22 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Bandh in Sringeri today||Residents of Sringeri are up in arms demanding a 100-bed super speciality hospital in the temple town. Keeping political affiliations aside, they have called for a bandh on Friday. Many people connected to the town have extended support for the protest through social media platforms. The town’s population is around 40,000. The residents of villages in the taluk and in neighbouring Koppa and N.R.Pura are dependant on the 30-bed taluk hospital in the town. However, the facilities at the hospital are insufficient to treat emergency cases. Naveen Karuvane, a leader of Raitha Sangha, told The Hindu that four months ago a woman of his village had consumed poison. With no facility in Sringeri, she was taken to McGann Hospital in Shivamogga. “The woman did not survive. The doctors who treated her said that it was too late by the time she reached the hospital. If she had been given proper treatment at Sringeri, she should have been alive”, he said. For many years the people have been demanding upgradation of the existing hospital and a new hospital in the town. If there is any health emergency, the people have to go to either Manipal or Shivamogga, both about 100 km from Sringeri.  Meanwhile, former Minister and political secretary to Chief Minister D.N. Jeevaraj, has said that the town had not got the hospital as Sringeri MLA T.D. Raje Gowda had been ‘inactive’. He also said he would get the hospital sanctioned if the MLA “admitted his failure”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bandh-in-sringeri-today/article37119296.ece
22 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Special vaccination drive today in Hassan district||Hassan district administration has set a target of administering COVID-19 vaccine to one lakh people as part of the special vaccination drive on Friday. Hassan Zilla Panchayat CEO B.A. Paramesh has appealed to the public to join hands with the administration to make the drive a success. The officer, on Thursday, held a video conference with taluk-level officers on the preparations for the drive. The State Government had set the target of covering 30 lakh people on the day. The officer had to identify those people not yet vaccinated and bring them to the vaccination centre. He instructed the panchayat officials to make arrangements for the drive. If necessary the officers should visit residences and bring people for vaccination. Assistant Commissioner B.A. Jagadish and others were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-vaccination-drive-today-in-hassan-district/article37119297.ece
22 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain in Chikkamagaluru||Several parts of Chikkamagaluru and Hassan districts received moderate to heavy rains on Wednesday night. Heavy rains in Chikkamagaluru taluk left many roads damaged. Landslips were noticed along the road that connects Bababudangiri and Mullayyangiri in the taluk. The travellers on the road find it risky to cover the stretch. Parts of Mudigere and Chikkamaglauru continued to receive heavy rains on Thursday as well. The travellers on Charmadi Ghat had a tough time negotiating the narrow road in the stretch. The residents of Kottigehara, Banakal, Baluru and other parts of Mudigere taluk were badly hit. The continuous downpour has disappointed the coffee growers. They are worried about losing the yield. The district recorded an average rainfall of 15.7 mm rainfall against the normal of 5.9 mm. The highest of 95.5 mm was recorded at Sri Guru Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah in Chikkamagaluru taluk. In Hassan, parts of Channarayapatna and Arsikere taluks received heavy rainfall. Anathi in Channaraypatna taluk recorded the highest rainfall of 57 mm. The district recorded an average of 17 mm against the normal of 5.3 mm According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, parts of Hassan, Shivamogga, and Chikkamagaluru are likely to receive light to heavy rains on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rains-lash-chikkamagaluru-dist/article37119295.ece
22 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Byelections: Leaders talk of restraint, but tirades continue||With bypoll fever escalating in Hangal and Sindgi Assembly constituencies in north Karnataka, there was much talk by political leaders about restraint in public comments. The who’s who of all political parties are currently camping in north Karnataka and the last few days have seen them making personal attacks on each other. During his campaign in villages of Hangal segment, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he would not respond to comments by Congress leaders. He said the BJP would register victory in both the segments by “winning over the hearts of the people” without indulging in any arguments and focusing only on what his government had done. Moments later, he mocked Congress leaders, particularly the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s concern for north Karnataka citing the example of the delayed start of government medical college in Haveri. He went on to mock KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar for his allegation on use of money power.  ‘Exposing BJP’ Mr. Shivakumar, who is campaigning in the same constituency, said he would not make comments on individuals as senior political leaders have held constitutional positions earlier. He said stress during the campaign was on exposing the BJP’s false claims on disbursement of compensation and other unkept promises. And focus was also on highlighting the good work done by the Congress and its candidate. Meanwhile, Mr. Siddaramaiah continued his tirade against BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel calling him a “joker” for his earlier controversial remarks on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. He said when there were no real issues to debate, such derogatory remarks surface. ‘Rs. 2,000 per vote’ Mr. Siddaramaiah also alleged that there were reports about the BJP using money power to win the elections. “There are reports that the BJP is pumping in lot of money to win the elections and paying Rs. 2,000 per vote,” he said. He said the BJP had made several promises to various communities, which remained unfulfilled and it was the right time for people to register their dissent by voting against the party as it had made their life miserable. Yet again, Mr. Siddaramaiah questioned the secular credentials of the Janata Dal (Secular) and said it warned that the party would ultimately join hands with the BJP. Campaigning in Sindgi, the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy accused the BJP government of making money by allowing betting rackets to run. Attacking Mr. Siddaramaiah, Mr. Kumaraswamy said he did not require any certificate from the latter on the secular credentials of the JD(S).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/byelections-leaders-talk-of-restraint-but-tirades-continue/article37119305.ece
22 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Villagers oppose water meters||Opposing the installation of fare meters for water supply connections in rural areas, residents, led by women, took out a protest march in Tegur village of Dharwad taluk on Thursday. Taking out the protest march under the aegis of Raitha Krishikarmika Sanghatane (RKS), the village residents, led by women, marched through the village raising slogans like “water is not a commercial commodity”, among others. They then staged a demonstration in front of the gram panchayat office and said that it was the responsibility of the government to come out with policies and projects that benefited the people. However, the government has been further burdening the poor by levying various kinds of taxes, they said. They said that the BJP came to power promising Acche Din and instead, it has the given worst days as prices of every essential commodity have gone up, along with fuel prices. Addressing the protestors, sanghatane office-bearer Lakshman Jadagannavar said that by installing water meters for household water supply connections, the government is looting the people. A natural resource like water has been converted into a commercial commodity by the government, which is now selling it to the people. People should come out strongly opposing such moves. Otherwise, the government will continue to loot the people through other plans, he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/villagers-oppose-water-meters/article37119182.ece
22 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Get vaccinated, win prizes||The Dharwad district administration will hold a special vaccination drive from October 22 to 29 and will reward lucky people with prizes, including cash prizes, gift items and food kits. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil made an announcement about the special drive and prizes during a meeting of the Health Task Force, which he chaired in Dharwad on Wednesday. He said that those who receive vaccine shots between October 22 and 29 would stand a chance to win exciting prizes. Mr. Patil said that some people had refrained from getting vaccine shots out of fear caused by misconceptions and misinformation. “Such people have not only abstained from getting vaccinated but also prevented their family members from doing so,” he said. To encourage people to get vaccinated, some donors have come forward to sponsor prizes and gifts to the lucky people who get vaccinated. Swarna Group managing director V.S.V. Prasad has donated Rs. 1 lakh, which will be distributed among 100 lucky winners. Similarly, Gujarath Samaj and Chinmay Seva trust has donated 200 pressure cookers, while Jitendra Majethia Foundation has donated 100 food kits.  Some people have refrained from getting vaccine shots out of fear caused by certain misconceptions. Some of them have also stopped their family members [from getting the jab] Nitesh Patil, Deputy Commissioner, Dharwad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/get-vaccinated-win-prizes/article37119187.ece
22 October 2021||Hubballi/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRP, retired police personnel to help train women in self-defence||Steps are being taken to provide special training in self-defence to young women with the help of the Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) and former police officials of police training schools, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said. After participating in the Police Commemoration Day programme in Hubballi on Thursday, Mr. Bommai said although self-defence training programme was designed last year, it could not be launched because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Now that colleges had reopened, the training programme would be initiated, he said. The Chief Minister said the KSRP had been roped in to design the programme and this apart the experience of retired officials from police training schools was also being utilised. In Bengaluru, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra paid tributes to the martyred police personnel. He said the priority of the Government was to ensure the welfare of police personnel and development of the Police Department. As many as 123 police personnel died due to COVID-19 infection during 2020-21 while 16 others died in the line of duty, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrp-retired-police-personnel-to-help-train-women-in-self-defence/article37119308.ece
22 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Priyank hits back after Kateel comment||Taking serious exception to Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel calling Congress leader Rahul Gandhi a “drug peddler”, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesman Priyank Kharge on Thursday said that Mr. Kateel must be suffering from “some kind of mental illness” and offered him free counselling from his party. Addressing a media conference at the local Congress office here, Mr. Kharge also expressed suspecion that Mr. Kateel was “consuming drugs” to satisfy his frustration caused by the little or no importance being given to him in the media and in his party when compared to other leaders in the party such as Basanagouda Patil Yatnal. “Mr. Kateel appears to be frustrated as he is ignored in the media and his party despite being the chief of the State unit of a national party. Former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, and MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal have overshadowed him. Frustrated people can go to any extremes, including consuming alcohol and drugs. I hope Mr. Kateel is not consuming them. But the way he unleashes baseless and cheap personal attacks on Congress leaders sometimes makes me suspect him of doing so. If that is the case, the Congress is always ready to help him by offering free psychiatric counselling as he may not get it in his party. I request him to make use of the offer instead of taking this and that. For, we shouldn’t neglect mental disorders,” Mr. Kharge said. Presenting substantial media reports and official information on the involvement of BJP associates in drug smuggling cases across the country and the admissions of government departments on the increase of drug smuggling and abuse in the recent past, Mr. Kharge claimed that smuggling and abuse of drugs had “phenomenally risen under BJP rule”. Mr. Kharge also urged Mr. Kateel to give constructive criticisms on policies and ideologies instead of indulging in cheap personal attacks for publicity. “If Mr. Kateel continues to his personal attacks against Congress leaders, we too are ready to hit back at BJP leaders with similar attacks. BJP leaders will have to be ready to get the counter-attack,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/priyank-hits-back-after-kateel-comment/article37119186.ece
22 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Three Bidar PHCs bag quality certification||Of the five Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the State that received the Union Government’s quality certification for offering quality services to people, three are in Bidar district. As per information provided by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the PHC in Chintaki in the district bagged the quality certification by meeting all criteria. And, PHCs in Dhannura (S) and Kushnoor (T) villages were given the certification with conditionality by meeting four of the five criteria. As per information shared by the Bidar district administration, National Quality Assurance Standard (NQAS) was implemented by Central Quality Supervisory Committee at the national level, State Quality Assurance Committee at the State level and the District Quality Assurance Committee at the district level. The PHCs were assessed in August under eight areas of concern — service provision, patient rights, inputs, support services, clinical care, infection control, quality management and outcome. Each facility had to pass through internal, district level and the State level assessments before going to the national level assessments. At each level, a facility had to score more than 70% to go to the next level. As many as 19 departments in district hospitals, 17 departments in taluk hospitals, 12 departments in Community Health Centres, six departments in Primary Health Centres, 12 departments in Urban Primary Health Centre and 12 departments in Health and Wellness Centre were subjected to quality assessment. “I thank all the officials and other stakeholders, especially District Health and Family Welfare Officer, whose efforts made it possible,” Bidar Deputy Commissioner Ramachandran R., who is also the head of the District Quality Assurance Committee, told The Hindu . The district administration felicitated doctors Gayathri, Devaki Nagure and Faisal, heads of Chinthaki, Dhannura (S) and Kushnoor (T) PHCs, respectively, for their efforts. The other medical facilities that have obtained the certification are Doddashivara PHC in Kolar district and Ginigera PHC in Koppal district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-bidar-phcs-bag-quality-certification/article37119179.ece
22 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Police are the backbone of district administration’||Lauding the continued support of the police extended to the district administration in tackling COVID-19 and in other essential tasks, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said here on Thursday that the police force in the district has remained the backbone of the district administration. Speaking on the Police Commemoration Day, Dr. Rajendra said that policemen were actively involved with the district administration in ensuring the effective implementation of lockdown norms. They also worked to shift COVID-19 patients to health care facilities and stood guard at these facilities. The district administration is now using the services of the police for administration of COVID-19 vaccine. Dr. Rajendra said that the police have been the first responders to any emergency situation in the district. They are keeping their personal problems aside and are working with the district administration for the progress of the district. The law and order in the district is fine because of effective policing, he said. Earlier, Dr. Rajendra laid a wreath at the Police Memorial on the City Armed Reserve Grounds. Among those who laid the wreath included Nalini Nayak, wife of Narayan Nayak, Assistant Sub-Inspector in the City Traffic Police, who died in March following an injury that he sustained in a motor vehicle accident while on duty. Among others who paid tributes include Inspector-General of Police (Western Range) Devajyoti Ray, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar, Commandant Coast Guards Headquarters (Karnataka) S.B. Venkatesh, Deputy Commissioners of Police Hariram Shankar and B.P. Dinesh Kumar and Home Guards Commandant Muralee Mohan Choontharu. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane read out the names of the 377 police and paramilitary personnel, including 16 from the State, who laid down their lives while on duty last year. In Udupi, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao, Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan, Additional Superintendent of Police Kumarachandra and other officials took part in the Police Commemoration Day programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-are-the-backbone-of-district-administration/article37119632.ece
22 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Study session held on Synodal process||As the first phase of Pope Francis’ ‘Synod on Synodality’ begins at the diocesan levels, the Diocese of Mangaluru organised a study session on the Synodal process, coinciding with the golden jubilee celebration of Diocesan Pastoral Council (DPC) at Our Lady of Immaculate Conception Church, Urwa, here on Thursday. Parish priest of Bejai John Baptist Saldanha spoke on ‘Synod on Synodality: A New Way of Being a Church’. Bishop of Mangaluru Peter Paul Saldanha presented the different nuances of Synodality. The former secretary of DPC and advocate M.P. Noronha spoke on the challenges in the process of synod. The study session was held to commence the process of “walking together” at the individual parish level. Hence, all parish priests, parish vice-presidents, diocesan clergy, religious heads of all men and women congregations and all members of DPC were present. Accordingly, the consultation and discussion in parishes and institutions will be held during November and December, said diocesan contact person for the synod Joseph Martis. A printed guide book on the synodal process containing a questionnaire for consultation and discussions was given to all participants. The half-a-study session on synodality was concluded with the Holy Eucharistic Mass marking the opening of the 50th anniversary of DPC. The council is an organisation consisting of laity, religious, deacons and priests assisting the Bishop in his pastoral work in the diocese. This council was formed in the diocese in 1971.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/study-session-held-on-synodal-process/article37119634.ece
22 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Top nursing certification for Kasturba Hospital||Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, has received the certification of nursing excellence from the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers, Quality Council of India. Pro Chancellor, MAHE, Manipal, H.S. Ballal, handed over the certificate to Suba Sooria, head of Nursing Services at Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Ballal said it was a remarkable achievement on the part of the hospital. He added that nurses play a crucial role in delivering healthcare to patients. The certification is granted for providing facilities such aspatient care, patient education and awareness, nursing resource management, quality of nursing care, communication and guidance and infection control practices, a hospital release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/top-nursing-certification-for-kasturba-hospital/article37119636.ece
22 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||DYFI protests over state of rail overbridge road||Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activists staged a demonstration at Kulai Gudda on Thursday urging the authorities to repair the Kana-Kulai rail overbridge road. Speaking on the occasion, DYFI State president Muneer Katipalla said that the movement of heavily loaded vehicles has made the overbridge non-motorable. Electedrepresentatives are not bothered to get the bridge road repaired. He said that if the bridge road is not repaired in another fortnight, the DYFI would lay siege to the zonal office of Mangaluru City Corporation at Surathkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dyfi-protests-over-state-of-rail-overbridge-road/article37119637.ece
22 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Konkan Railway launches digital payment facility||Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) has now tied up with the State Bank of India (SBI) to do away with the system of Train Ticket Examiners (TTEs) collecting cash from passengers. Handsets used by TTEs are now loaded with the bank’s YONO Merchant App. With this, they are authorised to accept digital payment through QR code generated in the YONO App, instead of collecting cash from passengers towards excess fare ticket. QR code Passengers will be requested to scan the QR code and make payment through any of the digital modes, BHIM, Paytm, Google Pay or PhonePe. On successful transaction, excess fare ticket will be issued to passengers on trains itself. The use of this application will reduce cash handling by TTEs, a press release from KRCL said. KRCL launched the application on Wednesday at a function in Ratnagiri in the presence of Director (Finance) Rajesh Bhadang, Chief Commercial Manager L.K. Verma and others, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/konkan-railway-launches-digital-payment-facility/article37119626.ece
22 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NCC camp begins||The 10-day annual training camp of the 06 Karnataka Air Squadron NCC, a unit of Group Headquarters, Mangaluru, began at St. Joseph Engineering College here on Wednesday. The camp is led by Camp Commandant Wg Cdr Chandan Garg, a release from the college said. The camp is intended to provide military training to cadets till October 29. The training is held from 5.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.. The activities include physical exercise, drill, weapon training, firing, theory classes on NCC subjects and aviation. A cadet is expected to obtain overall personality development at the end of the training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ncc-camp-begins/article37119630.ece
22 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Restart self-defence training for girls, says AAP||With increasing incidents of crime against women, there is an urgent need to restart the self-defence classes for schoolgirls that were stopped because of government apathy, said Malavika Gubbivani, district president of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Addressing presspersons here recently, Ms. Gubbivani claimed that girl students of Class IX in all government schools had been given judo, karate, and taeniodont training under the self-defence training programme since 2013. The classes were held twice a week with a total of 24-hour training over a three-month period. However, they were stopped in 2017 because of government apathy. The Chief Minister and the Minister for Primary and Secondary Education must immediately restart the initiative, she said. “The training builds confidence in girls and prepares them mentally to face adverse situations. Karate also helps them achieve more in life at the state and national levels. Currently, in the pandemic times, most of these martial arts instructors are struggling to make their ends meet, so starting such classes will help them to earn a livelihood too. Instead of spending thousands of crores on unwanted projects, the government can spend about Rs. 4 crore to Rs. 5 crore on this training,” she said. Ms. Gubbivani said Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has been repeatedly congratulating himself for cracking the gang-rape case, but it was only after pressure from citizens and many organisations in Mysuru that the case was solved. “From January 2018 till July 2021, there have been 1,759 rape cases, including 307 cases reported in the first seven months of this year alone, in the State. However, only six perpetrators have been punished so far. Only due to the inability of the investigating agencies to gather evidence, the culprits are yet to be punished,” she said in a press release. “The Home Minister has been citing one incident even though several cases of crime against women are unsolved. Instead of paying lip sympathy, there is a need to improve the system of crime prevention, investigation and conviction. The whole system needs overhauling,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restart-self-defence-training-for-girls-says-aap/article37119301.ece
22 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tiger injured by elephant in Bandipur tranquillised||A tiger which was found injured in the tourism zone of Bandipur National Park was tranquillised and captured on Thursday. The animal is around eight years. A preliminary assessment of the wounds indicated that it was injured by an elephant in a fight. It was first noticed by forest guards in the Ganjikatte forest area on Wednesday and was in an emaciated state unable to move fast. Camera traps were installed to monitor its movements and whether the tiger could regain its strength and recover from injuries on its own. ‘Unable to hunt’ But on observation it transpired that the tiger was also unable to hunt and was sinking and hence permission was sought for its capture and treatment. A committee of senior officials was constituted and the tiger was first tranquillised and subsequently shifted to a cage and the park veterinarians administered antibiotics and other medicines to enable its recovery. The protocols stipulated by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) were followed. S.R. Natesh, Field Director, Bandipur Tiger Reserve, said the animal was responding well to treatment but it had been decided to shift it to Mysuru and monitor it on a continuous basis. Senior officials of Bandipur Tiger Reserve, Wildlife Warden Krithika Alanahalli, and others were present. Officials say conflict between tiger and elephant – though rare – does take place and there are instances when the elephant calves have been preyed by tigers. But by and large the adults tend to steer clear of each other’s path, respecting their respective strengths. In this case, they also speculate that the tiger may have been ejected out of its territory by another tiger in a territorial fight and subsequently may have been gored by an elephant when it tried to prey on a calf in a herd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tiger-injured-by-elephant-tranquillised/article37119072.ece
22 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||UoM Journalism Dept. to get its own premises||The PG Department of Journalism and Mass Communication of the University of Mysore will soon have its own premises on the Manasagangotri campus. This was stated byVice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar here on Thursday during the centenary celebrations of the doyen of journalism education Nadig Krishna Murthy who was instrumental in establishing the PG department at the varsity. The Vice-Chancellor said it is a strange and happy coincidence that the golden jubilee of the department and the centenary year of Prof. Nadig Krishna Murthy were being celebrated in the same year. The new premises will be inaugurated in due course and will also be befitting tribute to the pioneers of media and journalism education. All these decades the department was functioning from the Humanities Block but the Vice-Chancellor said being a specialised subject and field, it should have its own premises. The new facility will give a fillip to the field of journalism education introduced by Prof. Nadig Krishna Murthy. The Vice-Chancellor also said that the PhD thesis of Prof. Nadig Krishna Murthy on History of Indian Journalism will be published by the varsity. Speaking on the efforts put by Nadig Krishna Murthy to start the course, he said it was nothing short of a revolution in those days when there was a general perception that journalism cannot be taught and journalists are born and not made. Despite repeated setbacks, Prof.Nadig Krishna Murthy persisted with his efforts which finally culminated in the establishment of the PG department in Journalism in 1971, according to Prof. Hemantha Kumar. The centenary celebration event was jointly organised by the University of Mysore, Karnataka Madhyama Academy and Mysuru District Journalists Association. The daughters of Nadig Krishna Murthy, Kripa and Vijayalakshmi, were felicitated on the occasion. K.V. Nagaraj, former Pro Vice-Chancellor, Assam University, and one of the students of Nadig Krishna Murthy, recalled his teacher’s efforts in establishing the journalism department and the changes that have taken place in the field. Prof. Nagaraj said despite journalism being a specialised subject it was yet to be recognised as a professional course by the University Grants Commission. He also cautioned at the modern-day trends in the field including citizens’ journalism and said there was no way of authenticating and verifying the content or holding individuals accountable. A journalist should be socially responsible but corporatisation of media has resulted in dilution of social values and responsibilities while the emphasis on visual element and video was leading to textual illiteracy, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uom-journalism-dept-to-get-its-own-premises/article37119299.ece
22 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||50,000 to be vaccinated in Yadgir today||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has said that the district administration has set a target to vaccinate 50,000 people during the Vaccination Drive on Friday. She was speaking at a preliminary meeting on vaccination in Yadgir on Thursday. “Vaccination will be organised in Primary Health Centres, Community Health Centres, Sub Health Centres and gram panchayats and the target is to administer 50,000 doses. Executive officers of taluk panchayats and tahsildars should conduct meetings with teams deployed for the purpose,” Dr. Ragapriya said. She said that officers should extend coordination to other officers in reaching the target. She added that the target for Urban Health Centres is 7,500 doses, for Primary Health Centres that could not do well in the last drive, 1,500 doses and for other Primary Health Centres, it is 1,000 doses each. The Deputy Commissioner said that vehicles will be arranged to take people from their destination to the vaccination centres. All amenities, including drinking water, will be made available for people at these centres. The drive will commence at 6 a.m. and continue till the target is reached. Anganwadi workers, teachers, panchayat development officers, staff of the Health Department and ASHAs should work to reach the target and ensure that entries of data on percentage of vaccination are made properly, Dr. Ragapriya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/50000-to-be-vaccinated-in-yadgir-today/article37119180.ece
22 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Rain batters paddy farmers in Kuttanad||Thajudeen U.N., a paddy farmer from Champakulam in Kuttanad, had suffered huge losses in recent years as a result of crop losses due to heavy downpours and floods. This year, he has cultivated paddy (additional/second crop season) at the 223-acre Nattayam paddy polder under the Champakulam Krishi Bhavan with an aim to recoup some of the losses of the previous years. Good yield However, heavy rain that lashed the region in recent days and subsequent flooding have now cast a dark cloud over getting a good yield. The almost ready-to-harvest paddy crop at the polder, surrounded by knee-deep water, remains flattened. As the harvest is set to be delayed due to waterlogging, farmers and padasekhara samithi members are trying hard to avoid a catastrophic loss by placing some 9,000 soil and gravel-filled bags around the polder to prevent bund breach and to check floodwaters from entering the field. Excess water from the field is being pumped out. “If we take the last four years, the outer bund of the polder had breached three times. This year too we are in a touch-and-go situation. The crops are ready for harvest. A breach in the outer bund at this juncture will be calamitous. The rain has already flattened the crops and there is water in the field. Although the hope of a good yield has been dashed, preventing bund breach would avoid a cumulative loss,” says Mr. Thajudeen. Vipin Babu, secretary, Nattayam padasekhara samithi, says the harvest, which was originally scheduled to take place early next week, would now be held in November. “Harvester machines could not be deployed in the field as it will get stuck. The most important thing at this juncture is to prevent bund breach. A further rise in water level will take things out of our hands,” Mr. Babu says. While the hard work and money of 165 farmers are at stake at Nattayam, a large number of farmers in the region have already suffered huge losses as a result of downpours and waterlogging. Outer bunds of around 30 paddy polders in the district, most of them in Upper Kuttanad and Kuttanad, have breached so far. Bunds of a number of fields with standing crops, like Nattayam, and those being prepared for the puncha (first) crop season are facing the threat of breaching. According to the preliminary assessment by the Agriculture Department, paddy cultivation in 538.60 ha. and paddy nursery in 141.30 ha, have been destroyed. The total loss is estimated at Rs. 10.19 crore. Other crops Apart from the rice cultivation, farmers growing banana, vegetables, tuber crops and so on have suffered losses. The preliminary assessment put the overall crop loss in the district at Rs. 27.02 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-batters-paddy-farmers-in-kuttanad/article37119245.ece
22 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level increases in Idukki dam||Despite the opening of the shutters of the Cheruthoni dam of the Idukki reservoir, water level in the reservoir increased on Thursday due to high inflow through the Periyar. The water level at 5 p.m. was 2,398.24 ft. The level had dropped to 2,398.10 ft at 9 p.m. on Wednesday following the opening of the three shutters by 0.34 metres on Tuesday. An official of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) said on Thursday that there was 94.42% storage and the spillway discharge was 0.378 mcm (million cubic metres) per hour. While the gross inflow per hour was 1.361 mcm, the discharge of water for power generation at the Moolamattom power plant was 0.421 mcm. At orange-alert level The official said that as the new rule curve came into effect on Thursday morning, the water level was at the orange-alert level. The power generation on Wednesday was 14.86 million units.As per the new rule curve level fixed by the Central Water Commission (CWC), the orange alert level is 2,398.31 ft and the upper rule curve is 2,399.31 ft. The official said that the water was likely to reach the red alert level on Thursday night. As per the decision of the high power rule committee, the water discharge through the gates would continue at the same volume. No decision on increasing the discharge would be taken during the night. He said inflow suddenly increased when there was rainfall and then subsided. A decision on whether to increase the volume of water discharge would be taken on Friday morning after analysing the inflow and the rule curve level in addition to the India Meteorological Department predictions on rainfall. In Mullaperiyar The water in level in the Mullaperiyar dam reached 135.10 ft at 5 p.m. on Thursday. There was an inflow of 3,680 cfs and Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 1,867 cfs. The maximum water level is 142 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-increases-in-idukki-dam/article37119247.ece
22 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad ryot found dead||Gopalan Chetty, 70, a farmer from Veetoiyodu house at Appalam, near Vaduvanchal, was found hanging inside a shed attached to his house on Thursday. His relatives said he could not repay debts owing to loss in plantain cultivation. He is survived by his wife Parvathy. (Suicide prevention helpline Disha - 1056, 0471-2552056).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-ryot-found-dead/article37119284.ece
22 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Body of missing youth found||The body of a youth, who had gone missing in the Valiyavattom rivulet at Pambumkuni near Madakkara in the district a day ago, was retrieved on Thursday evening. The deceased was identified as Vinod, 30, of Pambumkuni at Madakkara near Sulthan Bathery. He had gone missing on Wednesday night while he was returning to his hamlet from Madakkara. Two riders had seen the youth fall into the rivulet near the Valiyavattom bridge around 8.30 p.m. on Wednesday. The police and fire personnel soon initiated a search operation, but it had to be called off due to bad light. The body was retrieved by members of Thurki Life Rescue organisation on Thursday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/body-of-missing-youth-found/article37119207.ece
22 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Action plan on climate change remains without revision||The State is yet to put its act together regarding the preparation of the State Action Plan on Climate Change (SAPCC) even as it is reeling under the impact of extreme climate events, including heavy rain, flooding and landslips. It was in 2014 that the State Department of Environment and Climate Change (DoECC) came out with the SAPCC along the lines of the National Action Plan for Climate Change. Though the update of the document was taken up three years later, it lost steam. The lack of patronage from successive Governments is attributed to be the key reason for the delay in updating the document. The last three years witnessed six IAS officers being posted and shunted out of the DoECC as its directors. Those who headed the department were also overburdened with other responsibilities. It was in 2016 that one officer was given the first independent charge of the DoECC, said those familiar with the developments. According to Padma Mahanti, former director, the revision of the SAPCC was taken up in 2017 with the support of the Action for Climate Today under the Department of International Development. Three additional sectors of women, children and disability were incorporated in the plan documents for the first time in the country, she said. Besides sector-wise discussions with various stakeholders, the department had tried the Financial Framework for State Action Plan on Climate Change with various State departments to promote climate proof financial planning, said Ms. Mahanti. The department lost much time as it had to rework on the document in tune with the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change in 2019, said an official. By March 2022 Suneel Pamidy, Director, DoECC, said the document would be ready by March 2022. Currently, the department is in the process of discussing the climate vulnerability aspects with various stakeholders. Though the document is not binding on Government agencies and line departments, it is expected to guide them to plan climate-resilient projects and mitigation steps, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-plan-on-climate-change-remains-without-revision/article37119277.ece
22 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Council to take a call on corpn. building, electric autorickshaws||The civic administration will seek the clearance of the Kochi Corporation council for completing the work on its much-delayed office complex coming up at Marine Drive. The administration has included the seven major components of the finishing works of the building in the agenda to be considered on Friday. The quotations finalised regarding the installation of firefighting system, alteration works to be carried out in the existing structure, partitions using aerated solid block partitions, laying of flooring using tiles, plumbing and ceiling works will come up for the consideration of the council. The interior works to be carried out on the six floors of the new building and the setting up of six lifts also have been included in the agenda. The estimates of these works were earlier approved by the Works Standing Committee of the Kochi Corporation. The civic administration has sought the cooperation of a three-member panel, which includes the representatives of the Indian Institute of Architects, to scrutinise the layout and specifications of the works proposed by the architects of the firm which won the bid for executing the works. The service of a green building consultant will also be available for the Kochi Corporation to claim green certification for the building. Mayor M. Anilkumar had earlier indicated that it would require another Rs. 40 crore for the project to be completed. The civic administration hopes to inaugurate the building during Onam days next year. e-autos The council will also consider a draft financing agreement for receiving financial aid from German agency Deutsch Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit for the shared-electric auto project in Kochi. The agency has offered a financial aid of around Rs. 1 crore for the project. The funds would be used for providing subsidies for the purchase of electric autorickshaws. The German agency has forwarded the agreement signed by its representative to the Kochi Corporation. The corporation council had earlier approved the Joint Declaration of Intent between the civic body and the Ernakulam District Autorickshaw Drivers Cooperative Society for implementing the project. As many as 100 electric autorickshaws will be purchased by the society under the programme to be operated in the city. State and Central governments, the Kochi Corporation and the UN-Habitat will financially support the society for the purchase of the vehicles. Funds will also be utilised for training drivers, setting up electric charging points, vehicle stands and putting up signage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/council-to-take-a-call-on-corpn-building-electric-autorickshaws/article37119605.ece
22 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Man receives soap instead of iPhone, police help him get refund||When the parcel from an e-commerce platform landed at his doorstep, young Nooral Ameen could barely contain the excitement of holding his brand new Apple iPhone. But, his dream phone was missing from the neatly packed box. Instead, the box contained a soap and a Rs. 5 coin. That he was shocked would be an understatement, as he had already paid Rs. 70,900 for the product. However, Ameen took videos and pictures of unpacking the box in the presence of the delivery executive as he remembered another victim of a similar fraud doing the same. The victim from North Paravur had received well-packed newspapers instead of a laptop worth Rs. 1.50 lakh that he had ordered. He had later received a refund, thanks to the intervention of the Ernakulam Rural police. Ameen wasted no time in lodging a petition with the Rural police. That proved critical as he eventually got a complete refund of his money. The special cyber squad formed by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthick got in touch with the e-commerce platform. The original cover of the iPhone in which the fake parcel was delivered had the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number, helping the squad track down the phone. It was found that the phone was in use in Jharkhand. However, the phone which was ordered only in October was found to have been registered with Apple a month before. The investigation team also contacted the dealer distributing the phone. Even as the probe was under way, the dealer chose to refund the money as the phone was not in stock. “Notwithstanding the refund, we will continue the probe,” said Mr. Karthick.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-receives-soap-instead-of-iphone-police-help-him-get-refund/article37119196.ece
22 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Manpower crunch hits Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority||The Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA), launched in November 2020 and is said to be the sole MTA in India which has legislative backing, is gasping for breath for want of manpower. With just an MD, who also couples as CEO of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), and supported by two experts from the arena of public transport (who incidentally are yet to get a long-awaited Government Order on their appointment), the authority which was touted as a game changer and was vested with wide-ranging powers, has been encountering difficulties in implementing its decisions in the Greater Kochi area. The KMTA had sought 20 personnel, including those having sound knowledge of integrating different modes of public transport, and urban planners. None has been appointed, although the government sanctioned 10 posts, it is learnt. The allegation is rife that the Finance Department has been playing spoilsport with the prospect of appointing a full compliment of experts spanning over different domains. e-mobility In the meantime, its new MD Shanavas S. spoke of how the body has lined up a slew of projects to decongest traffic and streamline parking. “World over, there is a paradigm shift from fossil fuels to renewable ones. There is sound demand for electric vehicles, which once remained a myth. The KMTA can do much to help operators of conventional autorickshaws and taxi-cars to surmount the situation, by handholding them. Discussions are under way,” he said. The authority could invest in amenities where drained-out batteries can be exchanged with fully charged ones. This will in turn lessen the procurement cost of an e-autorickshaw from Rs. 3.5 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh, since the battery of e-vehicles is very costly. Likewise, taxi cars can be brought under a society or company, following which they can procure spare parts at wholesale rate and even have a common workshop, he added. Open mobility network Similarly, the KMTA held discussions with Beckn Foundation and stakeholders of different modes of public transport, to take ahead Kochi Open Mobility Network (KOMN). For this, the Foundation would help integrate different apps under a common banner, Mr. Shanavas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/manpower-crunch-hits-kochi-metropolitan-transport-authority/article37119603.ece
22 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Anitha Pullayil testifies before CB in Monson case||The Crime Branch (CB) probing the cases against alleged conman Monson Mavunkal has recorded the statement of Anitha Pullayil who had functioned as the women’s global coordinator of the Pravasi Malayali Federation (PMF), of which Mavunkal was a patron. Ms. Pullayil testified from Italy via videoconferencing on Wednesday. Though she had communicated with the investigators before, this was the first time that her statement was officially recorded. Her name had found mention in the petition submitted by six persons to the Chief Minister about them being allegedly cheated of about Rs. 10 crore by Mavunkal. It had led to the arrest of the fake antiquities dealer on September 25. “I had volunteered and told one of the petitioners, Shameer, that they could mention me in the petition as someone who had known Mavunkal and his dubious methods,” said Ms. Pullayil. The Crime Branch sleuths asked her about her association with Mavunkal since the PMF had his house at Kaloor as its office for a while. According to her, she had visited the house a couple of times for organisational matters. Smear campaign Ms. Pullayil told the Crime Branch that Mavunkal had launched a smear campaign against her after he reportedly came to know that she was talking to others about his suspicious credentials. “I had come to know about his dubious cash dealings. The nail on the coffin, however, was when a young girl and her mother approached me about her molestation by Mavunkal when she was a minor. Being the mother of a young girl, that was completely intolerable,” she said. Ms. Pullayil alleged that Mavunkal’s smear campaign was part of a divisive ploy to turn the PMF against her. According to her, he also spread rumours about her in police circles, making it tough for her to approach the police. The Crime Branch asked her about financial transactions, if any, with Mavunkal. She claimed that she had no such transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anitha-pullayil-testifies-before-crime-branch/article37119194.ece
22 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Number of COVID care centres to be reduced||The number of domiciliary care centres for COVID patients will be limited to one per taluk in the wake of the overall dip in test positivity rate and the number of active cases in Ernakulam. The decision comes close on the heels of the inference by the Health Department that the coronavirus has turned less virulent. The authorities are also banking on the report of the third round of sero survey, which stated that at least 70% of the population may have achieved natural immunity against COVID-19 post second wave. Presently, the district has a total of 25 domiciliary, first-line and second-line treatment centres. Of this, the number of domiciliary care centres is 15 while the corresponding figures of first-line and second-line treatment centres are four and six respectively. Of the four first-line treatment centres, one is in the private sector. The number of domiciliary care centres in September was around 40. There were 11 first-line and seven second-line treatment centres in the district last month. “With the schools reopening on November 1, we will be handing over the schools that were converted as domiciliary care centres to the authorities concerned. Each taluk will now have one domiciliary care centre,” said N.K. Kuttappan, District Medical Officer. The number of COVID-19 patients being admitted in hospitals and COVID care centres has come down over the past two weeks, according to the estimates by the Health Department. It is in the average range between 50 and 100 over the past few days. Despite the dip in positive cases, the authorities warned against losing vigil as any lapse in observing the health protocol would lead to a spike in the number of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/number-of-covid-care-centres-to-be-reduced/article37119610.ece
22 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mangrove campaigner wins environment award||Fisherman and mangrove campaigner Murukesan T.P. from Malippuram, Vypeen, has been chosen for the 24th PV Thampy Memorial Endowment Award given to people for their extraordinary contribution to environmental protection. Mr. Murukesan has planted and nurtured over 40,000 mangrove plants in the panchayats of Vypeen, Chellanam, Vallarpadam, Cherai, Mulavukad, and Kadamakkudy over the past seven years. He has been working with the Kerala Forest department, growing mangrove plants in his own 8-cent property in Vypeen, and planting them in the areas demarcated by the department. He has created a mangrove nursery at home which can accommodate 15,000-20,000 saplings at a time. Hailing from a family of pokkali farmers, Mr. Murukesan says communities that live along the coastal stretches have always had to deal with rising sea levels and flooding. “A mangrove tree is Nature’s perfection,” he says. “While protecting our shorelines and preventing erosion, it offers a home for marine and avian life. The pearlspot ( karimeen ), for instance, nests in the roots of the tree. It sustains life like no other tree,” he says. Though coastal communities have for long understood the importance of mangroves in acting as a natural barrier, a buffer against erosion, mangroves are a threatened habitat. “We have to create awareness on the many uses of mangroves among the people in order to aid in its protection,” he says. After Kannur, Kochi has the highest mangrove cover in Kerala, followed by Alappuzha. Mr. Murukesan helps in carrying out mangrove surveys for the Forest Department. Since 2018, he has also been growing and planting casuarina trees. He has planted over 20,000 saplings in the Elamkunnapuzha panchayat in Vypeen. “Casuarina trees also help protect the coastline to a large extent and are being used in the coastal afforestation programmes,” he says. Though a fisherman by profession, he stopped going out to the sea a few years ago. He now spends most of his time on conservation activities. He is also actively involved in the conservation of Olive Ridley turtles. Last year, over 80 hatchlings were released into the sea. “By December, we expect the next batch of turtles to nest in this region’s beaches,” Mr. Murukesan says. The PV Thampy Memorial Endowment Award was instituted in memory of journalist and environmentalist PV Thampy. The award ceremony will be held in Kochi in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/honour-for-mangrove-campaigner/article37119192.ece
22 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Virtual queue at Sabarimala managed with TDB help: police||The State police on Thursday informed the Kerala High Court on Thursday that the virtual queue system for Sabarimala, indigenously designed and developed by the police, was managed with the cooperation of the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB). When cases relating to the issue of management of the virtual queue system came up before the Bench comprising Justice Anil K. Narendran and Justice P.G. Ajithkumar, State Attorney N. Manoj Kumar, appearing for the police, submitted that the virtual queue system was a small part of the Sabarimala Pilgrim Management System (SPMS), a single online platform providing all Sabarimala-related services to devotees. The ownership of the virtual queue system was vested with the police for better coordination on the field, considering the difficult terrain of Sabarimala. It was introduced with the approval of the High Court during the 2011-12 Sabarimala season. Govt. role During the hearing, the Bench asked whether the State Government and its police force could manage the virtual queue system without the involvement of the TDB. The court wanted to know the role of the Government in managing the functions of the temple and asked how could the virtual queue platform be registered in the name of the police. The State Attorney also submitted that the virtual queue system was implemented as part of a crowd-management scheme. In fact, it was implemented by the police in consultation with the board. The police operated a 24x7 helpline to attend to any issues in virtual queue booking during the Sabarimala season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virtual-queue-at-sabarimala-managed-with-tdb-help-police/article37119256.ece
22 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Civil defence force volunteers all set for emergencies||With untimely heavy rain lashing the State, the Fire and Rescue Services Department has mobilised its civil defence volunteers across all 18 fire stations in Ernakulam district for support during emergencies. At any given point of time, 180 to 200 trained volunteers remain ready for action across the district. Another 300 to 400 well-trained volunteers also remain on standby to swing into action, depending on the gravity of the situation. The activities of the civil defence force in the district are being coordinated by District Fire Officer A.S. Jogy. “Our volunteers remain part of the rapid response teams formed in all fire stations in the wake of the release of water from the reservoirs. In fact, we have mobilised two types of volunteers – ones who can serve locally and the others ready to be deployed outside the district. “The 21-member fire force team from the district deployed at Kokkayar in Idukki had 21 of our volunteers,” said Binu Mitran, Ernakulam Divisional Warden, Civil Defence. Ham radio operators Expert ham radio operators among the civil defence volunteers have been deployed in seven fire stations, including Aluva, Perumbavoor, Piravom, Kothamangalam, Vypeen, and North Paravur, catering to extremely vulnerable areas. They remain connected to the control room at the Gandhi Nagar fire station. The service of expert ham radio operators outside the civil defence force has also been roped in. “As part of advance preparations, we had erected permanent antennas to facilitate ham radio operations in all these fire stations months ago. Our volunteers are also managing police wireless sets at fire stations to facilitate a single-point information dissemination for speedy and effective response,” said Mr. Mitran. Relief, rescue missions Civil defence volunteers had also set up pickets along the rivers from Kothamangalam to North Paravur ahead of the release of water from the dams to constantly monitor the situation and issue alerts every two hours. They gave instructions to people living along the river banks on preparing emergency kits, precautions to be taken, and camps to be shifted to, if needed. The volunteers are also being entrusted with managing rafts, dinghies, life jackets and other equipment to be deployed in the event of relief and rescue missions. They are in charge of boats being kept at stations for emergency deployment. “We are collating the activity reports of volunteers at each fire station daily and submitting them to the authorities concerned,” said Mr. Mitran. The district now has over 4,600 civil defence volunteers with a minimum of 50 volunteers in each fire station. Out of these, 463 have received State-level training and 500 have district-level training whereas another 600-700 have either received the station-level training or are on the verge of it. The State Government has assigned the volunteers special uniforms, reflective jackets, caps, boots, and metal badges. “We have been able to attract more service-oriented people to the force in keeping with our motto ‘Join civil defence and serve the nation’,” said Mr. Mitran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/civil-defence-force-volunteers-all-set-to-support-fire-force/article37119420.ece
22 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Vigil to continue in landslip-prone areas||The blue alert at Edamalayar dam was withdrawn on Thursday after the water level went down to 165.27 m. The blue alert is issued when the level reaches 165.5 m. The two shutters of the dam have been kept open at 80 cm. About 100 cumecs of water is being released from the dam. The maximum water level of the dam is 169 m. District Collector Jafar Malik said on Thursday that strict vigil would continue in landslip-prone areas in the district in view of the heavy rain predicted by the Indian Meteorological Department. The night monitoring in these regions should continue without fail. The tahsildars concerned should ensure that the families in the regions remain in the camps set up by the district administration. Geologists would inspect the landslip-prone areas in the district, he said.  Tahsildars concerned should ensure that families in vulnerable regions remain in camps||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-to-continue-in-landslip-prone-areas/article37119607.ece
22 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Contradicting versions by Press Club secretary, channel reporter||A day after he testified before the Crime Branch investigating the cases against Monson Mavunkal, a self-styled antique dealer, Ernakulam Press Club secretary P. Sasikanth issued a statement on Thursday. He was summoned in connection with the sponsoring of the club’s annual gathering last year by the accused. Mr. Sasikanth said that Monson’s sponsorship of Rs. 5 lakh towards the food expenses was arranged by the district executive committee member, Sahin Antony, a former television channel reporter, who is in the dock for his alleged close relations with the accused. Mr. Sasikanth claimed that Rs. 10 lakh was transferred by Monson to his personal account, reportedly owing to troubles with the Press Club account. Of that, Rs. 5 lakh was to be paid to Sahin, as apparently Monson owed Sahin that amount, and the rest to the resort that hosted the event, Mr. Sasikanth claimed. He claimed to have neither met nor contacted Monson ever but admitted to a serious error of judgment. In a separate statement, Mr. Antony accused Mr. Sasikanth of lying. He said that he and Mr. Sasikanth had met Monson thrice in connection with the sponsorship for which Mr. Sasikanth promised him a commission of 20%. He even claimed to have questioned Mr. Sasikanth over the transfer of money to Mr. Sasikanth’s personal account and returned to the secretary Rs. 50,000 received in excess of the commission. Mr. Antony accused Mr. Sasikanth of having met him twice with the request not to reveal the transfer of funds to the latter’s personal account and discouraged him from revealing the truth before the Press Club committee meeting on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/contradicting-versions-by-press-club-secretary-channel-reporter/article37119611.ece
22 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Shaji N. Karun is chief of jury||Filmmaker Shaji N. Karun is the chairman of the 17-member jury that’s selecting India’s official entry to the 94th Academy Awards (the Oscar). The screening of films has been going on in Kolkata for nearly a week now and the selected film will be announced on Sunday, Mr. Karun said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shaji-n-karun-is-chief-of-jury/article37119242.ece
22 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,434 test positive in Ernakulam; TPR 10.9%||As many as 1,434 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. A total of 1,411 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection was not ascertained in 16 cases. The test positivity rate was 10.9%. The regions that reported positive cases above 30 included Thrikkakara (68), Chittatukara (63), Thripunithura (40), Chendamangalam (37), Kalamassery (34), Ayampuzha (31), and Elankunnapuzha (31). The number of active cases in the district was 12,305 as on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1434-test-positive-in-ernakulam-tpr-109/article37119612.ece
22 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three youths arrested with drug||In a joint operation, the District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Task Force (DANSAF) and the Cheranelloor police arrested from Cheranelloor three persons allegedly in possession of the premium synthetic drug MDMA. The arrested were identified as Ishan Muhammed, 23, of Muvattupuzha, Ashwin Ravi, 23, of Adimaly and Akshay Ganga, 23, of Kunnamkulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-youths-arrested-with-drug/article37119600.ece
22 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two migrant workers held with pistol||The Angamaly police arrested two migrant workers, who were allegedly found in possession of a pistol. The arrested were identified as Burhan Ahammad, 21, and Govind Kumar, 27, of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Burhan is employed in the construction site of the hostel of a private hospital in Karukutty. He claimed that he had asked his friend Govind to come with the pistol from Uttar Pradesh to help him collect the outstanding Rs. 48,000 his contractor reportedly owed him. On a tip-off received by the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik, the two were nabbed while roaming around with the pistol. A knife and wire cutter were also recovered from them. The pistol was found to be an old one fired by filling it with gun powder. Govind had reportedly bought it in Uttar Pradesh. A team led by Inspector Sony Mathai, sub inspector K. Ajith, assistant sub inspector P.G. Sabu, civil police officers Prasad, Benny, Isaac, and Vipin made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-migrant-workers-held-with-pistol/article37119601.ece
22 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Assailants knock down, hack bike rider||A youth was hacked by two men in broad daylight at Kalady on Thursday. The victim was identified as Kuzhiparambil Reji of Kaanjoor. He was travelling on his motorcycle when the assailants on another motorcycle knocked him down from behind. They then hacked the victim multiple times. The police suspect some personal grudge behind the attack. The seriously injured victim is being treated at a private hospital at Angamaly. The Kalady police have registered a case and a hunt is on to track down the assailants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assailants-knock-down-hack-bike-rider/article37119602.ece
22 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Flood risk abates in Kottayam district||Even as the eastern high ranges of Kottayam and Pathanamthitta came under spells of intense showers, the overall flood situation in the region continued to abate on Thursday. As part of coordinating the flood-relief work, Cooperation Minister V. N. Vasavan on Thursday visited several flood-hit regions across Kottayam, including Kanjirappally and Kuruvamuzhy, on the banks of the Manimalayar and interacted with the people in relief camps. The Minister promised steps to quicken the process in restoring the crucial documents lost in the floods and reviewed the progress of restoration works in the flood-hit regions. A medical team comprising 20 doctors and paramedical staff from the Government Medical College Hospital organised camps at the relief camps in Koottickal, Yendayar and Mundakkayam. As per the preliminary assessment, the flood and mud-slips that hit Koottickal destroyed at least 30 houses completely and 150 houses and 40 shops partially. Five major bridges and several other small bridges and culverts across the region were destroyed and 12 potable water projects were affected. The loss to the village's farming sector, meanwhile, is estimated at Rs. 12 crore. The series of landslips that hit the high-ranges of Elamkadu Top, Mlakkara and Kodunga caused the Yendayar river to deviate from its path and flow through human settlements in Mukkulam. Meanwhile, water level in the swollen Meenachil river recorded a further rise and crossed the danger mark in the Cherippadu region near Erattupetta following heavy rain on Thursday evening. Earlier in the day, District Collector P.K. Jayasree visited the location of a minor landslip reported at Mangalagiri, near Theekoy, on Wednesday midnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flood-risk-abates-in-kottayam-district/article37119248.ece
22 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Ganja worth Rs. 7 lakh seized, youth held||The district police on Thursday seized drugs worth Rs. 7.5 lakh and arrested a youth in this connection. The accused was identified as Abhijith A, a native of Veloor in Kottayam. The youth was taken into custody from Monippally while on his way to Kottayam on a two-wheeler. Acting on a tip-off, the police seized MDMA drug worth Rs. 50,000 from his possession, besides ganja worth Rs. 7 lakh. Investigations suggested that the contraband was being transported from outside Kerala. A probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ganja-worth-rs-7-lakh-seized-youth-held/article37119249.ece
22 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Calicut varsity’s distance courses get nod||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has restored the recognition for open and distance learning (ODL) programmes offered by Calicut University’s School of Distance Education (SDE). Students who sought admission this July will benefit from the UGC decision. Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj said on Thursday that the first semester admissions for undergraduate and postgraduate courses would be completed by December 15. The approved courses are B.A. in History, Economics, Sociology, Political Science, Philosophy, English, Malayalam, Hindi, Arabic, Sanskrit, and Afzal-ul-Ulema, BBA and B.Com and M.A. in Economics, Sociology, Politics, Philosophy, English, Malayalam, Hindi, History, Sanskrit, and Arabic and M.Com. The ODL programmes did not have UGC approval for the past two years. The university is among the largest in the State in terms of enrolment of students for distance learning programmes with around 1.5 lakh seeking admissions every year. Students’ concern Private registration facility was offered to students last year on condition that once the recognition was restored, they would migrate to the ODL programmes. They, however, too did not have UGC approval and students were concerned. Mr. Jayaraj said approval had been granted for all except two of the 26 courses as sought by the university. The UGC raised doubts if M.Sc. Mathematics and B.Sc. Mathematics courses were being run for the past seven years and kept their approval pending. He said courses were more than seven years old, and that the university would file an appeal with the UGC in 30 days. Last year, the university could not get the recognition restored mainly for two reasons. The SDE did not have a full-time director and its faculty members were temporary staff. Now, a full-time director has been appointed and faculty members recruited on a three-year contract. Mr. Jayaraj also allayed fears over the validity of private registration courses. He said Kannur University and Mahatma Gandhi University too offered them, and that students would not face any hurdles for higher education and jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-again-for-calicut-varsitys-distance-education-courses/article37119199.ece
22 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vigil continues in Kozhikode||The control rooms opened in four taluks in Kozhikode district received no major distress calls on Thursday amid the continuing vigil in the wake of a rough weather alert. Though the Revenue Department had plans to open relief camps in 28 locations in the four taluks, they were dropped in view of the improving situation. Revenue officials in Thamarassery and Vadakara taluks said they had not received any major calls regarding rain-related calamities on Thursday. According to them, rescue teams are prepared to set up any number of relief camps. Officials at the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) control room said efforts by the taluk-level authorities to mitigate rain-related calamities were satisfactory. No major calamities were reported from Kozhikode or Koyilandy taluk, they added. Unlike in the past, social media control rooms have been activated in environmentally sensitive areas with the support of community rescue volunteers. Village officers, panchayat authorities, and rescue personnel are part of such virtual control rooms, and they are prepared to swing into action during emergency situations. Apart from the official virtual control rooms, a number of special purpose local social media groups are active to exchange quick information with the district-level authorities for timely action. All these groups are linked to the district-level control rooms for effective coordination. Yellow alert DDMA officials said the vigil in the wake of a yellow alert would continue till October 25. The officials urged residents of environmentally sensitive areas to cooperate with the authorities in case of immediate relocation requirements.  Social media control rooms activated in environmentally sensitive areas with the support of community rescue volunteers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-continues-in-kozhikode/article37119200.ece
22 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Road widening work moving at a snail’s pace in Kozhikode||Work on four-laning the 8.24-km stretch from Mananchira to Vellimadukunnu that passes through Kozhikode city has been moving at a snail’s pace, as funds have not been fully credited to the Revenue Department. A review meeting called by Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday said steps would be expedited for the completion of the project. The National Highway wing of the Public Works Department (PWD) will be tasked with preparing an estimate for the project, and funds will be released based on the estimate, it was decided. However, sources said the Revenue Department was yet to receive Rs. 134.5 crore for land acquisition, which had been sanctioned on January 15. The remaining land can be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act and a rehabilitation package drawn up provided the funds are available. The four-laning of the Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu Road was announced in the 2008 State Budget. However, it was only in 2012 that the Government decided to take up the project following an agitation by an action committee headed by historian M.G.S. Narayanan. The proposal is to widen the road by 24 metres. A total of 3.4621 hectares are yet to be acquired for the project. The land acquired so far has not been attached to the existing road. The UDF government had sanctioned Rs. 64 crore for the project, out of which Rs. 4 crore was allocated for constructing a wall on Government land. The previous LDF government allotted Rs. 150 crore (Rs. 50 crore in three tranches each). Later, no funds were released for land acquisition, said M.P. Vasudevan, general secretary, Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu Road Action Committee. He added that the project had been given priority in the development of seven roads under the Kozhikode City Road Improvement Project. Even after a massive protest on the national highway leading to the arrest of Dr. Narayanan and Gandhian Thayat Balan, the Government was dragging its feet on the project, alleged Mr. Vasudevan. The PWD has decided to demolish structures on the land from Eranhipalam to Malaparamba, which had been acquired by the Revenue Department for road widening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-widening-work-moving-at-a-snails-pace-in-kozhikode/article37119206.ece
22 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Over 2 kg of gold seized at Karipur||Customs officials attached to the Calicut Air Intelligence Unit seized over 2 kg of gold valued at Rs. 89 lakh from two passengers who arrived from Muscat and Jeddah at the Calicut international airport at Karipur on Thursday. Customs Deputy Commissioner T.A. Kirsan said 1.3 kg of gold was seized from P.A. Shameer of Thalayad, Kozhikode. The gold compound was concealed inside the socks of the passenger. The second case involved the recovery of 796 grams of gold from K. Sameej from Malappuram. The gold was concealed as a thin plate inside a stone chapathi maker in his checked-in baggage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-2-kg-of-gold-seized-at-karipur/article37119274.ece
22 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||T.K. Jayaraj passes away||T.K. Jayaraj, 82, managing director and chief surgeon of PVS Hospital Kozhikode and director of Mathrubhumi , passed away here on Thursday. Dr. Jayaraj had started his career as an assistant surgeon in the State government service after pursuing MBBS from Kozhikode Government Medical Government College. He had also secured MS and had been a fellow of the International College of Surgeons and the International Medical Sciences Academy. From 1965 to 1974, he worked in various government hospitals as assistant surgeon. He was born to Edamuttam Thandayam Parambil Kunhikrishnan and Kartheeyayini on July 7, 1938. His father was a school teacher at Valappad Malabar District Board in Thrissur. Dr. Jayaraj had also served as the administrative member, Kerala chapter president and secretary of Association of Surgeons in India. He is survived by his wife Kumari Jayaraj, daughter of the founder of the KTC, late P.V. Sami and children Dr. Jaycy Baiju, Dr. Deepa Sunil, Dr. Jay Kish Jayaraj, and Dr. Deeshma Rajesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tk-jayaraj-passes-away/article37119204.ece
22 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Answer script evaluation sans false numbers draws flak||The Calicut University authorities have been accused of starting evaluation of answer scripts of undergraduate students without assigning false numbers on them. According to sources, the centralised evaluation of answer scripts for the second semester B.Com and BBA courses began on Thursday. However, a section of teachers claimed that lack of false numbers on answer scripts might compromise the secrecy and credibility of the process. The evaluators will get indications about the registration number of each student and the name of colleges if false numbers are not given. Also, some teachers believe it will lead to liberal granting of marks by evaluators to students who suit their political interests. No official discussions were held before going ahead with the decision, the teachers alleged. T.K. Ummer Farooque, president, and N.K. Muhammed Aslam, secretary, Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association, said in a release that the university should ensure transparency of the process. The association urged the authorities to revoke the decision to have the evaluation without false numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/answer-script-evaluation-without-false-numbers-flayed/article37119198.ece
22 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Maoists’ visit exposes Govt. fault lines||The tribespeople of the hamlets off the Government Seed Garden Complex at Munderi in Nilambur forest appear to have been disenchanted with the Government, especially the police. The recent visit by a group of Maoists belonging to the Nadugani Dalam to the Vaniyampuzha tribal colony has been viewed as testimony to the distancing of the tribespeople from the authorities. The police reportedly learned about the Maoists visit two days later. None in the tribal hamlet bothered to inform the police, in spite of the best efforts made by the authorities in recent years by planting informers among the tribal people and by wooing the youngsters. The attitude of the authorities concerned, including the police, forest, revenue and tribal departments, to the suffering of the families in the marooned hamlets of Vaniyampuzha, Iruttukuthi, Thandankallu, Tharippapotti and Kumbalappara has been the main reason for the disenchantment. Many families in Vaniyampuzha hamlet have been homeless since the floods of 2019 devastated their houses. They still sleep on tree tops in fear of elephant attack at night. The Government has not rehabilitated them. Neither the Government bothered to reconstruct the bridges to connect the tribespeople with the mainland. Six Maoists who visited the hamlet on Saturday were learned to have spent that night with the tribes people. The tribespeople offered them food. None informed the police even after the Maoists stayed in the hamlet the whole night. A tribal youth, on assurance of anonymity, told The Hindu that they did not feel like informing anyone because of the lack of attention from the authorities to their basic needs. All youngsters in the hamlets off Munderi have mobile phones. Yet none gave the police a buzz, prompting the officers for a rethink about the strategies they follow in wooing the Adivasis to get rid of the Maoists. The Maoists were learned to have told the Adivasis about the necessity of getting jobs in government plantations. Although the Government Seed Garden Complex, popularly known as Munderi Farm, is close to them, very few of them have been employed there. The police have reportedly enhanced their vigil following the visit of the Maoists.  Many families in Vaniyampuzha hamlet have been homeless since the floods of 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maoists-visit-exposes-govt-faultlines/article37119203.ece
22 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Two houses destroyed, 30 damaged in Palakkad||Two houses were destroyed and 30 others suffered damage in the heavy rain and landslip at Odamthodu and VRT Kava in the district on Wednesday night. Many people have lost their sheds and toilets constructed outside their houses. Crops in more than 100 acres were destroyed, according to revenue officials. The destroyed houses belonged to Mariyakkutty Thomman at Odamthodu and Blassan at VRT. Mariyakkutty’s son Sijo was injured while trying to rescue his family from the flash floods. Houses and plantations on both sides of Odamthode stream suffered extensive damage. The streams flowed through the plantations causing panic among the farmers. The houses and plantations belonging to the following persons suffered damage: Baby Vakkandathil, Babu, Sunny Peruvambra, Ramachandran, Balakrishnan, Vivakaran Nair, Kuttan, Pallat Sibi, Tomy, Jose Thannippara, P.K. Chandran, Roy M., Rahima, Jose, Vijayakumar, Saji Chungapura, Sunny Padangeettathodu, Reyins Pattani, Mathukutty Thondikkal, Roy Padinjaremuri, Rajan Padikkal, Joseph Varghese Madathinal, Michael CVM, Suresh, Chandran, Narayanan, Raveendran, Kumaran, Velayudhan, Jobin Raj, Uppumakkal Joseph, Filomina Thayyil, Rajappan, Ragesh Mudakkuzha, Manoj, Justin Thekkekunnel, Poulose Chirayath, Suresh, Chalil Bini, Gangadharan, Amina Abdul Khader, Aleema Hydrose and Prakasan. The district administration has banned night travel through Attappady ghat road, Nelliyampathy ghat road, and Parambikulam until October 24 in view of the prediction of rain. District Collector Mrunmai Joshi said that continuous rain had made the regions vulnerable to landslips. As many as 403 people were housed in 10 relief camps in the district. The camps were opened in five taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-houses-destroyed-30-damaged-in-palakkad/article37119342.ece
22 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Kakki-Anathodu, Pampa dam shutters lowered||In Pathanamathitta, shutters of the Kakki-Anathodu and Pampa dams were lowered to 60 cm and 30 cm respectively on Thursday following a fall in the inflow of water to these reservoirs. The run-off water from the hills that flooded the Upper Kuttanad region, meanwhile, began to recede. 7,438 in relief camps As many as 7,438 people of 2170 families are currently staying across 140 relief camps in the district Meanwhile, works are on to clear the course of the Manimalayar and Pampa, which have been clogged by a piling up of debris underneath the decks of several bridges. Examination is also on to assess whether the bridges across these water bodies sustained any structural damages due to the floods. Animal husbandry and Dairy Development Minister J.Chinchurani, who visited the district on Thursday said the sector incurred a total loss of Rs. 2 crore as per preliminary estimates. Steps were in place to distribute the insurance amount to those who had insured their livestock .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kakki-anathodu-pampa-dam-shutters-lowered/article37119251.ece
22 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Aid for the flood-affected soon: Minister||Revenue officials have been directed to speed up the disbursement of financial assistance to the flood-affected families, Revenue Minister K. Rajan said on Thursday. The extent of the damage will be assessed and compensation issued at the earliest, the Minister said after visiting the relief camp at Kalliyoor in the district. Mr. Rajan urged the public to refrain from touring the relief camps or spreading false information via social media. Ensuring the safety of the people remains the priority of the State Government. This is also the time to stand together by forgetting differences, he said. As many as 435 camps have been opened so far across the State, and arrangements are in place to open more, if needed, Mr. Rajan said. Evacuation Evacuation of people from vulnerable locations in the hilly areas, as mentioned in the Orange Book of Disaster Management of the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority is in progress. The evacuation was expected to be completed by Thursday night, he said. In all, 12 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in various districts. Personnel from the police, revenue and health departments have been deployed in the relief camps. M. Vincent MLA; District Collector Navjot Khosa; Subcollector M.S. Madhavikutty; and Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) T. K. Vineeth accompanied the Minister.  435 relief camps have been opened so far across the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-for-the-flood-affected-soon-minister/article37119664.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Crackdown planned on illegal ambulances||A high- level meeting convened by Transport Minister Antony Raju here on Thursday decided to launch a crackdown on vehicles illegally altered to operate as ambulance. “While the law specifies certain norms for vehicles to be approved for use as ambulance, it has come to the notice of the Government that certain vehicles have been altered in violation of the Motor Vehicles Act, taking advantage of the increased demand for ambulances during the COVID crisis,” a press note issued by the Minister’s office said. Colour, siren The Minister suggested that ambulances be required to sport a certain colour and distinguishing siren. The meeting decided to make it mandatory for ambulance drivers to undergo special training and carry a certificate of police verification. Transport Secretary Biju Prabhakar and Transport Commissioner M.R. Ajithkumar and senior officials of the Motor Vehicles and Transport departments and the Road Safety Authority were present. Adulterated fuel The Minister also directed the Transport Commissioner to take stern action against stage carriers using light diesel oil instead of diesel as fuel. Observing that running vehicles on light diesel and other adulterated oils would pose danger, besides causing pollution, he instructed the Transport Department to identify such vehicles and take action against the operators. Mr. Raju also directed officials to convene a meeting of officials of public sector oil companies to discuss means to prevent adulteration of fuel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crackdown-on-illegal-ambulances/article37119193.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cherian Philip’s political tack remains a cliffhanger||Speculation was rife on Thursday that Left fellow traveller Cherian Philip would break ranks with the CPI(M). Mr. Philip courted political attention recently by portraying Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s high-profile visit to the Netherlands to learn flood mitigation as futile. Congress leader K. Muraleedharan, MP, told journalists that Mr. Philip’s return to the party fold would strengthen the organisation. The statement seems to lend credibility to the rumour that Mr. Philip is likely to jump ship. Mr. Philip has not threatened to sever his 20-year-old alliance with the CPI(M) publicly. He seems to prefer backdoor manoeuvring. Mr. Philip told The Hindu : “The ball is in the CPI(M) court. Like V.R. Krishna Iyer, I am a socialist and not a communist. If the party feels I am a liability and has no further service to render, then there is no point in lingering.” Mr. Philip had aligned with the Left in 2001 after he fell out with the Congress leadership over monopolising of Assembly and Parliament seats by an ‘elite’ few. He contested against Oommen Chandy in Puthuppally constituency in the 2001 Assembly elections and lost. Ties intact Mr. Philip denied that he had fallen out with Mr. Vijayan. “My relationship with the CPI(M) and Congress leaders is intact,” he said. The ambivalence about Mr. Philip’s future political tack remains a cliffhanger for now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cherian-philips-political-tack-remains-a-cliffhanger/article37119281.ece
22 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU to introduce minor degree in engineering||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) is gearing up to introduce ‘minor in engineering’ that will allow BTech students to earn a minor degree in a branch other than their original stream. The first batch that has been permitted to seek minor degree will graduate in 2023. According to an official release, minor in engineering begins in the third semester. Students can then receive a minor degree by completing four subjects and one project in the chosen topic during the course of the eighth semester. “For example, if a student pursuing Civil Engineering completes four additional subjects and one project from architecture, he or she will receive a degree certificate titled ‘B Tech in Civil Engineering with Minor in Architecture,’ the release stated. Besides the IITs, very few universities have currently adopted the engineering minor system. The B.Tech curriculum at KTU currently includes over 50 minor subjects. Machine learning, biomedical engineering, applied mathematics, robotics, material science, and smart manufacturing are some of the advanced technical fields that are covered in minor courses. More job options The option is bound to increase the employment opportunities of the students and diversify their employment skills. Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree said integrated projects that involves elements of different engineering disciplines can be undertaken through the engineering minor system. They will enhance the learning, skills and work potential of the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-to-introduce-minor-degree-in-engineering/article37119647.ece
22 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||YC march turns unruly||A Youth Congress march to Thiruvananthapuram Corporation headquarters in protest against the alleged misappropriation of revenue funds turned violent on Thursday. Demanding the arrest of all officials who were responsible for the scam, the Youth Congress organised a protest meeting near the Corporation office. Shortly after the demonstration was inaugurated by District Congress Committee president Palode Ravi, a group of Youth Congress workers dashed towards the office, alleging that they were provoked by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers who were also agitating outside the premises. While some Congress workers attempted to scale the compound wall to enter the office premises, the police used forceful means to disperse them. They later had to resort to lathicharge after the agitators hurled sticks at them. The situation was brought under control after an hour. The Museum police have registered a case against the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yc-march-turns-unruly/article37119662.ece
22 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||21 families shifted from Aryanad||Twenty-one families were evacuated from Meenankal, near Aryanad, in the district on Thursday after heavy rainfall in the region triggered flooding. The families have been shifted to the Meenankal Tribal School where a relief camp has been opened, the Aryanad police said. House destroyed One house was destroyed while several others were damaged in the rain havoc, according to the police. The affected region border of Aryanad and Vithura and falls within the Aryanad police station limits. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had put Thiruvananthapuram district on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Thiruvananthapuram district administration has asked the public to remain alert as strong winds and isolated rainfall accompanied by lightning are likely till Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/21-families-shifted-from-aryanad/article37119665.ece
22 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU to put student activities on one platform||The University of Kerala is set to operationalise its student life cycle management (SLCM) system to bring all student activities from admission to graduation under a single platform. The cross-functional platform will enable multiple functions including those relating to pre-examination activities, online and offline exams, student life cycle, post-examinations processes including camp management, evaluation of answer sheets, re-evaluation and result processing. It will also provide an integrated university portal that incorporates online payment facility, specialised dashboards and a reporting system for statutory officials to monitor academic and other activities. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu will formally launch the system on October 29. Envisaged to be implemented in multiple phases, the pilot phase of the Rs. 1.17-crore project will include various pre-examination activities including exam notification, exam creation, exam reschedule, student registration, student exam approval, payment integration and hall ticket publication. Implementation It will be initially implemented for the upcoming exams of new-generation postgraduate programmes introduced a year ago and the BTech programme at the University College of Engineering at Karyavattom. The student life cycles of the new batches will also come under the platform. Faster results According to Pro Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar, the integrated platform will serve to automate the university’s examination system. It is bound to shorten the cumbersome process and enable the university to declare results at a faster pace. “QR-coded answer sheets can be directly transferred to valuation camps from colleges without being required to take them to the university for false numbering and data entry. Besides, marks can be directly uploaded on the portal by evaluators through a mobile application. In effect, the platform will enable the university to declare results within a week or so,” Prof. Ajayakumar said. Students will be able to download their provisional certificates, mark lists, hall tickets and other documents from the portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-student-activities-under-a-single-platform/article37119197.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Active case pool shrinking daily||Kerala reported 8,733 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 86,303 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s active case pool is shrinking day by day and had 81,496 patients on Thursday, with 9,855 persons reported to have recovered on the day. Only 9.9% of the active cases are currently admitted to treatment centres. There is no let-up in COVID-19 deaths even when all indicators seem to be going down. The State added 118 recent deaths to the official list.ICU occupancy further declined to 1,341. The bulletin issued by the Health Department said that from October 13-19, new cases declined by 17% in comparison to the previous week. The number of active cases went down by 16% and hospitalisations, ICU admissions and ventilator use by 12-13% each this week. District-wise figures Among districts, Ernakulam has the highest number of new cases at 1,434, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 1,102, Thrissur 1,031, Kozhikode 717, Kottayam 659, Kollam 580, Pathanamthitta 533, Kannur 500, Malappuram 499, Palakkad 439, Idukki 417, Alappuzha 369, Wayanad 288 and Kasaragod 165 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-case-pool-shrinking-daily/article37119279.ece
22 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Discharge from Pampa, Edamalayar to be reduced||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has decided to reduce the discharge from the Edamalayar and Pampa reservoirs following a reduction in inflow into the reservoirs. The status quo will be maintained at the Idukki and Kakki reservoirs for the time being. The release of water from Edamalayar will be pushed down from 123 cumecs (cubic metres per second) to 80 cumecs, and from 14 cumecs to 10 cumecs at Pampa. The decision was finalised after a series of review meetings on Thursday. Status quo at Idukki Water will be released from the Idukki reservoir at the rate of 100 cumecs till Friday. The decision to maintain the status quo till Friday was taken as Idukki district was on orange alert for heavy to very heavy rainfall on Thursday. Once the India Meteorological Department (IMD) scales down the alert level, a decision will be taken to reduce the spillage or close the spillways, a KSEB spokesperson said. At present, water is being released at the rate of 96 cumecs at Kakki. It will continue for the time being. The water level in the Idukki reservoir at 3 p.m. on Thursday stood at 2,398.16 feet, 165.26 metres at Edamalayar and 979.47 metres at Kakki.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discharge-from-pampa-edamalayar-to-be-reduced/article37119285.ece
22 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cook, accused of sexually assaulting boy, acquitted||The Thiruvananthapuram Fast Track Special Court on Thursday acquitted a 60-year-old man accused of sexually assaulting an aurally challenged boy at a school hostel here eight years ago. Special Judge R. Jayakrishnan acquitted Premachandran Nair from Mudavanmughal who was arrested by the Museum police under charges of sexually assaulting a resident of the hostel of the Government School for Deaf and Dumb, Jagathy, for three days in June 2013. The police had booked him under Section 10 (aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Prosecution charge During the trial, the prosecution, led by special public prosecutor Vijay Mohan R.S., had maintained that the accused, a cook in the hostel, barged into the room of the Class VI student and sexually assaulted him. The child, who was also allegedly threatened, was later reported to be sick. While he was being taken home, the boy revealed the alleged incident to his parents. When they went the Principal’s office to raise a complaint, the boy purportedly identified the accused when he came in to sign the attendance register. V. Bhuvanendran Nair, counsel for Mr. Nair, said the accused had been framed for having raised corruption charges against Shaji, a matron, and Sam John, a teacher, in the school. They had allegedly influenced the boy and his family to move against Mr. Nair. ‘Unbelievable’ Noting contradictions in the versions of the witnesses in the case, the court observed that the boy had been accommodated in a room with five other students. There were matrons and wardens too. The prosecution failed to prove that other residents had witnessed the incident. Besides, the court also found unbelievable a matron’s testimony that he helped the aurally challenged child speak to his father over telephone. The investigation officer also admitted that he had not scrutinised the attendance register in the school. This discredited the oral testimony of the school Principal and matrons that they were present at the hostel on the days concerned.  60-year-old man was arrested in 2013 under POCSO Act provisions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cook-accused-of-sexually-assaulting-boy-acquitted/article37119646.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree plans 2,000 new groups in district||Nearly one lakh young women are expected to become part of 2,000 auxiliary groups planned by the Kudumbashree Mission in the district. The Kudumbashree auxiliary groups are aimed at empowerment of women between the ages of 18 and 40, financial development of their families, and providing the women a platform for making social interventions. The groups will have a maximum of 50 members each. The aim is to make available income-generating opportunities to educated women. The Kudumbashree recently organised a district-level workshop in connection with the formation of the auxiliary groups. More than 200 people, including district mission officials, Kudumbashree community development society (CDS) chairpersons, accountants, and coastal volunteers, were provided training at the workshop. Two resource persons have been trained in connection with the formation of the groups. They will in turn train people’s representatives and CDS members in each block. More than one person from each household can be a member of the auxiliary groups. The groups can form sub-groups or consortiums according to their needs, be it to express their creative talents or discuss employment opportunities. They can also take up own activities or studies to ascertain local employment possibilities. Once they identify and map employment opportunities, group members will be provided support through local bodies or Kudumbashree livelihood team to turn them into enterprises. The groups will also utilise the service of Snehitha, gender resource centre, and community counsellors to intervene in issues such as dowry and domestic violence.  Aim is to provide income opportunities to nearly a lakh women in the 18-40 age group Each group to have a maximum of 50 members||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-plans-2000-new-groups-in-district/article37119655.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plan to vaccinate flood relief camp residents||The Health Department has prepared a special plan for ensuring COVID-19 vaccination in flood relief camps as disease transmission continues to be active across all districts. COVID-19 vaccines minimise the chances of serious disease, hospitalisation and death if the vaccinated individual contracts infection. As people are forced to live together in camps, the protection afforded by COVID-19 vaccination thus becomes very important. Arrangements have been made in all districts to ensure the vaccination of all eligible persons staying in relief camps, a statement issued by the Health Department said. Mobile units The details of those camp residents who are yet to receive the first dose of vaccine and those due for the second dose are being collected and health workers will visit relief camps. Vaccination will be provided in camps itself if facilities are available or it will be provided in the nearest government health facility. Mobile vaccination units may also be engaged. Both doses of vaccine should be taken at the prescribed intervals for the vaccination to be efficacious. However, many persons have been lax in receiving the second dose on time, the department said The State has covered 94.17% of the eligible population above 18 years with the first dose while 47.03% have been fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plan-to-vaccinate-flood-relief-camp-residents/article37119652.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Theft of Rs. 21 lakh: staff of shop in Chala held||The police have arrested a Tamil Nadu native who worked as cashroom manager in a wholesale rice dealing establishment at Chala on the charge of stealing Rs. 21 lakh from the shop. Inspector General of Police and District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay identified the accused as Rajaram, 52. He used to work at Bharat Traders in Chala. The police said he fudged accounts to commit theft. Fake bills were issued and turnover fudged to transfer money to his account and that of his wife. Owner detects fraud The owner of the establishment detected the fraud and filed a police complaint, on the basis of which a team led by Fort Assistant Commissioner of Police Shaji S. arrested Rajaram. He was produced in court and remanded.  Money transferred to his account and that of his wife||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/theft-of-rs-21-lakh-staff-of-shop-in-chala-held/article37119645.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Father told to issue NOC for girl’s study abroad||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed a man to issue a no-objection certificate (NOC) for further education of his daughter who was a Class VIII student of Asian School in Bahrain. Commission member Reni Antony directed Manu Varghese to issue the NOC to the child within a week of receiving its order. It was acting on a complaint from the child that Mr. Varghese, who was not legally divorced, cancelled his wife’s visa and brought both mother and child to Kerala and abandoned them, thus denying the child the right to study in the Bahrain school. To mother too Mr. Varghese was also directed to give the NOC to the mother via e-mail for visa requirements in order to accompany the child to Bahrain. In a statement, the commission said Bahrain was a signatory to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. If the father did not agree to follow the commission’s directions, the Indian Ambassador to Bahrain should arrange for mother and child to proceed to Bahrain and make available the NOC for the child to study there. The child, hailing from Thiruvalla, had been living with her parents in Bahrain. Following family problems, Mr. Varghese left his wife and child in the State and returned to Bahrain. He also got the transfer certificate from the school without the mother or child’s knowledge and sent it to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/issue-noc-for-girls-study-in-bahrain-father-told/article37119243.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Missing child: women’s commission takes case||The Kerala Women’s Commission has taken a case on the complaint of a young woman from Peroorkada that her parents took her newborn away from her. Commission chairperson P. Satheedevi sought an urgent report from the State Police Chief on the matter. Both the parties will be summoned to a sitting to be held here next month, a statement from the commission here on Thursday said. The woman, Anupama Chandran, lodged a complaint with the Peroorkada police in April. The police registered a case recently. She had alleged that her parents separated her from her child three days after she gave birth in October last year. ‘Illegal custody’ She had named her father Jayachandran, a CPI(M) local committee member; mother; sister and her husband; and two others in the complaint. She also alleged that she was kept in custody illegally by her parents. The police had said the case was registered on the basis of legal advice, and preliminary investigation was on. The whereabouts of the child are unknown, though her father had reportedly claimed that the child was handed over to the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare. The family was reportedly against her relationship with a Left youth wing leader Ajith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/missing-child-womens-commission-takes-case/article37119657.ece
22 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police begin probe into ‘unnatural death’||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police have commenced investigation into the death of a 43-year-old man whose body was found in a rubber plantation close to his house on Thursday. The Vattappara police identified the deceased as G. Sajeevan, 43, of Idakkumthala in Vembayam. The body was found by his family who had conducted a search after Sajeevan failed to return home after his morning walk. He had left home around 6 a.m. and his body was found in a nearby plantation that was not on his usual route, the police said. Strengthening the possibility of murder, a cable was found tied on the neck of the deceased. Besides, his phone was missing. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) P.K. Madhu, who visited the area, said an inquiry was underway. A sniffer dog that was taken to the place dashed to an uninhabited house close by. The police are yet to reveal further details. Sajeevan, who worked as a manager in a granite shop, is survived by his wife and two children.  Man found dead in rubber plantation at Vembayam with a cable tied around his neck||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-begin-probe-into-unnatural-death/article37119660.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Congress decentralising responsibilities: Sudhakaran||KPCC president K. Sudhakaran said on Thursday that the Congress in Kerala was moving towards decentralisation of organisational responsibilities. “Some leaders might be upset that they had not got their due. The KPCC will accommodate them in posts and give them responsibilities. More women will find a place on the list of KPCC secretaries. The KPCC is finalising the next list of office-bearers. The current revamp hopefully would not force senior leaders to protest on the street,” he said. Mr. Sudhakaran said except for a few, most persons who found themselves on the KPCC list of office-bearers belonged to one faction or other of the Congress. The KPCC had whittled down the number of KPCC office bearers from 251 to 51. Hence, there would be some murmurs of disagreement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-decentralising-responsibilities-sudhakaran/article37119257.ece
22 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘No delay in rain forecast’||A. Kowsigan, Commissioner, Disaster Management, on Thursday ruled out any delay in forecasting the heavy rainfall which pounded the State on October 16, saying that there were too many variables in play. “Low pressure areas persisted on either side of the peninsula over the Arabian Sea as well as the Bay of Bengal. The southwest monsoon was in its final phase and conditions were turning favourable for the northeast monsoon. There were too many variables for all the models to make accurate predictions,” Mr. Kowsigan told reporters here. The weather forecasts are issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), and not the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-delay-in-rain-forecast/article37119283.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rights panel seeks probe||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (KSHRC) has directed a probe to determine if there has been any violation of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act on a complaint by a Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) employee. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic was acting on the complaint by P. Sunil of Navayikulam who was doing light duty on the basis of orders from the High Court of Kerala and the commission itself following an accident while discharging his duty as a conductor. Sunil had alleged that he was demoted from conductor to peon and his pay cut by Rs. 6,500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rights-panel-seeks-probe/article37119644.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Stray dog bites 15 people in Neyyattinkara||Nearly 15 people were bitten by a stray dog at Neyyattinkara on Thursday evening. The Neyyattinkara police said the incident occurred at TB Junction around 5.30 p.m. Besides the 15 people, a cow was also bitten by the dog. Futile search The police said that of those bitten, 11 sought treatment at General Hospital, Neyyattinkara, while four came to Government Medical College Hospital here. They did not require admission, medical college hospital authorities said. A search was launched for the dog, but it could not be identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stray-dog-bites-15-people-in-neyyattinkara/article37119648.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Forward Bloc raises charge against Riyas||Forward Bloc national secretary G. Devarajan has accused Public Works Minister P. A. Mohamed Riyas of leasing out the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation’s (KSRTC) commercial complex at Mavoor road in Kozhikode at a nominal rate for 30 years to a businessperson reckoned to be close to the latter. Mr. Devarajan said in a press release that Mr. Riyas had bulldozed his way through the Finance Department’s opposition to the lease and tabled it as a special agenda in the Cabinet. He said Mr. Riyas had allowed the lease at a rate of Rs. 13 per sq ft when the rental in the locality was Rs. 175 per sq ft or higher. The Minister’s approach to contractors was evident in the deal that unduly advantaged a friend at the cost of the public exchequer. The Minister had resorted to ‘artificial image building’ with the help of a few lackeys. Mr. Devarajan alleged that Mr. Riyas had led an attack on a media organisation that criticised Mr. Vijayan for his ‘role’ in the SNC-Lavalin graft case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forward-bloc-raises-charge-against-riyas/article37119653.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sudheeran flays official’s pay hike||Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran said Industries Minister P. Rajeeve’s decision to more than double the salary of the Khadi Board secretary reeked of corruption and nepotism. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Mr. Sudheeran, said it defied logic why the Industries Minister signed on the secretary’s request to hike the latter’s monthly salary from Rs. 70,000 to Rs. 1,75,000. The CBI was investigating the official in connection with corruption in cashew procurement when he was in the State Cashew Development Corporation. Moreover, the Finance Department had reportedly objected to the salary hike. Mr. Sudheeran said the official was a person for all seasons, and his coat suited all political parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sudheeran-flays-officials-pay-hike/article37119654.ece
22 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,102 cases in district||The district recorded 1,102 COVID-19 cases and 1,531 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 10,583 on Thursday. A test positivity rate of 10.6% was registered. The district administration has currently placed 43,997 people in quarantine. The death toll stands at 4,208.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1102-cases-in-district/article37119659.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Volunteers needed for survey||Volunteers should come forward as enumerators to collect details for preparing a list of individuals and families living in extreme poverty in the State, Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan has said. The volunteers will work as enumerators at the ward level in grama panchayat or municipality or corporations. Students pursuing their Master’s in Social Work, Humanities, or undergraduation in other subjects, National Service Scheme volunteers, and youth can participate in the exercise in their local body limits. The enumeration will be carried out totally through voluntary. Those interested in the work and know how to use smartphones can contact their local self-government institutions. The enumerators will be presented with State-level certificates, the Minister said, urging volunteers to become a part of the government’s extreme poverty alleviation efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/volunteers-needed-for-survey/article37119253.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No aid yet for disaster-hit: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran said on Thursday that the State Government’s disaster management system had failed the people for the third year in a row. Mr. Surendran had toured the disaster-hit spots in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta. He said Seva Bharathi activists had rushed to the rescue of the disaster-hit. Emergency services and revenue officials turned up belatedly. Ministers had made a token visit to the disaster spots. But did nothing for the flood-ravaged community. The Government was yet to release any funds to the dispossessed. Local body members and legislators had turned their backs on several relief camps. People lived in crowded and deprived conditions and State relief seemed only on paper. BJP workers moved people to safer ground and ensured food, medicines and safe camping, he said. Central funds He said the Government should state where the Rs. 3,000-crore flood aid given by the Centre in previous years went. The State had collected flood cess of Rs. 1,000 crore. However, it had not reflected in flood-related public spending. The Government owed the people an apology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-aid-yet-for-disaster-hit-bjp/article37119282.ece
22 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Rain subsides but alert continues||Even though the rain has subsided in Thrissur district, three of its main dams are on red alert. The authorities have declared a red alert at the Peechi, Peringalkuthu and Sholayar dams. Water level in reservoirs is high as catchment areas of these dams are still getting heavy rain. Eleven families from Ethanoly have been evacuated following the threat of landslips and flash floods. While five families were shifted to their relatives houses, six families were shifted to the relief camp opened at the U.P. School, Vellikulangara. Ethanoly is a high range village in Mattathur panchayat under Kodakara block. It witnessed flash floods and landslips by 7 p.m. on Wednesday. Water entered the houses in the valley. Tar topping of roads were washed away in the flash floods. Currently there are 32 relief camps functioning in the district. As many as 830 people of 260 families have been rehabilitated. Even before the official declaration of the northeast monsoon, the State has already received 98.5% rain. The State used to get 491.6 mm rain in the 92 days from October 1 to December 31. But it has already received 484.3 mm rain till October 21. Thrissur district has received 91.9% rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-subsides-but-alert-continues/article37119344.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Readying for school reopening||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/readying-for-school-reopening/article37119287.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Demand for action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-for-action/article37119651.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Set for the show||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/set-for-the-show/article37119202.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Taking no chance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taking-no-chance/article37119255.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Before the show begins||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/before-the-show-begins/article37119422.ece
22 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Missed flight in Bengaluru lands Customs official in CBI net||A Superintendent of Customs who missed his flight while in transit has landed in trouble after Rs. 74.81 lakh was found in his baggage at the Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru, on January 19. The CBI, Chennai, has registered a disproportionate assets case against the official. The agency’s Anti-Corruption Branch booked Mohammed Irfan Ahmed, Superintendent of Customs, Air Intelligence Unit, Chennai, and his wife under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. They were booked on a scheduled Indigo flight to Lucknow from Chennai via Bengaluru but missed the connecting flight to Lucknow. When their baggage was checked at the Bengaluru airport, Air Intelligence Unit (Income Tax Department) found Rs. 74,81,500, gold jewellery weighing 169.05 g and some mobile phones. The officials seized the money after the couple failed to account for it satisfactorily, the First Information Report said. Gold, silver seized The Income Tax department conducted a search at his residence and found Rs. 64,500 along with gold and silver ornaments valued at Rs. 2.84 lakh. Though Mr. Ahmed and his wife claimed that the money seized was borrowed from their relatives, further enquiries revealed that it was not true.  Calculating the income, expenses and possession of valuables during the check period (July 13, 2020 to January 21, 2021), the CBI in the FIR said the official while working as Superintendent of Customs, Air Intelligence Unit, Chennai, acquired assets in his name and in the name of his wife to the tune of Rs. 75,64,725, which was disproportionate to his known sources of income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/missed-flight-in-bengaluru-lands-customs-official-in-cbi-net/article37119000.ece
22 October 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police martyrs’ services hailed||Deputy Chief Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas has recalled the services of the police martyrs, who had laid down their lives in maintaining law and order in the State. Participating in the Police Martyrs’ Commemoration Day programme at the District Police Headquarters here on Thursday, Mr. Srinivas placed a wreath and paid tributes, along with officials, to the police martyrs. Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police K.V. Mohan Rao said 11 police personnel died in harness in the State in the last one year. SP Rahul Dev Sharma promised the department’s support to the bereaved families. Mr. Srinivas handed over financial aid to the kin of the police personnel who died due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-martyrs-services-hailed/article37119670.ece
22 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete construction of village secretariats, CM tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked District Collectors and Superintendents of Police to focus on usage of material component and take measures to complete construction of the village secretariats. During the ‘Spandana’ video-conference with the officials, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy discussed issues such as MGNREGS works, digital libraries, and E-cropping. He said 4,314 digital libraries were being constructed in the first phase. He instructed the Collectors of Anantapur, Chittoor, East Godavari, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam to pay special attention to construction of the digital libraries. “E-cropping is required for crop purchase. It is the basic function of the RBKs,” he said, and directed the Collectors and Joint Collectors to focus on it. The Collectors should also focus on Continuous Monitoring of Agriculture Prices and Procurement (CMAPP) and ensure remunerative prices to the farmers, he said. The Chief Minister said seeds, fertilizers and pesticides of good quality should be distributed through the RBKs, and asserted that products only related to empanelled companies should be provided. The Chief Minister said land survey was being conducted after 100 years and land disputes in villages would be solved through the ‘Jagananna Saswatha Bhoomi Hakku - Bhoomi Rakshana’ scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-construction-of-village-secretariats-cm-tells-officials/article37119336.ece
22 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP getting desperate’||Chairman of Tobacco Board and BJP leader Y. Raghunatha Babu has said the TDP has gone into a desperate position, and its leaders have started using abusive language against those holding constitutional positions. Addressing the media at the party office here on Thursday, Mr. Raghunatha Babu said the TDP leaders should take up causes that would bring relief to the people. The ruling party leaders too should maintain restraint, and refrain from attacking opposition party offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-getting-desperate/article37119673.ece
22 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Police personnel doing a commendable job’||District Collector Vivek Yadav on Thursday said that police forces had been serving the people with great commitment and even had placed their lives in the line of duty. He was addressing a meeting held to observe the Police Commemoration Day at the Police Martyrs Memorial here on Thursday. Mr. Yadav lauded the police personnel and said that they had no holidays, less family time but had loads of work. “So , it is absolutely essential for the police personnel to keep a watch on their fitness, their health. An hour or two of exercise, sports is necessary to keep themselves healthy and free from stress. The role of police personnel in fighting COVID-19 is phenomenal and they will remain in the hearts of people,” he said. Earlier, the Collector was welcomed and received a guard of honor by the armed police. Superintendent of Guntur Rural, Vishal Gunni said that 17 police personnel had lost their lives during COVID-19, and police department would never forget their sacrifices. “Policing is not just a mere job but a responsibility. The police department will always stand by its personnel,” said Mr. Gunni. RDO, Guntur, Bhaskar Reddy, Tahsildar, Guntur West, Venkateswarlu, Additional SPs and Parade Commander and RI, Welfare Raja Rao was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-personnel-doing-a-commendable-job/article37119675.ece
22 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco Board chairman calls on Jagan||Chairman of Tobacco Board, Guntur, Yadlapati Raghunatha Babu called on Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday. Mr. Raghunatha Babu urged the Chief Minister to extend his cooperation with the Tobacco Board for mechanisation of barns and curing process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-board-chairman-calls-on-jagan/article37119038.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KRMB’s operation protocols in violation of KWDT-I: Telangana||The Telangana government has raised objections to the rule curves and operation protocols related to Srisailam reservoir furnished by the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) as part of implementing the purview and observed that they are in violation of the Bachawat Tribunal Award (KWDT-I). In a letter addressed to Chairman of the river board M.P. Singh on Thursday, Special Chief Secretary (Irrigation) of Telangana Dr. Rajat Kumar suggested the KRMB to review the protocols and make necessary corrections in tune with the Bachawat Award since neither the Centre (Ministry of Jal Shakti) nor the river board (KRMB) have powers to reinterpret the award and its provisions. Stating that the Telangana government has constituted an expert committee to study the proposals of KRMB on the implementation of MoJS notification dated July 15, 2021, Mr. Rajat Kumar said the committee had met on Wednesday (October 20) and examined the rule curves and operation protocols related to Srisailam reservoir. “The committee members unanimously felt that the entire methodology considered in developing the rule curves is erroneous as it does not comply with the provisions of KWDT-I,” the Special Chief Secretary said. Drawing the KRMB Chairman’s attention to Page No.104 of KWDT-I award, according to which “the Srisailam Project being a hydro-electric project for generating power without diverting water to another watershed does not involve consumptive use of water except for evaporation loss,” he noted. Neither KRMB nor the Centre (MoJS) has the power to alter the provisions of the Bachawat Award, Mr. Rajat Kumar said adding that the allocation of Krishna river water is under the consideration of Brijesh Kumar Tribunal (KWDT-II). “Till the KWDT-II decides the allocations, KWDT-I award has to be followed in letter and spirit for sharing Krishna waters among the riparian States,” he asserted. The rule curves in respect of Srisailam reservoir have to restrict the consumptive use of water by Andhra Pradesh to 34 tmcft, the maximum drawals that can be permitted as per the Inter-State Agreement and the Planning Commission approval, Mr. Rajat Kumar wrote to KRMB. Further, he pointed out that taking seven years data from 2014-15 onwards for working out the average utilisations was not only a violation of the KWDT-I award, but would also strengthen the illegitimate claims of AP for transferring Krishna waters to outside the basin areas through Pothireddypadu Head Regulator and Handri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS). The Special Chief Secretary of Telangana stressed the need for an integrated rule curve both for Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar projects as the latter does not have any catchment area of its own and it is a critical source for agricultural, industrial and drinking water needs of both the States and major source of water for the Nagarjunasagar project is the release of water from the Srisailam project. It is also necessary to make provision for carry-over storage in the rule curves for both the reservoirs since it is the mandate of the KWDT-I award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krmbs-operation-protocols-in-violation-of-kwdt-i-telangana/article37119325.ece
22 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three members of job fraud gang held||Three members of an organised job fraud gang, who allegedly duped several persons to the tune of Rs. 1.60 crore, were arrested by Mancherial police of Ramagundam Commissionerate. The accused were identified as Maragoni Srinivas Goud, 42, a realtor from Nagole, who is a native of Nagepalli in Peddapalli district, Nakka Raja Gnanasagar, 57, from Vijayawada, and Gusukonda Ravikanth Sharma, 44 from Saroornagar. Akhil Mahajan, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Mancherial, said that the kingpin of the gang, Goud, was an auto driver in his village, and in Hyderabad, eleven years ago. He got acquainted with Sharma when he went to Osmania General Hospital, to help Singareni employees in getting treatment. “The duo hatched a plan to cheat the Singareni employees on the pretext of the medical unit since there are norms in Singareni company that if any employee is medically unfit, their dependents would get jobs, and as such they can lure and cheat them easily, and also other innocent persons in the name of providing jobs,” Mr. Mahajan said. Further, Goud explained their plan to Gnanasagar, and accordingly the latter agreed and the trio started cheating the Singareni employees of C.C.C. Naspur, Mancherial and Mandamarri areas by taking money from them, he said. “They duped over 25 persons for more than Rs. 1.60 crore. Their victims are in Kothagudem, Warangal, Hyderabad, Munuguru, Bhupalpally, and Peddapalli,” the officer said, adding that Goud also cheated several people under the guise of providing jobs at software companies, private finance, real estate, sand business, and trading companies. Mr. Mahajan said that it is a very big racket and requested the victims to approach the police and lodge complaints. “He also has links with local politicians,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-members-of-job-fraud-gang-held/article37119326.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meeting of Southern Zonal Council on Nov 14||The 29th meeting of the Southern Zonal Council chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah will be held at Tirupati tentatively on November 14. Union Home Ministry Secretary Anuradha Prasad, in a letter addressed to the Andhra Pradesh Government, asked the officials concerned to make logistics arrangements for the meeting to be attended by Chief Ministers of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu in addition to Lieutenant Governors of Andaman Nicobar and Lakshadweep islands. The zonal council meetings are conducted for achieving better coordination between the States concerned and for resolving pending issues. between the States concerned. The last meeting of the council was scheduled to be held in Tirupati on March 4, but was cancelled as Mr. Amit Shah could not attend it. Several issues between the two Telugu States, including the pending promises of the State reorganization, are expected to come up for discussion during the meeting. Significance The meeting assumes significance, especially in the light of escalation of dispute over sharing of river waters between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The complaint of Karnataka government about the plans of Telangana to construct two projects – Palamuru Rangareddy lift irrigation scheme and Nakkalagandi LIS to draw large quantity of remaining/surplus from the foreshore of Srisailam reservoir — was present in the agenda of the previous meeting. T he Karnataka government had alleged that the liberty to use remaining water mentioned in the proviso to para (b) of sub-clause (3) of clause-X of the final order of Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-II was not devolved upon the new State of Telangana. Accordingly, the State could not take up any permanent construction to utilize surplus water. The Karnataka Government’s complaint on construction of Sangambanda barrage on Krishna river as it could lead to submergence of villages under its jurisdiction also figured in the agenda of the previous meeting. In addition to the river water issues, grant of forest/wildlife clearances for laying new third BG railway line between Mukudi and Rechni road railway station of Telangana was in the agenda of the previous meeting. The State Government had intimated to the council that it had granted clearance for the entire 23.72 hectare of land for the third BG line of the project. The meeting is also likely to discuss the assurance given to the State on setting up steel factory at Bayyaram. According to the agenda of the previous meeting, the Telangana Government was exploring options to shift the plant site towards western side of the State. They (TS Government) are yet to take a final call between Bayyaram and some site in the western part and the MECON would complete the draft feasibility report after receiving the information from the Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meeting-of-southern-zonal-council-on-nov-14/article37119324.ece
22 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP win in Badvel a foregone conclusion: Peddireddi||Winning the by-election to the Badvel (SC) Assembly constituency is an effortless task for our party. We are only striving hard to ensure a victory by a margin of one lakh votes as announced by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” says YSRCP’s chief campaign manager and Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy. Heading the party’s ‘war room’, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy, known as a master strategist, is leading a strong team of dozen party legislators, including a chunk of Cabinet Ministers. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy has been in the forefront of the party’s vigorous campaign to retain the backward constituency in the by-election that is necessitated by the demise of party MLA G. Venkatasubbaiah. By pitting Venkatasubbaiah’s wife D. Sudha in the fray, the YSRCP is treading the routine ‘sentimental route’. In an interview to The Hindu on various issues, which included development, voters’ mood and the Opposition’s charges, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said “the party will win the election hands down.” On detractors equating the high-decibel campaign to a ‘sense of insecurity’ gripping the ruling party, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said, “The Opposition is confined to tall talk as our candidate’s victory is a foregone conclusion. Our sincere effort is only to realise the Chief Minister’s dream of ensuring a victory margin of one lakh votes.” By chanting the development mantra, he said the party activists would take the Navaratnalu to every doorstep. Striking a local chord, he said every farmer in the constituency knew which government had brought water to the Brahmam Sagar project. Asked if the absence of the TDP from the fray made any difference, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said, “The main Opposition opting out of the race has indeed made the task easier for the ruling party.” However, he brushed aside the BJP-JSP combine as having no impact on the election. Snubbing the BJP for projecting a “larger than life image of itself,” he wondered if the party could even secure manpower to work as booth agents. “Our activists are focussed on the goal post. Our efforts will show in the result,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-win-in-badvel-a-foregone-conclusion-peddireddi/article37119339.ece
22 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy ‘kills’ mother for ‘strangulating’ his sister||A 12-year-old boy allegedly stabbed his mother to death, blaming her for his sister’s death, in Nakash Street in Kadapa on Thursday. The incident came to light after the police recovered both the bodies. According to sources, Khurshida (47) got separated from her husband Shaik Hussain after a tiff and had ben staying alone with her kids Alima (14) and Jameer (12). On Wednesday night, Khurshida reportedly admonished Alima for staying glued to her mobile phone. As the argument escalated into a verbal duel, an enraged Khurshida allegedly strangled Alima with a dupatta. Jameer, in a fit of rage, allegedly stabbed his mother with a knife, causing her death. A police team led by Circle Inspector Mohammad Ali sent the bodies to a hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boy-kills-mother-for-strangulating-his-sister/article37119323.ece
22 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s time to make liquor shops walk-in ones: HC||The Kerala High Court on Thursday observed that the time had come for the stakeholders to take a call on how every liquor shop in the State should be converted into a walk-in one rather than dispensing liquor by making the customers wait on the footpath. Justice Devan Ramachandran made the observation while hearing a contempt petition moved against the State Government for not complying with a directive to shift a liquor shop in Thrissur and for improving the facilities of liquor shops. No action yet The court observed that it had alerted the Government in its judgment in 2017 about providing walk-in facilities at liquor outlets, but no action had been taken. The court orally observed that nobody wanted a liquor store next to their residence. If liquor stores were like all other stores with a walk-in facility, it would solve half the problem. When the monopoly over liquor sale was created, the Government started the sale of liquor in small and dingy shops and people lined up on the street, making it impossible for women and children to safely walk through these areas. During the hearing, the court in a lighter vein said there was no poverty when people were lining up in front of liquor shops. Nobody wanted subsidies and nobody demanded reservations. Egalitarian It was very egalitarian. The people were waiting in the queue for hours for buying liquor without raising any complaints. Senior Government pleader S. Kannan submitted that 33 shops had been upgraded and the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) had taken steps to improve the facilities by providing more counters and parking facilities. The court asked the State Government to give its view on its suggestion for providing walk-in facilities at Bevco shops by November 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-time-to-make-liquor-shops-walk-in-ones-hc/article37118990.ece
22 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC confirms sentence in rape case||The Kerala High Court has observed that when a father rapes his daughter, it is “worse than a gamekeeper becoming a poacher or a treasury guard becoming a robber.” Justice R. Narayana Pisharady made the observation recently while confirming the sentence of 12-year rigorous imprisonment and a fine Rs. 50,000 awarded by the Kalpetta Sessions Court to a man for raping his daughter. “There can never be more graver and heinous crime than the father committing rape on his own daughter,” the court added. The accused was a person who was duty bound to provide the victim girl protection and support. But, he had perpetrated sexual assault and rape on her. One could not even imagine the trauma the victim would have suffered. It was a case in which on account of the rape committed on her by her own father, she had delivered a male child. The sufferings endured by the victim girl would be beyond imagination. In such circumstances, the accused was not entitled to any leniency in the matter of punishment, the court observed. The court, however, set aside the conviction and sentence awarded under Section 6 of the POCSO Act as the prosecution was not able to prove the age of the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-confirms-sentence-in-rape-case/article37118997.ece
22 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Satheesan criticises govt.||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Thursday unleashed a scathing attack on the Left Democratic Front Government, alleging that it had failed in managing natural disasters that had hit the State for the fourth year in a row. Addressing mediapersons here, Mr. Satheesan said the Government had issued a red alert very late despite a warning by the India Meteorological Department on a depression taking shape in the Arabian Sea. “The red alert for Kottayam and Pathanamathitta was issued only after calamities struck the region,” pointed out Mr. Satheesan, holding that the State Disaster Management Authority was a total failure. “This Government could not even carry out a study on flood zones and the impact of water level rise on these locations. All that it has done is to announce a room for a river programme after [Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan] visiting the Netherlands. Mr. Vijayan should explain the steps taken to implement the project,” he added. Repeats charge Mr. Satheesan sought to reiterate his earlier allegation of the Government machinery delaying its response to the tragedy that stuck Kokkayar in Idukki. “Though the landslip occurred at 10 a.m., it took the Government 21 hours before launching the rescue operations. Government officers did not reach the spot even after people’s representatives came there on the same day. In Plappally, where five people, including babies, were trapped under mud and water, the Government machinery arrived only the next day,” he said. Moratorium He criticised the Government for delaying the announcement of a moratorium for loans availed from cooperative banks. “We had placed a demand in this regard before the Government more than half a dozen times earlier, but the Cabinet could take a decision on this only this week. They should have taken such steps much earlier to boost the confidence of the people,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/satheesan-criticises-govt/article37118991.ece
22 October 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tendering on to demolish check dams in Kozhikode||Tendering is under way for the demolition of the two illegal check-dams at PVR Nature Resort at Kakkadampoyil in Kozhikode. The water in the dams has already been drained out as part of the steps in place to raze them in compliance with the Kerala High Court order. Detailed inspection Officials of Koodaranhi grama panchayat had recently visited the area for a detailed inspection and had announced that the resort owners would be made to bear the expenses of the demolition. The local body intervened in the matter following the failure on the part of the resort management to comply with the Collector’s order to clear all illegal constructions within a specified time. Environmental activists too had demanded immediate action. The resort is co-owned by Nilambur MLA P.V. Anvar. Following the spot visit, panchayat officials had submitted a report to the district administration. Court order The court ordered the demolition after the check- dams were found interrupting the natural flow of water in the ecologically sensitive area. There were also complaints that they would cause landslips in the hilly region. The panchayat authorities said it would cost around Rs. 60,000 for the safe flattening of the two check-dams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tendering-on-to-demolish-check-dams-in-kozhikode/article37118989.ece
22 October 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister recalls sacrifices of policemen||Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkatramaiah participated in the Police Martyrs Commemoration Day programme and paid tributes to police personnel who sacrificed their lives in discharging their duties. Participating in the Police Flag Day celebrations at the District Police Headquarters here on Thursday, the Minister said that police were doing round-the-clock duties to provide a peaceful life to the public. Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said police extended good services during the lockdown period and 206 personnel died of COVID in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-recalls-sacrifices-of-policemen/article37119672.ece
22 October 2021||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scribe, father acquitted of treason charge||A city court here on Thursday acquitted Vittala Malekudiya, a journalist, and his father, Lingappa Malekudiya, nearly seven years after they were charged with treason. The case had drawn national attention back in 2012. The 3rd Additional District and Sessions judge B.B. Jakati acquitted the son and the father from the charges of having links with Maoists. The police had booked and arrested them for offences under Sections 120 B, 124 A of Indian Penal Code and under Sections 19 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. They had been released on bail later. Search by ANF In March 2012, Anti-Naxal Force (ANF) personnel, led by sub-inspector Sachin Lawrence, searched the house of Mr. Malekudiya at Kutlur in Belthangady taluk, under Kudremukh National Park limits, Dakshina Kannada district, and seized, among other things, a book on Bhagat Singh and some articles related to Maoist activities. The sub-inspector arrested Mr. Malekudiya, who was then a postgraduate journalism student in Mangalore University, and his father. Mr. Vittala Malekudiya and his father were in judicial custody for about three months. It was during this period that he took permission of the court to write the first year journalism course examination. Mangalore University had not declared his result because of shortage of attendance. After his release on bail in July 2012, he attended classes for the first year and subsequently completed the course. Mr. Malekudiya is presently working in a Kannada daily in Bengaluru. The son and father were mentioned as accused no. 6 and 7 while absconding Maoist leaders Vikram Gowda, Pradeepa, John, Prabha, and Sundari were mentioned as accused no. 1 to 5. As accused no. 1 to 5 remained absconding, the court split the case and tried charges against the son and his father. A total of 23 witnesses were examined between November 2019 and September 2021. On Thursday, Mr. Vittala Malekudiya told reporters that a false case had been foisted against him and his father as he was leading the cause of Malekudiya tribal community, who were against displacement from the forest. “I knew we would come clean,” he said. Compensation sought State president of the Democratic Youth Federation of India Muneer Katipalla said the State Government had to pay compensation to the two for foisting a false case of treason against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scribe-father-acquitted-of-treason-charge/article37118993.ece
22 October 2021||Mysuru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Road caves in on Chamundi Hills due to heavy rain||A stretch of road on Chamundi Hills leading to the Nandi statue caved in following the heavy rain that lashed Mysuru through Wednesday night and the early hours of Thursday. As a result, vehicles and tourists have been barred from proceeding towards the Nandi statue from the viewpoint junction, and district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar has directed the authorities to take up the repair works on priority. However, the road to the temple has not been affected. Public Works Minister C.C. Patil has also instructed the department engineers and officials to visit the spot and submit a technical report. Engineers have been directed to assess the ground situation and identify the other road stretches that could cave in because of the soil condition. Senior officials who visited the spot believe the soil has been saturated because of heavy rains, resulting in a portion of the road caving in. But this is not the first time this has happened, which underlines the ecological fragility of the place. Yet, successive governments and district in-charge Ministers go overboard in announcing new “development projects” for Chamundi Hills, which is fast turning into a concrete jungle. It was only recently that the idea of a ropeway – which was long considered unviable – was revived by the Government so as to promote tourism though the project has not yet gained traction and is in the conceptual stage. Large tracts of vegetation were cleared two years ago atop the hills to pave way for a parking lot for 250 to 300 four-wheelers. Buffer zone Concerned citizens and NGOs such as Mysore Grahakara Parishat (MGP) have urged the government to declare a buffer zone around Chamundi Hills and freeze new development projects that throw ecological concerns to the wind. But their pleas to reduce anthropogenic pressure on the hills have fallen on deaf years. Apart from being a lung space for the city, which is witnessing a horizontal sprawl, Chamundi Hills is also a major watershed for Mysuru and helps in regulating the micro-climatic conditions. It helps in recharge of groundwater while the scrub forests are a hotspot of biodiversity that sustains over 150 species of butterflies in addition to more than 150 species of birds. MGP and other NGOs have fought for securing a buffer zone even as the fragile hills is witnessing relentless urbanisation at the top while new residential areas are cropping up at the foothills, destroying the ecosystem. But none of this figures in the government’s scheme of things and a section of the MLAs some time ago sought a slew of additional facilities, including dormitories and guest houses on the hilltop, on the lines of Tirupati. But NGOs have argued that such projects are fraught with danger to the hill’s creaking environment and the proposed facilities would also be redundant as Mysuru is hardly 5 km away and it takes 15 to 20 minutes to reach the shrine from the city. None of the projects announced by elected representatives take into account the carrying capacity of the hillock and this is fraught with danger in the long run, according to the activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/road-caves-in-on-chamundi-hills-due-to-heavy-rain/article37118984.ece
22 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP is conspiring to destabilise YSRCP govt.’||Accusing the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) of trying create a law and order problem in the State, Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy on Thursday pressed for the intervention by the Centre. Participating in the ‘Janaagraha Deeksha’ launched by the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) at the Church Centre, the Minister said the leaders of the other opposition parties including the Jana Sena Party (JSP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) must see through the TDP’s ‘game plan’ to further its political interests. “It is time the leaders cutting across the party-lines came out openly against the obscene language the TDP leader K. Pattabhiram used against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. There should be a decency and decorum in public life,” said Mr. Srinivasa Reddy. He said Jana Sena president Pawan Kalyan must realise that people would not accept his ‘blind support’ to the TDP. “The BJP leaders should break their silence on the issue,” he said while making a mention of the TDP’s move to approach New Delhi to press for the dismissal of the YSRCP government on the pretext of deterioration in the law and order situation in the State. He reminded the BJP that it was the TDP activists who were allegedly involved the violent protest during Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to Tirupati in the past. “The YSRCP leaders and activists are exercising utmost restraint, despite the provocation by the TDP, which is frustrated over the growing popularity of the Chief Minister. The admirers of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy are upset with the unparliamentary language used by the TDP leaders and they can not be expected to remain silent for ever,” he said Accusing the TDP of whipping up communal passions in the State and pitting one caste group against another for political mileage, the Minister said, “those behind the burning of chariot (Annavaram temnple) then were behind the protests now.” Dubbing TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu’s protest as a ‘farce’, Mr. Srinivasa Reddy said the former Chief Minister and his son N. Lokesh were no match to the calibre of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who had single-handedly brought the fledgling YSRCP to power in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-conspiring-to-destabilise-ysrcp-govt-says-minister/article37119319.ece
22 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to police martyrs in Ongole||Rich tributes were paid to the men in uniform who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty, on the occasion of the Police Commemoration Day on Thursday. Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy placed wreaths at the Smriti memorial and lauded the services of the police personnel in ensuring safety and security of the people. He noted that 377 police personnel including 11 from Andhra Pradesh had died while ensuring the nation’s integrity. He made a special mention of their services during the tough COVID-19 times to prevent the spread of the infection. As many as 10 police personnel had succumbed to the infection in Prakasam district. Participating in the programme, Ongole MP Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy recalled the valiant bid made by reserve constable Ch. Venkata Ratnam who tried in vain to save his brother Magunta Subbarami Reddy during an ambush by extremists. Prakasam Collector Praveen Kumar underscored the need for reforms in the functioning of the police in accordance with changing circumstances to provide better services to the people. Police should adopt new technology tools and take inspiration from the slain police personnel while discharging their duties, he said. SP Malika Garg recalled the brave para-military personnel who died while defending the country during the Chinese aggression. Floral tributes were paid to Addanki Solomon Carney Wesley who died in a helicopter crash along with late Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy and Lella Shankar, Junior Commander Greyhounds; Mota Anjaneyulu, Greyhounds Junior Commander; K.P. Prasanth Rao, Assistant SI; Chappidi Venkata Rathnam, AR Constable and Sk. Mohammad Rafi, constable who had died in the line of duty. The Minister presented mementos to the kin of the police martyrs. He handed over the Bhadratha ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh, welfare cheque for an equal amount and memorabilia to the families of 10 personnel who died of COVID-19. He handed over appointment orders to one member each of the families of five personnel who died during service. Later, dignitaries flagged off the Police Martyrs’ Rally at the Police Parade Ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-police-martyrs/article37119320.ece
22 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalit activists resolve to protest govt. policies||Members of various Dalit students’ outfits on Thursday resolved to launch a struggle against what they called ‘anti-Dalit’ policies of the government. The activists, who met under the leadership of Andhra Pradesh Vidyarthi Joint Action Committee president Rayapatti Jagadeesh at the Acharya Nagarjuna University P.G. campus here, feared a bleak future for Dalit students in the wake of the scrapping of several welfare schemes pertaining to higher education that were implemented in the past. They decided to launch a protracted struggle for scrapping of the G.O.77 which provided for scrapping of fee reimbursement and scholarship for students pursuing PG programmes in private colleges. Schemes such as the one to enable Dalit students pursue education abroad should also be revived so also the ones to provide financial support to Dalit entrepreneurs, who were struggling to get soft loans from banks now, they said. Poor infrastructure stared at students in social welfare hostels. A majority of students got distanced from higher education in the absence of scholarship at the post-graduation level, alleged the members of Ambedkar Students Union and the ST Students’ Federation and the Bahujana Students Union. The government should come up with a new job calendar and fill all vacancies, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dalit-students-seek-fair-deal/article37119317.ece
22 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain in Kerala likely to last till Monday; yellow alert in 10 districts||Kerala is bracing for more rain with a cyclonic circulation persisting over coastal southern Tamil Nadu likely to bring widespread rainfall over the next few days. Special attention is being paid to the hilly regions of the State given the likelihood of thunderstorms, Revenue Minister K. Rajan said here on Thursday. Four missing The death toll in natural calamities since October 12 rose to 50 by Thursday, the government said. Four persons are missing in various districts. On Thursday, 8,655 families (29,057 individuals) were accommodated in 435 relief camps. Under the influence of the cyclonic circulation and a trough which extends from it to the east-central Arabian Sea, the State can expect widespread rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning till Monday, the State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC) said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put several districts on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall till Monday. Ten districts — Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, and Wayanad — are on yellow alert on Friday. The State cannot afford to relax its guard in the days ahead as the northeast monsoon is expected to commence with the simultaneous withdrawal of the southwest monsoon by Tuesday, the Minister said. Last year, the State had recorded a 26% deficit in northeast monsoon rainfall. This year, Kerala has recorded a 128% ‘large excess’ over the normal in the first three weeks of October. Twelve teams of the National Disaster Response Force are currently deployed in various districts. Three teams each of the Army and the Defence Security Corps, two IAF helicopters and a naval helicopter are on standby, the Minister said. He urged the public to remain alert and cooperate with government officials if evacuation becomes necessary. Minor mudslips were reported in Palakkad, Idukki, Kottayam, Wayanad and Malappuram districts in the rainfall on Wednesday night. No damage has been reported, the Government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-in-kerala-likely-to-last-till-monday-yellow-alert-in-10-districts/article37118995.ece
22 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth gets 20-year RI for raping minor girl||A fast-track court here on Thursday sentenced a youth to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment for raping a 14-year-old girl seven years ago, under the pretext of marriage. Thiruvananthapuram Fast Track Special Judge R. Jayakrishnan found Rajesh Rajan, 28, of Rajaji Nagar Colony to be guilty under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act that pertains to penetrative sexual assault. The convict will also be required to pay a fine of Rs. 50,000, default of which would lead to an additional year of imprisonment. According to the prosecution led by special public prosecutor Vijay Mohan R.S., the convict enticed the girl, who was a Class VIII student then. They lived together in his house for nearly a year during when they had a sexual relationship. He also tied a ‘thali’ on her to deceive her. He deserted her in January 2014 shortly after she was hospitalised for illness. While Rajesh’s mother assured her that he would marry her once she completed 18 years, the girl formally complained to the Cantonment police after he married another woman. Convict’s version The convict, who pleaded not guilty, claimed that the victim’s parents had borrowed Rs. 85,000 from him and filed the complaint when he sought repayment. The prosecution had presented 11 witnesses, 15 exhibits, and two materials as evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-gets-20-year-ri-for-raping-minor-girl/article37118994.ece
22 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ayodhya Kanda parayanam’ begins||The 27-day ‘Ayodhya Kanda parayanam’ began at Vasantha Mandapam here on Thursday. The programme aims at seeking the blessings of Lord Venkateswara to save humanity from the clutches of the coronavirus pandemic. Terming the recital of Ramanayan as a ‘Gnana Yajna’, Dharmagiri Veda Vignana Peetam Principal Kuppa Siva Subramanyam said 16 Vedic scholars took part in the programme and recited more than 291 stanzas. On the other hand, another band of 16 scholars performed homas and embarked on ‘Moola Mantra Japam’ of Lord Rama at the Veda Vignana Peetam till evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayodhya-kanda-parayanam-begins/article37119321.ece
22 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to release darshan tickets today||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has decided to release the online quota of darshan tickets for November and December. The Rs. 300 Special Entry Darshan (SED) tickets will be released at 9 a.m. on October 22 (Friday), while the Slotted Sarva Darshan (SSD) tokens for the common pilgrims will be released at the same time on October 23 (Saturday). However, the darshan tickets for December 8 and 16 have been kept on hold as the days coincide with the Panchami Theertham at the Tiruchanoor temple and the commencement of Dhanurmasam at Tirumala. Devotees can book their accommodation for the November from October 25. Meanwhile, speculations are rife that the TTD may increase the daily quota of online darshan tickets, which at present is 16,000 per day for both the formats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-release-darshan-tickets-today/article37119074.ece
22 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bankers launch credit outreach campaign||Bankers at the mega credit outreach campaign conducted in Tirupati on Thursday underlined the importance of sanctioning advances to give the much-needed fillip to the economy. The campaign was conducted by a conglomerate of banks led by Indian Bank, which is the lead bank for Chittoor district. Sapthagiri Grameena Bank Chairman A.S.N. Prasad, who launched the campaign, explained the directive of the Union Ministry of Finance to ensure extension of credit and subsidies to eligible beneficiaries. “At a time when the small and medium-scale industries are wriggling out of the mounting losses caused by economic downturn triggered by the coronavirus pandemic, it is essential for the banks to reach out to them,” said Mr. Prasad. Indian Bank Zonal Manager Aruna, NABARD Deputy District Manager Sunil, Union Bank of India Deputy General Manager P.D.V. Sarma spoke on supporting agro-based and food processing sector., especially tomato, mango and tamarind in Chittoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bankers-launch-credit-outreach-campaign/article37119322.ece
22 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||89.5% qualify in LAWCET||About 89.5% of the candidates have qualified in the Andhra Pradesh Law Common Entrance Test (APLAWCET-2021), conducted this year by Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) on behalf of Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE). APSCHE Chairman P. Hemachandra Reddy, SPMVV Vice-Chancellor Jamuna Duvvuru and CET convener N.B. Chandrakala formally announced the results here on Thursday. The test was conducted on September 22 in 66 centres across the State for admission into law courses of three streams viz., 5 years, 3 years and 2 year P.G. Mopuru Haripriya of Vijayawada, Musale Mounika Bai of Kurnool and Yarabala Geethika of Visakhapatnam emerged toppers in the respective categories. The results and rank cards could be accessed at https://sche.ap.gov.in/lawcet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/895-qualify-in-lawcet/article37119337.ece
22 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engineering, pharmacy classes from Nov. 15||Education Minister A. Suresh on Thursday released the notification for admissions into engineering and pharmacy colleges in the State through web counselling. Addressing the media, the Minister said of the 1,66,460 candidates who appeared for the common entrance test (AP EAPCET-2021) in the engineering and pharmacy streams, 1,34,205 qualified. Mark the date Mr.Suresh said students could make payment of processing fee in online mode from October 25 to 30, certificate verification at notified helpline centres would be conducted from October 26 to 31, the registered candidates could exercise web options from November 1 to 5, change of options could be done on November 6, allotment of seats would be made on November 10, the candidates would have to report at colleges between November 11 and 15 and classes would commence from November 15. Mr. Suresh said 25 helpline centres had been established for certificate-verification process. For verification of certificates, the students would have to produce their APEAPCET-2021 rank card, hall ticket, SSC or its equivalent marks memo, Intermediate or its equivalent marks memo, Class VI to Intermediate study certificates, Transfer Certificate from the college last studied, income certificate issued after January 1, 2018 by a competent authority or white ration card for claiming tuition fee reimbursement, if applicable and caste certificate issued by competent authority in case of reserved candidates (BC/SC/ST). Student seeking a quota in Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category should carry the certificate for the year 2021-22, Physically Challenged (PH), Children of Armed Personnel (CAP), NCC, Sports, Minority certificate if applicable, local status certificate (if a candidates has migrated to any part of the Andhra Pradesh from Telangana) and Residence certificate (not Nativity) of either of the parents for 10 years in Andhra Pradesh issued by Revenue officials or Service Certificate from State/Central/Public Sector Units/Quasi government organisation if either of the parents is currently working in Andhra Pradesh- in case of non-local candidates. The Minister said 35% of seats in engineering and pharmacy colleges would be filled in convener quota. There were a total of 6,747 seats available in the 25 engineering colleges, nine pharmacy colleges and two pharma-D colleges in the government sector, as against 72,520 seats available in 297 private engineering, pharmacy and pharma-D colleges in the State. Besides, four private universities offered 2,330 seats, he added. The Minister said doubts about web counselling could be clarified in the 25 helpline centres or through e-mail to the convener’s office convenerapeapcet2021@gmail.com or by calling phone numbers 8106876345, 8106575223 or 7995865456. Commissioner, Department of Technical Education Pola Bhaskar, Joint Director A. Nirmal Kumar, Special Officer Sudhir Reddy, Chief Camp Officer B. Kalyan and other officials were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/engineering-pharmacy-classes-from-nov-15/article37119040.ece
22 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s time to impose President’s Rule in A.P., says Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday began his 36-hour protest against the recent attacks on his party offices. Calling them acts of “State-sponsored terrorism,” Mr. Naidu sought the Union government’s intervention in the matter to restore peace. Addressing the cadres at the TDP headquarters, near Mangalagiri, which had been ransacked by a mob on October 19, Mr. Naidu said the attacks were a fallout of the criticism of the government’s “failure to curb the smuggling of drugs, and its negligence in probing the links to the recent haul of heroin at Mundra Port in Gujarat.” ‘Retrograde policies’ “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is getting impatient over the growing public resentment against his government’s ineptitude in curbing the drug menace, its retrograde policies, and attacks on democratic institutions and constitutional authorities,” Mr. Naidu said. Maintaining that the destruction of the party’s main office was not a sporadic one, Mr. Naidu alleged that it was a “well organised attack meant to intimidate the TDP leaders raising their voice against the government’s failures.” “It is a culmination of two-and-a-half years of lawlessness and anarchy that has been prevailing since the YSRCP came to power in 2019,” Mr. Naidu alleged. The Union government should note that the drug mafia extended their business to Gujarat, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and a few other States, the TDP president said. “Youth have to be protected, lest the drug abuse should become a major scourge in the future,” Mr. Naidu cautioned. Insisting that the situation was ripe for imposition of President’s Rule, Mr. Naidu said, “The TDP is forced to demand it to save the State from Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s autocratic regime, where there is no scope for dissent.” ‘Hyderabad CP’s observation’ In this context, Mr. Naidu mentioned the Hyderabad Police Commissioner’s statement that cannabis was being smuggled from Narsipatnam, Paderu, Sileru and other places in Andhra Pradesh, and the Telangana Chief Minister’s resolve to make his State drug-free. Mr. Naidu further said cannabis worth about Rs. 8,000 crore was being cultivated in over 25,000 acres in the State and WhatsApp groups used for delivering the substance throughout India. “The TDP will continue to fight against the drug menace, undeterred by the attacks perpetrated by the government itself,” Mr. Naidu said, and sought the people’s cooperation “to make the Chief Minister pay a price for his follies.” TDP State president K. Atchannaidu and TDLP deputy leader Nimmala Rama Naidu said the protest was essential to draw the attention of the nation “to the atrocities being committed by the YSR Congress Party government and its attempts to sweep the stark facts on illegal drug trade under the carpet.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-begins-protest-slams-ap-govt/article37118982.ece
22 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pattabhi sent to judicial remand||Telugu Desam Party spokesperson K. Pattabhiram, who was arrested for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, was sent to judicial custody by a court in the city on Thursday. The Vijayawada police, who arrested Mr. Pattabhi on Wednesday, produced him before a court. He was sent to 14-day judicial remand at sub-jail in Machilipatnam later. It was learnt that the police filed a custody petition seeking custody of Mr. Pattabhiram for further questioning. Mr. Pattabhiram’s remarks on the Chief Minister and Director-General of Police were followed by attacks on the former’s house and TDP offices across the State by alleged ruling party activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pattabhi-sent-to-judicial-remand/article37119330.ece
22 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID ‘inappropriate behaviour’: Rs. 32.26 crore collected as fine||The State government collected penalties amounting to nearly Rs. 32.26 crore from 40,68,974 persons / commercial establishments for violating the norms related to COVID appropriate behaviour so far. Chittoor district accounted for the highest amount of approximately Rs. 6.10 crore and Guntur the lowest at Rs. 56.80 lakh. The Collectors and Commissioners and Superintendents of Police had been instructed to strictly enforce the relevant guidelines to prevent a possible resurgence of the pandemic, the government said in a memo filed by it in the High Court on COVID. It was stated in the memo that 461 persons had died of Mucormycosis (black fungus) so far and the number of active cases stood at 144 on October 17. A total of 5,181 cases were reported till now. The State had a stock of essential COVID-related medicines, including 4,86,196 Remdesivir injections, 7,757 Amphotericin-B 50 mg injections, 32,057 Posaconazole injections, 9,804 Posaconazole 100 mg tablets, 13,37,354 home isolation kits and 366 Tocilizumab injections. As on October 18, 259 hospitals were de-notified due to a gradual decrease in the number of inpatients. It was further submitted that 100% of the people aged above 45 years have been administered the first dose of COVID vaccine. Cumulatively, 83.50% of the eligible population were given the first dose of the vaccine and 47.23% were fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-inappropriate-behaviour-rs-3226-crore-collected-as-fine/article37119331.ece
22 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC to Centre: file affidavit on APSDC by Nov. 15||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, comprising Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and Justice C. Praveen Kumar, has directed the Union of India to file a counter affidavit by November 15 regarding the petitions that challenged Section12 (functions and powers) of the A.P. State Development Corporation (APSDC) Act, 2020, the raising of Rs. 25,000 crore by the State government through the APSDC, and alleged mortgaging of government properties such as the offices of the District Collector and the MRO. The petitions were filed by Visakhapatnam East MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu and two others. Appearing for the State, Advocate-General S. Sriram defended the compromising of the sovereign immunity of the Governor, and drew the court’s attention to Articles 299 and 361 of the Constitution wherein it was stated that “neither the President nor the Governor, or any person making or executing any such contract or assurance on behalf of any of them, shall be personally liable in respect thereof.” The court agreed with the Advocate-General’s statement that the impugned contracts were State contracts under Article 299, and they did not entail any personal liability to the Governor as such agreements were signed by an Additional Secretary (finance) to the government. The Advocate-General also said the writ petitions were political in nature, to which the Judges replied that they would adjudicate on any matter if important questions were raised. Representing Mr. Ramakrishna Babu, advocate Y. Balaji said the waiver of the Governor’s sovereign power was illegal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-to-centre-file-affidavit-on-apsdc-by-nov-15/article37119333.ece
22 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. employees to get cybersecurity training||The increase in data breaches, accidental leak of sensitive information and use of private emails for official communication across public and private sector institutions is a cause of worry, said Special Chief Secretary, Revenue Department, Rajat Bhargava. Speaking after launching a cyber security foundation course for the employees of the Andhra Pradesh State Beverages Corporation Limited (APSBCL), Mr. Bhargava said such breaches not only would result in heavy financial loss but also have adverse impact on the services extended by the government to the public. The government decided to initiate this training programme on a massive scale to help the departments, public sector units and government undertakings in securing themselves from these lurking cyber threats, he said, informing that Andhra Pradesh was the first State in the country to initiate the training on such massive scale for safe computing. Managing Director of the corporation Vasudev Reddy explained in detail the cyber threats surrounding the IT landscape. “Governments, military, corporations, hospitals, financial institutions and other business processes store a great deal of confidential information on computers and transmit that data across networks to other computers. With the growing volume and sophistication of cyber attacks, attention is required to protect sensitive business and personal information, as well as to safeguard national security,” he said, informing that data breach recovery costs were substantial across all industries. He said the government and large enterprises need to gear up to counter these threats and improve security. “Also, trained manpower is needed to counter the attacks.” Regional Director of Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL) P.V. Sreekanth said it had collaborated with the Forensic Intelligence Surveillance and Security Technologies (FISST), a Chennai-based company, in specialising on cyber and physical security solutions, including training and certification programmes, in association with IIT Madras. Chief Mission Integrator and Innovator, FISST, C. Mohan Ram, threw light on the basic functions of a security set-up with over 30 tools and settings for prevention of attacks on computer and networks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/training-in-cyber-security-for-govt-employees/article37119042.ece
22 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assam team visits State to study educational reforms||A team of officials from Assam visited the State to study the schemes and policies being implemented by the government in the education sector. The team comprising Assam State Samagra Shiksha Project Director Roshni Aparanji, Primary Education Director Bijoya Chowdary, Assam SCERT Director Neerada Devi and others met Education Minister A. Suresh before attending a meeting at the Samagra Shiksha office on Thursday. Recalling that the Telangana government had sent a team to the State in the past to study the reforms being implemented here, the Minister said programmes such as Amma Vodi, Nadu-Nedu, Jaganna Vidya Deevena and Jagananna Vasathi Deevena were attracting the attention of many States. Later, at a preliminary meeting with officials of the Education Department on designing textbooks for Class VIII, at the Secretariat, Mr. Suresh asked the officials to design the textbooks in a manner so that students can comprehend their lessons without difficulty. The Minister said the job should be carried out with utmost responsibility as it involved the future of 70 lakh students across the State. Around 130 writers from across the State participated in the meeting. Bilingual textbooks The Minister said the reforms ushered in the education sector in the State had attracted the attention of many other States who were ‘eager to follow our footsteps’. The idea was to make quality education accessible to children of all sections in the society, he said, informing that attractive bilingual textbooks were being designed and the books that are to be printed, he said, should be designed in a manner that they could be used for reference by students appearing for competitive exams in future. Commissioner, Department of School Education, Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu, Samagra Shiksha State Project Director Vetri Selvi, Director of State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) Pratap Reddy and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/assam-team-visits-ap-to-study-educational-reforms/article37119676.ece
22 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 7 more lives||The State reported seven deaths due to COVID-19 and 493 infections in the past 24 hours taking the cumulative toll and tally to 14,327  and 20,62,303  respectively. The number of active cases came down to 5,500 with 552 new recoveries. The daily positivity rate of the 41,820 samples tested was 1.18%. Guntur reported two more deaths in the past day while Chittoor, East Godavari, Krishna, Kurnool and Prakasam reported one death each. Chittoor reported 113 more infections in the past day. It was followed by Guntur (74), West Godavari (66), Krishna (56), East Godavari (45), Nellore (31), Visakhapatnam (25), Kadapa (24), Srikakulam (20), Prakasam (18), Kurnool (8), Vizianagaram (7) and Anantapur (6).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-7-more-lives/article37119328.ece
22 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC invites applications for RIMC admissions||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has invited applications from girls for admission to Class VIII in the Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC), Dehradun, for July 2022 term, proposed to be conducted at specified centres of respective States on December 18 this year. In a statement, Commission Secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said the girl candidates appearing for this test should not be less than 11 and half years in age and should not have attained the age of 13 years as on July 1, 2022. They should have been born, not earlier than July 2, 2009 and not later than January 1, 2011. The candidate should either be studying in Class VII or passed Class VII from any recognised school at the time of admission to the RIMC (July 1, 2022). There would a written exam in Mathematics, General Knowledge and English, and minimum pass marks in each paper is 50 %. The date for viva-voce would be intimated later. The result will be updated on RIMC website. Date extended Keeping in view the current scenario of COVID-19, the RIMC has decided to extend the last date for submission of application form for boys also up to November 15, 2021, for December, 2021 entrance examination (July, 2022 term). The last date for receiving application forms for both boys and girls will now be November 15. The applications should be sent to the Assistant Secretary (Exams), APPSC, New HODs building, 2nd floor, near RTA office, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Vijayawada, by November 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-invited-for-rimc-admissions/article37119041.ece
22 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR collects Rs. 96.64 lakh as penalty||Officials of the South Central Railway (SCR), Vijayawada division, conducted intensive ticket checking drives during Dasara festival and collected Rs. 96.64 lakh from passengers travelling without ticket and carrying luggage without booking. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, P. Bhaskar Reddy said the objective of the drive was to curb ticketless and irregular travel,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-collects-rs-9664-lakh-as-penalty/article37119671.ece
22 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP submits memorandum to Governor||A delegation of the TDP, led by its State president K. Atchannaidu and comprising Payyavula Keshav, Nimala Rama Naidu, Yanamala Ramakrishnudu and Varla Ramaiah, submitted a memorandum explaining in detail the attacks on the party leaders and offices, to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan here on Thursday. They sought the Governor’s intervention to restore normalcy. Speaking to media later, they demanded President’s Rule in the State, and said they would take the incidents to the notice of the President and the Union Home Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-submits-memorandum-to-governor/article37119334.ece
22 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR awards to be presented on Nov. 1||The State government will present 29 YSR Lifetime Achievement Awards and 30 YSR Achievement Awards to individuals and institutions on the Andhra Pradesh Formation Day on November 1, according to a press release issued by the I&PR Commissioner T. Vijaya Kumar Reddy. The YSR Lifetime Achievement Awards carry a prize money of Rs. 10 lakh each, a bronze replica of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy and a medal. The YSR Achievement Awards will have a cash prize of Rs. 5 lakh each, a bronze replica of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy and a medal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-awards-to-be-presented-on-nov-1/article37119335.ece
22 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Malla Reddy appointed JMD (Vigilance) of AP-Transco||The government has appointed Busireddy Malla Reddy, retired IPS officer, as Joint Managing Director (Vigilance) of AP-Transco. Prior to this posting, he was working as an officer on special duty in the Anti-Corruption Bureau. According to an official release, Mr. Malla Reddy superannuated as Inspector-General of Police in June 2020 and served as the Managing Director of Telangana State Police Housing Corporation Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/malla-reddy-appointed-jmd-vigilance-of-ap-transco/article37119036.ece
22 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fight against COVID-19 similar to ambush by Chinese in 1959’||There are a lot of similarities in the way a police team went down fighting the Chinese at the Hot Springs in the Chang Chenmo Valley in Ladakh on October 21, 1959, and how the force suffered casualties in its fight against the deadly COVID-19 pandemic, Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha said. “The police team that was ambushed by the Chinese did not have proper clothing, weapons, food or logistical support. Similarly, when the COVID-19 pandemic broke out, we did not have enough medicines or vaccines, but even then the police force was at the forefront,” Mr. Sinha said while addressing a large gathering of police personnel and their family members on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day at the Police Martyrs’ Memorial on Beach Road on Thursday. The Police Commemoration Day is observed every year on October 21 to honour the policemen who laid down their lives defending the borders of the nation. On October 21, 1959, a team of 20 policemen was ambushed by the Chinese forces at Hot Springs. The Chinese were not only superior in numbers but were perched at a higher altitude, and equipped with superior weaponry. Nine jawans were killed at the spot while one succumbed to his injuries later, and the remaining were taken prisoners. Drawing comparisons with that incident, Mr. Sinha said that the police force continued to work in a similar atmosphere of uncertainty. While the force fought to preserve the country’s territorial integrity then, they fought to save human lives now, he said. “Only ten personnel were killed then, and their families bereaved. In comparison, the magnitude is much greater now as the entire police force across the country was affected,” the Commissioner said. During the first wave of COVID-19, 25% of the City Police had contracted the virus, and four personnel succumbed to it. During the second wave, 10% of the force contracted the virus and four personnel died. Every policeman who fought against the pandemic is a warrior, the Commissioner said. After laying a wreath at the Martyrs Memorial, Mr. Sinha spoke about the initiatives launched by the City Police such as the Pre-Litigation Counselling Forum (PLCF(, Disha, and Pehera. The city police launched 14 people-centric initiatives in the last year, he said. He also urged policemen to familiarise themselves with technology as the force is on a reinvention mode. The future belongs to technology and the work of a policeman will become multidimensional and multifarious, he said. DIG (Visakhapatnam Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao, Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao, and other senior officers attended the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fight-against-covid-similar-to-1959-chinese-ambush/article37119373.ece
22 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal people pledge to curb ganja cultivation, destroy crop||Tribal people from the Sileru region have voluntarily come forward to destroy ganja plantations in interior villages. A large number of tribals from four villages in Gummirevulu panchayat under the Sileru police limits have also pledged not to encourage ganja cultivation for their livelihood. The district police have been organising awareness camps for the last few weeks explaining the consequences of being arrested in NDPS cases and how such involvement could impact the career of local youth. Sub-inspector of Sileru Police Station P. Ranjith has been conducting counselling programmes with community leaders in villages, at bus stations and other places. On Wednesday, many local people unearthed ganja plantations in interior areas and destroyed the crop in close to 15 acres. They promised not to allow youth to take up ganja cultivation or smuggling for easy money and sought the government’s help in cultivating alternative crops for a living. They also requested the police not to target the local youth. Vehicle checks Meanwhile, Araku police have conducted vehicle checks on several routes and at various public places, including the bus station. They have also been conducting awareness campaigns in the villages of Araku mandal to curb ganja cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-people-pledge-to-curb-ganja-cultivation/article37119076.ece
22 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP stages protest over TDP leader’s alleged barbs||Cadres and supporters of the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) on Thursday launched a 48-hour protest called Jana Aagraha Deeksha against the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) over alleged derogatory comments made by TDP spokesperson K. Pattabhiram against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. YSRCP leader K.K. Raju initiated the protest at Gurudwara Junction demanding an apology from TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao also visited the protest site. Speaking at the protest venue, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the TDP has no political future left after having lost all the recent elections. “Even within the party, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu is facing stiff opposition from senior leaders to his plans of promoting his son Nara Lokesh. Having been cornered from all sides, Mr. Naidu is instigating his cadres to make derogatory comments against the Chief Minister just to ensure that the TDP finds itself in the news,” the Tourism Minister alleged. Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari demanded that Mr. Naidu and other senior leaders tender an apology to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. YSRCP city president Vamsi Krishna Srinivas Yadav was present. Araku MLA Cheti Phalguna took out a rally in Araku wearing black clothes protesting the alleged remarks by Mr. Pattabhiram. Paderu MLA K. Bhagya Lakshmi, Narsipatnam MLA P. Umashankar Ganesh, Anakapalle MLA G. Amarnath and other party members organised similar protests in their respective constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-stages-protest-over-tdp-leaders-alleged-barbs/article37119683.ece
22 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CWC conducts Open House to mark 75 years of Independence||An open house was conducted by the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC) to commemorate the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence - Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav - at the CWC premises, here, on Thursday. Students and the general public, who have a penchant for knowing weather systems and their functioning, missed out on a great opportunity to closely observe the functioning of the CWC, as only a handful of people turned up for the Open House that was conducted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. This is in contrast to the past when students, including those from the Meteorology and Oceanography Department of Andhra University, used to turn up in large numbers for the exhibitions conducted on World Meteorology Day. The students used to jot down notes as the meteorologists and scientists explained to them about the scientific equipment used to measure weather data and its analysis. The staff attributed the poor turnout to the COVID-19 pandemic. The handful of visitors were told about the weather systems and the equipment on display. “The objective of the expo is to create awareness among the public, especially, students and make them appreciate the processes involved in the collection and analysis of weather data and forecasting weather events accurately,” said a meteorologist. Balloons with radiosonde instruments are released into the air to measure wind speed, wind direction, temperature and pressure at ‘standard levels’ like 1.5 km, 2.4 km and so on. The readings are plotted on surface level and upper air charts and analysed to predict weather systems. The variations in the maximum/minimum temperatures for the present day and the previous day, and the departure from the normal temperature are plotted in the ‘change chart’.  The High Wind Speed Recorder (HWSR) recorder, a digital recorder, had recorded the wind speed when Cyclone Hudhud struck Visakhapatnam city in October 2014. The wind speed was over 180 kmph during Hudhud. A meteorologist explained about the analysis of the satellite images.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cwc-conducts-open-house-to-mark-75-years-of-independence/article37119681.ece
22 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to inaugurate NAD flyover tomorrow||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will visit Visakhapatnam city on Saturday to attend a private function. He would also take part in the inauguration of several projects of Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) and Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) during his visit. Among the projects to be inaugurated include the NAD flyover and Waste to Energy Recycling Plant. In this regard, Collector A. Mallikarjuna, Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha and other senior officials conducted inspections at the NAD flyover and renovated VUDA Park. According to the schedule, Mr. Jagan would arrive at the airport at 4.45 p.m. and will have an interaction with public representatives at the premises. He would reach NAD junction at around 5.35 p.m. and would inaugurate the NAD flyover and six other works by VMRDA. The Chief Minister would then leave for the renovated VUDA Park on Beach Road and inaugurate it, apart from four other works of the GVMC. At 6.15 p.m., he would attend a private function and would leave Vizag at around 7 p.m. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana and VMRDA Commissioner K. Venkat Reddy briefed about the arrangements being made at VUDA Park and NAD Flyover for the Chief Minister’s visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-inaugurate-nad-flyover-tomorrow/article37119687.ece
22 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low-cost storage facility set up by GITAM in city||The Biotechnology Department of GITAM Deemed to be University established a low-cost controlled atmosphere storage facility within the campus. The facility was inaugurated by Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna on Thursday. The Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India, had sanctioned the project to GITAM Deemed to be University to train fruit vendors on packaging methods for preservation of fruits, using natural and synthetic packaging materials, to improve the income levels of fruit vendors belonging to the Scheduled Castes, in Visakhapatnam district. Prof. Sivaramakrishna said that the Biotechnology Department was actively engaged in several training programmes which had directly helped farmers and unemployed youth living in and around the city. He announced that after the tenure of the current project, the university was planning to establish a ‘Fruit Vendor’s Cooperative Society’ to hand over the storage facility for future maintenance. The project’s principal investigator Sk. Khasim Beebi said that a large quantity of fruits was rotting away due to lack of storage, packaging and processing facilities, and access to cold storage, especially for small-scale fruit vendors, was limited. She said that the fruit vendors from the SC community, who have low income, would be selected from each village for the training programme at the installed facility as the project was sanctioned by DST as part of its SC Sub-Plan. Vendors would also be trained in packaging methods for fruit preservation using natural and synthetic packaging materials and the female fruit vendors would be trained in the preparation of jams, puree, etc..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-cost-storage-facility-set-up-by-gitam-in-city/article37119679.ece
22 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||25 COVID cases in district||The district recorded 25 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Thursday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,57,922. The death toll stands unchanged at 1,094 as no COVID-19 death was recorded in the last 24 hours. As many as 39 people undergoing treatment for the virus had recovered during the same time period. The number of recoveries and active cases stands at 1,56,036 and 792 respectively. About 44.96 lakh people received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine in the district, as per statistics obtained from the CoWIN dashboard. Among them, 15.82 lakh people have got both their doses, while 29.14 lakh people have taken their first jab. Around 23.08 lakh people in the age group of 18 to 44 have been administered at least one jab while some have received both the doses. Around 14.99 lakh people in the age group of 45 to 60 took have taken one or both the jabs. The health department is organising vaccination camps at 157 centres. Door-to-door vaccination camps are also being carried out to vaccinate the elderly. Recently, vaccination camps were conducted at rythu bazaars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/25-covid-cases-in-district/article37119686.ece
22 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIPE celebrates its sixth Foundation Day||Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE) celebrated its sixth Foundation Day, on its city campus on Wednesday. IIPE, an Institute of National Importance, was established by the Government of India in 2016 under the aegis of the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas (MOP&NG) as per the provisions made in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014. The event was held in commemoration of the foundation stone-laying ceremony held on October 20, 2016, at the land alienated by the Government of Andhra Pradesh to the institute for tis permanent campus at Vangali village in Sabbavaram mandal in the district. Prof. S. Surya Prakash, Vice-Chancellor, Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University, V. Ratanraj, Executive Director, HPCL, Visakha Refinery, Prof. V.S.R.K. Prasad, Director IIPE, and Dr. Pratibha Biswal, Associate Dean, Students’ Affairs attended the ceremony. A newsletter of IIPE titled ‘Metamorphosis’ was released on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iipe-celebrates-its-sixth-foundation-day/article37119689.ece
22 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Muttamsetti invited to tribal festival||A delegation from Chhattisgarh, comprising Dantewada MLA Devti Mahendra Karma, Dantewada Zilla Parishad president Tulika Karma and Raipur Assistant Collector Abhishek Kumar met Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao at his residence to invite him to the Second National Tribal Dance Festival (NTDF) 2021, on behalf of Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel. The programme is scheduled to be organised from October 28 to November 1, 2021. The delegation has informed the Minister that the festival would witness the participation of tribal dance groups from all over the country and abroad showcasing their culture, livelihood and their customs. This edition of NTDF 2021 would be based on the theme of ‘wedding dance’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/muttamsetti-invited-to-tribal-festival/article37119684.ece
22 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP trying to create law and order problem: MLA||Bobbili MLA Sambangi Venkata China Appala Naidu on Thursday said that TDP leaders were trying to create a law and order problem in the State as they were unable to digest people’s support to the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Along with YSRCP leaders, he participated in Janagraha Deeksha at Bobbili, seeking an unconditional apology from former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu for the derogatory remarks made by TDP leaders, including K. Pattabhi Ram. Mr. Appala Naidu said that the victory in the recent local body elections had proved that there was no political future for the TDP in the State. “TDP leaders are trying to prove their existence by making vulgar and derogatory comments. Apart from YSRCP leaders and activists, people from all walks of life were hurt with the comments of Mr. Pattabhi. Mr. Chandrababu Naidu should restrain them from making such comments in future since decency is important in politics,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-trying-to-create-law-and-order-problem-mla/article37119367.ece
22 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police personnel take out candlelight rally||Superintendent of Police M. Deepika Patil on Thursday said that the department would take care of the police families which lost their dear ones while fighting against Maoists, criminals and facing other situations. She offered floral tributes to martyrs to mark Police Commemoration Day, and interacted with the family members of Muddada Gandhi, Shaik Ismail, B. Sriramulu and Suryanarayana who lost their lives in different incidents. She gave away Rs. 10,000 and sweets to each family and asked them to call her directly for any help. In the evening, Ms. Deepika participated in a candle rally in the town and recalled the sacrifices of many police officials. Additional SPs N. Sridevi Rao, P. Satyanarayana and other officials participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-personnel-take-out-candlelight-rally/article37119369.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New forms of crime emerging: Jagan||“Realising that they are not in a position to win any election, they have resorted to tarnishing the image of Andhra Pradesh by calling it Drugs A.P.,” the Chief Minister said. Continuing his tirade, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “They are not only targeting the government but also the people. They are making an evil attempt to show our children as drug addicts to the world. Though the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, the Commissioner of Police, Vijayawada, and the DGP clarified on the issue (State’s links to heroin smuggling), they continue their propaganda to tarnish the image of the State and spoil the future of its children.” In such a situation, law and order should be given top priority and everyone should be treated equally before the law, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy observed. “Atrocities against women, children, senior citizens, BCs should not be neglected, and the accused should be brought to book,” he said, and added that terrorism, anti-social elements and their activities should not be tolerated. Speaking about the sacrifices of the police personnel, the Chief Minister said 11 policemen had died in the State last year in the line of duty. “To all those martyrs and their families on behalf of me and the State, I express my solidarity,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. ‘Weekly off’ for police “To ensure that the police get some rest and enable them to spend time with their families, the government introduced the weekly off system for them. No other State has taken the initiative. Due to COVID-19 we are unable to implement it, but we are resuming the system from today,” Mr. Reddy added. He also said the government increased the ex gratia to the kin of those who succumbed to COVID-19 to Rs. 10 lakh and that compassionate ground appointments would be completed by November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-forms-of-crime-emerging-jagan/article37119340.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Colours of freedom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/colours-of-freedom/article37119375.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joys of childhood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/joys-of-childhood/article37119678.ece
22 October 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Probe into ‘sexual harassment’||A 63-year-old retired employee has been accused of sexually harassing 19-year-old twin sisters, his close relatives, for the past couple of months at his house in Warangal district. The incident came to light on Thursday evening after the sisters, both students of a Kothagudem-based college, approached the police, sources said. The duo reportedly narrated the harrowing experiences they underwent at the hands of the old man, who reportedly gave them shelter after the death of their parents more than a decade ago. The twin sisters further accused the old man of trying to usurp their small property left behind by their parents and issuing death threats. Police said a detailed inquiry was initiated into the complaint of the girls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/probe-launched-into-sexual-harassment/article37119415.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2.9 crore out of 100 crore doses administered in Telangana||Out of the over 100 crore COVID vaccine doses administered in India, at least 2.9 crore were administered to people in Telangana till October 20. And of the 2.9 crore doses, nearly 40% were given in urban districts — Hyderabad, Rangareddy, and Medchal-Malkajgiri. The lowest coverage is in rural districts, including Vikarabad, Jogulamba Gadwal, Narayanpet, and Kumram Bheem Asifabad. The number of doses administered in the State would soon cross the 3 crore mark. Out of the total 2.77 crore people across the State eligible for vaccination, 82.93 lakh are from the three urban districts. This constitutes to 29.86% of the 2.77 crore eligible population, according to the Health department. The COVID-19 vaccination programme was launched on January 16, starting with Health Care Workers (HCW), and followed by Front Line Workers (FLW) from other government departments. After it was opened to the general public, the focus was on urban districts. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao said that the initial focus was on urban districts as the concentration of population, cases and outbreaks were more in these localities. “Now, the focus of first dose is in rural districts. Nodal officers are assigned to erstwhile districts to monitor the vaccination. In case of second dose, we are focusing on both rural and urban districts,” he said. From January 16 to October 19, a total of 2.9 crore doses were administered to people, including 2.08 crore first doses and 82.22 lakh second doses. Out of the 2.9 crore doses, 1.13 crore jabs were given in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts, which is 39.1% of the total. While the first dose coverage is more than 50% of the targeted population in all the districts, the second dose coverage has crossed 50% mark only in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, and Medchal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/29-crore-out-of-100-crore-doses-administered-in-telangana/article37119382.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Housing society sold 3,800 sq. yards of Osmania varsity land’||A co-operative housing society had fraudulently sold away 3,800 square yards of prime land belonging to Osmania University to third parties, Advocate General B.S. Prasad told Telangana High Court on Thursday. Disclosing this before a bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajashekar Reddy, the AG said the State had complained to the police soon after realising the fraud allegedly played by Tulasi Co-operative Housing Society. A criminal investigation had been launched into the matter. Earlier, a research scholar, Poladi Ramana Rao, wrote a letter to the HC seeking to know status of land allegedly sold by the society to private persons. The HC suo moto took up the letter as PIL petition and issued notices to the university authorities and the State government to explain their stand. When the matter came up for hearing on Thursday, the AG explained that a litigation arose between the society and the university authorities over 4,800 square yards of the university land. The society claimed that it bought the land from the university in 1976. Eventually, the society won the court case and the land title based on the report of a surveyor. The society made 4,800 square yards land into 14 plots and sold them to private persons. The AG claimed that recently the society management sold 3,800 square yards of more land to nine others. This new piece of land was not part of the 4,800 square yards of land but a separate land parcel over which the society has no right of ownership, the AG said. Counsels appearing for the plot buyers contended that their clients were genuine buyers. They said the university authorities are playing a proxy war through the research scholar. The AG refuted their contentions and told the court that a detailed affidavit would be filed on the matter. The bench posted the matter after six weeks, instructing the State to file the counter affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/housing-society-sold-3800-sq-yds-of-ou-land/article37119406.ece
22 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Many girls qualify for PG courses||Nearly double the number of girls passed the Common Post Graduate Entrance Test (CPGET), held for entry into various courses of all Telangana universities, compared to boys, indicating the growing interest among girl students in post-graduate courses in the conventional streams. While 41,131 girls among all categories cleared the exam out of the 44,604 who appeared, the number of boys qualifying were just 22,614. This year 24,229 boys only appeared, according to CPGET Convenor Prof. I. Panduranga Reddy. A very popular course once, M.Com had just about 6,000 candidates who qualified for 8,000-odd seats. Similar scenario is seen in subjects like Mathematics and Chemistry that once used to be very competitive with lots of aspirants. The results were released by the TSCHE Chairman Prof. Limbadri along with OU Vice-Chancellor Prof Ravinder and Registrar Prof. Laxminarayana. Prof. Limbadri said that a pass percentage of 92.16 was registered with 63,748 students qualifying out of 68,836 candidates who appeared. He said the subject wise rank cards of individual candidates will be available on official websites: www.osmania.ac.in and ‘www.cpget.tsche.ac.in’ and candidates have to download rank cards from website. The rank cards will not be sent to the candidates by post. Prof. Limbadri said the admission process will be through web-based counselling and schedule for online registration will start from October 24. Web options and counselling for certificate verifications will start from October 27. The applications were called for admissions for a total of 53 subjects consisting of 45 post-graduate courses, 4 P.G. Diploma courses and 4 five-year Integrated courses. The qualified candidates will be eligible for admission into Osmania, Kakatiya, Telangana, Mahatma Gandhi, Palamuru, Satavahana and Jawaharlal Nehru Technological Universities. The entrance tests were conducted in between September 18 and October 5 in 36 test centres spread across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/many-girls-qualify-for-pg-courses/article37119593.ece
22 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rain, fests stall work at fort||One year after a portion of a mud wall of Khila Shahpur collapsed in heavy rain, the Telangana Department of Archaeology and Museums has taken up restoration work on the site. The mud fortress that sprawls over nearly 10,000 square metres presents a challenge as parts of it have crumbled in the absence of maintenance. “Our team is working on the part that was affected due to last year’s rain. It will take some time before we can carry out the complete work,” said a worker at the site. The present round of restoration began in July but is now stalled due to rain and festival holidays. The total cost of the restoration work has been pegged at Rs. 1.26 crore. A granite base has been laid on the southern side where the outer portion of the wall had collapsed. From inside, the fort wall appears to be undamaged and largely intact but a closer observation reveals the extent of damage. On the northern side above the secret passageway, the old mud wall has collapsed revealing the inner granite core. The fort wall is a complex amalgam of rocks, bricks and a plaster of mud as it was built, rebuilt over a period of time during the rollicking career of Sarvayi Papadu. Khila Shahpur was the nerve centre of operations of Papadu during his career in notoriety of robbing passing royal caravans and distributing the loot after the Mughal conquest of the Golconda kingdom. According to historian Richard M. Eaton, Papadu acquired sufficient heft that he presented to Mughal ruler Bahadur Shah with a Rs. 14,00,000 cash purse besides other goodies and received a robe of honour. “He was not a brigand. He fought unjust laws. He brought together people from other communities, including Muslims, while fighting unjust rulers,” says Balin Rajaiah, who heads the Goud community in the village. A part of the restoration effort would involve rehabilitating people who lost their homes during the wall collapse. “After they complete the restoration, we should be rehabilitated away from this place where we can live without fear of another wall collapse,” said a resident who saw large boulders of the wall and mud roll into his house. Once the fort is restored to how it looked during the lifetime of the hero of the village, a slice of medieval fortification technology will appear real to a different generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rain-festivals-stall-work-at-khila-shahpur-fort/article37119390.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Unvaccinated and partially vaccinated at risk: Governor||Expressing concern about people who are not vaccinated or partially vaccinated, Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said that such people were at risk of infection. Responding to a tweet from The Hindu-Hyderabad ’s handle that around 36 lakh people in the State skipped taking the second dose, she questioned the vaccine hesitancy. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao said on Wednesday that the 36 lakh people skipped their second dose despite crossing the due date. Out of the 2.77 crore population (above 18 years) in the State targeted for COVID vaccination, 75% took the first dose till October 20. And 69.35 lakh are yet to receive the first dose. Citing this, the Governor tweeted on Thursday morning, “Pandemic is not yet over. Unvaccinated and partially vaccinated are still at risk of infection. Why #vaccinehesitancy while India is nearing 1 billion jabs!”. India crossed the 100 crore vaccine dose mark on Thursday. On this occasion, she visited the ESIC Medical College and Superspeciality Hospital at Sanathnagar. She appreciated the efforts of college dean Dr. Srinivas M and other healthcare professionals for providing best facilities to COVID patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unvaccinated-and-partially-vaccinated-at-risk-governor/article37119385.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC moved over suspension of Dalit Bandhu scheme||Two PIL petitions and a separate writ petitions were filed in Telangana High Court seeking suspension of Election Commission of India’s order deferring implementation of Dalit Bandhu scheme in Huzurabad Assembly constituency till completion of by-poll. The three pleas are likely to come up for hearing in a day or two. Social activist Mallepally Laxmaiah, in his PIL petition, stated that Telangana government introduced Dalit Bandhu scheme offering Rs. 10 lakh financial assistance to every dalit family in the State to become financially self reliant. A sum of Rs. 1,000 crore was sanctioned for the scheme on June 27, much before by-poll to Huzurabad was announced. It was set in motion even before model code of conduct was declared. It was launched in Vasalamarri village of Turkapally mandal of Yadadri-Bhongir district on August 5 with the release of Rs. 7.6 crore. It was launched on pilot project basis on August 16 in Huzurabad constituency. On September 28, ECI had issued notification for Huzurabad by-election following resignation of TRS MLA Eatala Rajender, who eventually joined BJP. ‘Further, some vested interests without there being any reason and in order to stop the scheme influenced ECI and Telangana Chief Electoral Officer, stated Mr. Laxmaiah, who is also special officer of Buddhavanam project in Nalgonda district. The ECI passed an order deferring the scheme till completion of Huzurabad by-poll without application of mind and following due procedure of law, he contended. Another PIL petition was filed by social worker, former MLA and BJP leader A. Chandrashekhar seeking suspension of the ECI’s order. He contended that several dalit families were eagerly waiting for launching of the scheme. Money was deposited in their accounts but it could not be utilised due to the deferment order passed by the ECI, he stated. Another writ petition on the matter was filed by Bukka Judson from Golconda area of Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-moved-over-suspension-of-scheme/article37119407.ece
22 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth campaign from tomorrow||TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy will campaign in support of the Congress candidate in Huzurabad, Balmuri Venkat, for two days on October 23 and 24 covering several mandals. His first public show will be at Veenavanka at 3 pm on October 23 followed by at Jammikunta at 5 pm. On the second day he will campaign in Ellandakunta village and Kamalapur in the evening. His road show will cover Keshavapatnam, Molangur, Amudala Palli, Kachapur, Kalavala, Veenavanka, Narsingapur, Valbhapur, Jaggaiah pally and Jammikunta on the first day.  On the second day it will cover Ellanthakunta, Malyala, Marripelligudem, Vangapally and Kamlapur. Earlier in a Zoom meeting with party leaders, he asked them to send a message to the voters that they had given ticket to a youngster who had been fighting against the KCR government sincerely despite several cases booked against him for raising youngsters issues. He said focus of the campaign should be “Give at least one vote from the family to the Congress,” and this message should be taken to every household in the constituency explaining why they should vote for the party. He said the TRS-BJP nexus in stopping Dalit Bandhu would be widely spread and how the two parties were murdering democracy alluring voters with crores of rupees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-campaign-from-tomorrow/article37119412.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSBDB distributes benefit shares||Telangana State Bio-Diversity Board (TSBDB) distributed benefit share amount to five biodiversity management committees - Patancheru mandal, Jankampet gram panchayat, Nizamabad district; Kollapur mandal, Nagarkurnool district; Karimnagar Zilla Parishad, Warangal Urban district, and also to two institutes - Indian Institute of Rice Research (IIRR) and ICRISAT., at a meeting held on Thursday. The National Biodiversity Authority (NBA) received the amount as benefit sharing component for research/commercial purpose. The beneficiaries were identified based on geographical location of the village, mandal or district from where the biological resources were collected. TSBDB secretary Kalicharan S. Khartade handed over the cheques and said the money could be utilised towards conservation and promotion of biological resources and socio-economic activities, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsbdb-distributes-benefit-shares/article37119395.ece
22 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Copy-paste mistake in Disha case’||Errors in the remand case diary of four accused in the 2019 Disha gang rape and murder case were due to ‘copy-paste’ mistake, clarified the then Shadnagar ACP Vasam Surender. Mr. Surender, who is currently posted in the CID, on Thursday gave his deposition before the three-member Commission constituted by the Supreme Court to inquire into the alleged encounter killings of the four accused by Cyberabad police on December 6, 2019. He was grilled by the Commission on why the remand case diary states owner of the lorry Patolla Srinivas Reddy brought the accused A1 to A4 to the police station. “It is a ‘copy-paste’ mistake. The text in the column referring to Mr. Reddy should have been entered against another column and instead it was pasted by mistake against Mr. Reddy,” he said, adding that it was a ‘human error’ by writer Sadath Ali. The officer was asked how and when the accused were apprehended and brought to the police station from Jaklair and Gudigandla villages in Narayanpet district and at what time their confessional statements were recorded and when their arrest was recorded. For which Mr. Surender informed the panel that first prime accused Mohammed Arif was apprehended by the then Shadnagar inspector A Sridhar Kumar, from Jaklair village with the help of the lorry owner. Later, based on Arif’s information other three — Jollu Naveen, Jollu Shiva, and Ch. Chennakeshavulu — were apprehended from Gudigandla and brought to Shadnagar police station. Earlier, Mr. Surender was questioned on entries in the logbook, which was submitted to the Commission by the Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order), Telangana. “Some of the entries in the logbook are incorrect. It might have been recorded by the officials of the NHRC. I don’t know how the logbook reached the Additional DGP. There is no covering letter addressed by me attached to this log. To my knowledge this log was typed by the NHRC team,” he said and explained that he had given the details when he deposed in front of the NHRC team. He told the Commission that he signed the statement due to the insistence of the NHRC team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/copy-paste-mistake-in-disha-case-accused-remand-case-diary/article37119396.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ivanti to ramp up hiring||US firm Ivanti plans to increase the headcount from over 500 it has across multiple locations in India to 2,000 in the next two years. A sizeable part of the hiring will be for its Hyderabad office, the cyber security products and solutions provider said on Thursday, announcing the One Ivanti India plan to establish the region as its innovation centre. The research and development coming from India will be instrumental in continued growth and serve global customers of the company with security, ITSM and UEM solutions, Ivanti said in a release after an event in which IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao participated. Ivanti’s automation platform discovers, manages, secures, and services IT assets. The One Ivanti India plan comes in the backdrop of acquisition last year of three companies (Mobile Iron, Pulse Secure and Risk Sense), with a strong Indian presence, the firm said. President, Service Management Solutions Group and Chief Product Officer Nayaki Nayyar, in a media interaction earlier, said there were over 200 employees in the Hyderabad office. The plan is to “at least double or triple this strength over the next 12-18 months,” she said. Noting that cyber security and data privacy were serious issues, the Minister said Telangana, which unveiled a cyber security policy in 2016, is on course to become the first State to draft its own legislation on cybercrime. “We are drafting it with NALSAR,” he said, urging the company to provide inputs on the draft. “We will do everything from our side to ensure your operations grow here and you hit that magic 1,000 [headcount] figure as soon as possible. [Also,] the government wants to be a part of the hackathon with 1,000 youngsters you are hosting,” Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ivanti-to-ramp-up-hiring/article37119590.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS seeking to shut down RTI Act, says FGG||Forum for Good Governance (FGG) on Thursday urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to instruct Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to withdraw the recent order which seeks to prevent Public Information Officers (PIOs) from providing any information to the public under the RTI Act. In a communication to the Governor, a copy of which was released to the media, FGG secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy informed her that CS under the pretext of certain officers furnishing information in a “routine manner and without proper verification” had sought to put curbs in the information flow, but this would only result in “closing down the RTI Act”. If some officers are giving information in a ‘routine manner’, they should be trained but their “independence and discretionary powers” cannot be taken away as it goes against the spirit of the RTI Act. Even the Supreme Court had upheld these powers of the PIOs and hence, the CS cannot meddle with an Act passed by Parliament, maintained the secretary Mr. Reddy accused the government of being “not interested” in implementing the RTI Act, saying information commissioners were appointed only after the FGG approached the courts and orders were passed. Ordering the PIOs to seek permission from the special CS, principal secretaries and department heads before giving any information would only make citizens wait for a long time for the information sought, he said. The secretary pointed out that the State Government had already resorted to shutting down website for uploading GOs when other States were making them public, barring access to people and ‘preventing transparency in administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-seeking-to-shut-down-rti-act-says-fgg/article37119410.ece
22 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Buffaloes to poor; power for KCR family’||Promising sheep and buffaloes to the downtrodden rather than jobs, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, however, had provided political jobs to five people in his family, president of the YSR Telangana party Y.S. Sharmila alleged. On the second day of her ‘padayatra’ in several villages in Chevella constituency, she said English liquor was freely flowing in the State while English medium education was being denied to the poor people. The only way to throw out this ‘anti-people’ government was by blessing her and the YSR Telangana party, she claimed. Ms. Sharmila walked for 12.9 kms on the second day starting from Nakkalapalli and throughout the day she interacted with people trying to understand what they were seeking from the government and what they were actually getting. She promised them that the welfare rule that people saw when Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy was the Chief Minister would be brought back if she was voted to power. The padayatra passed through Kethireddypalli, Venkatapur, Kavvadiguda and Malkapuram where people gave her representations with demands and sought her support. Several women told her about how the double bedroom houses remained a mirage for them even after 7 years of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) rule and they were all forced to live in thatched houses braving rain and heat. Several women also complained that they were not receiving widow pensions though their husbands passed away a few years ago, according to a statement issued by the party. Ms. Sharmila was also made aware of the problems in Dharani that has created more disputes that solving the problems. Some said corruption was rampant in the government and no officer would do his or her work without taking bribes. Unfortunately, no one seems to be bothered about this. Several villagers said that hospitals were not accepting ‘Arogyasri’ and private hospitals were fleecing people charging exorbitantly while the government was totally unmoved despite the ‘loot’ highlighted across the media, she said. Ms. Sharmila reminded that Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy had waived off all the farm loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sheep-and-buffaloes-to-downtrodden-political-power-for-kcrs-family/article37119403.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Corporate hospitals lure with ads||With corporate hospitals starting to float ads urging people to register their children’s names for COVID-19 vaccination, the rush for slot booking may return in the State. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao said on Wednesday that vaccines for children in the age group of 12-18 years might start in two to three weeks. Training for the same has begun. Ahead of the launch of vaccination, a few corporate hospitals in Hyderabad are putting in efforts to draw the crowd. In one of the advertisements, a phone number has been given for registration with the child’s name and contact number. The hospital has promised to get back soon after the government gives permission. Dr. Rao added that jabs for children would be given free by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corporate-hospitals-lure-with-advertisements/article37119387.ece
22 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||183 more COVID cases reported, one succumbs||Telangana has recorded 183 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total to 6,69,739. While 41,363 samples were examined, results of 1,644 were awaited. One more COVID patient has died. The new 183 infections include 59 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 18 from Karimnagar, 15 from Rangareddy, 13 from Warangal Urban, and 12 from Khammam. No infection was detected in five districts. From March 2, 2020 to October 21, 2021, 2.71 crore samples were tested and 6,69,739 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 3,967 were active cases, 6,61,829 have recovered, and 3,943 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/183-covid-cases-1-death-reported-in-telangana/article37119394.ece
22 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Qadir Ali Baig Theatre fest inaugurated||Under a fluttering Tricolour as a full moon washed the stage of Moazzam Jahi Market, Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister K.T. Rama Rao made a call for resuming normal city life, which has been disrupted due to the COVID pandemic and subsequent lockdown. Speaking after inaugurating the Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Festival, Mr. Rao said, “We need to get back to normal life. We need to resume cultural and social events that marked our calendar before the pandemic.” “Hyderabad is one of the rare cities that has old world charm, culture, heritage and combines the best. This theatre festival is a fantastic value addition to the social infrastructure of the city,” said Mr. Rao complimenting the theatre foundation. He recounted how the MJ Market was restored from a stage where it had become dilapidated due to lack of maintenance. Earlier, well-known artist Ila Arun compared Hyderabad and its heritage and buildings with Rajasthan known for its legends and towering forts and palaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/qadir-ali-baig-theatre-festival-inaugurated/article37119391.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SPDCL gets REC pat||Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd (REC) has complimented the Central Power Training Institute (CPTI) of the Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSSPDCL or Southern Discom) for training of 2,158 personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spdcl-gets-rec-pat/article37119589.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||71 ULBs told to complete FSTPs||Special Chief Secretary for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Arvind Kumar on Thursday instructed all the municipal commissioners to ensure that the construction of FSTPs — Faecal Sludge Treatment Plants — was completed by December-end in all the 71 urban local bodies across Telangana. At a meeting convened at the CDMA and in the presence of Director of Municipal Administration N. Satyanarayana, he called for expeditious commencement of bio-mining for clearing the legacy dump, construction of market yards, modern crematoria, source segregation of the solid waste, ban on single use plastic, greenery, cent per cent collection of property tax, penal action on defaults, mutations and geo-tagging of properties through the Bhuvan portal, among others, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/71-ulbs-told-to-complete-fstps/article37119411.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman gives birth to triplets||A young woman from Medak gave birth to triplets at Niloufer Hospital on Thursday morning. She gave birth to two girls and a boy. Doctors from the gynaecology department delivered the triplets through the caesarean method. It was a preterm delivery, they said. As the newborns are underweight (around 1.7 kg), they are admitted in the Newborn Intensive Care Unit (NICU). The gynaecologists added that while delivery of twins is common at their hospital, birth of triplets is rare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-gives-birth-to-triplets-at-niloufer/article37119388.ece
22 October 2021||JAMMIKUNTA (Karimnagar District),TELANGANA||‘Will get Rs. 100 cr. for Huzurabad after win’||Accompanying top leaders during election campaign is not new for Gellu Srinivas Yadav, by virtue of being the ruling TRS party’s student wing State president. Yet, becoming party’s official nominee in his own Huzurabad Assembly constituency as a result of unexpected political developments is not only new, but also a great a opportunity. Interestingly, he is facing BJP’s Eatala Rajender, who was his leader in the constituency till a few months ago, as political rival now. Eldest of four siblings, Srinivas is married and blessed with two children. His mother is ex-sarpanch and father is single window chairman. Born in Himmathnagar village of Veenavanka mandal in Huzurabad, he fought for rights right from his Intermediate college days. He faced police arrests during Telangana agitation and rose to TRSV (party’s student wing) president position four years ago. From a remote village in Telangana to TRSV State president, his political rise has been steep. He is confident of sailing through the bypoll — one of the fiercely contested elections in the seven-year-old history of Telangana State and change Huzurabad political canvas. Why should people vote for you? I am a people’s person. Since the days I lived in Amberpet government BC hostel in Hyderabad, I had been fighting for the rights of students, youth and the needy. Being a research scholar (pursuing Ph.D programme in Osmania University), I am well qualified to rightly represent the constituency issues. I will get exclusive additional funds of Rs. 100 crore for this constituency with the Chief Minister’s blessings. Others cannot. Eatala Rajender was MLA here for past 17 years. Let fresh blood come, youth be given one chance to see how people’s real progress would be instead of MLA’s personal growth. What specific plans do you propose to develop the constituency? Jammikunta, having one of the biggest agricultural market yards in south India and connected by rail route, has tremendous scope for development. Getting a government medical college for Huzurabad is my dream project. Will prepare a master plan/blueprint for Jammikunta/Huzurabad development for next 100 years. Digital library in every mandal headquarters, modern meat, vegetable markets with facilities for export and securing agri-based allied industries for the constituency are my promises. What about charges of wooing voters with money, liquor? How can a poor man like me spend money and where can I get it from? KCR sir made me student unit president not because of money, but due to my commitment. In fact, Eatala Did not Telangana Rashtra Samithi government fail over its promises of government jobs, unemployment allowance? Our government already gave 1.3 lakh jobs and plans are afoot to give 50,000 more. Jobs in government is not panacea to wipe out unemployment. In that case, why cannot BJP give Central government jobs to all youth in Telangana? BJP is systematically killing BSNL, postal services and depriving jobs to youth. Let the Centre provide jobs to Telangana youth in army, navy and banks. Our government is creating thousands of jobs for skilled youngsters by making multi-national companies like Apple, Microsoft, Google, Amazon open their offices here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-get-rs-100-cr-for-huzurabad-after-win/article37119409.ece
22 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Glowing tributes paid to police martyrs||A “Smriti Parade” was organised and wreaths were laid at the police martyrs’ memorial at the police parade grounds on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day here on Thursday. Addressing the gathering after paying floral tributes to the police martyrs’ memorial, Collector V.P. Gautham lauded the relentless services of police personnel in maintaining law and order as well as internal security. "Many police personnel made supreme sacrifices in the service of the nation," he said while paying homage to around 377 police personnel who laid down their lives in the line of duty at various places in the country between September 2020 and August 2021. The Telangana police embraced technology in a big way and stood as a role model for the country, he said, adding that the district police are putting in untiring efforts to curb cyber crimes and ganja smuggling. He said the police rendered commendable services during the COVID-19 pandemic, instilling a sense of confidence among people in the difficult times. Later, the Collector along with Khammam Police Commissioner Vishnu S Warrier interacted with the family members of the police martyrs who lost their lives while discharging their duties in the past. Glowing tributes were paid to the police martyrs during “Smriti Parade” held at the District Police Headquarters at Hemachandrapuram near Kothagudem in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district on Thursday. Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt, Manuguru ASP Dr P Shabarish, Bhadrachalam ASP Dr G Vineeth and others paid floral tributes to the police martyrs' memorial on the occasion. Meanwhile in Sangareddy, rich tributes were paid to the police personnel. Addressing a gathering after offering floral tributes, Superintendent of Police M. Ramana Kumar said that several police personnel are losing their lives while performing duties and Police Flag Day is being observed on October 21 of every year. On the same day in 1959, he recalled that 10 Indian Army personnel under the leadership of CRPF SI Karam Singh sacrificed their lives to save the nation. He also explained the sacrifices made by several officials in the district. In Medak, Superintendent of Police Chandana Deepti participated in the programme and offered tributes to the police personnel who sacrificed their lives. In Siddipet, Additional Collector Muzammil Khan and Commissioner of Police D Joyal Davis participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/glowing-tributes-paid-to-police-martyrs/article37119399.ece
22 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||KVPS members stage dharna in Khammam||Members of the Kula Vivaksha Vyatireka Porata Sangham (KVPS) on Thursday staged a dharna in front of the Collectorate here to press their charter of demands, including immediate sanction of loans from the SC Corporation to all eligible persons and provision of financial assistance under the Dalit Bandhu scheme to all Dalit families expeditiously. The protesters led by KVPS district secretary N Manohar staged a demonstration at the Dharna Chowk in pursuit of their demands. Later, a delegation of the Kula Vivaksha Vyatireka Porata Sang district leaders submitted a memorandum containing their charter of demands to the district authorities at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kvps-members-stage-dharna-in-khammam/article37119417.ece
22 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Good policing necessary for development’||Good policing, effective in maintaining law and order, safety of women, efficient investigation and thus ensuring convictions, is crucial for State’s development, Minister G. Jagadish Reddy said, remembering the martyrdom of police personnel on the Police Commemoration Day on Thursday. He said the role of a strong police force and its impact on other developmental areas in the State was recognised by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, and the much-needed changes were introduced. “SHE teams, better salaries, improved working conditions and facilities to police personnel have changed the outlook of the State force and has now emerged as a model for the country. Police system moved from darkness to light, with KCR,” he said. Mr. Jagadish Reddy lauded the Nalgonda team for solving several tough cases in the recent times and said a true homage to those who died in the line of duty was to deliver even better services. District Collector Prashant J. Patil said the role of police in the progress of a society is invaluable. the sacrifices of police martyrs will inspire the younger generations. District Judge M.V. Ramesh, took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/good-policing-necessary-for-development/article37119404.ece
22 October 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Officials getting ready for paddy procurement||Few months ago Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had openly stated that it was not possible for the State to procure paddy as the Centre had imposed new conditions for paddy procurement. This had created tension among farmers and at several places the farmers were worrying about what they could cultivate and what marketing system was available for their produce if chose to sow alternative crops. So much so that this has become a campaign issue in Huzurabad byelection as well with the ruling party at the State and Centre trading charges and holding each other responsible for the the situation. Now with the Chief Minister promising to procure paddy the officials have started arrangements for paddy procurement. In Sangareddy district alone it was decided to establish as many as 143 paddy procurement centres and the number may go up depending on the demand. While 80 centres will be established by Indira Kranthi Patham (IKP), District Cooperative Marketing Society (DCMS) will be setting up 12 centres followed by Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS) 51 centres, according to Additional Collector Veera Reddy. Minimum support price (MSP) for Grade A variety is Rs. 1,960 per quintal and for normal paddy it is Rs. 1,940 per quintal.  Officials are making all arrangements and have already procured the required quantity of gunny bags. They are expecting about 2 lakh metric tonnes of paddy in the present season, higher than this summer, as there was good rainfall in the district providing the much needed irrigation for the crop. In Medak district, the officials have decided to establish 311 procurement centres and officials are estimating a yield of about 5 lakh metric tonnes of paddy. Officials were directed to get ready with required material like weighing machines, gunny bags, tarpaulin sheets, moisture measuring machines and paddy cleaners. Further, 147 rice mills were identified to transport the procured paddy, according to Collector S. Harish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/officials-getting-ready-for-paddy-procurement/article37119414.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Celebrating a milestone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/celebrating-a-milestone/article37119393.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||Is Rs. 79 crore enough for hybrid courts infrastructure, asks HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked its Registrar General to find out if the city Government’s revised estimate of Rs. 79.48 crore from an earlier projection of over Rs. 220 crore for setting up infrastructure for hybrid hearings in district courts here was feasible. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the response of the Registrar General should be duly supported with expert opinion. Earlier estimate: Rs. 220 cr. The court pointed out that an earlier estimate of over Rs. 220 crore, which was submitted by the High Court registry to the Delhi Government, was brought down to Rs. 79.48 crore on account of lowered specifications of the infrastructure proposed to be installed for hybrid hearings. “You (Government) have put a ceiling of Rs. 79 crore at your end. Has anyone applied his mind to say that Rs. 79 crore is good enough for virtual court? How can you go to the IT Department later?” the Bench asked. Delhi Government’s counsel said the revised estimate of Rs. 79 crore has received “in principle” approval of the Finance Department and after the receipt of a proposal from the relevant authorities, it will be sent to the IT Department of the Delhi Government for further approval. The counsel said IT experts were “taken into confidence” while deciding the revised estimate and in case the infrastructure needs an upgrade, the same will be done. The High Court, which was hearing two pleas by lawyers Anil Kumar Hajelay and Manashwy Jha seeking various prayers including conducting hybrid hearings in district courts on physical hearing days because of the COVID-19 pandemic, posted the case for further hearing on November 9. It sought status reports from the Delhi Government after it receives approval from its IT Department as well as on the outcome of its meeting with the representatives of tribunals functioning under it on the infrastructure required for hybrid hearings. In the previous hearing, the High Court had asked the Delhi Government for a timeline for putting the system in place in the trial courts here. It had said that the purpose of the exercise was to ensure that no inconvenience is caused to advocates and litigants in case of a third wave of COVID-19.  Has anyone applied his mind to say that Rs. 79 crore is good enough for virtual court? How can you go to the IT Department later? Delhi High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/is-rs-79-crore-enough-for-hybrid-courts-infrastructure-asks-hc/article37119573.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||The threat within||“I asked her to accompany us to my sister-in-law’s house that day, but she refused and said she would go some other time. That is what cost her life,” Sunita (35) said, referring to her 65-year-old mother-in-law Rajwati, who was stabbed to death by a man inside her house in north Delhi’s Burari in June. The accused, Shubham (27), used to work at Sunita’s husband Pramod’s shop and knew that the couple had left their home in the evening, leaving Rajwati alone. “Around 9 p.m, he came to our house and asked for a glass of water. Soon after my mother-in-law went inside, Shubham entered the house and began opening the cupboards in one of the rooms,” Sunita said. After the elderly woman saw Shubham, she raised an alarm following which he took her to another room, pushed her to the floor, and stabbed her multiple times in the neck, eventually killing her. “After robbing some of our cash and jewellery, he burnt our identity documents. He even wanted to burn my mother-in-law’s body but failed to do so as smoke started emanating from the house and neighbours raised an alarm, following which he fled the spot,” the daughter-in-law said. In another latest instance, 78-year-old Uma Jain’s house in Pandav Nagar was attacked in the early hours of October 3 by three bike-borne men who fired four rounds at the front door before speeding off. “I have never faced such an incident in the 45 years that I have lived here,” the septuagenarian said. “It would be better if I am provided some form of police security.” The National Crime Records Bureau report of crime in India in 2020 has put the spotlight on crimes against senior citizens, with Delhi topping the chart among 19 metropolitan cities. As per the data, 906 such crimes against elderly persons were recorded last year, of which 405 cases were of theft, 108 cases of forgery, cheating and fraud, 37 cases of simple injury, eight cases of assault on women to outrage their modesty, seven cases of murder, and five cases of criminal trespass. Significantly, Delhi was the only city reporting four cases of rape against elderly persons. Of the 906 cases in 2020, chargesheets were filed in only 131 cases, the lowest among all metro cities at 25.3%. However, there has been a reduction in such crimes in 2020 as compared to 2019 when the number had gone up to 1,076. Mumbai had secured the first spot in crimes against senior citizens in 2018 and 2019. In light of this, The Hindu spoke to victims, police officers, and Resident Welfare Associations (RWA) to get an idea how such crimes are planned and executed and how elderly persons have become vulnerable not only from outsiders but even from their own family members. Modus operandi A senior police officer, requesting anonymity, said, “These crimes mostly occur in posh and upscale localities where the accused know that the elderly person is affluent and has been staying alone with children living either out of the city or abroad.” The officer said that usually there exists a well-organised nexus of maids, drivers, watchmen, among other employees, who keep tabs on which house can be easily targeted. “This has mostly got to do with the inefficient system of background checks of such people. Most residents don’t think twice before hiring such persons; there should always be a foolproof police verification,” the officer said. Another police officer said the offence becomes heinous when the said residents raise an alarm or refuse to succumb to the demands of the accused. Just three months ago, Kitty Kumaramangalam, the 70-year-old wife of former Union Minister P.R. Kumaramangalam, was murdered in a robbery bid at her house in south Delhi’s posh Vasant Vihar by her laundryman and his two aides. Domestic disputes “There are also cases of intra-family disputes which affect senior citizens mentally and physically. We have seen recurrent cases where the elderly person is harassed by the son or daughter-in-law over property and subsequently threatened with dire consequences,” a senior police officer from South district said. “Elderly persons are easy targets for online fraudsters as the former are technologically backward and might easily fall for fake offers and websites,” another police officer said. Delhi Police has a designated senior citizen cell which caters to grievances raised by elderly persons registered with them. “In most cases, where we are approached on our helpline number, elderly persons raise intra-family issues but in case we receive a serious case, we direct it to the local police for legal action,” an officer from the cell said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/the-threat-within/article37119576.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||Domestic help, cousin held for staging robbery of Rs. 5 lakh||A domestic help has been arrested from north Delhi’s Wazirabad for allegedly staging a robbery of Rs. 5 lakh, belonging to his employer, in order to start his own venture. His cousin brother has also been arrested for allegedly assisting him in the crime. According to the police, they received a PCR call on Monday from the accused, Deepak, 34, who alleged that two bikers had robbed him of his mobile phone and cash worth Rs. 5 lakh. After a police team reached the spot, Deepak claimed that he had collected Rs. 5 lakh from Sector 3 in Rohini around 5.45 p.m. on the instructions of his employer, Rajeev Bansal. He told the police that he had kept the money in his scooty and was going to deliver it at Seelampur when around 6.20 p.m., near the Burari flyover, two men on a bike threw red chilli powder in his eyes, forcing him to stop the scooty. The pillion rider caught hold of Deepak and snatched his mobile phone and the money, the accused told the police. However, when a police team inspected the crime scene, it found no red chilli powder at the spot or on the clothes of the complainant. “He was also changing his statement frequently. His employer was called to the spot and during technical probe, the complainant’s version was also not matching his timing,” DCP (North) Sagar Singh Kalsi said. After Deepak was interrogated, he allegedly broke down and disclosed that in order to open a new business he hatched a plan with his cousin , Aslam, 39, to stage a fake robbery and steal his employer’s money. He also allegedly disclosed that he had worked with Bansal for five to six years without a police verification and was involved in previous criminal cases of similar nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/domestic-help-cousin-held-for-staging-robbery-of-rs-5-lakh/article37119583.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Court allows polygraph test of ‘Pakistani’ terror accused||Days after an alleged Pakistani national was arrested for living in India on fake identity and planning a terror strike, a Delhi court has granted permission to the police to conduct a polygraph test of the accused. The Delhi Police Special Cell had arrested Mohammed Ashraf, who allegedly had been living in India for 15 years as Ahmed Ali Noori, from East Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar on October 11. Advocate Deepak Tyagi, who is representing Ashraf, said the police had sought permission for a polygraph test and the court granted the same on Thursday. “In their application, the police said Mohammed Ashraf was not cooperating in the investigation and they needed to conduct the test,” he said. ‘Important case’ Police sources said the reason cited for the polygraph test was to extract more information and take the investigation further “as it’s an important case”. The polygraph test, also known as lie detector test, has no evidentiary value in court. The police said they had recovered an AK-47 rifle with two magazines, 60 sophisticated pistols with 50 rounds and a hand grenade at Ashraf’s instance from near the Yamuna, buried under the soil. He was a resident of Pakistan’s Punjab who and had come to India nearly 15 years ago; he was living with fake documents which had a Bihar address, said the police. Ashraf, according to the police, stayed at a house in Laxmi Nagar’s Aram Park for less than a year about a decade ago. He took documents from the then landlord to get his Aadhaar card made. The accused was sent to 14-day police custody. During interrogation and investigation, the police said, it was found that Ashraf was involved in the 2011 High Court blasts. In 2007, he had married a woman and left her after three to four months. “The reason to marry was to acquire goodwill in society and in-turn identity documents,” an investigator said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-allows-polygraph-test-of-pakistani-terror-accused/article37119584.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||Oppn. hits out at North civic body over delay in property tax waiver||A ruckus erupted at the North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s monthly meeting on Thursday with Opposition leaders alleging that the BJP-led civic body had “failed to implement the tax waiver for houses measuring up to 50 square metres”. The North civic body had approved a proposal to waive property tax for houses measuring up to 50 square metres in approved colonies, rural areas and unauthorised colonies. The move was aimed to benefit three lakh property owners. Congress councillor Mukesh Goel said, “We were told that a preamble would be brought forward regarding the waiver but nothing of the sort has been done. If they can make the announcement, then they should stick by it.” Leader of Opposition from the Aam Aadmi Party, Vikas Goel, said that it was evident how the BJP “has been misleading the people of Delhi”. “They (BJP) had also put up hoardings all over Delhi congratulating this move. However, it pains me to inform you that in the House today, the Mayor himself, as well as the Commissioner, have admitted that no such proposal has been made,” he said. Mayor Raja Iqbal Singh said he was “waiting for the Commissioner’s approval” to issue a notification regarding the tax waiver. “We are in talks with the South and East civic bodies in order for them to implement the waiver as well. We want the three civic bodies to implement the tax waiver as a Diwali gift for the people of Delhi,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/oppn-hits-out-at-north-civic-body-over-delay-in-property-tax-waiver/article37119578.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC tells police not to harass restaurants, bars||The Delhi High Court on Thursday told the city police not to “harass” restaurants and bars, which have filed pleas seeking permission to serve herbal-flavoured hookahs, by parking their vehicles outside the premises. Justice Rekha Palli said the police can conduct random checks in restaurants and bars to see if hookahs are being served but can’t keep police personnel posted outside the premises as it will affect business. The counsel for Delhi police said the force will not park vehicles outside the premises but it will conduct random checks on to ensure that they don’t serve hookahs till an order is passed by the court on their petitions. The court was informed that the order of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, prohibiting the use of herbal hookahs in public places to contain the spread of COVID-19, will continue to be in force till further orders. The court asked the Delhi Government to reconsider the issue within five days. In case it still feels that prohibition is necessary, it should file an affidavit, the HC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-hc-tells-police-not-to-harass-restaurants-bars/article37119574.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||Students stage protest seeking reopening of schools, colleges||Several student groups under the banner of All India Forum for Right to Education (AIFRTE) staged a protest outside the Ministry of Education building on Thursday, demanding reopening of all educational institutions. They said their prolonged closure has led to disruption in the education system. The protesters said that despite governments opening markets, malls, bars, hotels and cinemas, no steps have been taken to ensure that educational institutions are opened with sufficient health checks in place to assure students, parents and teachers of their safety. “The tragic consequence of this unnecessary closure is that lakhs of school and college students have simply had to drop out of educational institutions,” the students said. They added that that Union and State Governments are concerned about how exams are going to be held and not about how the academic activities of the students are going to be restored. The students also protested the recommendations of a government-appointed panel that has suggested doing away with the non-NET (National Eligibility Test) fellowship offered to research students at Central universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/students-stage-protest-seeking-reopening-of-schools-colleges/article37119577.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality improves to ‘moderate’ category||The air quality in the city improved to the higher end of “moderate” category on Thursday from the “poor” level on Wednesday and it is expected to worsen in the next two days, as per official data. The air pollution had increased to the “poor” category for the first time this season on Saturday and improved to the “good” level on Monday. On Thursday, the contribution of stubble burning to PM2.5 in Delhi was estimated to jump to 15% and the number of active fire counts was 1,234, according to SAFAR. “However, local winds are moderate and that enhances dispersion of pollutants keeping the AQI in moderate category.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-improves-to-moderate-category/article37119579.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||13.8 kg tumour removed from man’s chest||A tumour bigger than the “size of a football” and weighing 13.8 kg was removed from the chest of a 25-year-old man, according to a private hospital. The tumour had occupied more than 90% of the chest area of the person, reducing the lung function by 90%. “It was a four-hour surgery, which involved opening of both the sides of the chest and cutting the chest bone in between,” said Dr. Udgeath Dhir, head of cardiothoracic and vascular surgery, Fortis Hospital, Gurugram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/138-kg-tumour-removed-from-mans-chest/article37119581.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||Dengue situation under control in Delhi: Minister||The dengue situation in Delhi is completely under control and an adequate number of beds are available in hospitals, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. “Patients from outside Delhi are also being treated here. At present, 25% of the total dengue patients in Delhi hospitals are from outside the city,” Mr. Jain said. The percentage of beds reserved for COVID-19 patients has been reduced to 10% so that there will be enough beds for dengue patients, the government said. “There are about 11,000 beds in Delhi government hospitals, but only 221 patients are admitted there,” a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dengue-situation-under-control-in-delhi-minister/article37119580.ece
22 October 2021||Panaji,||Former Sena leader joins Cong. in Goa||Former vice-president of the Shiv Sena’s Goa unit Rakhi Prabhudesai Naik, who recently resigned from the party, joined the Congress here on Thursday. Ms. Naik was inducted into the party in the presence of Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/former-sena-leader-joins-cong-in-goa/article37119588.ece
22 October 2021||Vijayawada,||Chandrababu Naidu begins protest, slams Andhra Govt.||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday began his 36-hour protest against the recent attacks on his party offices. Calling them acts of “State-sponsored terrorism,” Mr. Naidu sought the Union Government’s intervention in the matter to restore peace. ‘Retrograde policies’ Addressing cadres at the TDP headquarters near Mangalagiri, which had been ransacked by a mob on October 19, Mr. Naidu said the attacks were a fallout of the criticism of the Andhra Pradesh Government’s “failure to curb the smuggling of drugs, and its negligence in probing the links to the recent haul of heroin at the Mundra Port in Gujarat.” “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is getting impatient over the growing public resentment against his Government’s ineptitude in curbing the drug menace, its retrograde policies, and attacks on democratic institutions and constitutional authorities,” Mr. Naidu said. Maintaining that the destruction of the party’s main office was not a sporadic one, Mr. Naidu alleged that it was a “well organised attack meant to intimidate the TDP leaders raising their voice against the Government’s failures.” “It is a culmination of two-and-half years of lawlessness and anarchy that has been prevailing since the YSRCP came to power in 2019,” Mr. Naidu alleged. The Union Government should note that the drug mafia extended their business to Gujarat, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and a few other States, the TDP president said. “Youth have to be protected, lest the drug abuse would become a major scourge,” he cautioned. Insisting that the situation was ripe for imposition of President’s rule, Mr. Naidu said, “The TDP is forced to demand it to save the State from Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s autocratic regime.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chandrababu-naidu-begins-protest-slams-andhra-govt/article37119587.ece
22 October 2021||Washington,||Trump to launch social media platform||Former U.S. President Donald Trump, banned from social media platforms Facebook and Twitter since the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol, has announced that he is launching a social media company , TRUTH Social, to “stand up to the tyranny of Big Tech”. “We live in a world where the Taliban has a huge presence on Twitter, yet yourfavorite American President has been silenced,” Mr. Trump said in a statement released via email by the Trump Media and Technology Group (TMTG). The platform will be made possible via the merger of TMTG and Digital World Acquisition Group, the email said, with TMTG eventually becoming a publicly listed company. The app is expected to roll out across the U.S. in the first quarter of next year, with a beta version being launched next month. “I am excited to send out my first TRUTH on TRUTH Social very soon. TMTG was founded with a mission to give a voice to all. I'm excited to soon begin sharing my thoughts on TRUTH Social and to fight back against Big Tech. Everyone asks me why doesn’t someone stand up to Big Tech? Well, we will besoon!” Mr. Trump said. Presumably, a ‘TRUTH’ is the equivalent of a message or a tweet on Twitter. TMTG also announced that it is launching a subscription video on demand programme, featuring ‘non-woke’ programming. While as President, Mr. Trump had a penchant for tweeting throughout the day, though his tweets were normally concentrated in the early morning hours. Some of his messages often indicated shifts in foreign policy, others served as marketing messages for his presidency and campaign. The former President was known to call his political rivals names on Twitter. Since being expelled from social media sites, Mr. Trump has sought to restore his voice online in various ways. In July this year, he sued Twitter, Facebook and Google, saying he was the victim of censorship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-to-launch-new-social-media-firm/article37118631.ece
22 October 2021||Islamabad,||Pak. Foreign Minister, ISI chief hold talks with Taliban in Kabul||Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi travelled to Kabul on Thursday with the chief of spy agency ISI, Lt. Gen Faiz Hameed, to hold talks with Afghanistan’s interim government led by the Taliban. During the day-long visit, the Pakistani delegation will hold talks with Afghanistan’s Acting Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi and call on leadership of the Taliban government in Kabul and other Afghan leaders, according to the Foreign Office. Mr. Muttaqi welcomed the Pakistani delegation at the Kabul Airport. “The talks between the two sides will cover the entire spectrum of bilateral relations and focus on ways and means to deepen cooperation in diverse areas,” the Foreign Office said. Mr. Qureshi will share Pakistan’s perspective on issues of regional stability, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-foreign-minister-isi-chief-in-kabul-for-talks-with-taliban/article37118629.ece
22 October 2021||Istanbul,||Erdogan threatens to expel 10 Western envoys||Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Thursday threatened to expel the U.S., German and eight other Western Ambassadors after they issued a rare joint statement in support of a jailed civil society leader. Parisian-born philanthropist and activist Osman Kavala, 64, has been in jail without a conviction since 2017, becoming a symbol of what critics see as Mr. Erdogan’s growing intolerance of dissent. Joint statement The 10 Ambassadors issued a highly unusual joint statement on Monday — distributed widely on their Turkish social media accounts — saying Mr. Kavala's continued detention “cast a shadow” over Turkey. “I told our Foreign Minister that we cannot have the luxury of hosting them in our country,” Mr. Erdogan told reporters in comments published by Turkish media. Mr. Kavala has faced a string of alternating charges linked to 2013 anti-government protests and a failed military coup in 2016. In their statement, the U.S., Germany, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway and Sweden called for a “just and speedy resolution to (Kavala)’s case”. The 10 envoys were summoned to the Turkish Foreign Ministry on Tuesday. “Is it within your boundary to teach such a lesson to Turkey? Who are you?” Mr. Erdogan reportedly demanded to know.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/erdogan-threatens-to-expel-10-western-envoys/article37118632.ece
22 October 2021||Moscow,||No ‘respect’ for Navalny’s Sakharov prize: Kremlin||The Kremlin said on Thursday it had no respect for a European Parliament decision to give the EU’s top human rights award to jailed Russian opposition politician Alexei Navalny. “We respect this body, but no one can make us respect such decisions,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters, referring to the European Parliament. On Wednesday, the European Parliament awarded its Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought to President Vladimir Putin’s best-known domestic opponent. Mr. Peskov said the decision “significantly devalues the meaning” of words like freedom of thought. The 45-year-old Opposition politician last year survived a poisoning attack with Novichok nerve agent that he blames on the Kremlin. After returning to Russia in January from Germany, where he was treated, he was arrested and convicted on old embezzlement charges. He is now serving a two-and-a-half-year prison sentence in a penal colony outside Moscow. Mr. Navalny said he felt honoured to receive the award. “This is not only an honour, but also a great responsibility,” Mr. Navalny, whose social media accounts are run by his team, said on Twitter. “I am very grateful to the European Parliament for appreciating our work so highly. We will continue to do our best.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-respect-for-navalnys-sakharov-prize-kremlin/article37118634.ece
22 October 2021||Paris,||FB says it will pay French press for news||Facebook said on Thursday it had reached an agreement with some French newspapers to pay for news content shared by its users, months after Google announced plans to remunerate them for articles shown in web searches. Facebook said the licensing deal with the APIG alliance of national and regional newspapers “means that people will be able to continue uploading and sharing news stories freely amongst their communities, whilst also ensuring that the copyright of our publishing partners is protected.” The company said it would also launch Facebook News in January to “give people a dedicated space to access content from trusted and reputable news sources”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fb-says-it-will-pay-french-press-for-news/article37118633.ece
22 October 2021||Moscow,||Non-essential services shut in Moscow||Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin on Thursday ordered the closure of all non-essential services in the Russian capital between October 28 and November 7 to curb the spread of infections as virus deaths soared. “During this period the work of all (these) organisations on the territory of the city of Moscow must stop,” Mr. Sobyanin said as Russia reported a record 1,036 deaths in a single day on Thursday. A day earlier, President Vladimir Putin announced a week-long nationwide paid holiday starting October 30. Mr. Sobyanin said all non-essential retail and venues of sport and entertainment must close. Restaurants and pharmacies will remain open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/non-essential-services-shut-in-moscow/article37118635.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Will privatisation take off after the Air India sale?||Earlier this month, the Tata Group emerged as the winning bidder for Air India, the debt-laden national carrier. In this year’s Budget, the government unveiled a bold new disinvestment policy that envisages a bare minimum presence of government-owned businesses even in the strategic sectors. The government is also pursuing the sale of its entire stake in public sector firms such as BPCL, Shipping Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, two other public sector banks and one general insurance company this financial year alone. Given India’s recent disinvestment record, this is an ambitious target. Ashok Chawla and Arvind Mehta discuss the implications of the sale of Air India for the future of India’s public sector, in a conversation moderated by Vikas Dhoot . Edited excerpts:  How did things come to such a pass at Air India? What do you think stalled previous attempts to initiate reforms or even sell the airline? Ashok Chawla:About three decades ago, Air India was one of the world’s premier airlines. Then it slowly but steadily went into a spin. While an attempt was made in the early 2000s to see if it could be sold based on the recommendations of the then Disinvestment Commission, that didn’t move very far. Then, the Civil Aviation Ministry took the view that it would be good if two airlines — Air India and Indian Airlines — were merged. The merger took place in 2007 with a lot of euphoria but slowly it came to pass that such mergers are easy on paper but don’t work without cultural and operational synergies. The financial bills of the airline kept getting bloated and the model of a full-service airline became difficult to handle in the domestic sector with low-cost airlines coming in and overtaking Air India in a price-sensitive market. Air India could never recover. We are now told it was losing Rs. 20 crore each day, which is the ultimate nadir for the airline. Arvind Mehta:I was part of the transaction team that was looking at the divestment of Air India and Indian Airlines in 2001. There were many factors that kept playing out. There was strong buyer interest, including from a corporate house which did not have aviation experience. There was muddying of the waters by some private airlines that feared competition if the transaction went through. To cut a long story short, in the ensuing confusion that happened amid lobbying of various kinds, there was also advice that the enterprise value of the airlines would increase if there was a merger, so when the divestment takes place, later you will get a better value. The government agreed and put the sale on the back burner. When the merger finally happened much later, it led to greater losses instead of better value. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said in 2014 that the government had no business to be in business. But over the last seven years, no public sector unit (PSU) sales materialised. Would the Air India sale, the first such transaction in 18 years, break the recent taboo associated with disinvestment in our political economy? AC:It’s certainly a long-awaited positive signal regarding the public sector, and more so for domestic and foreign investors. In the last 18 years, irrespective of the government in power, there’s been share sales or transfer of shares from one pocket to the other but no genuine privatisation. There is euphoria and expectation, but as one can appreciate in all such matters, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. So, the euphoria needs to be tempered a bit. While the broad policy is there, once you get into the details, one doesn’t know whether there will really be a fairly robust pipeline of public sector entities which are up for offer with a symmetry between what the government offers and what the investors are really interested in. Second, there is the parallel track which the government is pursuing for fiscal mathematics, which is the monetisation track. If you push the disinvestment and monetisation tracks aggressively, then the issue of whether there is adequate appetite and capacity on the other side of the table will arise. Third, we have to appreciate that the process of disinvestment is long-drawn and complicated. It was the case even in the first round 20 years ago and not much has changed in that regard. Finally, I think there is the elephant in the room which one cannot ignore — what is the window of opportunity? The general elections are coming up in 2024. So, the window of opportunity for either this kind of disinvestment or for monetisation is, at best, 18 to 20 months. So, whatever the government can do with that to fulfill its broad objective of actually pulling back from business where it does not need to be in business, let’s hope it is able to do a fair amount... That would really be a welcome step for the stakeholders, the economy and the people at large. Between 1999 and 2003, the National Democratic Alliance privatised 17 firms. Can we look at a similar streak in the window we have before the next Lok Sabha polls? AM:In the [Atal Bihari] Vajpayee era, the commitment to privatisation was very strong. It started with the loss-making Modern Foods, then Balco, IPCL, the share sale of Maruti which gave controlling interest away... there was a momentum building up. But when the government finally came to the BPCL sale, the pushback started happening with many in Parliament questioning the sale of a profit-making central PSU, whereas you could possibly have a reason for doing it for loss-making PSUs. With that kind of pushback, there was a loss of momentum. And then, of course, the philosophy of divestment became entirely different with a coalition government supported by the Left. The real value I see in this Air India sale now is that again, there is clarity of thought. The government feels that whether it’s a loss-making or a profit-making Central PSU (CPSU), it is willing to make a strategic exit. That the DIPAM (Department of Investment and Public Asset Management) has found a mechanism for the strategic sale of a loss-making unit like Air India is also a positive, because it’s easy to sell something like BPCL that will attract buyers based on its enterprise value and profits. I hope that many other loss-making units that are continuously bleeding the taxpayers also find strategic buyers through the right sweeteners. We have heard the usual criticism from trade unions and Left parties on the Air India sale. But do you fear that hiving off profitable PSUs will again attract a wider groundswell of Opposition criticism? AM:There is the possibility that as and when profitable PSUs are sold, there will be stronger ideological battles and questions about why there is a need to sell the family silver, something which is giving good dividends, etc. It’s far more difficult to justify those kinds of sales; it would be easier to justify the loss-making sales. AC:There will be the usual noises when profit-making enterprises are sold, but if the government clearly articulates its policy on what it wants to sell and what it wants to retain, I think the general consensus across the political spectrum would be that the public sector need not occupy the commanding heights of the economy. While people may object for the sake of objecting, as long as the process is run in a very transparent manner, I think there will not be too much objection. Should some sectors like coal be a no-go area for divestment, even though the government has said it will retain bare minimum presence in strategic sectors? Should people be worried that one or two groups may get a lot of assets under their control as is happening, for instance, in airports and ports? AM:The previous Finance Minister, Arun Jaitley, made a famous comment about the Air India sale. He had said that if you wait too long, there will be no airline left to sell. But yes, there is a role for certain kinds of countervailing mechanisms in a calibrated fashion… We shouldn’t do any fire sales and there has to be a watch on the market appetite. We don't want those kinds of sales which happened in certain countries where oligarchs came and just lapped up all the public sector assets and then became billionaires at the cost of the social good. Of the 17 PSUs that were privatised, not a single sale was undertaken where the Cabinet Minister was in charge of a PSU with operations in their home State, as per a study. Do you expect such tendencies to crop up this time round? AC:I guess that’s been the case in all the major economic moves to some extent. But 2021 is very different from 20-30 years ago. It’s not much of a problem now because the political resolve is strong. The whole process will get further energised if it isn’t perceived as something the government wants to do because it doesn’t have money. The perception is that the government is pressed to the wall; that it is trying to push privatisation and monetisation because ‘ paisa nahi hai (there is no money)’ and it needs money for welfare programmes. With DIPAM under the Finance Ministry, unlike earlier when disinvestment was a separate ministry, it sends a signal about balancing the books. There should be a separate ministry or commission which reports directly to the Prime Minister’s Office. That will make things far simpler for the mechanics of implementing disinvestment plans, and minor political issues of whether a particular minister is happy or unhappy will not really come to the surface. The focus should now be totally on efficiency, productivity increases, not the fiscal focus on balancing the books. AM:For a strategic sale, it used to always be difficult to convince the concerned ministry in charge of a PSU to come fully on board, because for them, it was a sense of loss. There would always be various reasons they would give for why it’s not the appropriate time. They had no problem with part share sales as long as ownership control did not go out of the ministry’s hands. So, that kind of a problem always remained and that’s why I said strategic sales are far more difficult than part sales of shares. But I think the mood has changed now. The Prime Minister has said that the government has no business to be in business. He has made it clear that he doesn’t want to see IAS officers and others running a PSU and being changed from time to time. I think that kind of mindset earlier where a ministry could try and sabotage a strategic sale... I don't think we are going to see that kind of resistance in this time period. But what worries me actually is the narrative that goes out that the government is doing the sales because it needs to cover its fiscal deficit. That narrative is very damaging because then in the public perception, it is simply a sale of the family silver. So, I would be happier with a narrative that does not talk about the monetary aspects so much but is one that simply says that we are convinced that society is better off by having this not being a government-run entity anymore.  The whole process will get further energised if it isn’t perceived as something the government wants to do because it doesn’t have money. Ashok Chawla||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/will-privatisation-take-off-after-the-air-india-sale/article37118628.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Responding to adversity with achievement||India has completed vaccination of 100 crore doses on October 21, 2021, in just about nine months since starting vaccination. This has been a tremendous journey in dealing with COVID-19, especially when we recall how things stood in early 2020. Humanity was dealing with such a pandemic after 100 years and no one knew much about the virus. We remember how unpredictable the situation appeared then, as we were faced by an unknown and invisible enemy mutating rapidly. The scale and trust The journey from anxiety to assurance has happened and our nation has emerged stronger, thanks to the world’s largest vaccination drive. It has been a truly bhagirath effort involving multiple sections of society. To get a sense of the scale, assume that each vaccination took just two minutes for a health-care worker. At this rate, it took around 41 lakh man days or approximately eleven thousand man years of effort to reach this landmark. For any effort to attain and sustain speed and scale, the trust of all stakeholders is crucial. One of the reasons for the success of the campaign was the trust that people developed in the vaccine and the process followed, despite various efforts to create mistrust and panic. There are some among us who only trust foreign brands, even for simple every day necessities. However, when it came to something as crucial as the COVID-19 vaccine, the people of India unanimously trusted ‘Made in India’ vaccines. This is a significant paradigm shift. India’s vaccine drive is an example of what India can achieve if the citizens and the Government come together with a common goal in the spirit of Jan Bhagidari . When India started its vaccination programe, there were many people who doubted the capabilities of 130 crore Indians. Some said India would take three to four years. Some others said people will not come forward to get vaccinated. There were those who said there will be gross mismanagement and chaos in the vaccination process. Some even said that India will not be able to manage supply chains. But just like the Janata Curfew and subsequent lockdowns, the people of India showed how spectacular the results can be, if they are made trusted partners. When everyone takes ownership, nothing is impossible. Our health-care workers traversed hills and crossed rivers across difficult geographies to vaccinate people. Our youth, social workers, health-care workers, social and religious leaders, all deserve credit for the fact that India faces minimal vaccine hesitancy when compared to even developed nations. An equitable scheme There was a lot of pressure from different interest groups to give preferential treatment to them in vaccination. But the Government ensured that, like our other schemes, there is no VIP culture in the vaccination drive either. Preparing early In early 2020, when COVID-19 was rampaging across the world, it was clear to us that this pandemic will have to be eventually fought with the help of vaccines. We started preparing early. We constituted expert groups and started preparing a road map right from April 2020. Till today, only a handful of countries have developed their own vaccines. More than 180 countries are dependent on an extremely limited pool of producers, and dozens of nations are still waiting for the supply of vaccines, even as India has crossed 100 crore doses! Imagine the situation if India did not have its own vaccine. How would India have secured enough vaccines for such a large population and how many years would that have taken? It is here that credit should be given to Indian scientists and entrepreneurs for rising to the occasion. It is due to their talent and hardwork that India is truly Aatmanirbhar when it comes to vaccines. Our vaccine manufacturers, by scaling up to meet the demands of such a large population, have shown that they are second to none. In a nation where governments used to be known as a roadblock impeding forward movement, our government has instead been an accelerator and enabler of progress. The Government partnered with the vaccine makers right from day one and gave them support in the form of institutional assistance, scientific research, funding, as well as accelerated regulatory processes. All Ministries of the Government came together to facilitate the vaccine makers and remove any bottlenecks as a result of our ‘whole of Government’ approach. Logistics, the platform In a country of the scale of India, it is not enough to just produce. Focus has to be on last mile delivery and seamless logistics. To understand the challenges involved, imagine the journey taken by one vial of vaccines. From a plant in Pune or Hyderabad, the vial is sent to a hub in any of the States, from where it is transported to the district hub. From there, it reaches a vaccination centre. This entails the deployment of thousands of trips taken by flights and trains. During this entire journey, the temperature has to be maintained in a particular range which is centrally monitored. For this, over one lakh cold chain equipments were utilised. States were given advance notice of the delivery schedule of the vaccines so that they could plan their drives better and vaccines reached them on the pre-decided days. This has been an unprecedented effort in the history of independent India.  All these efforts were complemented by a robust tech platform in CoWIN. It ensured that the vaccine drive was equitable, scalable, trackable, and transparent. This ensured that there was no scope for favouritism or jumping the queue. It also ensured that a poor worker could take the first dose in his village and the second dose of the same vaccine in the city where he works, after the required time interval. In addition to a real-time dashboard to boost transparency, the QR-coded certificates ensured verifiability. There are hardly any examples of such efforts not only in India but also the world. An example of team work In my Independence Day Address in 2015, I had said that our country is moving ahead because of ‘Team India’ and this ‘Team India’ is a big team of our 130 crore people. People’s participation is the biggest strength of democracy. If we run the country through the participation of 130 crore Indians, our country will be moving ahead 130 crore steps every moment. Our vaccination drive has yet again showed the power of this ‘Team India’. India’s success in its vaccination drive has also demonstrated to the whole world that ‘democracy can deliver’. I am optimistic that the success achieved in the world’s largest vaccination drive will further spur our youth, our innovators and all levels of Government to set new benchmarks of public service delivery which will be a model not only for our country but also for the world. Narendra Modi is the Prime Minister of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/responding-to-adversity-with-achievement/article37118621.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Squaring off again in the Himalayan heights||The winter is setting in in the icy cold deserts of Ladakh and there is no respite for Indian and Chinese soldiers who will remain deployed against each other. Even if it is a period of calm at the tactical level, the rarefied atmosphere, low temperatures and high altitude take their toll on both men and materiel. In the last 10 months, the Chinese Western Theatre Command has seen four commanders, two of them — Generals Zhang Xudong and Xu Qiling, both ‘rising stars’ of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) — moved out for serious health issues. An aggressive focus on India This ought to have raised wider concerns in the PLA about the health and well-being of its men in the theatre, leading to quick deinduction of its forces from eastern Ladakh. However, going by the obstinate Chinese stance in recent weeks, the PLA seems singularly uninterested in ending the prolonged deployment. The verbal attacks have been matched by massive infrastructure construction, induction of a large quantity of modern equipment, and a sharp increase in the number of military exercises directed towards India. These actions are not limited to Ladakh but have also been initiated in the middle and eastern sectors of the 3,488-kilometre long Line of Actual Control (LAC). The PLA incursion into Barahoti in Uttarakhand in August was a significant pointer to the renewed Chinese aggression against India. Even though Barahoti is a disputed area between the two sides, it has been a demilitarised zone. No persons in uniform enter the area. This was violated when PLA soldiers came deep into Indian territory in uniform and damaged some infrastructure. The forays of Chinese patrols in Arunachal Pradesh have also increased in frequency and duration, denoting the PLA’s intention to keep the Indian military under pressure. Such hostility carries the risk of triggering an unintended escalation, as was the case after 200 PLA soldiers were stopped by an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang earlier this month. Western scholars with Chinese connections point to two major drivers for the PLA’s aggressive approach against India. The first is its institutional interest as the ‘army of the revolution’ which is now losing its primacy to the PLA Air Force and PLA Navy when it comes to Taiwan or the South China Sea. With China having resolved its boundary disputes with most countries, the only major adversary available for the PLA to reassert its importance is India. Even under President Xi Jinping, the PLA remains a major actor in the Chinese political system and can promote actions that further its institutional interests. The second driver is the PLA’s view that the Indian military has been registering a greater presence on “Chinese territory” in the border areas in the last 10-12 years. After the United Progressive Alliance government decided to build infrastructure and raise additional forces for the China border, a larger number of Indian patrols have been going more frequently into areas which they would rarely, if ever, visit. The Doklam stand-off of 2017, when Indian soldiers walked onto Bhutanese territory claimed by China, was a turning point in the PLA’s appreciation of Indian designs, reinforcing its apprehensions about territorial losses. Western scholars say that there is a strong constituency in the PLA that wants to put India in its place, evoking an eerie parallel to the discourse in Mao’s China after 1959. New Delhi’s response In response to the PLA’s actions on the LAC, the Indian military has also inducted more modern military platforms and systems on the China border which has been backed by infrastructure construction. Despite these accretions, the quantitive and qualitative asymmetry with the Chinese has widened in the past 20 months. Senior Indian commanders hope that this gap can be offset to some extent by the vast operational experience of Indian troops in hostile climactic and terrain conditions but recognise the very formidable nature of Chinese challenge. The Indian military always maintained a defensive deterrence against the PLA which worked for nearly three decades before breaking down completely in 2020. The new troop deployments and equipment inductions, along with infrastructure creation — showcased extensively to the Indian media — are trying to reconstruct that deterrence. India’s advantage in dissuading a major military conflict with China is that as a lesser power, it has to only deny an outright military victory to the PLA for the top Chinese leadership to lose face. Only time will tell whether this reconstructed deterrent will work for India but a lot will depend on factors that are beyond the remit of the Indian military. Impact on modernisation The foremost among them is the sharp decline in the Indian economy after demonetisation, further battered by the Government’s poor handling of the novel coronavirus pandemic. It means that New Delhi is unable to generate enough resources for military modernisation. Ashley Tellis had calculated in 2016 that the Indian Air Force (IAF) would need about 60 fighter jet squadrons by 2020 for a serious two-front threat from China and Pakistan but is down to 30 and losing numbers sharply. The Indian Navy Chief’s pleas for another aircraft carrier have been rebuffed for want of funds. The parliamentary standing committee on defence has repeatedly warned about the abnormally high share of vintage equipment in the Indian Army’s profile. So rapidly is the technological asymmetry with the PLA increasing, that in a few years it is feared that India and China will be fighting two different generations of war. The second factor is the increasingly divisive majoritarian politics practised by the ruling party that has left India vulnerable. The ruling ideology has also held captive the country’s foreign policy in the neighbourhood, adversely affecting Indian interests. The United Arab Emirates-brokered backchannel deal with Pakistan fell through apparently because of New Delhi’s policies in Kashmir, reactivating the challenge of a two-front collusive military threat. The ceasefire on the Line of Control is barely holding up, with infiltration from the Pakistani side adding to the local Kashmiri youth willing to pick up the gun, opening another half-front for the military. The recent fracas with Bangladesh on the treatment of religious minorities or the ongoing turmoil over the influx of Myanmar refugees in Mizoram has left India, internally unbalanced, weaker in the region to deal with China. The third is the geopolitics arising out of the great power competition in the Indo-Pacific. Many strategic commentators in India had pinned their hopes on the external rebalancing via the Quad (India, the United States, Australia, Japan) but the grouping does not have a ‘hard power’ agenda yet. That role seems to have devolved upon the AUKUS (the trilateral security pact between Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States). Closer ties between Washington DC and New Delhi, short of an alliance, leave the questions of actual support during a Sino-India military crisis unanswered. With the Chinese border assertions, is it now that India needs the U.S. more than the U.S. needs India? The executive’s shadow Finally, the lack of institutional checks and balances on the political executive, which imposes an even bigger cost in decision-making on national security issues. In the Ladakh border crisis, the Government and its supporters were in denial about the Chinese ingress into Indian territory for months, including the Prime Minister’s statement that no one had entered Indian territory. Use of euphemisms like ‘friction points’ for places of Chinese ingress or the removal of an official report about Chinese presence across the LAC from the Defence Ministry’s website or non-acknowledgement of Indian soldiers in Chinese captivity after the Galwan clash have been done to evade political accountability. Parliament has not been allowed to ask questions or seek clarifications; nor has the parliamentary standing committee deliberated upon the issue. Large sections of Indian media have been complicit in this cover up, keeping the public in the dark and blocking the feedback loop that keeps democratic governments honest and responsive. The costs and consequences of a government taking decisions after buying its own spin on national security issues will be inconceivable for India. Looking ahead The amplitude of New Delhi’s stance on the Sino-India border crisis in the last 20 months has oscillated between denial and bluster. Dampening the oscillations, New Delhi’s avowed aim is to restore the status quo on the LAC in Ladakh that existed before May 2020. That has not happened so far. In areas of disengagement, a new status quo has been created which curtails Indian patrolling rights while the PLA remains ensconced on Indian territory in Depsang, Hot Springs and Demchok. Having publicly rebuffed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 2015 offer to delineate the LAC, Beijing seems to have taken his 2014 prescription of ‘Inch towards miles’ rather literally on the disputed border. India now has no choice but to be prepared for all eventualities on the Sino-India border. Sushant Singh is Henry Hart Rice Lecturer at Yale University, U.S. and Senior Fellow at the Centre for Policy Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/squaring-off-again-in-the-himalayan-heights/article37118618.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Scripting history||India scripted history on Thursday with its COVID-19 vaccine doses administered crossing the one-billion mark — accomplished in just about nine months after the vaccination programme rollout on January 16. What is even more outstanding is the targeting of adults. Unlike the established universal immunisation programme, for infants and children, India has never undertaken any massive universal adult vaccination programme. That this exercise involving thousands of health-care workers and others was carried out even while in the midst of a huge number of daily cases in April-May during the second wave makes it even more remarkable. It became possible only because vaccine manufacturers, the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech, were able to ensure uninterrupted vaccine availability even if supply was limited in the beginning. If the Serum Institute had the foresight to begin manufacture in advance, Bharat Biotech’s capability to quickly develop an indigenous vaccine with the ICMR ensured that India did not have to endlessly wait for vaccine supplies from other countries. If there was hesitancy initially even among health-care workers, who were the first to be eligible to receive the vaccines, the deadly second wave led to a huge leap in vaccine uptake; vaccination was opened up to all priority groups and to everyone above 18 years before the second wave peaked in early May. India could have probably reached this grand milestone earlier had time not been wasted in asking States to procure vaccines directly from the two manufacturers at a higher cost to vaccinate the 18-44 age group. While basking in glory, it is important not to lose sight of the bigger goal of vaccinating all eligible adults by the year-end. Even as vaccine supply is increasing, the pace of the vaccination drive has to be speeded up to meet the objective. If over 75% of the eligible adults have already been vaccinated with one dose, the proportion of adults who are fully vaccinated is only 31%. Since vaccination with two doses is necessary to increase the protection level, efforts should be directed at increasing the pace of second dose vaccination. China has already administered over 2.2 billion doses and fully vaccinated over 75% of the eligible population even by mid-September. Crossing the one-billion mark became possible as India stopped the export of vaccines, impacting most low- and middle-income countries. On October 14, nearly six months after halting exports, India finally supplied vaccines to four countries; further supplies will depend on production and demand. It is imperative that vaccine production is quickly ramped up to meet demand. Any more delay in meeting international obligations will greatly hurt India’s credibility as a reliable vaccine supplier to the global South.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/scripting-history/article37118613.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Engaging the Taliban||India’s participation in a meeting of 10 nations with Taliban officials in Moscow and the signing of a joint statement that recognised the “new reality” in Afghanistan signal a decisive shift in the country’s approach towards the Islamist group. India had earlier taken a strong position against any kind of engagement with the Taliban. In recent months, when the Taliban were making steady advances towards Kabul, India had established contacts with the Taliban’s political office in Doha, Qatar, but this is the first time India met a top Taliban delegation, which included Deputy Prime Minister Abdul Salam Hanafi, and, according to a Taliban spokesperson, promised to send aid. India has vital interests in Afghanistan. Over the 20 years, it has made investments worth billions of dollars which it would want to be protected. Last time the Taliban, which have close ties with anti-India terrorist groups such as LeT and the JeM, were in power, India saw a rise in violent incidents in Kashmir as well as the hijacking of an Indian plane to Kandahar. Now the Taliban say they will not allow Afghan soil to be used by any terrorist organisation. It is in India’s interest to make sure that the Taliban walk the talk. It would also not like to see an isolated Taliban being a Pakistani satellite. To meet these goals, given the new reality in Afghanistan, engagement with the Taliban looks a strategic necessity. But this is a policy that needs to be pursued more through regional diplomacy than bilateral engagement. Bilaterally, India does not have much clout with the Taliban. But Afghan’s new rulers, who are struggling with an economy on the brink of collapse, are keener this time to engage with regional powers. So the Moscow 10, which includes China, Pakistan, Iran and the Central Asian republics, has some leverage. These countries also have shared interests in seeing the Taliban severing its terror ties and Afghanistan being stabilised. If not, instability could, once again, spread beyond Afghanistan’s border. For this, the Taliban should be ready to open up their government, share power with other political and ethnic communities, and start respecting the fundamental rights of Afghans. The last 40 years of Afghanistan’s history are a brutal example of what could go wrong if one party or group tries to amass all powers in its hands. Despite these historical precedents, the Taliban have shown little readiness to change their ways. In the joint statement, India and the others asked the Taliban to keep their commitment on forming an inclusive government and ensure that their territory is not being used by terrorist groups. These calls should not end with the statements. While India and other regional countries should help Afghans during this period of economic miseries, they should also use their collective economic and political clout to mount pressure on the Taliban to make political concessions at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/engaging-the-taliban/article37118614.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The poor conditions of protectors||In December 2020, Deputy Commandant Vikas Kumar of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)’s elite unit, CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), was seriously injured when an IED planted by Maoists went off in Sukma district, Chhattisgarh. He succumbed to his injuries the next day. A month earlier, in Chintagufa area of Sukma, Assistant Commandant N. Purushottam Bhalerao was seriously injured along with nine other commandos when an IED went off during an anti-Maoist operation. Bhalerao succumbed to his injuries. In April this year, two police constables — Omkar Raika and Pawan Chaudhary — of the Rajasthan Police were shot dead by suspected drug smugglers when they were carrying out routine checks of vehicles at checkpoints in Bhilwara district. Paying tributes In memory of these and other colleagues killed, all the police forces of the State and Centre observe October 21 as Police Commemoration Day. This year, tributes were paid to 377 personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty between September 1, 2020, and August 31, 2021. As the CRPF is deployed in the highly disturbed areas of Jammu and Kashmir, the Northeast and the Left-Wing Extremist-affected States, the highest casualties (82) were seen in this force. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), which guards the border from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh at forbidding heights, lost 54 of its personnel, while the Border Security Force lost 47 personnel. Among the State Police forces, Chhattisgarh, which is combating the Maoist menace, lost the most personnel (32) followed by J&K (17) and Karnataka (17). October 21 is observed as Police Commemoration Day as it was on this day in 1959 that a pitched battle was fought against the Chinese in Ladakh close to the border. The Chinese opened fire killing 10 CRPF personnel. They took seven as prisoners, while three escaped. The incident went down in the history of the forces as an example of unflinching loyalty to the nation, dedication to duty and daring of the highest order. Year after year, a contingent of the police comprising personnel of all ranks from all States and paramilitary forces of the country visit Hot Springs to pay homage to those who lost their lives that day. A memorial at the spot is testimony to the sacrifices made by our forces. On it is etched the famous epitaph by John Maxwell Edmunds: “When you go home/ Tell them of us/ And say/ ‘For your tomorrow,/ We gave our today’.” A company of the ITBP stands guard here even today in the extreme cold, guarding the border within visual distance of Chinese soldiers deployed across the border. Don’t let sacrifices go in vain Despite the onerous nature of their duties, the police are a neglected lot. They get paid low salaries, have a poor quality of life and are often deprived of basic facilities. Yet they risk their lives to protect citizens. The morale of the paramilitary personnel is not of the desired level. Those who cleared recruitment exams in 2003 but joined the force in 2004 or later are not eligible for pension under the old norms. Canteen and medical facilities are dismal. Items sold through the Central Police Canteens are not exempted from GST. It is high time the government takes note of the grievances of the police and paramilitary personnel and not let their sacrifices go in vain. There are notable variations in the ex-gratia amounts given to the next of kin of the police who are killed. While certain States like Delhi and Tamil Nadu pay Rs. 1 crore, several other States dither to pay even half that amount. The Centre and the States need to bring about uniformity in the amount paid. While the Centre pays ex-gratia to the families of the Central Armed Police Forces which may be short of Rs. 1 crore, the balance should be borne by the States as Rs. 1 crore is reasonably sufficient to see the family through hard days. Care should be taken to ensure that the next of kin are not deprived of a decent living. Payments from the public exchequer need to be made judiciously. M.P. Nathanael is Inspector General of Police (Retd), CRPF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-poor-conditions-of-protectors/article37118623.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Literature Nobel to Chile diplomat||Mr. Pablo Neruda, Chilean poet, diplomat and a strong marxist, was to-day [Stockholm, Oct. 21] awarded the 1971 Nobel Prize for Literature. Mr. Neruda, 67, who is his country’s Ambassador in France, was cited by the Swedish Academy for “a poetry that with the action of an elemental force brings alive a continent’s destiny and dreams”. The 450,000 crowns (Rs. 6,60,000) prize award added one more triumph to the controversial poet-politicians, a one-time Stalin Prize winner and political exile whose convictions carried him to a top post this year after the marxist regime of Mr. Salvador Allende came to power. Mr. Neruda is the second Chilean to receive a Nobel Prize for Literature. The first was his high school teacher and helper, Gabriela Mistral, awarded in 1945. The Secretary of the Swedish Academy, Mr. Karl Ragnar Gierow, who is still in the midst of the controversy surrounding last year’s laureate, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, in a prepared radio address acknowledged that the prize in Mr. Neruda “has a recipient who is a controversial author”. Mr. Gierow said: “Besides being the subject of debate he is in some people’s eyes debatable, not to say questionable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/literature-nobel-to-chile-diplomat/article37118622.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Need strategic reserves of coal and gas’||The Centre has asked States to lift their hydropower output in a bid to conserve scarce coal supplies, Power Secretary Alok Kumar said on Thursday, stressing the need to build strategic reserves of imported coal and gas as was being done for petroleum products. “At least in the foreseeable 10 years or so, all the countries, especially major economies, will be dependent on fossil fuel supplies for base load and for grid balancing,” Mr. Kumar noted. “We will never be able to insulate ourselves from these supply shocks of imported fuel,” he added, referring to the major supply disruptions due to the soaring global prices of coal, gas and oil. “Let us start discussing about keeping a strategic reserve of these fuels — gas, oil, imported coal… so that economies are able to adjust and tide over these supply shocks for about a month or so. That will be a small cost vis-à-vis the cost of these disruptions,” he said at the South Asia Power Summit hosted by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Noting that even China, U.K., Europe and Singapore had faced supply challenges, Mr. Kumar said high prices made energy security challenging. India, he pointed out, had 17,000 MW of power plants based on imported coal and 24,000 MW of gas-fired plants, which virtually go out of play when prices rise too high. ‘Crunch time’ “Many countries have started keeping strategic reserves, because when it comes to a crunch, every country will meet its needs first. Russia has curtailed gas supply to Europe because they want more gas to be consumed within their country,” he said, making a case for South Asian countries to build up similar reserves. Mooting the need to diversify the energy basket to cope with the fossil fuels’ supply crunch, the official said: “For the last one week, we are generating extra hydropower on off-peak days to conserve our coal. We have talked to States and said wherever you have water reservoir, or higher water levels, please generate more hydropower so that we can save coal.” A surge in power demand combined with a fall in imports due to high global coal prices have led to supply disruptions and power cuts lasting up to 14 hours a day despite record supplies from state-run Coal India. Most of India’s 135 coal-fired power plants have fuel stocks of less than three days. Coal accounts for more than 70% of India’s power generation. India, the world’s second largest coal importer with the world’s fourth largest reserves, must also compete for supplies with China. “High prices will make energy security very challenging if we don’t have a well thought out strategy,” Mr. Kumar said. ( With inputs from Reuters )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/need-strategic-reserves-of-coal-and-gas/article37118603.ece
22 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Firms unsure of recovery from ransomware: Dell||A majority of organisations are uncertain if they can recover from a ransomware attack and the situation is likely more dire than earlier, given that enterprises globally are managing more than 10 times the amount of data they did five years ago, a Dell Technologies survey showed. Dell Technologies 2021 Global Data Protection Index (GDPI) findings revealed that organisations were facing several data protection challenges driven by the constant threat of ransomware and the consumption of emerging technologies such as cloud and artificial intelligence. “As we move further in the data era, the amount of data being generated will continue to increase due to various factors such as continuation of remote working culture, higher adoption of emerging technologies etc,” said Ripu Bajwa, director and GM, Data Protection Solutions, Dell Technologies India. About 68% of IT decision makers in India were concerned their existing data protection solutions won’t meet all future business challenges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/firms-unsure-of-recovery-from-ransomware-dell/article37118596.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Coal scarcity still a looming risk, says Crisil||The Centre’s steps to regulate coal supplies to non-power sectors may have helped tide over the immediate threat of a major power crisis, but coal scarcity remains a looming risk for corporate India and domestic consumers, rating agency Crisil said in a report. “The threat still looms when power demand picks up from here… Coal stocks are unlikely to improve to the previous level of 15-18 days’ inventory anytime soon. Also, availability of rakes and a pickup in power demand in March-May will be the key monitorables from here,” it noted, emphasising that a build-up in coal inventories by February 2022 is critical to avert outages in the coming summer. Crisil noted that power demand had surged almost 20% in industrial States such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat in the first half of FY22, even as dependence on coal-based power has grown. Coal stocks are at most critical levels in Bihar, followed by Karnataka, Maharashtra and Rajasthan, the rating agency said. “Coal-based power generation rose 19.1%, while [that] from other conventional sources saw a 15.5% on-year decline,” it pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/coal-scarcity-still-a-looming-risk-says-crisil/article37118606.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sharp economic revival underway, says Goyal||All indicators point to a clear and sharp recovery underway in the Indian economy, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal asserted on Thursday, adding that energy security is the core driver for India’s drive towards self-reliance. “GDP has grown a record 20.1% in the first quarter. Make-In-India is now making for the world. For the first time, in the second quarter, our exports crossed 100 billion dollars, forex reserves have now grown to $638 billion dollars, FDI in the first four months are 62% higher than the corresponding figure last year. All these point to the growing confidence towards India,” Mr. Goyal said in an address to the India Energy Forum hosted by CERAWeek. Citing the sharp drop in electricity costs in recent years, he said the price of solar power had come down from Rs. 8-Rs. 10 per unit about 6-7 years ago to just Rs. 2.40.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sharp-economic-revival-underway-says-goyal/article37118608.ece
22 October 2021||Mumbai,||Corporate frauds to rise in next 2 years: Deloitte-IOD||Corporate fraud cases will rise in the next two years because of COVID-19 related pressures, 63% of independent directors (IDs) said in a survey. This is because COVID-19 has significantly disrupted business environments, leading to change in business models, cash flow crunch, and remote working environment, which have exposed organisation and individuals to increased fraud-related vulnerabilities, the survey by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP (DTTILLP), in association with the Institute of Directors (IOD), revealed. Cybercrimes (23. 90%), financial statement fraud including incorrect business valuations (20.96%) and leak of sensitive information (12.87%) are the most likely fraud schemes to be experienced in the near future, according to the findings. “Our survey results brought to the forefront that independent directors are ready to be part of a board that has previously experienced/reported fraud,” said Nikhil Bedi, partner and leader, Forensic, Financial Advisory, DTTILLP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/corporate-frauds-to-rise-in-next-2-years-deloitte-iod/article37118599.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||PSU banks may get more capital in Q4||The Centre is likely to pump capital in public sector banks during the last quarter of the current financial year to meet the regulatory requirements. The government, in Budget 2021-22, made an allocation of Rs. 20,000 crore for capital infusion in the state-owned banks. The capital position of banks would be reviewed in the next quarter, and depending on the requirement, the infusion will be made to meet the regulatory needs. Going forward, sources said, the rise in stressed assets would determine capital requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/psu-banks-may-get-more-capital-in-q4/article37118597.ece
22 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Realty sector sees demand revival: CII-JLL||Despite COVID-19 related challenges, the Indian real estate sector is seeing demand revival, a report by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and JLL said. “The pandemic did halt much of the industry’s growth, however there are lots of green shoots emerging and transforming the future of all asset classes with multi-fold opportunities,” Radha Dhir, chairperson, CII Realty & Infrastructure Conclave, and CEO & Country Head, India, JLL, said in the report. “Commercial real estate has shown resiliency in 2021 and is likely to gain momentum in 2022. The office segment will remain the centre of the work ecosystem,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/realty-sector-sees-demand-revival-cii-jll/article37118601.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet okays implementing PM GatiShakti||A week after PM Narendra Modi unveiled the PM GatiShakti National Master Plan for improving multi-modal connectivity projects’ outcomes, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on Thursday approved an institutional framework for its implementation. “The PM GatiShakti masterplan has been approved with a three-tier monitoring system led by an empowered group of secretaries headed by the Cabinet Secretary,” Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said after the meeting of the Cabinet and the CCEA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cabinet-okays-implementing-pm-gatishakti/article37118604.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||TVS Motor Q2 net jumps 29% to Rs. 234 crore||TVS Motor Company on Thursday posted a 29.19% increase in consolidated net profit to Rs. 234.37 crore for the second quarter ended September. The company had reported a net profit of Rs. 181.41 crore in the July-September period of the previous fiscal. Revenue from operations rose to Rs. 6,483.42 for the second quarter as compared with Rs. 5,254.36 in the year-earlier period, TVS Motor Company said in a regulatory filing. For the six months ended September 30, the company posted a consolidated net profit of Rs. 219.65 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-q2-net-jumps-29-to-rs-234-crore/article37118609.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amazon Prime membership to get 50% costlier||Amazon is set to increase the price of the annual membership of its Prime programme in India by 50% to Rs. 1499. Monthly and a quarterly fee of Prime membership, which offers users access to Amazon Prime Video and one-day delivery on millions of items on the e-commerce platform, is also being increased. “The price of Prime memberships in IN [India] is being revised from Rs. 999 to Rs. 1,499 [annual plan], Rs. 329 to Rs. 459 [3-month plan], and Rs. 129 to Rs. 179 [monthly plan],” an Amazon spokesperson said. The company spokesperson added that company will announce the exact date of the price change at a later time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-prime-membership-to-get-50-costlier/article37118610.ece
22 October 2021||MUMBAI,||L&T to be carbon neutral by 2040||L&T said it will achieve carbon neutrality by 2040, ahead of Paris Agreement’s deadline of 2050, and water neutrality by 2035.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lt-to-be-carbon-neutral-by-2040/article37118600.ece
22 October 2021||Coimbatore,||Continental GT 650 to make its debut||With sporting events resuming, JK Tyre is hosting its 24th edition of the FMSCI National Racing Championship at the Kari Motor Speedway here this weekend. Interestingly, the event will mark the entry of the Royal Enfield Continental GT Cup. Built on Royal Enfield’s most capable racing motorcycle, the Continental GT 650 will further add weight and thrill to the whole show. The Continental GT Cup is India’s first retro racing format aimed at building accessible entry into track racing for new entrants as well as experienced racers. The first ever season has seen an overwhelming response from enthusiasts across the country. From a list of 300 aspirants, 100 racers were shortlisted and invited to showcase their talent for the selections held here earlier this week. And, a final grid of 18 riders were identified for the weekend event. Close competition The qualifying rounds indicated a close competition. Topping the time charts in the category was Anfal Akdhar (Thrissur). He clocked 1:23.126 and proved to the rest what he is capable of along with other well-known riders like Anish Damodara Shetty. However, it was Lani Zena Fernandez (Puducherry) who took the track by storm. Raivat Dhar of Jammu, made it to the final grid.The qualifying selection round was conducted under professional guidance and safety controls. The entire grid was within 2.75s of each other on the timing sheet, which shows the level of competence, skill and quality of talent that has made the grid. With a well-known brand like Royal Enfield to be part of the JK Tyre event, which spreads over four rounds comprising eight races, the season will be watched with utmost interest. The four-wheeler category will witness the FLGB4 cars. These cars designed at home have withstood the test of time and given drivers ample chance to showcase their skills. This time around, it’s a full grid with 26 cars in fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/continental-gt-650-to-make-its-debut/article37119265.ece
22 October 2021||HOBART,||Amazing to watch our bowlers dominate, says Smriti Mandhana||Though the series was lost, opener Smriti Mandhana feels the Indian women’s cricket team gained quite a lot from its recent tour of Australia, the biggest positive being the lion-hearted performances of the bowlers in the multi-format rubber. India lost the series 5-11 after going down in the white-ball leg and drawing the lone Test. Lot of positives “We had a lot of positives. Everyone did well, especially the bowling. It was one department where we were way better than the Aussies, which is a huge thing for the team,” Smriti said during a Clubhouse session on 10 years of Red Bull Campus Cricket during which its first-ever women’s edition was announced. “To come to Australia and outplay their bowlers and outplay their pacers was so amazing to watch. The way Jhulan di (Goswami), Pooja (Vastrakar) and Renuka (Singh) and Shikha di (Pandey) bowled in the T20 format... It was amazing to watch our bowlers dominate the Australian batters, that was the biggest positive.” Smriti, who had one of her best away series where she scored 86 in an ODI followed by a majestic 127, her first century in Tests, and then a 52 in the final T20I, added that had rain not played spoilsport, the series could have gone India’s way. “If results would have gone in a different way it would have been even more better for India. Rain played spoiltsport in the Test and the first T20I in which we were in a very good position to win. “Maybe things would have been different if there was no rain,” Smriti, who is currently playing for Sydney Thunder in the Women’s Big Bash League, said. The 25-year-old added the team is working on improving its batting depth and the recent performances by the lower middle order is testament to that. “It is a conscious effort to have batting depth, especially in T20 and ODI format because in white-ball cricket we might lose a few wickets and it shouldn’t always be top heavy. We should have a lot of contributors. “Our lower middle order is contributing a lot and has done amazingly well in the recent series. Jhulan di finished the match for us in the third ODI. It showed we are all working very hard on batting.” Multi-format series The limited overs vice-captain backed the idea of multi-format series. “I’m absolutely in love with this multi-format series. I think it gives substance to all the matches we play, whether it is three ODIs, one Test and three T20Is. “Sometimes you lose two matches and think the series is lost, but in multi-format series you go in every match thinking there are two points to gain.” India, which was in a good position to win, drew its first day-night Test against Australia which was curtailed due to rain. “We just love playing red ball cricket and now with the pink ball. It will be cool to have a lot more of Tests, especially multi-format series. It will also give a lot of substance to the only Test match because it has four points,” Smriti said. Indian had also played a Test against England during the summer. “It was a good experience of playing one in England and one here. New challenge “Day-night was a new challenge for all of us, we really didn’t get time to practice with the pink ball. We got only two days before the match. I never thought I’d get a chance to play with the pink ball. The experience under lights in whites was a dream come true.”  We just love playing red ball cricket and now with the pink ball. It will be cool to have a lot more of Tests, especially multi-format series||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/amazing-to-watch-our-bowlers-dominate-says-smriti-mandhana/article37119045.ece
22 October 2021||MUSCAT,||Scotland creates history, makes it to Super 12s||Scotland reached the T20 World Cup second round for the first time with a thumping eight-wicket win over Oman on Thursday. The Scots comfortably chased down their target of 123 with 18 balls to spare to register their third win in three matches in qualifying. Captain Kyle Coetzer top-scored for Scotland with 41 off 28 balls with three sixes and two fours despite taking a nasty blow on his hand. Richie Berrington finished the game with a huge six and remained unbeaten on 31. Matthew Cross (26) was Berrington’s partner as the Scots crossed the finish line. Scotland will go into Group 2 of the Super 12s alongside Afghanistan, India, New Zealand, Pakistan and the runner-up from qualifying Group A - likely to be either Ireland or Namibia. “This is an opportunity for Scotland to test themselves against the best,” said Coetzer. “There's a real togetherness among our squad, through thick and thin. “The group we were in was a mighty tough group so the next one will be tougher. We will go into every game full of hope and belief that we can win more games,” he added. “What a day for Scottish cricket, the boys are buzzing,” said seamer Josh Davey, who took three for 25 and was named Man-of-the-Match.  The scores: Oman 122 in 20 overs (Aqib Ilyas 37, Zeeshan Maqsood 34, Josh Dave 3/25, Michael Leask 2/13,Safyaan Sharif 2/25) lost to Scotland 123/2 in 17 overs (Kyle Coetzer 41, Richie Berrington 31 n.o.).   Scotland won by eight wickets with three overs to spare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/scotland-creates-history-qualifies-for-main-draw/article37119011.ece
22 October 2021||Geneva,||Ronaldo caps classic Manchester United comeback||Cristiano Ronaldo’s late winning goal capped a classic Manchester United comeback win in the Champions League. In a less chaotic manner, Bayern Munich and Juventus also recorded typical trademark wins to top their groups with three straight victories and no goals conceded. Trailing 2-0 at halftime at home against Atalanta, with Paul Pogba left on the bench, United’s wild season under manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer appeared ready to derail with last place in the group beckoning. Ronaldo put the club back on top, 3-2, in the 81st minute after goals from Marcus Rashford and Harry Maguire to deliver a second straight come-from-behind win at Old Trafford in the competition. Bayern routed Benfica 4-0 with late goals including one from Robert Lewandowski after standout saves by Manuel Neuer in the Lisbon stadium where it won the 2020 title 14 months ago. It was an efficient 1-0 win for Juventus at Zenit St. Petersburg thanks to an 86th-minute goal by Dejan Kulusevski. Defending champion Chelsea also cruised to a 4-0 win, against Malmo, but lost strikers Romelu Lukaku and Timo Werner to injuries. Salzburg was the other group leader in action, beating Wolfsburg 3-1 with goals from the kind of young forwards the Austrian champion excels in nurturing then trading on. Teenage Germany forward Karim Adeyemi scored early before 21-year-old Switzerland winger Noah Okafor scored twice in the second half. Barcelona finally got a win, 1-0 against Dynamo Kyiv, to end some unwanted historic streaks for the club and stay in contact in the group led by Bayern. Villarreal, which was beaten by Ronaldo’s stoppage-time winning goal three weeks ago, won 4-1 against Young Boys to lift the Europa League champion from last to second in the group. A 0-0 draw between Lille and Sevilla dragged down the average goals to three per game with 24 in total one day after a 35-goal rush in the eight games Tuesday.  The results: Group E: Barcelona 1 (Pique 36) bt Dynamo Kiev 0; Benfica 0 lost to Bayern Munich 4 (Sane 70, 85, Everton 80-og, Lewandowski 82).   Group F: Manchester United 3 (Rashford 53, Maguire 75, Ronaldo 81) bt Atalanta 2 (Pasalic 15, Demiral 29); Young Boys 1 (Elia 77) lost to Villarreal 4 (Pino 6, G. Moreno 16, A. Moreno 89, Chukwueze 90+2).   Group G: Salzburg 3 (Adeyemi 3, Okafor 65, 77) bt Wolfsburg 1 (Nmecha 15); Lille 0 drew with Sevilla 0.   Group H: Chelsea 4 (Christensen 9, Jorginho 21-pen, 57-pen, Havertz 48) bt Malmo 0; Zenit St. Petersburg 0 lost to Juventus 1 (Kulusevski 86) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ronaldo-caps-classic-manchester-united-comeback/article37119005.ece
22 October 2021||Sharjah,||Ireland and Nambia in battle for survival||Their future in the tournament at stake, Namibia and Ireland will look to put their best foot forward when they clash in a Group A game here on Friday. With Sri Lanka already through to the Super 12s stage and the Netherlands out of the equation, the winner of Friday’s clash will become the second side to advance. Ireland will hope for a better display with the bat. The Irish made short work of the Dutch in their campaign-opener, but failed to cope against the formidable Sri Lankan attack. Pacers Curtis Campher (four wickets), Joshua Little (five) and Mark Adair (five) have done well and Ireland will be counting on them again. Namibia will be high on confidence having completed its highest successful T20I chase for a maiden World Cup win on Wednesday against the Netherlands. Chief contributor Having been bowled out for 96 in their opener, the Namibian batters did well to overhaul the target of 165 with one over to spare against the Netherlands. The chief contributor with the bat was David Wiese, who displayed his sensational power-hitting skills. With openers Stephan Baard and Zane Green failing in the two games so far, Wiese alongside skipper Gerhard Erasmus and Craig Williams will need to shoulder the responsibility of putting runs.  Match starts at 3.30 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ireland-and-nambia-in-battle-for-survival/article37119010.ece
22 October 2021||Sharjah,||Sri Lanka looks to get its act together||A Super 12 spot secured, Sri Lanka’s struggling top-order batters will look to utilise their final Group A league game to get back into form in the match against the Netherlands here on Friday. Sri Lanka beat Namibia and Ireland to make it to the tournament proper, but the lack of form of Kusal Perera and Dinesh Chandimal is still a worry. Playing without the pressure of having to qualify should help the batters even as the bowlers have shaped up well. The pacers — Chamika Karunaratne and Dushmantha Chameera — have shown control and leg-spinner Wanindu Hasaranga has also been in his element. Hasaranga has not only contributed with the ball but with the bat as well, scoring a fiery 71 against Ireland on Wednesday. Making a lethal combination with him is off-spinner Maheesh Theekshana. The Netherlands, on the other hand, has still not looked good enough for top flight competition. The bowlers’ inexperience was evident when they let Namibia’s David Wiese snatch the match from them on Wednesday. Batting has also been a big let down with only opener Max O’Dowd making an impression. Ryan ten Doeschate’s form has hurt them the most. The Dutch would have something to cheer about before they leave the UAE if they at least put up a good fight.  Match starts at 7.30 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sri-lanka-looks-to-get-its-act-together/article37119013.ece
22 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sharath underlines his class, emerges champion||Showing glimpses of his class, Sharath Kamal stopped a resurgent Soumyajit Ghosh to win the UTT National-ranking table tennis title on Thursday. In the presence of Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, Sharath changed gears at will during his 6-11, 11-5, 11-2, 11-7, 6-11, 9-11, 11-6 victory over a fellow former National champion. In the women’s title-match, featuring two first-time finalists, Prapti Sen fought back thrice from deficit to overcome her good friend Swastika Ghosh 4-11, 11-8, 9-11, 11-6, 8-11, 11-9, 15-13 at Punchkula’s Devi Lal Stadium. Though the men’s title-clash went the distance, Sharath never looked in serious danger of losing even after Soumyajit battled back from 1-3 to draw level. After Soumyajit won the sixth set after being 0-5 down, it was Sharath who moved from 0-2 to 8-2 in the decider to ensure there was no more drama. “I was surprised by the sharpness of some of Ghosh’s shots,” acknowledged Sharath as he looked back at the final. Good workout “This was good practice for me ahead of the events in Tunisia and Slovenia. Must admit, I have not been in great mind-space after what transpired following the Tokyo Games. But I surprised myself with the way I dealt with the challenges here.” Sharath’s first ranking title since the 2016 South Zone event at Visakhapatnam fetched him Rs. 84,000. Soumyajit, who said he was playing at almost 90% of his form of early 2018, gained Rs. 42,000. Prapti was richer by Rs. 72,000 and Swastika collected Rs. 36,000.  The results:   Men: Final: Sharath Kamal bt Soumyajit Ghosh 6-11, 11-5, 11-2, 11-7, 6-11, 9-11, 11-6.   Semifinals: Sharath bt Harmeet Desai 11-8, 8-11, 4-11; 7-11, 11-4, 11-9, 12-10; Soumyajit bt Manav Thakkar 14-16, 11-5, 11-6, 13-11, 6-11, 9-11, 14-12.   Women: Final: Prapti Sen bt Swastika Ghosh 4-11, 11-8, 9-11, 11-6, 8-11, 11-9, 15-13;   Semifinals: Prapti bt Takeme Sarkar 15-13, 6-11, 11-9, 11-9, 12-10; Swastika bt Anusha Kutumbale 11-9, 12-10, 11-7, 11-6 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-kamal-underlines-his-class-to-triumph/article37119016.ece
22 October 2021||Odense (Denmark,||Sindhu enters the quarterfinals||P.V. Sindhu reached the quarterfinals of the Denmark Open Super 1000 tournament, after overcoming Busanan Ongbamrungphan of Thailand 21-16, 12-21, 21-15 in 67 minutes, here on Thursday. In men’s singles, K. Srikanth bowed out after losing his round of 16 match to Japan’s Kento Momota 21-23, 9-21. It was curtains for the mixed doubles pair of Dhruv Kapila and N. Sikki Reddy as it went down fighting against Tang Chun Man and Tse Ying Suet of Chinese Taipei 17-21, 21-19, 11-21.  The results:   Men: Kento Momota (Jpn) bt K. Srikanth 23-21, 21-9.   Women: P.V. Sindhu bt Busanan Ongbamrungphan (Tha) 21-16, 12-21, 21-15.   Mixed doubles: Tang Chun Man & Tse Ying Suet (Tpe) bt Dhruv Kapila & N. Sikki Reddy 21-17, 19-21, 21-11 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-enters-the-quarterfinals/article37119001.ece
22 October 2021||HISAR,||Jamuna, Nikhat advance in style||World Championships medallist Jamuna Boro and Asian medallist Nikhat Zareen returned to action in style by recording comprehensive wins in their respective first round matches in the National women’s boxing championships at the St. Joseph’s International School here on Thursday. Jamuna defeated Jyothi Valla of Andhra Pradesh in a 54kg bout when the referee stopped the contest in the first round. Nikhat also secured an identical verdict in her favour in a 52kg bout against Siya Walke of Goa. In an edge-of-the-seat thriller, Madhya Pradesh’s Anjali Sharma beat Tamil Nadu’s V. Vinodhini 3-2 in a 52kg contest.  Important results:   50kg: Nikita Kumari (Bih) bt Nikitha Baby (Ker) 4-1, Komal (Pun) bt Sonia Gauni (Utk) 5-0, Hemlata (Del) bt Mantasaha Kumari (Asm) 4-0.   52kg: Himani Pant (Utk) bt Poonam (Raj) 4-0, Manju Basumatary (Asm) bt Tanuja Kumari (HP) RSC-R3, Nikhat Zareen (Tel) bt Siya Walke (Goa) RSC-R1, Anjali Sharma (MP) bt V.Vinodhini (TN) 3-2.   54kg: Gayatri Kasnyal (Utk) bt Poonaima Rajput (MP) 4-1, Jamuna Boro (Asm) bt Jyothi Valla (AP) RSC-R1, Renu (Har) bt Arshi Khanam (Raj) 3-2, Siksha (RSPB) bt Sinsha R.K. (Ker) RSC-R2.   57kg: Radha Patidar (MP) bt Khushbun Hussain (Mah) 5-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jamuna-nikhat-advance-in-style/article37119260.ece
22 October 2021||Mumbai,||Anupama wins, Amee second||Tamil Nadu’s Anupama Ramachandran and Madhya Pradesh’s Amee Kamani clinched the first and second positions in the women’s (1st leg) round-robin league of the GSC World Snooker Qualifiers. Both Anupama and Amee finished with five wins each, but the former, with a slender frame difference (frames won 17, frames lost 7) of 10 as compared to Amee’s frames difference (FW 15, FL 6) of 9, grabbed the pole position, a media release issued here on Thursday stated. In the final round of matches, India No. 4 Anupama Ramachandran defeated Delhi’s Keerath Bhandaal 3-1 (57-23, 73-30, 45-63 and 59-10), while India No. 2 Ameewith a fine effort of 64 points in the second frame, scored a confidence-boosting 3-0 win against national champion Vidya Pillai. Vidya and Varsha Sanjeev of Tamil Nadu, with 4 wins to their credit, were placed third and fourth respectively. In the men’s competition, ace cueist Pankaj Advani (PSPB) stamped his authority with a classy 4-1 win against national champion Aditya Mehta (PSPB) in the final round-robin match. Advani constructed an 84 points break in the third frame and cantered to a 72-58 (66-23, 55-45, 94(84)-26, 30-68) victory to finish unbeaten in the 7-player league. Aditya and India No. 3 Laxman Rawat (PSPB), having suffered two defeats each, claimed the second and third positions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anupama-wins-amee-second/article37119266.ece
22 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Apeksha on the double, clinches two golds||Maharashtra’s Apeksha Fernandes won two golds, one of them with a new National record, on the third day of the sub-junior and junior National aquatic championships at the Basavanagudi Aquatic Centre on Thursday. Apeksha added to her gold in 200m IM on day one. She set a new record in girls’ Group I 50m breaststroke, winning in 34.44s to better her own mark recorded in the heats. Apeksha took the 200m butterfly gold in 2:21.63s for her second yellow metal of the day. Ridhima, Dhinidhi shine Karnataka’s Ridhima Veerendra Kumar set another record, this time in 50m backstroke for Group II girls, clocking 29.94s to erase Maana Patel’s mark of 30.37s from 2014. Fellow swimmer Dhinidhi Desinghu continued her good run, clocking 2:33.36 to win the 200m IM for Group III girls and rewriting Vania Kapoor’s record of 2:37.99 set in 2013. Elsewhere, Yadesh Babu (Group I, boys) broke the National record in 50m breaststroke in the heats by coming home in 29.99s, but could only manage fourth place in the final. Gujarat’s Aryan Panchal produced the other record-breaking performance of the day, in 200m butterfly for Group I boys. He won in 2:03.52s, bettering Supriya Mondal’s record of 2:03.63s from 2014.  The results:   Boys: Group I: 1500m freestyle: Aneesh S. Gowda (Kar), 16:07.97; 50m backstroke: Utkarsh Santosh Patil (Kar), 27.87; 50m breaststroke: Meet Makhija (Mah), 30.04; 200m butterfly: Aryan Panchal (Guj), 2:03.52 (NMR; OR: 2:03.63, Supriya Mondal (Ben), 2014).   Group II: 400m freestyle: Pavan Dhananjaya (Kar), 4:25.93; 50m breaststroke: Krish Jain (Har), 29.12; 200m breaststroke: Krish Sukumar (Kar), 2:32.54; Group III: 50m freestyle: Akshaj Thakuria (Kar), 29.08; 200m IM: M.S. Nitheesh (TN), 2:33.20; Group IV: 50m breaststroke: Tirthankar Mondal (Ben), 40.52; 100m butterfly: Sharan Sridhara (Kar), 1:14.47; Group V: 50m breaststroke: Jas Singh (Kar), 42.18; 100m butterfly: P. Monish Naidu (TN), 1:19.59.   Girls: Group I: 50m backstroke: Nina Venkatesh (Kar), 30.89; 50m breaststroke: Apeksha Fernandes (Mah), 34.44 (NMR; OR: 34.57, Apeksha, 2021); 200m butterfly: Apeksha, 2:21.63; Group II: 400m freestyle: Hashika Ramachandra (Kar), 4:41.65; 50m backstroke: Ridhima Veerendra Kumar (Kar), 29.94 (NMR; OR: 30.37, Maana Patel (Guj), 2014); 200m breaststroke: A.K. Lineysha (Kar), 2:44.27.   Group III: 50m freestyle: Tanishi Gupta (Kar), 28.93; 200m IM: Dhinidhi Desinghu (Kar), 2:33.36 (NMR; OR: 2:37.99, Vania Kapoor (Kar), 2013); Group IV: 50m breaststroke: Zeal Malani (Mah), 42.61; 100m butterfly: Anwesha Khanikar (Asm), 1:18.53.   Group V: 50m breaststroke: Adriza Chetia (Asm) 41.41; 100m butterfly: Janani Venkadeswaraperumal (Kar), 1:27.89.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/apeksha-on-the-double-clinches-two-golds/article37119269.ece
22 October 2021||LAUSANNE (Switzerland),||Polyanskiy banned for three years||In the first formal disqualification of a Tokyo Olympics athlete for doping, Russian Igor Polyanskiy has been banned for three years, World Triathlon said on Thursday. Polyanskiy admitted doping with EPO, an endurance boosting hormone, ahead of the Olympics and is banned until during the 2024 Paris Games. World Triathlon added Polyanskiy did not dispute his positive test in a sample taken at a training camp in Vladivostock, Russia, five days before he began competing in Tokyo. The positive test was notified after he placed 43rd in the men’s race and helped the Russian Olympic Committee quartet finish 14th in the mixed relay. He was 31st in the men’s event at the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics. He and the Russia team were disqualified and their Tokyo results annulled, World Triathlon said. Because the 31-year-old Polyanskiy admitted the charge, he got a one-year reduction from the potential four-year sanction by a World Triathlon tribunal. He is cleared to compete again on Aug. 10, 2024, one day before the Paris closing ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/polyanskiy-banned-for-three-years/article37119259.ece
22 October 2021||Moscow,||Bopanna & Qureshi lose in quarterfinals||Rohan Bopanna and Aisam-Ul-Haq Qureshi of Pakistan lost 7-6(4), 5-7, [10-8] to Ilya Ivashka and Pedro Martinez in the doubles quarterfinals of the $779,515 ATP tennis tournament here on Thursday.  The results: $779,515 ATP, Moscow, Russia: Quarterfinals: Ilya Ivashka (Blr) & Pedro Martinez (Esp) bt Aisam-Ul-Haq Qureshi (Pak) & Rohan Bopanna 7-6(4), 5-7, [10-8].   €44,820 Challenger, Losinj, Croatia: Quarterfinals: Victor Vlad Cornea (Rou) & Ergi Kirkin (Tur) bt Geoffrey Blancaneaux (Fra) & Arjun Kadhe 6-3, 1-6, [10-4]; Jamie Cerretani (USA) & Fabian Fallert (Ger) bt Anirudh Chandrasekar & Vijay Sundar Prashanth 7-5, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Doha, Qatar: First round: Radu Florin Macovei (Rou) bt Tushar Madan 6-1, 7-6(4); Digvijay Pratap Singh bt Abdulhamid Mubarak (Kuw) 6-1, 6-1; Aleksandre Bakshi (Geo) bt Anurag Agarwal 6-0, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF, Monastir, Tunisia: Men: First round: Louis Tessa (Fra) bt Sidharth Rawat 6-3, 6-3.   Women: Second round: Jenniver Luikham bt Astrid Cirotte (Fra) 6-4, 3-6, 6-4.   $25,000 ITF women, Seville, Spain: Quarterfinals: Diane Parry (Fra) & You Xiaodi (Chn) bt Sapfo Sakellaridi (Gre) & Sathwika Sama 6-2, 6-4.   $25,000 ITF women, Hamburg, Germany: Second round: Mallaurie Noel (Fra) bt Zeel Desai 6-3, 6-4. Doubles: Quarterfinals: Olivia Gadecki (Aus) & Sada Nahimana (Bdi) bt Isabelle Haverlag (Ned) & Karman Kaur Thandi 6-4, 6-4; First round: Himari Sato (Jpn) & Yue Yuan (Chn) w/o Ioana Loredana Rosca (Rou) & Prarthana Thombare; Isabelle Haverlag & Karman Kaur bt Anna Popescu (GBr) & Chiara Scholl (USA) 1-6, 6-4, [11-9].   $15,000 ITF women, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Second round: Ho Ching Wu (Hkg) bt Shreya Tatavarthy 6-2, 6-1; First round: Sandra Samir (Egy) bt Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-1, 6-2; Shreya Tatavarhty bt Anastasiya Apalikhina (Rus) 6-1, 7-6(3) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-qureshi-lose-in-quarterfinals/article37119272.ece
22 October 2021||Dusseldorf,||Can Wolfsburg get out of its rut?||Wolfsburg is Germany’s auto-making capital. Its football team is stuck in reverse gear. Wolfsburg started the season with four consecutive wins to go to the top of the Bundesliga. After that, it slowed to a dead stop. It’s been seven games without a win since Sept. 14 in Germany and the Champions League, and new coach Mark van Bommel’s honeymoon period is well and truly over. Losing to Salzburg 3-1 in the Champions League on Wednesday showed how far Wolfsburg has unraveled since beating the odds to qualify for the league last season under Oliver Glasner. Glasner’s team was built on a bulletproof defence allowing a physically imposing but somewhat limited attack to grind out one-goal wins. Wolfsburg still doesn’t score many goals — averaging one per game this season — but that once-imposing defence is leaking goals, with eight conceded in the last three games alone. When Van Bommel was hired, his fearsome reputation from his time as a midfielder with Bayern Munich overshadowed any particular coaching achievement. His next chance to turn things around comes on Saturday when Wolfsburg hosts Freiburg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/can-wolfsburg-get-out-of-its-rut/article37119234.ece
22 October 2021||Austin,||Verstappen pushing Hamilton all the way this season||Red Bull’s Max Verstappen, like most of the F1 drivers in the paddock, has been on a whirlwind tour of the country ahead of this weekend’s U.S. Grand Prix at the Circuit of the Americas here. The globetrotting series is back in North America for the first time since 2019 because the pandemic cancelled stops last year in Austin, Mexico City and Montreal. Now back in Texas for a ninth time, F1 has a new championship leader in Verstappen who may be somewhat unknown to the American fanbase.  The 24-year-old is at last having a breakout season — he has a career-high seven wins so far — and is pushing Lewis Hamilton more than the seven-time champion has been challenged in quite some time. Verstappen has a six-point lead over Hamilton with six races remaining in a tense title fight that has tilted back and forth all season. This season’s push by Verstappen has given F1 one of its most enthralling title races in years. And yet Verstappen is a bit of a mystery in the U.S. However, his focus only on what’s turned into a career-best season.  “I’m just a normal guy and I grew up in a small town,” Verstappen said. “All these things, the drama, it’s just not for me. It’s not my world.” And yet this title fight with Hamilton has been packed with drama. The two have crashed twice so far this season. In their dust-up at Monza, the two raced wheel-to-wheel, made contact and Verstappen’s car sailed over Hamilton and landed on the Mercedes. The edge In Austin, he’ll be racing a circuit where Hamilton has a decided advantage. Hamilton has won five of the eight races held on the permanent road course, while Verstappen in five visits has scored two podiums and only finished ahead of Hamilton once, in 2018 when he edged Hamilton for second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verstappen-pushing-hamilton-all-the-way-this-season/article37119235.ece
22 October 2021||Barcelona,||Barcelona hosts Real for a Messi-less Clasico||Barcelona faces another test of its post-Messi era when Real Madrid visits Camp Nou on an action-packed Sunday that also features a clash between the Spanish league leader and its defending champion. The first clasico since Lionel Messi left for Paris will inevitably overshadow an equally enticing visit by Real Sociedad to Atletico Madrid. The Basque Country side with its sleek attacking style leads the league, while the titleholder boasts the deepest attack in the competition. The visit by Madrid will close a three-game home stretch for Barcelona that coach Ronald Koeman called crucial to getting his team back on the winning path after a poor start to the season left him under intense pressure. Newcomer Memphis Depay leads Barcelona this season with four goals, but no other player has scored more than twice. Compare that to Madrid, which has got 11 goals from Karim Benzema and seven more from Vinicius Junior. Koeman made one exception to the criticism of his forwards; he said the team could not demand too much from 18-year-old Ansu Fati. The teenager, who recently returned from a 10-month injury layoff, signed a contract extension until 2027 after the Dynamo match that included a buyout clause of €1 billion. Atletico midfielder Marcos Llorente will miss the Sociedad match because of injury. Even so, Diego Simeone should have his pick of Griezmann, Luis Suarez, Joao Felix, Yannick Carrasco, Angel Correa, and Thomas Lemar to play up front. Atletico trails Sociedad by three points and with an extra game in hand. Since losing its season opener, Sociedad has gone undefeated in 10 matches across all competitions. Sociedad will be led up front by Aleksander Isak with Spain striker Mikel Oyarzabal injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barcelona-hosts-real-for-a-messi-less-clasico/article37119237.ece
22 October 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Stokes and Archer’s absence a big shame: Roy||Swashbuckling England opener Jason Roy on Thursday said missing the superstar duo of Ben Stokes and Jofra Archer for the T20 World Cup is a “big shame” but insisted England has enough depth in its squad to go the distance. Talismanic all-rounder Stokes, who played a key role in England’s maiden ODI World Cup triumph in 2019, is away on an indefinite leave for his mental well-being and to recover from a finger injury. Archer has ruled himself out after the recurrence of a stress fracture in his right elbow. “I wouldn’t say it’s a problem — it’s a shame. It’s definitely a shame, not having those two here but you know they’re on the same path of getting fit and healthy again,” Roy said during a virtual interaction here. England has another injury setback in all-rounder Sam Curran who has been ruled out with a lower-back injury, sustained during the IPL. His brother Tom Curran has been drafted into the England squad as his replacement, while Reece Topley has also been added as a travelling reserve. Roy, however, said it’s not a worry as the team has enough in its bench strength to go all the way. “You look at our depth of the squad now, the players we have, and it’s still extremely impressive. The boys showed that they have done well in the warm up game, and they’ve been training extremely hard, so I don’t think it’s a worry at all.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stokes-and-archers-absence-a-big-shame-roy/article37119239.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nationals back with big purse||The Fenesta National tennis championship will revive the big purse for champions with the current edition scheduled from Monday. The DCM Shriram group, associated with promoting tennis for more than 25 years, had stayed away from the game during the pandemic, keeping the safety of the players in mind. The All India Tennis Association (AITA) had conducted the 2020 edition of the National championship in March this year, albeit with a truncated prize purse. Arjun Kadhe and Shrivalli Bhamidipaty, who had won the men’s and women’s titles then at the Tennis Project in Gurugram, won about Rs. 60,000. The Fenesta National champions are all set to get Rs. 3,00,000 prize each for the men’s and women’s events, with the total prize money amounting to about Rs. 21,55,000. Lot of action With a series of men’s and women’s ITF events scheduled to be held in Indore, Delhi, Gurugram, Bengaluru, Solapur, Pune and Navi Mumbai with a total prize purse of $125,000 in November and December, the National championship will signal the start of a lot of tennis action in the country. With the leading players busy in the international circuit around the world, Niki Poonacha, Ishaque Eqbal, Nitin Kumar Sinha, Paras Dahiya, Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam, Dalwinder Singh, Prithvi Sekhar, S.D. Prajwal Dev, V.M. Ranjeet will be the leading men’s players in the National championship. In the women’s section, Zeel Desai, Vaidehi Chaudhari, Sravya Shivani, Soha Sadiq, Sai Samhitha, Shrivalli Bhamidipaty, Mihika Yadav, Arthi Muniyan, Prerna Bhambri will be the main players. While the runners-up will pocket Rs. 2 lakh, it will be only Rs. 40,000 for the semifinalists. It will make the players strive to excel and reach the finals. The qualifying events, starting on Saturday, will have a 64-player draw for men and 48 for women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fenesta-nationals-back-with-big-purse/article37119047.ece
22 October 2021||DUBAI,||Warner will be the key for Australia: Brett Lee||Former Australia pacer Brett Lee said David Warner’s confidence may have taken a beating after the harsh treatment meted out to him by Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH) in the IPL but asserted that the opener is a big match player who will be the key to the team’s success in T20 World Cup.  Lee exhorted the Aussies to change the statistics since they are yet to win a T20 World title. Australia begins its campaign against South Africa on Saturday. “We have not had a lot of success in this format — it is time we changed it and we do have a side that can take it all the way. It obviously won’t be easy, especially when you look at how strong teams like England, India and New Zealand are,” Lee wrote in a column for the ICC. “But this Australian side is loaded with talent and for me, the key is David Warner. I would like to say he is saving the runs for the games that count after his IPL form! He was really harshly dealt with there and it may have knocked some confidence out of him but he thrives on the big stage.”  Lee, though, did not have any doubt that India will be the title favourite and expects batter K.L. Rahul and pacer Mohammed Shami to come out on top. “I think India are probably the favourites with their top four or five batters and their bowling attack. I have K.L. Rahul down as the top run-scorer in the tournament and Mohammed Shami to be the leading wicket-taker, purely going on the last few months. If they deliver and India has one of the leading scorers and wicket-takers, it’s a good start.”   Lee also believed that teams from the Indian sub-continent should excel in these conditions.  I would like to say Warner is saving the runs for the games that count after his IPL form||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warner-will-be-the-key-for-australia-brett-lee/article37119241.ece
22 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC comes down hard on HCA||A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana orally observed on Thursday that politics has taken precedence over cricket, the gentleman’s game. The three-judge Bench was hearing a case concerning the row in the Hyderabad Cricket Association led by former Indian skipper Mohd. Azharuddin over the appointment of retired apex court judge, Justice Deepak Verma, as ombudsman. “Cricket has gone somewhere else and politics has taken precedence,” the Bench said. The Bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, even mulled the idea of appointing a former Supreme Court or High Court judge to order an inquiry into the issue. “We will appoint some good people, some retired judges of the Supreme Court or the High Court to conduct an inquiry. Let both the groups (of HCA) go... t hey will have to go out of the management. This needs a CBI inquiry. They want to drag even the judiciary,” the court said. In a brief hearing, the CJI-led Bench was irked over the turn of events in the HCA and even asked senior advocate Rakesh Khanna, appearing for one of the factions of the HCA, to convey to Justice Verma not to pass any order as his tenure has already come to an end. “Please tell Justice Verma not to pass any orders. His tenure has come to end and despite that, he is passing orders... we will list it soon. Let us find out some names (of former judges for conducting the inquiry),” the Bench said. The top court was hearing two appeals filed by the Hyderabad Cricket Association and its member ‘Budding Star Cricket Club’ against an order of the Telangana High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sc-comes-down-hard-on-hca/article37119595.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||BCCI eyes a multi-billion-dollar bonanza from IPL broadcast rights||The BCCI is set for a windfall of gigantic proportions as the IPL broadcast rights (TV and digital) could fetch up to $5 billion for the next five-year cycle (2023-2027) while some high-profile interest is being seen in the bidding process for the two new teams. The current five-year rights for IPL (2018-22) are with Star India, but the valuation — Rs. 16,347.50 crore ($2.55 billion) — could more than double and reach $5 billion, it is learnt. Interest from the US A leading US-based company had shown interest in bidding for IPL media rights, according to a BCCI source. Also, with 10 teams playing from 2022, the number of matches will go up to 74 and the valuation will increase consequently. The BCCI normally categorises broadcast deals into TV, digital (streaming), radio and social media, but it allowed separate as well as composite bids last time. The BCCI is set to release the Tender invitation in Dubai on October 25, the day the two new IPL teams will also be announced. The BCCI is expecting robust bidding from both Star India and also Sony, which would like to get the IPL property back in its bouquet. The source also confirmed that the Glazer family, which owns Manchester United, has picked up a bid document for a new franchise. Whether it’s interested in a new franchise or in buying stakes in an existing team is not known, the source revealed. The BCCI is expecting Rs. 7,000-10,000 crore from the team bidding. Some of the major players who could be bidding for new teams are the Adani Group, Kotak, pharma majors Aurobindo and Torrent group, and the RP-Sanjiv Goenka group. The BCCI is allowing consortiums and companies with annual turnover of over Rs. 3,000 crore to bid for teams. The base price for new IPL teams is pegged at Rs. 2000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-eyes-a-multi-billion-dollar-bonanza-from-ipl-broadcast-rights/article37119007.ece
22 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala State Olympic Games in February||The Kerala Olympic Association (KOA) will conduct the Kerala State Olympic Games, a multidisciplinary event, early next year to provide competition and exposure to sportspersons in the State. The KOA has tentatively decided to conduct the State Olympic Games in the last week of February. The inaugural Kerala State Olympic Games will feature 23 disciplines and Thiruvananthapuram will be the host. As a precursor to the State Olympic Games, District Olympic Games will held from December to January in all the 14 districts and the winners of the district event will qualify for the main event. Rejuvenate sports “The KOA decided to hold a multidisciplinary event of this magnitude to rejuvenate sports in the State which has been effected by the pandemic. The event will provide much needed competition and exposure to sportspersons in the State. “We decided to include only those disciplines in which the district associations are active in at least 10 districts. Based on this criteria we zeroed in on 23 disciplines. “We have held preliminary meeting with the State associations and everyone has responded positively to the idea. State capital to play host “Thiruvananthapuram was chosen as the venue as it has enough stadiums and facilities to host a multi discipline event of this magnitude. Of course the Games will follow the COVID-19 protocol and based on its success, the Kerala State Olympic Games could become an annual affair,'' said S. Rajiv, the secretary of KOA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-state-olympic-games-in-february/article37119262.ece
22 October 2021||Kochi,||State seniors in Kollam||The Kerala State senior badminton championships, in singles and doubles, will be held at the Sports City, Mukhathala in Kollam, from November 27 to 30. Manjeri will host the State sub-junior championships (under-11, 13 and under-15) at the Dreamz Badminton Academy from November 13 to 16. The State junior championships (under-17 and under-19) will be at the Fr. Joseph Paikada CMI indoor stadium at Devagiri in Kozhikode from November 20 to 23. The top 16 finishers in singles in the State-ranking tournaments, which will be held in October and November, and the top two in singles from each district will only be allowed in the State championships. In doubles, the top eight pairs from the ranking tournaments and one pair from each district will play the State championships. There will be no restrictions on the number of entries in the State ranking tournaments and they will be held at Alappuzha (juniors, Oct. 20-Nov.2), Kottayam (sub-juniors, Nov. 6-10) and Thodupuzha in Idukki (seniors, Nov. 6-9).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-seniors-in-kollam/article37119267.ece
22 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Karthikeya wins 300m, long jump titles||R. Karthikeya of Maharshi Vidya Mandir bagged a double, winning the boys under-10 300m and long jump titles in the Hyderabad district sub-junior athletics meet at the G.M.C. Balayogi Stadium here on Wednesday.  The results:   Boys: U-10, 100m: 1. Shreyanshekaksha (Chirec) 16.37, 2. Sudi Reddy Aarush Reddy (Times School), 3. Pradyumna (Infinity). 300m: 1. R. Karthikeya (Maharishi Vidya Mandir) 52.10, 2. L. Shashank (MNR), 3. C. Wankhede (Vidyanjali).   Long Jump: 1. R. Karthikeya (Maharishi Vidya Mandir) 3.12m, 2. Shreyansh (Chirec), 3. Sharan (Army School).   U-12, 100m: K. Shounak (Phoenix) 15.07, 2. G. Rithvik Reddy (Chirec), 3. R. Raj Singh (Army School). 400m: 1. N. Ravi Raj (Rainbow Concept) 1:24.20, 2. Divyansh Mishra (Global), 3. K. Sai V. Reddy (Bhavan’s). 600m: 1. M. Sai Harsha (St. Joseph) 1:56.00, 2. Nigam Kushagra (Kennedy Global), 3. Sai Vedic (Mt. Litera). Long Jump: 1. Sai Vedic (Mount Litera) 3.66, 2. G. Nandeshwar (GHS, Nayabazar), 3. M. Surya Teja (Vidyanjali).   U-14, 400m: 1. R. Yugender (SW, Uppal) 56.50, 2. R. Goverdhan (GHS, Adigutta), 3. Y. Hitesh (Sport School).   Girls: U-10, 100m: 1. Hamsini Mane (Mount Litera) 16.00, 2. Aanya Prashanti Nichani (Chirec), 3. Aditi Sri (Mount Litera).   300m: 1. Shreya Mahaveer (Nalanda) 56.50, 2. Jona Shiju (Oasis), 3. V. Vaishnavi (Howard). Long jump: 1. Aanya Prashanti Nichani (Chirec) 3.25m, 2. Hamsini Mane (Mount Litera), 3. Aditi Sri (Mount Litera).   U-12, 100 m: 1. B.V.A. Aashrata (Phoenix) 16.95, 2. J. Swastik Yadav (Army), 3. Kavya (Krishnaveni). Shot put: 1. Johanna Shiju (Oasis) 5.59m, 2. Jona (Oasis), 3. J. Swastika (Army School).   U-14, 400m: 1. Preetika Reddy (Sri Ram School) 1:05.50, 2. Sanjana (Chirec), 3. Mridhini Ravi Shankar (Vista).   U-10, 100m: 1. Hamsini Mane (Mount Litera) 16.00, 2. Aanya Prashanti Nichani (Chirec), 3. Aditi Sri (Mount Litera).   300m: 1. Shreya Mahaveer (Nalanda) 56.50, 2. Jona Shiju (Oasis), 3. V. Vaishnavi (Howard). Long jump: 1. Aanya Prashanti Nichani (Chirec) 3.25m, 2. Hamsini Mane (Mount Litera), 3. Aditi Sri (Mount Litera) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karthikeya-wins-300m-long-jump-titles/article37119594.ece
22 October 2021||MUSCAT,||Shakib dazzles as Bangladesh advances||Shakib Al Hasan smashed 46 and then had bowling figures of four for 9 as Bangladesh crushed Papua New Guinea (PNG) by 84 runs to qualify for the Super 12 stage of the Twenty20 World Cup on Thursday. Chasing 182 for victory, PNG was bowled out for 97 in 19.3 overs to hand Bangladesh its second straight win of round one here. PNG exited with three losses. Bangladesh bounced back from an opening loss to register two convincing wins and the last one would have been bigger had it not been for Kiplin Doriga’s unbeaten 46. PNG was never in the chase after losing the openers, including skipper Assad Vala, for six, and Shakib’s introduction made matters worse for the debutants. Equalling Afridi The left-arm spinner struck twice in his first over and then took two more to equal Pakistan’s Shahid Afridi as the leading wicket-taker with 39 scalps in T20’s showpiece event. Earlier, skipper Mahmudullah, who hit 50, and Shakib helped Bangladesh to 181 for seven after it elected to bat. Early setback Bangladesh lost Mohammad Naim for nought on the second ball of the innings and the wickets of Liton Das, for 29, and Mushfiqur Rahim, for five, as it slipped to 72 for three. The left-handed Shakib, who had starred with bat and ball in the team’s previous win over Oman, hit back in baking hot conditions with three sixes in his 47-ball knock. Mahmudullah kept up the charge and raced to his 50 with three sixes and three fours in 27 balls. Highest total Afif Hossain’s quickfire 21 and an unbeaten 19 off 6 balls from Mohammad Saifuddin, who finished the innings with two sixes and a four, fired Bangladesh to the highest total of the tournament so far.  The scores:   Bangladesh 181/7 in 20 overs (Shakib Al Hasan 46, Mahmudullah 50, Kabua Morea 2/26, Damien Ravu 2/40, Vala 2/26) bt Papua New Guinea 182 (Kiplin Doriga 46 n.o., Mohd. Saifuddin 2/21, Taskin Ahmed 2/12, Shakib 4/9). Bangladesh won by 84 runs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shakib-dazzles-as-bangladesh-makes-the-super-12/article37119003.ece
22 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||KSEB begins well||KSEB prevailed over Sree Kerala Varma College 54-47 in the opening match of the SBL all-Kerala basketball tournament at the St. Joseph’s floodlit court here on Thursday. Jishnu G.Nair top scored for the winner while Abhinandhu (10) led the scoring for the college side. Dream Squad crushed LOBO 42-7 in the tournament for local clubs   The results: KSEB 54 (Jishnu G. Nair 15, Rahul Sarath 11) bt Sree Kerala Varma College 47 ( Abhinandhu 10); Dream Squad 42 ( Sharath 14) bt LOBO 7 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kseb-begins-well/article37119273.ece
22 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Sportsmen in semifinals||Attili Suribabu Memorial Football Club scored a 3-0 win over Polamamba in the quarterfinal of the Attili Suribabu and Attili Pydikonda memorial football tournament for seniors here on Wednesday. In another quarterfinal, Sportsmen Football Club notched up a 2-0 win over SRKFC.  The results:   Quarterfinals: ASMFC 3 (Pradeep, Ramakrishna, Prasad) bt Polamamba 0; Sportsmen FC 2 (Dhana, Chinna) bt SRKFC 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sportsmen-in-semifinals/article37119327.ece
22 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Harmeet Singh in final||Harmeet Singh beat top seed Dilip Mohanty 6-2, 6-3 in the over-35 semifinals of the ITF seniors tennis tournament at the Roots Academy in Zirakpur, on Thursday. In the final, Harmeet will play fourth seed Raj Kumar.  The results (semifinals):   Men: Over-35: Harmeet Singh bt Dilip Mohanty 6-2, 6-3; Raj Kumar bt Varun Makkar 6-4, 6-0; Over-45: Yogesh Kohli bt S Venkataraman 6-3, 6-2; Monty Roy bt Shiyam Jagat 6-1, 6-3; Over-55: Nirmal Kumar Ranjan bt Sanjai Kumar 6-3, 3-1 (retired):Ajeet Bhardwaj bt Kuldeep Singh 6-2, 6-0; Over-65: Narender Jamweja bt Mridulal Barkakoti 6-4, 6-1; Murthati Suresh bt Vinayak Gujrathi 6-3, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harmeet-singh-in-final/article37119313.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||Yuvan Garg enters final||Qualifier Yuvaan Garg beat top seed Parth Tyagi 6-4, 2-6, 6-3 to set up a title clash against second seed Anay Pandey in the AITA talent series under-12 tennis tournament on the clay courts of the Dhyan Chand National Stadium on Thursday. In the girls final, Shivangi Alsisaria will play Kaavya Kala.  The results (semifinals): Under-12 boys: Yuvaan Garg bt Parth Tyagi 6-4, 2-6, 6-3; Anay Pandey bt Aditya Nain 7-6(3), 7-5; Under-12 girls: Shivangi Alsisaria bt Shweta 6-1, 6-1; Kaavya Kala bt Eklaviyaa Grover 6-4, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yuvan-garg-enters-final/article37119569.ece
22 October 2021||Stockholm,||Indian women lose to Swedish club||The Indian women’s football team conceded an own goal after twice frittering away its lead to suffer a 3-2 defeat to Swedish top-tier side Hammarby IF in a friendly match, here on Wednesday. Indumathi put India ahead with a 30th-minute strike, but it was cancelled six minutes later by Nina Jakobsson. In fast-paced action, Manisa Panna restored India’s lead when she found the net in the 40th minute but the home side neutralised through Amanda Sundstrom (52 min). With around 12 minutes of regulation time left on the clock, Jakobsson played a part in the winner, which was eventually deemed to have been turned over the line by Ranjana Chanu (own goal). Indumathi gave India the lead on the half-hour mark, when she side-stepped a defender and rounded the ’keeper to fire home. Jakobsson soon equalised. The tide turned once again in India’s favour when a corner by Anju Tamang was headed into the back of the net by Manisa.  Hammarby drew level when Sundstrom headed in a cross.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-women-flatter-to-deceive/article37119263.ece
22 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Shillong to host TT Nationals||Shillong will host the National table tennis championship from January 21 to 29, 2022. The Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) also finalised the schedule of rest of the Nationals and ranking events for the season on Thursday.  The schedule: Dec. 7-13: National-ranking championship at Dehradun; Dec. 20-27: National-ranking championship (South Zone) at Puducherry.   Jan. 3-9, 2022: National-ranking championship (Central Zone) at Indore; Jan. 11-17: National youth (under-13 and under-15) at Indore; Jan. 21-28: National championship at Shillong; Feb. 6-13: National youth (under-17 and under-19) at Thiruvananthapuram .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shillong-to-host-tt-nationals/article37119270.ece
22 October 2021||New Delhi,||EFI starts season with Asiad trials||The Equestrian Federation of India (EFI) on Thursday said it has started the 2021-22 season with eventing, dressage and show jumping selection trials for 19th Asian Games, to be held in Hangzhou, China next year. The first phase of the season has started in Jaipur and Bengaluru on Wednesday and will conclude next Tuesday. Col Jaiveer Singh, secretary general at EFI said, “It is indeed an honour for EFI to host an FEI events of such magnitude wherein over 75 prominent riders and 100 plus horses are likely to participate and compete in a fierce contest for the podium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/efi-starts-season-with-asiad-trials/article37119136.ece
22 October 2021||KARUR:,||Clean sweep by Vellore lifters||Vellore made a clean sweep of all four team titles in the State junior and youth weightlifting championships, organised by the Karur District Weightlifting Association, recently.  The winners:   Junior: Men: 55kg: K.R. Lokesh (Vellore, snatch 100kg, clean and jerk 128kg, total 228kg); 61kg: C. Dinesh (Che, 106, 137, 243); 67kg: K. Guru Kannan (Tut, 109, 144, 253); 73kg: R. Raj Kumar (Vel, 115, 150, 265); 81kg: V. Tamilselvan (Rpt, 120, 140, 260); 89kg: B. Harish (Vel, 121, 152, 273); 96kg: R. Ramkumar (Vel, 140, 170, 310); 102kg: R. Sujeeth (Rpt, 115, 140, 255); 109kg: K. Manojkumar (Vel, 124, 150, 274); +109kg: K. Akash Keerthi (Mdu, 100, 130, 230).   Team championship: 1. Vellore (256 points), 2. Thoothukudi (207).   Women: 45kg: E. Priyanka (Vel, 53, 69, 122); 49kg: K. Gayathri (Ary, 53, 63, 116); 55kg: L. Russia (Vel, 57, 76, 133); 59kg: T.M. Keerthana (Rpt, 72, 88, 160); 64kg: D. Kavitha (Vel, 73, 93, 166); 71kg: S. Aananya (Che, 63, 77, 140); 76kg: R. Jaisri (Vel, 61, 75, 136); 81kg: R. Rupavarshini (Che, 65, 73, 138); +87kg: A. Mohana Priya (Vel, 69, 85, 154).   Team championship: 1. Vellore (254), 2. Ariyalur (156).   Youth: Boys: 49kg: R. Praveen (Nmkl, 76, 96, 172); 55kg: M. Yuvaraj (Tut, 89, 107, 196); 61kg: P. Dhanush (Vel, 101, 125, 226); 67kg: K. Guru Kannan; 73kg: A. Padmanathan (Cbe, 102, 115, 217); 81kg: V. Anbu Sanjay (Vel, 117, 137, 254); 89kg: L. Kishore (Rpt, 105, 132, 237); 96kg: S. Kishor Kumar (Vel, 100, 130, 230); 102kg: M. Rakesh (Vel, 123, 153, 276); +102kg: R. Jeenathkumar (Rpt, 91, 110, 201).   Team championship: 1. Vellore (250), 2. Thoothukudi (228).   Girls: 40kg: A. Poshika (Vel, 48, 60, 108); 45kg: E. Priyanka; 49kg: A. Sivashankari (Rpt, 41, 53, 94); 55kg: L. Russia; 59kg: T.M. Keerthana.   64kg: M. Monila (Rpt, 65, 82, 147); 71kg: S. Aananya; 76kg: R. Jaisri; 81kg: K. Oviya (Vel, 70, 89, 159); +81kg: J. Priyadharsini (Vel, 55, 70, 125).   Team championship: 1. Vellore (261), 2. Nagapattinam (150) .      Jegan Willis (Coimbatore) went down fighting 2-3 to Thirumurugan (Erode) in a Group E clash of the TNBSA district qualifying ranking snooker tournament at the S.S. Sports Academy here on Thursday. However, Willis came back strongly to defeat Manoharan of Salem 3-0.  The results: Group E: Thirumurugan (Erd) bt Jegan Willis (Cbe) 3-2; Manoharan (Slm) bt Arun (Slm) 3-2; Jegan Willis bt Manoharan 3-0.   Group G: Ramesh (Cbe) bt Yogesh (Slm) 3-1; Nizam (Tpr) bt Shakeel (Cbe) 3-0; Shakeel bt Haneesh (Erd) 3-1.   Group H: Santhosh (Cbe) bt Jegan (Cbe) 3-2; Surendran (Erd) bt Jegan 3-1; Santhosh bt Rahul 3-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/clean-sweep-by-vellore-lifters/article37119357.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Lord Rama’s regret||Kulasekhara Azhvar, in his Thillai Thiruchitrakootam pasurams, expresses his longing to see Rama. He sings of the events of Rama’s story, for Lord Govindaraja of Thillai has enabled him to view events that took place in a distant yuga. Serving the Lord was more appealing to Kulasekhara Azhvar than being king, said Akkarakkani Srinidhi in a discourse. He bows before those who serve the Lord. Rama is not One who savours the pomp and glory of kingship. The Lord too values service done to Him, however little it might be. Rama refers to a tree as Sriman Vanaspati. Sriman is a prefix used out of regard for people. How did a tree merit such an honour? Because, when Rama and Sita were in the forest, the tree had afforded them shelter. Lord Rama also saw kingship as a burden. When Vibhishana sought refuge at Rama’s feet, there was one worry that Rama had. He was not too keen on ruling in Ayodhya. That being the case, what if Vibhishana, after the slaying of Ravana, requested Him to take over Lanka as well? Taking charge of Ayodhya was unavoidable. But why add to His responsibilities? So went Rama’s thoughts. And, so when He promised the kingdom of Lanka to Vibhishana and it was accepted, Rama heaved a sigh of relief. It was as if He had been relieved of a fever. But there was one fever that abided with Him. Rama had requested Indra to bring back to life every monkey killed in the Lankan battle, and as Rama saw monkeys coming back to life, and was happy about it, His thoughts went to Jatayu. He Himself had performed the last rites for Jatayu. Had He not done so, and brought Jatayu to battlefield, then Jatayu too would have been revived by Indra. Now that chance was lost, and this was a regret Rama carried with Him always.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/lord-ramas-regret/article37118964.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 07:50 IST,||Sudoku — October 22, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-22-2021/article37119722.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Six peaks and a father’s wish||Rohit Rao starts gasping for air. He is 6000 metres above sea level. The Dzo Jongo peak (6240 metres) in July while still accessible, is not easily scalable. Rohit made it to the base camp at 5,800 metres after six  days of ascent. He is tantalisingly close to the top. As the air gets thinner, the summit seems to get farther. It is dark, too. He left base camp at around 9.30 pm; it is about 2 am now. Or maybe 3 am. After a point, he does not know what time it is, where he is or where he is going. His trek leader is concerned and advises Rohit to return. The latter, however, is on a mission. He wants to display a photo atop the mountain. He convinces the leader and himself that he can push further. Rohit trudges on. At 6,150 metres, he needs to climb a near-vertical slope to get to the mountain. Looking down would bring in a rush of panic. A slip could prove fatal. The following 90 meters was the biggest challenge of his life. Rohit, however, overcomes it. At 6,240 metres above sea level, he displays a photo of his father, Srinivas Rao Madasu, an Arjuna Award-winning para-athlete who passed away in March after battling cancer. “It is the most wonderful experience of his life,” Rohit recalls the trek he did three months ago.  Father's motivation  Srinivas Rao represented India in the Paralympics, world championships, and Asian meets in badminton, shooting, table tennis, fencing, and weightlifting. He also participated in various wheelchair marathons. Srinivas won a gold medal in the 1996 para world shooting championships in London. In 2002, he won gold in the world para-badminton championship. The following year he received the Arjuna Award. His enthusiasm for sports, however, hardly rubbed off on his eldest  son. “I was lazy. I hated getting up early. My father tried to enrol me in badminton and table tennis when I was in fourth grade. I was not interested,” says Rohit, who seemed to have a disposition for mountains even then. When his parents scolded him, he would threaten them, saying, “I will leave home and go to the Himalayas.” Much later in life, he remembered these juvenile ultimatums when he got interested in mountaineering. Rohit was working in software by now. He was the son of an accomplished athlete. And, he felt he did not have a single achievement to his name. He wanted his father to be proud of him. In December 2018, he signed up for his first-ever trek to Kedarkantha, a 4115-metre peak in Uttarakhand. He was not sure if he could pull it off. When he scaled the mountain, however, he felt thrilled, proud, and confident. “It gives you a high. When you reach the top, everything looks small. It is as if you are on top of the world.” Rohit was aware of taller peaks. He felt he could conquer them too. So, in 2019, he went for the Pangarchulla peak (about 4500 metres) trek and Stok Kangri (6153 metres). The COVID-19 pandemic paused his expeditions for most of 2020. In December, he scaled Dayara Bugyal (3639 metres). He started 2021 with a trek of Brahmatal (3734 metres) before his Dzo Jongo adventure in August. Mount Everest beckons That will take at least another three years, says Rohit. “You have to increase the height gradually. I am already running and cycling in preparation for scaling greater heights. I am also looking for some financial support in my quest. I will not rest until I get to the top of Everest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/six-peaks-and-a-fathers-wish/article37118836.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Zimmer of hope||“I never thought I would ever get to score for a Bond movie,” laughs Hans Zimmer over a video call from his London home. “Having done The Dark Knight trilogy, which are three movies to you but 12 years of my life to me, I really understand where Daniel [Craig] was with this; he dedicated 16 years of his life to Bond,” he empathises, “Of course, the big difference is I don’t get hurt or injured when I do a Bond film ( laughs ). I wanted to not only do a good score but dig a little deeper and honour the man, the work and all the people who have been working on this for so long.” In a nationally exclusive interview, the American-German composer reminisces on what has been a remarkable year for cinema and himself, with blockbuster feature films Dune and No Time to Die releasing theatrically within a span of two months. Honouring Craig Since the 1980s, Zimmer has worked on more than 150 films, but he always looks at each collaboration like his first. Having helped close the book on Daniel Craig’s tenure as James Bond with No Time To Die while opening audiences to the renewed world of Dune , Zimmer explains, “I suppose what the scores have in common is, there are teams of people working very much together: Steve Mazzaro (score producer for No Time to Die ), Johnny Marr (for No Time to Die ), Dave Fleming (additional music composer for Dune ), Chas Smith (instrument creator) and Lisa Gerrard (vocalist for Dune ) — people who are talented, brave and reckless and will lead you into new directions. I know I am on the right path when I hear someone tell me, ‘this may be the worst idea you’ve ever heard!’( laughs )” He fondly recalls a phone call with The Smiths guitarist, Johnny Marr, after they joined No Time To Die ; the two discussed the need for a guitar in the score that cleverly uses motifs from On Her Majesty’s Secret Service (1969) and other past Bond movies. Marr simply said Bond alone was reason enough — and Zimmer was convinced. Of voices and metals  Dune paved the way for the reunion of Denis Villeneuve, Hans Zimmer and sound designer Max Mangini who had worked on Blade Runner 2049 ; Villeneuve approached Zimmer while they were still working on the 2017 sci-fi film. For Zimmer, coming on board was a no-brainer, given Dune by Frank Herbert is one of his favourite books. The 1984 original film, directed by David Lynch, was scored by American rock band TOTO, but Zimmer neither watched the original, nor the mini series Frank Herbert’s Dune ( 2000), in order to retain the purity of the book he read as a teenager 40-odd years ago. That said, the challenge lay in breathing new life into something Villeneuve and Zimmer know inside-out, to create a provocative and unfamiliar soundscape that is not of this time but is still accessible to audiences across generations. Composing a score of this scale during the pandemic could not have been easy but Zimmer rose to the challenge, working with teams in Australia, Austria, the United States and the UK. He explains, “Rather than even thinking — which I hadn’t anyway — to write a conventional score with an orchestra, one of the things about movies that take place in the galaxy far from here, is we should never hear a conventional orchestra at all. The idea of social distancing got on my nerves so I wanted to bring people together from all different continents as much as possible, to make the music in Dune as universal as possible.” The majority of Dune sees Paul Atreides (Timothée Chalamet) and Lady Jessica (Rebecca Ferguson) in the deserts of Planet Arrakis , so naturally, the sounds of the desert made their way into the score and sound design. “Very often I would say to Lisa [Gerrard, vocalist], ‘Just breathe, make the sound of the wind going through the dunes’ so a lot of sound design is extraordinarily human...” he says, adding with a laugh, “Find every way to torture your best friends till they make the right sounds!” In creating instruments, Zimmer turned to Chas Smith, a sculptor, musician and weldor in Encino, northern California, whom he had approached years ago for Man Of Steel . “His whole house is an instrument, a resonating body; and he makes these instruments out of discarded metal from Boeing that were used to make experimental aircraft and spacecraft.” On being asked how 2021 has treated him so far, the often-jovial composer pauses and seems to get wistful, before responding, “It has been a very special year for me, both of these films were incredibly personal. I have been trying to think for the last few weeks about how my life has been; somehow I am not quite finding an answer. I have been able to work with extraordinary people on extraordinary projects. Both Dune and No Time To Die are vastly meaningful to me because as a teenager, Dune was one of my favourite books and, in one way or another, we have all lived our life with Bond.” No Time To Die is playing in theatres and Dune releases in theatres today.   It has been a very special year for me, both Dune and No Time To Di e were incredibly personal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/zimmer-of-hope/article37118869.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||It all comes full circle||By Parvaaz drummer Sachin Banandur’s estimate, this is the longest that the rock band have gone on an involuntary hiatus. “Before, our breaks would be mostly for a month or so around Christmas time. This is the longest break of 17 months or so,” he says. Among Bengaluru’s most feted bands in recent times for their immersive, intricate songwriting that draws from blues, psychedelic rock, progressive rock and Kashmiri music, Parvaaz not only had their hands tied by the pandemic and the ensuing lockdowns, but also internal imbalance. Guitarist and co-founder Mir Kashif Iqbal exited the band early this year: his statement online mentioned that he was “negotiating” terms of an “amicable settlement” of his departure from Parvaaz in August 2020. Making way While the news spilled into the online realm, Parvaaz found a new member in guitarist Bharath Kashyap, part of indie/folk trio Cinema of Excess as well as singer-composer Aabha Hanjura’s band. With the band members – Banandur, singer-guitarist Khalid Ahamed and bassist Fidel D’Souza – rarely able to meet during the pandemic, they have finally announced their comeback with the multi-city Full Circle tour, which stops by in Bengaluru on October 23. Banandur says this tour is all about “going back” to the sound they love. He adds that it is also their shot at promoting their 2019 album Kun , which had a launch tour set in early 2020 that was called off due to the pandemic. “People had booked tickets for the Kun tour and they are only now getting to see us live. We just realised when a fan pointed out that Kun had its second anniversary of release this month,” Banandur says. For Parvaaz, there are multiple elements on play on their forthcoming six-city tour. They will be back on stage after more than a year and a half, with a new member on stage. “It still hasn’t hit us, but this is what we’ve been missing,” Banandur says about the hectic prep for the tour, which is being put together by event company Bohemian Live, music platform Skillbox and Parvaaz’s management Big Bad Wolf. Familiar state As for Kashyap, he is familiar with both the touring life as well as marathon sets with his other projects. To be a part of a widely acclaimed band like Parvaaz, whom he has also followed for many years, is, however, different. “I am figuring out how to fit in here. It took me a while to understand,” Kashyap says. While some fans may bemoan the exit of a formative force in the band, a sold out show in Bengaluru only means that their diehard followers are still keen to see this new chapter of Parvaaz unfold. Kashyap adds about stepping up, “There is that sense of unfamiliar-ness but at the same time, there’s that excitement of going on stage.” Parvaaz performs on October 23, from 6 pm onwards at Fandom at Gilly’s Redefined, Koramangala.  I am figuring out how to fit in here. It took me a while to understand - Bharath Kashyap||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/it-all-comes-full-circle/article37118866.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Khushbu on ‘Annaatthe’: Rajinikanth sir still remains like a kid on his first day to school||Ask Khushbu if she would have traded off the temple her fans built for her with better roles in films, and she instantly answers. “No,” she says, “I would have definitely preferred the temple. If not for the temple, you wouldn’t be sitting here and asking me questions.” One might have to agree with her. Khushbu the star, is bigger than Khushbu the actress. She was the go-to heroine of the ‘90s. During that decade, she sometimes acted in over 10 films in a single year. After sparkling through the ‘90s, the number of films reduced in the 2000s. Khushbu forayed into television, plunged into politics and had to take care of her children. She hardly appeared on the big screen after 2010. This year though, there will be a change. She will be in the Rajinikanth-starrer Annaathe (she does not want to call it a ‘comeback’ though). Khushbu is also one of the judges in Colors Tamil’s reality show, Dance vs Dance Season 2 . Excerpts from an interview: You have completed four decades in films... It has been a roller-coaster ride, and I think that’s why I loved every bit of it. If not for the ups and downs, I might have easily gotten disinterested.   In this journey, you have been a child artist, a female lead, show host, reality TV judge, producer, politician... which of these roles were your favourite?   Being a mother; that has been my most favourite role. Now, of course, I have become a politician. I had to cut down on films and TV because politics requires a lot of time and attention. And I look forward to being better at it. You’re a judge on a dance reality show now. In the 80s and 90s, almost every Tamil movie had a dance number. It’s not the case now. Do you think dance could slowly fade out of mainstream cinema? Dance in cinema is never going to fade away; it’s part and parcel of cinema. We have had people like Vyjayanthimala ji and Puppy ma (Padmini). The generation just before me had excellent dancers like Jaya Prada, Jayasudha, Sridevi, Sripriya akka . I was a huge fan of Ambika’s dancing. After my generation, there have been a lot of good dancers too. You need to know how to dance; you can’t have two left feet and say ‘I want to be a great actress.’ Yes, maybe in an OTT film, you might not need to dance. But to at least emote on screen, you need to have a sense of rhythm. But do you see dance choreographers retaining their significance in Tamil cinema in this era? Definitely. It’s not just about the dance steps; choreographers know how to take the story forward. They understand the situation of the song, the emotion it tries to convey. A song essentially says a story in four minutes. My husband (Sundar C), for instance, cannot do without someone like Brindha. The same goes for someone like Mani Ratnam. As long as you have cinema, there will be choreographers around. You are going to act with Rajinikanth after a long time in Annaatthe … It’s going to be a fun film. People will get to see the Rajinikanth they always wanted to see. It will be like the Rajinikanth from Annamalai, Arunachalam , Muthu , and Padayappa . That Rajinikanth was missing for a very long time. Meena and I have cute roles to play in it. There are multiple theories on social media on what it would be. But it will be a nice surprise.      Favourite dance numbers Rum Bum Bum (Michael Madana Kama Rajan), Per vachalum Vaikama Ponalum (Michael Madana Kama Rajan), Illavattam Kai Thattum (My Dear Marthandan), Satham Varamal (My Dear Marthandan), Metro Channel (Indhu), Kotta Paakkum Kozhundhu Veththalaiyum (Nattamai), Otha Rooba (Naattu Purapaatu)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/khushbu-on-annaatthe-rajinikanth-sir-still-remains-like-a-kid-on-his-first-day-to-school/article37118833.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Starry, starry plight||Conspiratorial colleagues, a fickle boss, looming deadlines, departmental rivalries — a few chapters in, and one could be forgiven for assuming Divya Anand’s latest book, Written in the Stars, is a workplace romance. However, the Bengaluru-based Anand makes it clear the office is not just a setting for this particular love story; it is where the protagonist comes into her own as a career-driven professional. “I wanted to have these women characters who are ambitious and unabashed about what they want to get out of their career. Ultimately, however close you are with friends at the workplace, everybody is worried about their own promotion and ongoing projects. I wanted to put that out there,” says Anand, who feels that in most office romance novels, ambition gets lost as the focus is on the budding relationship. “The character shouldn’t be so caught up with the romance that she forgoes her promotion. I have seen many women face these struggles and I hope this aspect will resonate with them.” There is another reason Anand made the protagonist a woman — to throw light on some of the challenges women face at the workplace. “Irrespective of the sector, there are people constantly trying to mansplain, manipulate and overlook a woman’s contributions.” “While addressing these issues, I also wanted it to go the ‘comedy-of-errors’ route for a light-hearted reading — something we did not have a lot of during the pandemic.”  Written in the Stars, Anand’s third book, revolves around a product manager frustrated with the decisions of her astrology-app obsessed marketing head. “It is unlikely for those working in tech, to rely on astrological guidance. It got me thinking how easy it would be to manipulate work choices if one had access to personal details.” Set in present day Bengaluru, Written in the Stars highlights some of the best-loved and hated aspects of the city. From hideous traffic, unpredictable weather and a temperamental cab service to pubs, IT hubs and quizzing culture, Anand not only brings out the multi-faceted nature of the city, but also specific areas every true blue Bengalurean would have frequented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/starry-starry-plight/article37118846.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Flying high||‘I feel so free softly locked in your heart It's all the room I need ...my heart took a backseat, I let my mind drive around...’  The above lyrics of ‘Different Kind of High’ could be used to sway a sweetheart, but singer-songwriter Mithun Kiran says they are about his pet passions — music and medicine. “When I wrote ‘Different Kind’ I didn’t want to dictate what the listener felt — I wanted it to be open to interpretation. It was inspired by what great music does for me; it gives me a different kind of high,” says the 22-year-old student of A.J. Institute of Medical Sciences & Research Studies in Mangalore, talking about his third single. “My love for music might not get me anywhere as it is a very competitive field and it is very hard to make it in the industry without backing. I love medicine and it certainly is solid career choice,” says Mithun who hopes to specialise neonatal or neurosurgery someday. Hailing from Mangaluru, Mithun says he hated the piano lessons he began at the age of six. “I guess that is because usually when you start any instrument you are unable to play the music you want to and the constant practice can get to you. It was only in high school when I heard friends play trending pop tunes, I realised I could get there too.” Eventually, Mithun learnt to play the guitar on his own and is a huge John Mayer fan. “I would spend hours on YouTube finding videos on learning to play the guitar. YouTube was my source of inspiration to actually make music,” he says. Though Mithun was always interested in medicine, reading Gifted Hands by American neurosurgeon Dr Ben Carson was a game changer. “I was probably in sixth grade when I read his book and I’ve been wanted to be a surgeon ever since.” However, preparing for the entrance swallowed his time and energy and he had to forego music for two whole years. “Once I got into medical school, I tried to find my way back to music and along the way I discovered music production.” “Vernon Tauro, an independent music producer in Mangalore, helped me bring out my first track ‘Take Me Home’ in February 2020. During the lockdown I learnt a little about music production and co-produced my next single ‘Second Chance’ in February 2021 with Rajath Rao, another independent producer in Mangaluru; it was also a period when I was able to compose a lot of songs.” “Vernon and Rajath jointly produced ‘Different Kind’. I believe music producers don’t get enough credit for a song’s success,” he says. Despite the success of his songs, Mithun says he has no idea of dropping out of medical school. “Since ‘Different Kind’ was released post lockdown, we wanted it to be an upbeat number, everyone could dance to and belt out lyrics.” ‘Different Kind of High’ was launched on September 24 on all streaming platforms and the video was launched on October 19. An animated version of Mithun features in the music video for ‘Different Kind’ conceptualised by his friend, Akash D. Rao, while the cover art was created by Rohin B. Shivaprakash, an artist and medical student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/flying-high/article37118855.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Everything starts on paper||If you have laughed and cried and bitten your nails to the quick binge-watching Raj and D.K.’s The Family Man, some of the credit goes to the writer, Suman Kumar. The Bengaluru-based Suman was born in Chennai and grew up in Andhra. “I came here in 2004 and made it my home,” says Suman, who started off as a software professional. “I felt a complete misfit in the industry.” Suman and D.K. studied together in high school. “We used to write stories as teenagers.” Suman quit his job to become a full time writer, which he says was always his passion. “Those days, you either became an engineer or a doctor and I got a B. Com, to satisfy my parents.” How to get ahead His stint as a copywriter brought Suman no joy. “I was not satisfied writing to sell someone else’s product. That is when I decided to write a book.”  Ranga Half-pants was published in 2016. “The irony was when I sat down to write, I realised how ill-equipped I was to pen anything! So before the book, I wrote a blog and did stand up. I found I was getting better everyday. Writing became an escape from being a cubicle slave. There is nothing wrong with a corporate job, just that the rat race did not make sense to me as I am not a rat. I did not understand corporate designations and protocols. When an ex-boss said I did not have any communication skills, I decided to jump out of that well and dive into writing.” All for one By 2016 Suman was already collaborating extensively with Raj and D.K. “We started scripting together and I learnt how to build a narrative and a character that would connect with the audience on the job. Then The Family Man happened. It was new for three of us as we were looking at a 10-part series, with 45-minute episodes. That was a challenge and we had to write in such a manner that the audience would return for the next episode.” Equal distribution Suman says he did not feel left out when the actors walked away with the accolades. “Writers, DOPs and editors fall under the B-to-B category — business to business. Actors are in the B-to-C (business-to-consumer) category. They are the ones who bring the character to life and present it to the consumer.” Cinema is team work and not a solitary activity like writing, says Suman. “It involves a bunch of creative people, each bringing in their expertise to the table. Actors bring in their perspective to the writing. I was bowled over by Manoj Bajpayee’s approach to the role. He is an institution and took the role to another level by bringing in his expertise. Same with Samantha. None of us had seen her doing such an intense role nor had we seen her doing her own stunts.” The basics The foundation for anything, Suman says, is the writing. “Everything starts on paper.” On how much of himself goes into the characters he creates, Suman says, “It is impossible not to let a bit of you creep into your writing. No matter how careful you are, you end up giving a little bit of yourself to each and every character. It may happen subconsciously, but consciously, I would not want to inflict myself on my reader or audience, because I know me.” The fundamental quest of a writer Suman says is to find an interesting character. “A writer has to keep his eyes and ears open and constantly absorb everything that is happening around him/her. When you say you are a writer, people imagine the act of writing. That, in fact, is the last thing you do. You begin with characters, ideas, narrations, and structuring a story. It is after we have all this in place that writing happens. Sometimes you even think of an idea in your dream. The process of creation is a constant. I spend about six to seven hours every day in the physical act of writing.” Season 3 of The Family Man could be in the Northeast, according to Suman. “Our country is so rich and diverse, there is a lot to explore. India is one country with different worlds and OTT provides a platform to explore regions, cultures and people.” Cinema keeps evolving, says Suman. “Now it is all about binge watching. That itself is an evolution and cinema has broken from the shackles of the large screen and has become device independent. You need to be good enough to break through the visual clutter. That is the biggest challenge as there are so many players here today. It is good, because this is a golden era for content.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/everything-starts-on-paper/article37118826.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Sordid to be staged||Sordid will be staged on October 23 and 24 at Ranga Shankara, JP Nagar. The play, directed by Bala (artistic director, actor, playwright, lighting designer), will be staged by Theatre Nisha. Bala won The Hindu Playwright Award in 2019 for the play. The story revolves around a man named Tukaram, who has three wives, of whom only the first has conjugal rights. The youngest wife, Kali, excels in farming and she is given the chore of fetching water from 15 miles away. That is also the way in which she can ensure that she she gets food and has a roof over her head. That is when Kali realises that water comes at a cost — the cost of her dignity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sordid-to-be-staged/article37118864.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Mum’s the word||While there may be those who are not comfortable playing mother on screen, Archana Jois, who is still in her late 20s pulled it off with great elan in KGF Chapter 1 . Despite sharing the screen with seasoned actors such as Anant Nag, Yash and Nagabharana, Archana made her presence felt. She played Yash’s mother in the film and earned the nickname of “KGF mother” or “Rocky Bhai’s mother”. She has no regrets about playing mom so early in her career. “I am thrilled that I am part of KGF. I was surprised and apprehensive when Prashanth Neel approached me to play the mother of the protagonist. It is thanks to my friend, RJ Pradeepa, who insisted I give the film a shot that I came to be part of KGF. ” Archana will be part of KGF 2 as well . Life post KGF, Archana says, has been good. She has not been bombarded with mother roles, rather she is being wooed with interesting roles. “I come from a typical middle class family and this sudden recognition and adulation was a bit overwhelming.” The young actor is looking forward to the release of Hondisi Bareyiri , directed by Ramenahalli Jagan, where she shares the screen with ‘Gultu’ Naveen. “I play a character named Pallavi, whose journey, from youth to middle-age is covered in the film. She is a mature, independent and an emotionally strong woman. I fell in love with the character. She appealed to me as an actor. It gave me immense satisfaction to play this role. Hondisi Bareyiri and Pallavi are close to my heart. Her motto is to ‘welcome everything that life throws at you with open arms’, which in itself is a huge learning curve for anyone.” Jagan has come up with a profound story, says Archana. “He has made us communicate even in places where there are no dialogues in the film.” Archana is excited about Mute and Nakshe , both of which are in post-production. “They are content-based films and the former is a psychological thriller.” Archana has also acted in a Marathi film, Rajkumar. “It is an adaption of the Kannada film, Bombaygala Love and was made by theatre artistes from Maharashtra. Due to the COVID-19 situation, the film was released on YouTube. Though bad things did happen due to the pandemic, a lot of good also came out of it. Entertainment and cinema changed due to OTT, which has opened up a larger alternative platform for film-makers and artistes.” Archana started her career on the small screen with serials such as Durga and Mahadevi. “I think today the line between the big and the small screen is almost non-existent. Be it a TV serial or a web-series, both are made just like cinema, when it comes to the cast, cinematography and budget. The small screen has also grown in leaps and bounds.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mums-the-word/article37118823.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Joe mixes love and control’||Though the well-read serial killer Joe Goldberg, (Penn Badgley) settles down to domestic bliss with Love Quinn (Victoria Pedretti) and baby Henry in the suburbs in the third season of the Netflix show You , his print avatar, that the show is based on, marches to a different drum. Caroline Kepnes’ You Love Me (Simon & Schuster, Rs. 550), the third book in the series, following You (2014) and Hidden Bodies (2016) sees Joe fed up with cities, moving to Bainbridge Island in the Pacific Northwest. Working as a volunteer at the local library, Joe’s rampaging cognitive dissonance sees him determined to make the librarian, Mary Kay DiMarco, love him. “Joe on screen is different from Joe on the page,” says Kepnes over a video call from Los Angeles. “When I sat down to write You Love Me , I went back to my notes from 2015. I did not want to write a book to respond to the show. I wanted these books to have the integrity and their own world so that the show can also have its own world.” The makers’ goal, the 44-year-old writer says is to make the best TV show they can make. “My goal is to write the best book I can. We have different strategies of doing that. In some ways, it is easier because the Love Quinn in the show is not one I built. At this point, the show is fully in its own direction, and I get to go back to my direction.” In the books, we do not know much about Joe, including how old he is. “I thought he would be in his early 30s. It was part of the blur, where Joe does not tell you how old he is. He does not think of himself as one of us. So he is not going to announce his age. It is part of his ultimate secrecy. I felt with his parents the way they are, it could turn out that he is older or younger than he thinks he is.” That is what is fascinating about the TV show, where an actor, a living person is attached to a part and has an age in real life, Kepnes says. “ You started as a total head trip with every book taking place in Joe’s head. He is in control of what he dishes out. When I am writing, I still go back to reminding myself we do not know what Joe looks like in the book world.” Joe never seems to catch a break because he mixes love and control, says Kepnes. “That is part of his tragedy. Ultimately, it is all about the cage, he wants someone to want to give up their whole life and be with him. I love him trying and that is where I am going with each book.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/joe-mixes-love-and-control/article37118830.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Ranga Shankara celebrates great acts of courage on stage||The Ranga Shankara Theatre Festival begins October 27 and continues till October 31. The festival will feature physical plays and a digital show. The festival will feature Kantha mattu Kantha (Kannada), written and directed by Surendranath S and staged by Sanket; Lockdown (Kannada) written and directed by Abhishek Iyengar and performed by WeMove Theatre group; the Hindi play Jhund , written and directed by Chanakya Vyas; Kaamarupigal (Kannada), directed by Ganesh Mandarthi and staged by Sanchaya and Ujaagar Dramatics Association’s Hunkaro, directed by Mohit Takalkar. Arundhati Nag, Managing Trustee and Artistic Advisor, Ranga Shankara, says she is thrilled to be back. “This is great for theatre practitioners.” The theme of the festival is Staying Alive, says Nag. “We chose the theme because that is what we have been doing the past two years. We have seen the good, the worst, extreme human greed and great acts of courage and sharing during the pandemic. This is what the plays chosen will also speak about. “We invited four theatre groups from Bengaluru, gave them a little bit of funding and asked them to come up with new productions, specifically around our theme for the festival. The plays talk of human resilience, struggle and hope even during despair.” The event will also include a digital showcase, curated by Amitesh Grover. “These presentations were created during the pandemic.” Tickets are available on bookmyshow.com. Call 26592777 or connect with programming@ranga shankara.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ranga-shankara-celebrates-great-acts-of-courage-on-stage/article37118843.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Ciro’s Pizzeria||Basic ingredients and a homely simplicity are the hallmark of pizzas in Italy. Fresh tomatoes, flavourful cheese and olive oil are the staples for a satisfying meal. Using imported ingredients and a wood-fired oven, Ciro of Ciro’s Pizzeria in Bengaluru, replicates Romana and Neapolitan pizzas, with the same flair. Imported meats, Italian recipes and the chance to fashion your own pizza from a wide range of toppings could be the reason why Ciro’s is an option the next time a craving for pizzas strikes. Must try:Croccante, Crocchette di Zucchine Location:Wood Street||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ciros-pizzeria/article37118852.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrating sustainability||Bangalore Creative Circus (BCC) is organising ‘The Sustainability Festival’ on October 23 and 24 on their 20,000 square feet premises mostly made of recycled materials. BCC is a community of artists, scientists, chefs, gardeners among others, who practice and promote a sustainable lifestyle. Launched in 2019, they transformed a 20,000 sq ft warehouse into a demonstration site and community centre. The festival will include a flea and farmer's market, art exhibition, music performances and more.  Visit blrcreativecircus.com/events||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/celebrating-sustainability/article37118862.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Crafted chocolates||The Oberoi, Bengaluru, has come up with a special gift hamper for Deepavali, featuring hand-crafted chocolate pralines, almond butterscotch cakes, cookies and assorted Indian sweets, all made in-house. Call 25585858 or mail restaurants.bengaluru @oberoihotels.com for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/crafted-chocolates/article37118841.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Martinis, brie and samosas||A lick of creamy camembert, followed by a nibble of spicy papdi . Then, dip toasted garlic naan into warm brie. As get-togethers get homier and hosts work on relaxed appetisers, grazing boards are getting increasingly creative, featuring thoughtfully sourced local produce as well as traditional snacks. Though people started experimenting with these in a pre-COVID world, lockdowns and the subsequent surge in home-cooking has breathed new life into this food trend. So when Vedika Ramraj in Bengaluru — tired of whipping up dalgona coffee for guests — wanted to serve a blend of experimental and familiar flavours, she turned to grazing boards. She planned ahead, sourcing Italian cheeses from Vallombrosa Cheese (a cheese-making shop at Gualbert Bhavan in Bengaluru run by monks), picking up savoury bites from her neighbourhood mom-and-pop store, and making her own chutneys. She looked to Instagram and Pinterest for arrangement ideas, and lo and behold, she was a pro. Vedika is not the only one dipping into grazing boards. The trend has made its way into many homes across India, with countless permutations and combinations, as entertaining at home picks up. Always tempted by the satisfying fix of a grazing board, chef Karishma Sakhrani, in Mumbai, explains, “Cheeseboards can be relaxing to put together; and when people come over, they can enjoy it at their own pace, unlike a hot dish.” As the alternative name ‘nibble boards’ suggests, it is key to have smaller elements instead of multi-bite components; you want guests to dip into everything over the course of the get-together. Blogger Kiran A, ofMirchi Tales, says she used to set up cheeseboards for her friends at home in Melbourne, Australia, but found that guests felt too out-of-water to dig in. She explains, “I started by replacing the crackers with pieces of naan, hot chips, papdi and bhel puri work. I’ve also used mango and other chutneys to switch up flavours.” The basic four principles of salt, fat, acid and heat apply to a desi cheeseboard, so permutations and combinations for these spreads are endless. Desi grazing boards shown across social media include methi puri , makhana , chickpeas, kebabs, jeera puffs, khakhra , pickled onions, vadiyalu , chekkalu and mixture. Chef Karishma admits it does seem intimidating at the start — which is why the trend is picking up at a slower pace — but says once you get going, it is simple. And with the wider availability of speciality cheeses and cured meats across India, thanks to platforms such as Meatigo, Gourmaison, The Gourmet Box, Eleftheria Cheese, Living Food Co, Cleaver & Block, Framroze Deli and Black Vanilla Gourmet, you can cherry-pick whatever strikes your fancy. Of these, The Gourmet Box, Gourmaison, Eleftheria Cheese and Black Vanilla Gourmet do custom and set grazing boards. The art of the board Putting together a cheeseboard is also an art experience of sorts, where you juxtapose textures and colours. Start with a neutral and solid board as base, suggests Kiran. Do not feel pressured to choose a very big one because you have to work with all the space. For a more nested and festive look, like that of Graze With Love founded by Delhi-based Ayushi Jain, opt for a tray with higher raised edges in hexagonal or rhombus shapes or, like Hyderabad-based Sonal Goyal’s Grazias Platters, number shapes for milestone birthdays or anniversaries. Pay attention to dimensions. Kiran proposes, “Use a few small bowls of different sizes for things like fruit, loose cheeses and crunchy bites.” Bowls also provide different heights as well as size contrasts; smaller nibbles look good next to a single large block of cheese. For mithai , pick favourites such as barfi , black halwa and kala jamun . By choosing sweet items, the acid will cut through the fatty flavours of cheeses, so diners will feel less full after a few bites. For textural variety, one can also consider dipping sauces; chef Karishma recently launched a range of sauces with Wonder Foods and Farms, including a creamy toum, a fresh garden pesto and a smoked chilli oil that work well with cheeses and Indian crunchy snacks. “Colour variation is also super fun visually, because cheeses and crunchy bites tend to be in beige palettes. So things like green or red grapes and apples and plums are ideal,” says Kiran. Additionally, feel free to brighten up the layout with sprinklings of parsley, dill or edible flowers such as papaya flowers, violas,moringa, lotus or even banana blossoms. ... or just get one delivered If all this feels like a lot of effort, fear not. Inspired by the grazing potential of local spice mixes, more home-run business have popped up, such as Graze With Love in Delhi, Naashitha Nasser’s Platter Mi Amor in Chennai and Grazias Platters in Hyderabad. Most grazing board-makers stick to local orders so that elements retain freshness and stay physically intact. An answer to Delhi’s bustling social scene, Graze With Love averages at 70 to 80 orders per festive month and 40 to 50 orders per regular month. Founder Ayushi says, “For festivals, Graze With Love adapts flavours to suit the occasion; for example, during Holi, we prepped thandai mousse cups.” They have also introduced grazing tables, a rather nascent trend in the country; she recently arranged one for an art show of 150 guests and as per COVID-19 food safety protocol, she arranged two servers on be on hand to eliminate cross-contamination. A younger business, Sonal kicked off Grazias Platters during the lockdowns of 2021, when Hyderabad was slowly waking back up. She sees around 15 local orders a week from clients aged 25 to 40 but as of late, she has seen more clients aged 50-plus wanting to entertain small get-togethers at home. With Deepavali coming up, she is already getting eight to 10 orders of grazing boards a day across the multi-day festival. She is optimistic for other festivals such as Sankranti. You ultimately want maximum impact with minimal effort when making or ordering a desi grazing board. Of course, what you drink with it matters too. Make the most of happy hour with a martini or two, or a palate-cleansing iced tea or lemonade to cut fatty flavours. Bon appetit!  The cheese factor Chef Karishma advises three to five cheeses because it helps to pick each for reason. For something soft and creamy, she suggests goat’s cheese, bocconcini or a burrata ball. For something sharp, try a mature cheddar. Orange cheddar and Gouda are good neutralisers. Making your own flavoured cheese saves money; for example, you can dice up feta and toss it all in olive oil and chilli flakes. Put together a unique cheeseboard, by curating a range of Indian products that boast unique terroir. Chennai’s The Farm offers a Tomme de Semancheri (made from raw cow milk), Himachal’s Himalayan Cheese has a great Garlic Nettle Gouda, Hyderabad’s Sage Farm makes creamy bocconcini and indulgent burrata, Ooty’s Acres Wild makes a great Monterey Jack, Bengaluru’s Begam Victoria has a decent cheddar, Mumbai’s The Spotted Cow Fromagerie makes a luxurious Black Truffle Brie while Chennai’s Käse offers turmeric and pepper crusted feta, as well as a cheddar coated with milagai podi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/martinis-brie-and-samosas/article37118860.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Zimmer of hope||“I never thought I would ever get to score for a Bond movie,” laughs Hans Zimmer over a video call from his London home. “Having done The Dark Knight trilogy, which are three movies to you but 12 years of my life to me, I really understand where Daniel [Craig] was with this; he dedicated 16 years of his life to Bond,” he empathises, “Of course, the big difference is I don’t get hurt or injured when I do a Bond film ( laughs ). I wanted to not only do a good score but dig a little deeper and honour the man, the work and all the people who have been working on this for so long.” In a nationally exclusive interview, the American-German composer reminisces on what has been a remarkable year for cinema and himself, with blockbuster feature films Dune and No Time to Die releasing theatrically within a span of two months. Honouring Craig Since the 1980s, Zimmer has worked on more than 150 films, but he always looks at each collaboration like his first. Having helped close the book on Daniel Craig’s tenure as James Bond with No Time To Die while opening audiences to the renewed world of Dune , Zimmer explains, “I suppose what the scores have in common is, there are teams of people working very much together: Steve Mazzaro (score producer for No Time to Die ), Johnny Marr (for No Time to Die ), Dave Fleming (additional music composer for Dune ), Chas Smith (instrument creator) and Lisa Gerrard (vocalist for Dune ) — people who are talented, brave and reckless and will lead you into new directions. I know I am on the right path when I hear someone tell me, ‘this may be the worst idea you’ve ever heard!’( laughs )” He fondly recalls a phone call with The Smiths guitarist, Johnny Marr, after they joined No Time To Die ; the two discussed the need for a guitar in the score that cleverly uses motifs from On Her Majesty’s Secret Service (1969) and other past Bond movies. Marr simply said Bond alone was reason enough — and Zimmer was convinced. Of voices and metals  Dune paved the way for the reunion of Denis Villeneuve, Hans Zimmer and sound designer Max Mangini who had worked on Blade Runner 2049 ; Villeneuve approached Zimmer while they were still working on the 2017 sci-fi film. For Zimmer, coming on board was a no-brainer, given Dune by Frank Herbert is one of his favourite books. The 1984 original film, directed by David Lynch, was scored by American rock band TOTO, but Zimmer neither watched the original, nor the mini series Frank Herbert’s Dune ( 2000), in order to retain the purity of the book he read as a teenager 40-odd years ago. That said, the challenge lay in breathing new life into something Villeneuve and Zimmer know inside-out, to create a provocative and unfamiliar soundscape that is not of this time but is still accessible to audiences across generations. Composing a score of this scale during the pandemic could not have been easy but Zimmer rose to the challenge, working with teams in Australia, Austria, the United States and the UK. He explains, “Rather than even thinking — which I hadn’t anyway — to write a conventional score with an orchestra, one of the things about movies that take place in the galaxy far from here, is we should never hear a conventional orchestra at all. The idea of social distancing got on my nerves so I wanted to bring people together from all different continents as much as possible, to make the music in Dune as universal as possible.” The majority of Dune sees Paul Atreides (Timothée Chalamet) and Lady Jessica (Rebecca Ferguson) in the deserts of Planet Arrakis , so naturally, the sounds of the desert made their way into the score and sound design. “Very often I would say to Lisa [Gerrard, vocalist], ‘Just breathe, make the sound of the wind going through the dunes’ so a lot of sound design is extraordinarily human...” he says, adding with a laugh, “Find every way to torture your best friends till they make the right sounds!” In creating instruments, Zimmer turned to Chas Smith, a sculptor, musician and weldor in Encino, northern California, whom he had approached years ago for Man Of Steel . “His whole house is an instrument, a resonating body; and he makes these instruments out of discarded metal from Boeing that were used to make experimental aircraft and spacecraft.” On being asked how 2021 has treated him so far, the often-jovial composer pauses and seems to get wistful, before responding, “It has been a very special year for me, both of these films were incredibly personal. I have been trying to think for the last few weeks about how my life has been; somehow I am not quite finding an answer. I have been able to work with extraordinary people on extraordinary projects. Both Dune and No Time To Die are vastly meaningful to me because as a teenager, Dune was one of my favourite books and, in one way or another, we have all lived our life with Bond.” No Time To Die is playing in theatres and Dune releases in theatres today.   It has been a very special year for me, both Dune and No Time To Di e were incredibly personal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/zimmer-of-hope/article37118893.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Khushbu on ‘Annaatthe’: Rajinikanth sir still remains like a kid on his first day to school||Ask Khushbu if she would have traded off the temple her fans built for her for better roles, and she instantly answers “No.” She adds, “I would have definitely preferred the temple. If not for the temple, you wouldn’t be sitting here and asking me questions.” One might have to agree. Khushbu the star is bigger than Khushbu the actress. She was the go-to heroine of the ‘90s. During that decade, she sometimes acted in over 10 films in a single year. After sparkling through the ‘90s, the number of films reduced in the 2000s. Khushbu forayed into television, plunged into politics and had to take care of her children. She hardly appeared on the big screen after 2010. This year though, there will be a change. She will be in the Rajinikanth-starrer Annaathe (she does not want to call it a ‘comeback’ though). Khushbu is also one of the judges in Colors Tamil’s reality show, Dance vs Dance Season 2 . Excerpts from an interview: You have completed four decades in films... It has been a roller-coaster ride, and I think that is why I loved every bit of it. If not for the ups and downs, I might have easily gotten disinterested.   In this journey, you have been a child artist, a female lead, show host, reality TV judge, producer, politician... which was your favourite role?   Being a mother; that has been my most favourite role. Now, of course, I have become a politician. I had to cut down on films and TV because politics requires a lot of time and attention. And I look forward to being better at it. You’re a judge on a dance reality show now. In the ‘80s and ‘90s, almost every Tamil movie had a dance number. It is not the case now. Do you think dance could slowly fade out of mainstream cinema? Dance is never going to fade away; it is part and parcel of cinema. We have had people like Vyjayanthimala ji and Puppy ma (Padmini). The generation just before me had excellent dancers like Jaya Prada, Jayasudha, Sridevi, Sripriya akka . I was a huge fan of Ambika’s dancing. After my generation, there have been a lot of good dancers too. You need to know how to dance; you can’t have two left feet and say ‘I want to be a great actress.’ Yes, maybe in an OTT film, you might not need to dance. But to at least emote on screen, you need to have a sense of rhythm. But do you see dance choreographers retaining their significance in Tamil cinema in this era? Definitely. It is not just about the dance steps; choreographers know how to take the story forward. They understand the situation of the song, the emotion it tries to convey. A song essentially tells a story in four minutes. My husband (Sundar C), for instance, cannot do without someone like Brindha. The same goes for someone like Mani Ratnam. As long as you have cinema, there will be choreographers around.  There are more roles written for women in Tamil cinema now. Is this a better time for actresses?   Yes. We have seen OTT platforms, especially during the pandemic, offering a vast space to make different kinds of films. The competition is really tough. Now, people can watch films from other languages. Malayalam cinema, for instance, is at a different level. We need to keep up with them and give better roles for women. You are going to act with Rajinikanth after a long time in Annaatthe … It is going to be a fun film. People will get to see the Rajinikanth they always wanted to see. It will be like the Rajinikanth from Annamalai, Arunachalam , Muthu , and Padayappa . That Rajinikanth was missing for a very long time. Meena and I have cute roles to play in it. There are multiple theories on social media on what it would be. But it will be a nice surprise.  Annaatthe has a star-studded ensemble cast too. How was the shooting experience? It was wonderful. It felt like the old times, because everybody was on the sets! Nobody was going back to the caravans. Meena and I were holding back a little to talk to Rajini sir, because we were working with him after a long time. But then, he came and sat with us, and grinned, ‘Why are you girls leaving me out?!’ Nothing about him has changed in 28 years. This man still remains like a kid on his first day to school, always eager to learn.  Favourite dance numbers Rum Bum Bum (Michael Madana Kama Rajan), Per vachalum Vaikama Ponalum (Michael Madana Kama Rajan), Illavattam Kai Thattum (My Dear Marthandan), Satham Varamal (My Dear Marthandan), Metro Channel (Indhu), Kotta Paakkum Kozhundhu Veththalaiyum (Nattamai), Otha Rooba (Naattu Purapaatu)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/khushbu-on-annaatthe-rajinikanth-sir-still-remains-like-a-kid-on-his-first-day-to-school/article37118881.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Two wheels and a job||A 100 women auto drivers, proudly dressed in khaki shirts, some teamed with their saris and the rest with salwar kameez, pottus and strings of jasmine  . This scene, at the EA Hotel in Chennai, created a lasting impression on Jai Bharathi, who is riding around the country on a Jawa 42. An architect and an avid biker, Jai set out on the Moving Boundaries campaign on October 11 with a simple aim: that of creating awareness and encouraging women to learn driving to increase their employability. She started the MOWO Foundation (Moving Women Social Initiatives Foundation)  in Hyderabad in 2019 with this goal and has since trained 1,500 women from her city’s self help groups and Government Degree College, in riding bikes and autos, some of whom have used it to earn their livelihood. The Moving Boundaries campaign is being executed by Jai along with Srishti Bakshi, who a couple of years ago, walked from Kanyakumari to Kashmir to raise awareness about violence on women. Srishti met Jai during her walk and the two shared similar ideas about empowering women. In 2020, Srishti became a part of MOWO, where she leads fundraising and collaborations and is handling the back-end work while Jai is on the road. The ride began in Hyderabad, from where Jai rode to Chennai, Kochi, Udupi, Goa. She is currently in Mumbai. The 11,111 kilometres journey, spanning 40 days, will cover Surat, Ahmedabad, Udaipur, Jaipur, Amritsar, Srinagar, Chandigarh, New Delhi, Lucknow, Allahabad, Patna, Guwahati, Kolkata, Ranchi, and Bhubaneshwar. On her quick stop in Chennai, she was pleasantly surprised to see the large turnout of not just women auto drivers but also a few women forklift operators and a COVID-ambulance driver. “Their stories are amazing. Their families are supportive,” says Jai. Some of the women mentioned that when they go for family functions, they wear their uniform and people look at them in awe. If this format is working out so well in Chennai, Jai believes it can and should be replicated in other cities as well. “Through MOWO we also showcase the works of organisations like ANEW in Chennai and Azad Foundation in Kolkata, that are working with women in mobility,” says Jai. “It is important to create awareness on why women need mobility and how it will help them, says Jai. It could be anything: driving to work, dropping their children to school, driving cabs or delivering packages. Having this skill opens them up to many more job opportunities. She recalls an incident from Erode in Tamil Nadu. Jai and her team were riding through the small town during Ayudha pooja when they came across a lady doing puja in a shop. “I noticed there were two TVS XL Champ bikes parked outside the shop. One belonging to the lady and the other to her husband. The lady, a tailor, said she wanted her own two wheeler so she could go out and buy raw materials as and when needed, instead of depending on her husband,” says Jai, pleased at the self-sufficiency of the woman. “When you see a woman on a motorbike, it is inspiring,” says Jai. She adds, “When more women take to the roads and are self dependent, they tend to feel safe.”  For details, log on to movingboundaries.mowo.in   Moving ahead  As part of the Moving Boundaries campaign, the team has a WhatsApp number where one can send a message if they or anyone they know may be interested in learning to drive or wishing to make a career out of driving. All they need to do is type ‘Hi’ and send it to 885016606.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/two-wheels-and-a-job/article37118904.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Café Le Pondicherry||Mobs of determined holidaymakers now arrive in increasingly frequent waves. “We can’t keep up anymore,” chuckles Dilip Kapur, founder of Hidesign. He should know: Dilip runs two of Puducherry’s most popular hotels — The Promenade and heritage hotel, Le Dupleix. And now, he has just launched a café, which he runs with Ruth Sequeira. Appropriately enough for a space that attempts to recapture the glamour of the little French town, it’s called ‘Le Pondicherry.’ “People want a holiday, a little escape. They are looking for that French Pondi, well more French tropics, with space to relax,” he says, “a place with great croissants!” Walking through Casablanca, which was launched in the early ‘90s, he adds, “When we started this, we restored an old French colonial house and opened up the atrium to create this very ‘Pondi’ store. But in a few years, Pondi will become a city and what reason is there for Casablanca to exist.” The answer, he felt, was to create a space for both locals and travellers, so they can relax and recharge. Ruth orders a refreshing cold soup, followed by plates of billowy croissants stuffed with chicken and mango chutney, as she explains how the café is a creative collaboration between friends. While Chennai restaurateur Sandesh Reddy and Auroville’s Daniel Trulson, of Bread & Chocolate, helped the kitchen perfect their croissants, the coffee is customised by Divya Jayashankar of Beachville, and includes a Vietnamese Cold Coffee, a nod to the many Vietnamese that made Pondicherry their home. Fabien Bontems, from Auroville who runs the popular Mason & Co has also done a line of bon bons for the café. As we try wedges of goat cheese and mushroom quiche, with cups of wild forest tea, Ruth explains how delighted they were to find these large-leafed teas foraged by local women in Manipur. “In terms of food, it’s modern French: snacky, with desserts, chocolate and coffee at the heart,” says Dilip. Discussing how he plans to open his ‘Wildfish Bistro’ at the Promenade next, he says, “we aren’t a party town. But what we do have in Pondi and Auroville is — what I think — will soon be some of the finest food on the East Coast.” Casablanca, 165, Mission St, Heritage Town, Puducherry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/caf-le-pondicherry/article37118908.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s brewing? A potful of memory||I look out of the window and enjoy the chilly weather in Udhagamandalam. Inside, Nirmal Raj of Buddies Cafe — Tea Board Tea Room is concentrating on brewing a perfect cup of tea. His newly opened cafe, conveniently located near the scenic Botanical Gardens, is the towns first tea room. It is also the country’s first cafe that is backed by Tea Board India, a Government agency that promotes the cultivation, processing, and trade and export of tea. A tray, with three classic kettles, arrives. Nirmal spoons tea leaves into basket strainers nestled in the pots and sets an hourglass timer. Exactly five minutes later, I am revelling on the calming flavours and relaxing scent of peach tea. The tea room boutique showcases the teas of the Nilgiris, says M. Balaji, executive director of Tea Board India. He adds, “There are many small growers who make speciality teas that reach customers as far as Belgium, Russia and Germany. We identified Nirmal and provided the space under the Tea Board banner to help such small tea growers. We plan to come up with six speciality tea boutiques across Ooty in the next two or three months.” Nirmal works with about 10 small tea growers in the Nilgiris, sourcing white, green, yellow, black and oolong tea from them. The white tea served at Buddies comes from tea bushes grown at pollution-free high altitudes. His objective is to popularise tea drinking as an experience, not just among tourists but also among locals. “Virgin green tea is whole green leaf tea which we source from a farmer who allows biodynamic cultivation without using any pesticides. Baimudan white tea comes from a farmer in Kotagiri, who switched to organic farming.” Other varieties are Nilgiris Long Ging (where leaves are punched in a single line) from a farmer in Coonoor, and Nilgiris Dew Drops, which has leaves rolled like dewdrops. There is also a Yellow tea, with leaves that are steamed and fermented. As I enjoy Peace of Mind, an uplifting cold, rose-tinted beverage made from a blend of blueberry, mint, lime, and vanilla, and black tea, Nirmal explains that cafe stocks over 150 varieties of tea, with prices starting from Rs. 450 and going up to Rs. 21,000 (for one kg). In addition to trying local estates, customers can order brews from around India, and the world. “Our blooming teas from the Northeast — jasmine flowers hand knotted with white tea and guava-flavoured ones are fast sellers,” says Nirmal. The menu also lists South African red bush teas (Rooibos teas), Japanese matcha and Egyptian herbal infusions. “Among artisanal teas, orange pu-ruh is unique as the leaves grow on a tree. The leaves are baked and then hand rolled to lock in the flavours. Laspang tea from China has a unique smoky flavour,” says Nirmal. Buddies Cafe was originally started at Hopes College in Coimbatore in 2012 and later at Peelamedu and Coimbatore Airport. Nirmal moved back to Udhagamandalam when the pandemic stuck. He then launched the tea room in February, last year. This initiative is the outcome of 10 years of hard work, ups and downs in his journey as an entrepreneur, and constant research on tea, experimenting with flavours and blends. But it all began with his father, Daniel Dhanaseelan worked as a manager and taster at government tea estates in the Nilgiris in the 1980s. “We were literally surrounded by tea,” says Nirmal, adding with a smile, “I would nap on gunny sacks filled with leaves. At night, our home would be filled with aromas from the manufacturing units.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/whats-brewing-a-potful-of-memory/article37118885.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Resilient together||Augmented or virtual reality projects, co-productions, tours, exhibitions, art residencies, films, installations... the list is long and possibilities are endless. The British Council’s latest open call looks to spot creative and artistic projects that are born out of collaborations between India and the UK, rooted in arts. On offer are four grants worth a total amount of Rs. 25 million. The programme titled India-UK Together 2022, through these grants, hopes to address common challenges that the arts sector is facing, in a pandemic world, seeped in uncertainty. The inception of it was a way to mark 75 years of India’s independence from colonial rule. Through enabling collaborations, Jonathan Kennedy, director of arts, British Council, India, believes that “we can build programmes in arts, culture and heritage”. The programme also invites those in the arts sector to build networks and create a greater sense of community. Which is why it is called India-UK Together, Kennedy adds, “the key word here is ‘together’.” The open call comes at a pertinent time as COVID-19’s effect on the arts sector has been brutal. “Covid has transformed how we experience our day-to-day lives, how we experience art and to some extent, how we make art. We know that in the past 18 months, the impact of Covid on the creative economy of India and the UK has been challenging. So, there is a sense of togetherness. And innovating digitally and having a global consciousness of not only the pandemic but climate change too, are all part of our shared futures,” says Kennedy. The next season will capture and address these collective challenges. Considering how the arts have pivoted in the past couple of years to adapt and remain resilient, more hybrid and digital projects are expected in the coming season, says Kennedy. “In terms of curation and current grants, our colleagues at British Council in India and the UK, and prominent names in the arts sectors of India and the UK will be reviewing the projects. It is a mix of internal and external evaluation,” he adds. The programme factors in the geopolitical diversity of India and expects to receive proposals from beyond just metropolitan cities. Work across theatre and dance, visual arts, new media, music, film, architecture, design and fashion, literature, and interdisciplinary arts are what they are looking for. Three winning projects will receive grants up to five million rupees each and the fourth project will receive a grant up to one million rupees. Projects will need to be delivered in India between January 2022 and March 2023, with digital or hybrid display for public taking place between September 2022 and March 2023. The winning teams will tour across India and the UK, tentatively in 2022-2023. Arts organisations and their networks, and not individuals, fit the eligibility criteria. “There are already 150 arts organisations that have attended our webinars,” adds Kennedy. On the tour in 2022, he says, “When the season opens, we will start in September which is when the culture season starts in the UK and in August is India’s Independence Day. The public-facing aspect will be held then.”  The last day for submission of proposals is on October 31. For details, visitwww.britishcouncil.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/resilient-together/article37118887.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The weavers return||Sharmishta Das Biswas and four of her fellow weavers from the Nadia district of West Bengal are in Chennai, hoping to sell handloom from their village, at the 24th edition of the Bengal Weavers of Rang Mahal’s annual exhibition.  After an exceptionally challenging couple of years, the weavers did not have enough capital to produce large volumes of handloom saris during lockdown. Therefore, they have brought a limited collection this year. “We have developed starch-free cotton saris. These are woven using phutikaudi yarn, which is ideal for Indian summer. We also have a selection of ahimsa silks, matka jamdani s, and a range of tussar silks,” says Sharmishta, who is also the coordinator for this exhibition. She adds, “All the saris come with different styles of embellishment, such as hand painting, embroidery and cut work. While the cotton saris’ price range starts at Rs. 800, the silks are priced anywhere between Rs. 6,000 and Rs. 15,000.”  The Rang Mahal exhibition is on till November 1, from 10 am to 8 pm at CP Arts Centre, Alwarpet. Call 9883332441.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-weavers-return/article37118895.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Martinis, brie and samosas||A lick of creamy camembert, followed by a nibble of spicy papdi . Then, dip toasted garlic naan into warm brie. As get-togethers get homier and hosts work on relaxed appetisers, grazing boards are getting increasingly creative, featuring thoughtfully sourced local produce as well as traditional snacks. Though people started experimenting with these in a pre-COVID world, lockdowns and the subsequent surge in home-cooking has breathed new life into this food trend. So when Vedika Ramraj in Bengaluru — tired of whipping up dalgona coffee for guests — wanted to serve a blend of experimental and familiar flavours, she turned to grazing boards. She planned ahead, sourcing Italian cheeses from Vallombrosa Cheese (a cheese-making shop at Gualbert Bhavan in Bengaluru run by monks), picking up savoury bites from her neighbourhood mom-and-pop store, and making her own chutneys. She looked to Instagram and Pinterest for arrangement ideas, and lo and behold, she was a pro. Vedika is not the only one dipping into grazing boards. The trend has made its way into many homes across India, with countless permutations and combinations, as entertaining at home picks up. Always tempted by the satisfying fix of a grazing board, chef Karishma Sakhrani, in Mumbai, explains, “Cheeseboards can be relaxing to put together; and when people come over, they can enjoy it at their own pace, unlike a hot dish.” As the alternative name ‘nibble boards’ suggests, it is key to have smaller elements instead of multi-bite components; you want guests to dip into everything over the course of the get-together. Blogger Kiran A, ofMirchi Tales, says she used to set up cheeseboards for her friends at home in Melbourne, Australia, but found that guests felt too out-of-water to dig in. She explains, “I started by replacing the crackers with pieces of naan, hot chips, papdi and bhel puri work. I’ve also used mango and other chutneys to switch up flavours.” The basic four principles of salt, fat, acid and heat apply to a desi cheeseboard, so permutations and combinations for these spreads are endless. Desi grazing boards shown across social media include methi puri , makhana , chickpeas, kebabs, jeera puffs, khakhra , pickled onions, vadiyalu , chekkalu and mixture. Chef Karishma admits it does seem intimidating at the start — which is why the trend is picking up at a slower pace — but says once you get going, it is simple. And with the wider availability of speciality cheeses and cured meats across India, thanks to platforms such as Meatigo, Gourmaison, The Gourmet Box, Eleftheria Cheese, Living Food Co, Cleaver & Block, Framroze Deli and Black Vanilla Gourmet, you can cherry-pick whatever strikes your fancy. Of these, The Gourmet Box, Gourmaison, Eleftheria Cheese and Black Vanilla Gourmet do custom and set grazing boards. The art of the board Putting together a cheeseboard is also an art experience of sorts, where you juxtapose textures and colours. Start with a neutral and solid board as base, suggests Kiran. Do not feel pressured to choose a very big one because you have to work with all the space. For a more nested and festive look, like that of Graze With Love founded by Delhi-based Ayushi Jain, opt for a tray with higher raised edges in hexagonal or rhombus shapes or, like Hyderabad-based Sonal Goyal’s Grazias Platters, number shapes for milestone birthdays or anniversaries. Pay attention to dimensions. Kiran proposes, “Use a few small bowls of different sizes for things like fruit, loose cheeses and crunchy bites.” Bowls also provide different heights as well as size contrasts; smaller nibbles look good next to a single large block of cheese. For mithai , pick favourites such as barfi , black halwa and kala jamun . By choosing sweet items, the acid will cut through the fatty flavours of cheeses, so diners will feel less full after a few bites. For textural variety, one can also consider dipping sauces; chef Karishma recently launched a range of sauces with Wonder Foods and Farms, including a creamy toum, a fresh garden pesto and a smoked chilli oil that work well with cheeses and Indian crunchy snacks. “Colour variation is also super fun visually, because cheeses and crunchy bites tend to be in beige palettes. So things like green or red grapes and apples and plums are ideal,” says Kiran. Additionally, feel free to brighten up the layout with sprinklings of parsley, dill or edible flowers such as papaya flowers, violas,moringa, lotus or even banana blossoms. ... or just get one delivered If all this feels like a lot of effort, fear not. Inspired by the grazing potential of local spice mixes, more home-run business have popped up, such as Graze With Love in Delhi, Naashitha Nasser’s Platter Mi Amor in Chennai and Grazias Platters in Hyderabad. Most grazing board-makers stick to local orders so that elements retain freshness and stay physically intact. An answer to Delhi’s bustling social scene, Graze With Love averages at 70 to 80 orders per festive month and 40 to 50 orders per regular month. Founder Ayushi says, “For festivals, Graze With Love adapts flavours to suit the occasion; for example, during Holi, we prepped thandai mousse cups.” They have also introduced grazing tables, a rather nascent trend in the country; she recently arranged one for an art show of 150 guests and as per COVID-19 food safety protocol, she arranged two servers on be on hand to eliminate cross-contamination. A younger business, Sonal kicked off Grazias Platters during the lockdowns of 2021, when Hyderabad was slowly waking back up. She sees around 15 local orders a week from clients aged 25 to 40 but as of late, she has seen more clients aged 50-plus wanting to entertain small get-togethers at home. With Deepavali coming up, she is already getting eight to 10 orders of grazing boards a day across the multi-day festival. She is optimistic for other festivals such as Sankranti. You ultimately want maximum impact with minimal effort when making or ordering a desi grazing board. Of course, what you drink with it matters too. Make the most of happy hour with a martini or two, or a palate-cleansing iced tea or lemonade to cut fatty flavours. Bon appetit!  The cheese factor Chef Karishma advises three to five cheeses because it helps to pick each for reason. For something soft and creamy, she suggests goat’s cheese, bocconcini or a burrata ball. For something sharp, try a mature cheddar. Orange cheddar and Gouda are good neutralisers. Making your own flavoured cheese saves money; for example, you can dice up feta and toss it all in olive oil and chilli flakes. Put together a unique cheeseboard, by curating a range of Indian products that boast unique terroir. Chennai’s The Farm offers a Tomme de Semancheri (made from raw cow milk), Himachal’s Himalayan Cheese has a great Garlic Nettle Gouda, Hyderabad’s Sage Farm makes creamy bocconcini and indulgent burrata, Ooty’s Acres Wild makes a great Monterey Jack, Bengaluru’s Begam Victoria has a decent cheddar, Mumbai’s The Spotted Cow Fromagerie makes a luxurious Black Truffle Brie while Chennai’s Käse offers turmeric and pepper crusted feta, as well as a cheddar coated with milagai podi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/martinis-brie-and-samosas/article37118889.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Delving into Golu||Uruvakkam is an exhibition that attempts to pair specific Golu dolls with traditional Indian art prints that are believed to have inspired each doll. The exhibit is divided into three sections, ‘Bharat Mata’ that features figurines depicting India’s freedom struggle, ‘Ravi Varma Oleographs’ that looks into the artist’s work and its impact on Golu dolls, and ‘Popular Culture’ that focusses on dolls depicting daily life.   @Kadambari Gallery, DakshinaChitra Museum, Muttukadu, October 23 to November 15      27472603||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/delving-into-golu/article37118892.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Zimmer of hope||“I never thought I would ever get to score for a Bond movie,” laughs Hans Zimmer over a video call from his London home. “Having done The Dark Knight trilogy, which are three movies to you but 12 years of my life to me, I really understand where Daniel [Craig] was with this; he dedicated 16 years of his life to Bond,” he empathises, “Of course, the big difference is I don’t get hurt or injured when I do a Bond film ( laughs ). I wanted to not only do a good score but dig a little deeper and honour the man, the work and all the people who have been working on this for so long.” In a nationally exclusive interview, the American-German composer reminisces on what has been a remarkable year for cinema and himself, with blockbuster feature films Dune and No Time to Die releasing theatrically within a span of two months. Honouring Craig Since the 1980s, Zimmer has worked on more than 150 films, but he always looks at each collaboration like his first. Having helped close the book on Daniel Craig’s tenure as James Bond with No Time To Die while opening audiences to the renewed world of Dune , Zimmer explains, “I suppose what the scores have in common is, there are teams of people working very much together: Steve Mazzaro (score producer for No Time to Die ), Johnny Marr (for No Time to Die ), Dave Fleming (additional music composer for Dune ), Chas Smith (instrument creator) and Lisa Gerrard (vocalist for Dune ) — people who are talented, brave and reckless and will lead you into new directions. I know I am on the right path when I hear someone tell me, ‘this may be the worst idea you’ve ever heard!’( laughs )” He fondly recalls a phone call with The Smiths guitarist, Johnny Marr, after they joined No Time To Die ; the two discussed the need for a guitar in the score that cleverly uses motifs from On Her Majesty’s Secret Service (1969) and other past Bond movies. Marr simply said Bond alone was reason enough — and Zimmer was convinced. Of voices and metals  Dune paved the way for the reunion of Denis Villeneuve, Hans Zimmer and sound designer Max Mangini who had worked on Blade Runner 2049 ; Villeneuve approached Zimmer while they were still working on the 2017 sci-fi film. For Zimmer, coming on board was a no-brainer, given Dune by Frank Herbert is one of his favourite books. The 1984 original film, directed by David Lynch, was scored by American rock band TOTO, but Zimmer neither watched the original, nor the mini series Frank Herbert’s Dune ( 2000), in order to retain the purity of the book he read as a teenager 40-odd years ago. That said, the challenge lay in breathing new life into something Villeneuve and Zimmer know inside-out, to create a provocative and unfamiliar soundscape that is not of this time but is still accessible to audiences across generations. Composing a score of this scale during the pandemic could not have been easy but Zimmer rose to the challenge, working with teams in Australia, Austria, the United States and the UK. He explains, “Rather than even thinking — which I hadn’t anyway — to write a conventional score with an orchestra, one of the things about movies that take place in the galaxy far from here, is we should never hear a conventional orchestra at all. The idea of social distancing got on my nerves so I wanted to bring people together from all different continents as much as possible, to make the music in Dune as universal as possible.” The majority of Dune sees Paul Atreides (Timothée Chalamet) and Lady Jessica (Rebecca Ferguson) in the deserts of Planet Arrakis , so naturally, the sounds of the desert made their way into the score and sound design. “Very often I would say to Lisa [Gerrard, vocalist], ‘Just breathe, make the sound of the wind going through the dunes’ so a lot of sound design is extraordinarily human...” he says, adding with a laugh, “Find every way to torture your best friends till they make the right sounds!” In creating instruments, Zimmer turned to Chas Smith, a sculptor, musician and weldor in Encino, northern California, whom he had approached years ago for Man Of Steel . “His whole house is an instrument, a resonating body; and he makes these instruments out of discarded metal from Boeing that were used to make experimental aircraft and spacecraft.” On being asked how 2021 has treated him so far, the often-jovial composer pauses and seems to get wistful, before responding, “It has been a very special year for me, both of these films were incredibly personal. I have been trying to think for the last few weeks about how my life has been; somehow I am not quite finding an answer. I have been able to work with extraordinary people on extraordinary projects. Both Dune and No Time To Die are vastly meaningful to me because as a teenager, Dune was one of my favourite books and, in one way or another, we have all lived our life with Bond.” No Time To Die is playing in theatres and Dune releases in theatres today.   It has been a very special year for me, both Dune and No Time To Di ewere incredibly personal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/zimmer-of-hope/article37118921.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||gulab jamun||Oil-free, sugarless, no-dairy gulab jamuns? Shalu Nijhawan, a whole plant-based nutritionist, says it is possible. After two years of trial and error, she has succeeded in creating a vegan version, which she will teach during an online pre-Deepavali cookery class aptly titled ‘Impossible Sweets’ . The session is being hosted by Sanctuary for Health and Reconnection to Animals and Nature (SHARAN), an Auroville-based organisation dedicated to spreading awareness about holistic health. Shalu will also be sharing recipes for vegan versions of traditional sweets like ras malai , khoya gujiya and Bombay Karachi halwa . “I am so excited about getting it right; I feel it’s a dhamaka (blast) in the world of traditional vegan sweets,” she says, adding that she adopted a vegan lifestyle after it helped reverse her husband’s auto-immune disorder. A growing market for vegans has encouraged sweet makers and food innovators to experiment with mithai for the upcoming festive season. V Aravindan’s Coimbatore-based Vijay Sweets specialises in vegan treats. His trademark offering, Mysore Pak, is made with coconut milk instead of ghee with barely a difference in taste. It now comes in five varieties: beetroot, carrot, palm jaggery, coconut milk and mixed nuts. This year, he is curating customised Diwali hampers priced between Rs. 500 and Rs. 2,000, which are filled with everything from cashew pedas to the Ironman laddoo incorporating dates, cashew, melon, cucumber and pumpkin seeds. Aravindan’s family turned vegan four years ago, and converted their sweet shop to vegan-only sweets. Being one of the pioneers in this field, they were faced with many challenges. One of the biggest was training their existing staff to work with alternative ingredients. As trendsetters, they had no products to compare theirs with and no one to take inspiration from. “We had to understand the behaviour of these alternative products and test out their shelf life,” says Aravindan. He adds that the family concentrates on “cracking tough traditional sweets” into vegan ones. Trials are on for baked rasmalai and gulab jamun . “Our motto is to make vegan sweets accessible to all,” states Aravindan. Though ingredients are expensive, he keeps the price 20% lower than dairy-based sweets. Mumbai-based chef Vandana Tiwari, who turned vegan seven years ago to reverse her hyperthyroidism, made chocolate modak sfor Ganesh Chaturthi this year. “We can convert any dessert into its vegan form,” she says. Vandana completely did away with ghee and used dates to sweeten the chocolate modak , made with a mix of almond and cocoa powder. She also makes modak swith red rice flour, stuffed with a mix of grated coconut, cardamom and dry dates powder. She’s planning Deepavali hampers under her label Vegan Essence, that will include mithai s, cakes and snacks like gujiya s, chakli s, chivda and more. Vandana substitutes all processed ingredients in her recipes. Gautam Agicha’s kitchens at AAA Gourmet Foods, Mumbai, are also buzzing with trials of laddoo smade with a mix of jaggery, to which are added unprocessed flours like bajra (pearl millet), sattu (roasted horsegram flour) or quinoa. “These will be part of boxes of vegan sweets for Diwali,” says Gautam, who set up the business of health foods in August last year and is surprised by the growing niche market. His sweet shop sees movement in a ratio of 90:10 in the sweet versus the vegan sweets market. Reyna Rupani, head of SHARAN’s Mumbai team, points out that there’s vegan and there’s healthy vegan. “Sugar and Jaggery are vegan, but we are for healthy veganism and so we use dates for sweetening,” she says. Reyna, who recently tasted gulab jamun smade from sweet potatoes, believes that gifting a box of healthy sweets is more accepted now than ever before. When she turned vegan seven years ago, there were “hardly any options” but now there is plenty to choose from. Shalu recalls her dogged resolve to get the flavour of gulab jamun right. She used cashew and wheat in the recipe and tofu for the ras malai. “The look is almost similar but not milky white,” says Shalu, who is set to open a plant-based delivery kitchen in Bengaluru, where she resides. Rose Pinto converted to veganism and now conducts Millet workshops and runs an organic store in Mumbai. Rose places orders for vegan cakes and sweets with her ‘students’ to encourage them to cook and cater. She makes laddoos using pulses, mainly green gram. Meanwhile, Gautam is trying hard to get the Mohanthal and Lola, a Sindhi dessert, right for this season, using kapli (emmer wheat) flour. “The trials are on and we should get the sweet ready in time for Diwali.”  Do it yourself! You can learn how to make gulab jamun,ras malai, raj bhog,khoya, gujiya, anjeer roll and Bombay Karachi halwa at a vegan cookery class organised by SHARAN on October 21. To know more, visit www.sharan-india.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/gulab-jamun/article37118928.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Remake run||When the trailer of his Oh Manapenne released recently, Harish Kalyan excitedly sent it to all his family members and friends. While doing so, there was one person he sorely missed: actor Vivekh. “He would have immediately replied with words of encouragement,” says Harish Kalyan in a telephonic interview. Harish has reason to miss the late comedian, who passed away earlier this year: Vivekh played an important role in last year’s Dharala Prabhu . “He acted like it was his first film and would excitedly ask about rehearsing, and keep looking at improving himself.” That film was a remake of Hindi film Vicky Donor , and Harish’s upcoming, Oh Manapenne ,  is a remake too: Telugu superhit Pelli Choopulu. That he stars in its lead role is, in Harish’s own words, “destiny”. Because it was way back in 2016 when he watched the Telugu original and discussed it with an assistant director friend called Kaarthikk. “I remember us chatting about the film, and him mentioning that I would be a good fit if it were remade in Tamil.” But the conversation ended there. Cut to 2019, and Harish was approached for its remake, and suggested Kaarthikk’s name for director. One thing followed another, and slowly, Oh Manapenne fell in place. “Remaking a film is all about striking the right balance in the script. We faced a lot of difficulty while doing that for Dharala Prabhu , as the concept (of sperm donation) might be difficult for Tamil audiences to accept. With Oh Manapenne , we tread familiar topics like arranged marriages and the relationship dynamics within a family. All we wanted to do was retain the freshness of the original,” he says about Oh Manapenne , in which he plays a happy-go-lucky youngster who starts a food truck. While Priya Bhavani Shankar plays the female lead, the friends of the lead character — played by stand-up comedian Abishek Kumar and Anbuthasan — will have important roles too. “We had a workshop to ensure that the banter on-screen comes out well,” he reveals. Harish debuted in the Tamil film industry in 2010, and has since then, come to be known for his romantic-at-heart characters. But he stresses that his outing in TV reality show Bigg Boss in 2017 changed his perspective on what people expect out of him. “It brought in a lot of self-understanding. The only thing we could do inside the house was to communicate with people, so it taught a lot about how to manage my emotions. It also taught to me to be grateful and appreciate small things, something that is keeping in good stead even now,” he says. When he is not on a set or listening to scripts, Harish is occupied with songs. His initial ambition was to break into the music industry. Currently, he has a small music programming setup and has banked a range of tunes. “It is mostly channelling my inner emotions. I love listening to all the latest hits. In fact, I have re-programmed Anirudh’s ‘Soul of Doctor’ theme from Doctor . Someday, I hope to work on a music video of my own….” Oh Manapennewill stream on Disney + Hotstar from October 22  I love music. Whenever I can, I create tunes, I recently re-programmed Anirudh’s ‘Soul of Doctor’ BGM harish kalyan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/remake-run/article37118931.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Sandhya Raju courts a new stage||For Telugu film buffs, the gold standard for mainstream films that incorporate classical dance or music would be director K Viswanath’s Sankarabharanam (1979), Sagara Sangamam (1983) and Swarna Kamalam (1988). Hyderabad-based Kuchipudi dancer Sandhya Raju, who will be making her feature film debut as producer and actor with Natyam , releasing on October 22, is aware of the inevitable comparisons. Having sought the blessings of the nonagenarian filmmaker, accompanied by Natyam’s director Revanth Korukonda, Sandhya says, “Our film is driven by hard work, passion and creativity. But we are nowhere close to matching the legendary director.” Sandhya is calm and composed even as the Nishrinkala Dance Academy that she founded is abuzz with pre-release promotional activities. In a corner of the room, a whiteboard lists the tasks to be done each day. For Sandhya and Revanth, Natyam is the fulfilment of a dream of nearly five years. Sandhya recalls the events that led her to act in a short film directed by Revanth in 2016: “I was looking to expand my vistas and take up occasional modelling, theatre or short film opportunities. Around the same time, Revanth was looking for a Kuchipudi dancer who could act and reached out to me.” The short film, also titled Natyam , had Sandhya portraying a housewife who rekindles her lost passion for dance. “I was not into acting and did not pay close attention to the story when Revanth narrated it. The five-minute dance towards the end caught my attention first,” laughs Sandhya. Once the short film was online, Sandhya was surprised with the response. There were times when young women who spotted her at a mall would come up and talk to her about how the film inspired them to start dancing again. She and Revanth also noticed how short filmmakers were making a mark with feature films in Telugu cinema. When Revanth decided to work on a full-fledged dance-based feature film, Sandhya was game to act and produce the project. Intermittently, she acted in a Malayalam film titled Careful (2017). Fictional dance village The feature film Natyam , says Sandhya, has nothing to do with the short film and the similarities end with the title. The story is set in a fictional village called Natyam, inspired by Kuchipudi village in Andhra Pradesh. The village attracts artistes from all over and everything happens around a temple that is home to a powerful Goddess. Sandhya plays a dancer wanting to remove superstitious beliefs by performing the story of Kadambari. “The historical events on which the story of Kadambari is based are true, but the character and story are fiction,” says Sandhya. “The film goes beyond exploring the physicality of dance and uses it as a means of storytelling.” Natyam was filmed near Bengaluru, Hampi, Lepakshi in Andhra Pradesh and Shamshabad in Hyderabad. Having grown up in Chennai, Sandhya sought the help of Telugu tutors to prep for the film: “I wanted to learn to speak Telugu well so that my mannerisms and movement of facial muscles are appropriate. Not knowing Malayalam was a drawback while filming Careful . Only when you can speak the language can the acting appear spontaneous.” Sandhya also took up the responsibilities of choreography and costume designing for Natyam . Given her prowess in Kuchipudi, she could have choreographed complex moves, but she kept it simple.“We did not want it to look like a rangapravesam of classical dances.” While classical dance will continue to be her mainstay, Sandhya says she is open to acting opportunities.  The film goes beyond exploring the physicality of dance and uses it as a means of storytelling. Sandhya Raju||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sandhya-raju-courts-a-new-stage/article37118936.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Khushbu on ‘Annaatthe’: Rajinikanth sir still remains like a kid on his first day to school||Ask Khushbu if she would have traded off the temple her fans built for her with better roles in films, and she instantly answers. “No,” she says, “I would have definitely preferred the temple. If not for the temple, you wouldn’t be sitting here and asking me questions.” One might have to agree with her. Khushbu the star, is bigger than Khushbu the actress. She was the go-to heroine of the ‘90s. During that decade, she sometimes acted in over 10 films in a single year.  After sparkling through the ‘90s, the number of films reduced in the 2000s. Khushbu forayed into television, plunged into politics and had to take care of her children. She hardly appeared on the big screen after 2010. This year though, there will be a change. She will be in the Rajinikanth-starrer Annaathe (she does not want to call it a ‘comeback’ though). Khushbu is also one of the judges in Colors Tamil’s reality show, Dance vs Dance Season 2 . Excerpts from an interview:  You have completed four decades in films... It has been a roller-coaster ride, and I think that is why I loved every bit of it. If not for the ups and downs, I might have easily gotten disinterested.   In this journey, you have been a child artist, a female lead, show host, reality TV judge, producer, politician... which of these roles were your favourite?   Being a mother; that has been my most favourite role. Now, of course, I have become a politician. I had to cut down on films and TV because politics requires a lot of time and attention. And I look forward to being better at it. You are a judge on a dance reality show now. In the ‘80s and ‘90s, almost every Tamil movie had a dance number. It is not the case now. Do you think dance could slowly fade out of mainstream cinema? Dance is never going to fade away; it is part and parcel of cinema. We have had people like Vyjayanthimala ji and Puppy ma (Padmini). The generation just before me had excellent dancers like Jaya Prada, Jayasudha, Sridevi, Sripriya akka . I was a huge fan of Ambika’s dancing. After my generation, there have been a lot of good dancers too. You need to know how to dance; you can’t have two left feet and say ‘I want to be a great actress.’ To at least emote on screen, you need to have a sense of rhythm.   Compared to your time, there are more roles written for women in Tamil cinema. Is now a better time for actresses?   Yes. We have seen OTT platforms, especially during the pandemic, offering a vast space to make different kinds of films. The competition is really tough. Now, people can watch films from other languages. Malayalam cinema, for instance, is at a different level. We need to keep up with them and give better roles for women. You are going to act with Rajinikanth after a long time in Annaatthe … It is going to be a fun film. People will get to see the Rajinikanth they always wanted to see. It will be like the Rajinikanth from Annamalai, Arunachalam , Muthu , and Padayappa . That Rajinikanth was missing for a very long time. Meena and I have cute roles to play in it. There are multiple theories on social media on what it would be. But it will be a nice surprise.   Annaatthe has a star-studded ensemble cast too. How was the shooting experience? It was wonderful. It felt like the old times, because everybody was on the sets! Nobody was going back to the caravans. Meena and I were holding back a little to talk to Rajini sir, because we were working with him after a long time. But then, he came and sat with us, and grinned, ‘Why are you girls leaving me out?!’ Nothing about him has changed in 28 years. This man still remains like a kid on his first day at school, always eager to learn.  Favourite dance numbers Rum Bum Bum (Michael Madana Kama Rajan), Per vachalum Vaikama Ponalum (Michael Madana Kama Rajan), Illavattam Kai Thattum (My Dear Marthandan), Satham Varamal (My Dear Marthandan), Metro Channel (Indhu), Kotta Paakkum Kozhundhu Veththalaiyum (Nattamai), Otha Rooba (Naattu Purapaatu)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/khushbu-on-annaatthe-rajinikanth-sir-still-remains-like-a-kid-on-his-first-day-to-school/article37118912.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Two wheels and a job||A 100 women auto drivers, proudly dressed in khaki shirts, some teamed with their saris and the rest with salwar kameez, pottus and strings of jasmine  . This scene, at the EA Hotel in Chennai, created a lasting impression on Jai Bharathi, who is riding around the country on a Jawa 42. An architect and an avid biker, Jai set out on the Moving Boundaries campaign on October 11 with a simple aim: that of creating awareness and encouraging women to learn driving to increase their employability. She started the MOWO Foundation (Moving Women Social Initiatives Foundation)  in Hyderabad in 2019 with this goal and has since trained 1,500 women from her city’s self help groups and Government Degree College, in riding bikes and autos, some of whom have used it to earn their livelihood. The Moving Boundaries campaign is being executed by Jai along with Srishti Bakshi, who a couple of years ago, walked from Kanyakumari to Kashmir to raise awareness about violence on women. Srishti met Jai during her walk and the two shared similar ideas about empowering women. In 2020, Srishti became a part of MOWO, where she leads fundraising and collaborations and is handling the back-end work while Jai is on the road. The ride began in Hyderabad, from where Jai rode to Chennai, Kochi, Udupi, Goa. She is currently in Mumbai. The 11,111 kilometres journey, spanning 40 days, will cover Surat, Ahmedabad, Udaipur, Jaipur, Amritsar, Srinagar, Chandigarh, New Delhi, Lucknow, Allahabad, Patna, Guwahati, Kolkata, Ranchi, and Bhubaneshwar. On her quick stop in Chennai, she was pleasantly surprised to see the large turnout of not just women auto drivers but also a few women forklift operators and a COVID-ambulance driver. “Their stories are amazing. Their families are supportive,” says Jai. Some of the women mentioned that when they go for family functions, they wear their uniform and people look at them in awe. If this format is working out so well in Chennai, Jai believes it can and should be replicated in other cities as well. “Through MOWO we also showcase the works of organisations like ANEW in Chennai and Azad Foundation in Kolkata, that are working with women in mobility,” says Jai. “It is important to create awareness on why women need mobility and how it will help them, says Jai. It could be anything: driving to work, dropping their children to school, driving cabs or delivering packages. Having this skill opens them up to many more job opportunities. She recalls an incident from Erode in Tamil Nadu. Jai and her team were riding through the small town during Ayudha pooja when they came across a lady doing puja in a shop. “I noticed there were two TVS XL Champ bikes parked outside the shop. One belonging to the lady and the other to her husband. The lady, a tailor, said she wanted her own two wheeler so she could go out and buy raw materials as and when needed, instead of depending on her husband,” says Jai, pleased at the self-sufficiency of the woman. “When you see a woman on a motorbike, it is inspiring,” says Jai. She adds, “When more women take to the roads and are self dependent, they tend to feel safe.”  For details, log on to movingboundaries.mowo.in   Moving ahead  As part of the Moving Boundaries campaign, the team has a WhatsApp number where one can send a message if they or anyone they know may be interested in learning to drive or wishing to make a career out of driving. All they need to do is type ‘Hi’ and send it to 885016606.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/two-wheels-and-a-job/article37118915.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s brewing? A potful of memory||I look out of the window and enjoy the chilly weather in Udhagamandalam. Inside, Nirmal Raj of Buddies Cafe — Tea Board Tea Room is concentrating on brewing a perfect cup of tea. His newly-opened cafe, conveniently located near the scenic Botanical Gardens, is the town’s first tea room. It is also the country’s first cafe that is backed by Tea Board India, a Government agency that promotes the cultivation, processing, trade and export of tea. A tray, with three classic kettles, arrives. Nirmal spoons tea leaves into basket strainers nestled in the pots and sets an hourglass timer. Exactly five minutes later, I am revelling on the calming flavours and relaxing scent of peach tea. The boutique tea room showcases the teas of the Nilgiris, says M Balaji, executive director of Tea Board India. He adds, “There are many small growers who make speciality teas that reach customers as far as Belgium, Russia and Germany. We identified Nirmal and provided the space under the Tea Board banner to help such small tea growers. We plan to come up with six speciality tea boutiques across Ooty in the next two or three months.” Nirmal works with about 10 small tea growers in the Nilgiris, sourcing white, green, yellow, black and oolong tea from them. The white tea served at Buddies comes from tea bushes grown at pollution-free high altitudes. His objective is to popularise tea drinking as an experience, not just among tourists but also among locals. “Virgin green tea is whole green leaf tea which we source from a farmer who allows biodynamic cultivation without using any pesticides. Baimudan white tea comes from a farmer in Kotagiri, who switched to organic farming.” Other varieties are Nilgiris Long Ging (where leaves are punched in a single line) from a farmer in Coonoor, and Nilgiris Dew Drops, which has leaves rolled like dewdrops. There is also a Yellow tea, with leaves that are steamed and fermented. As I enjoy Peace of Mind, an uplifting, cold, rose-tinted beverage made from a blend of blueberry, mint, lime, vanilla and black tea, Nirmal explains that cafe stocks over 150 varieties of tea, with prices starting from Rs. 450 and going up to Rs. 21,000 (for one kg). In addition to trying local estates, customers can order brews from around India, and the world. “Our blooming teas from the Northeast — jasmine flowers hand knotted with white tea and guava-flavoured ones are fast sellers,” says Nirmal. The menu also lists South African red bush teas (Rooibos teas), Japanese matcha and Egyptian herbal infusions. “Among artisanal teas, orange pu-ruh is unique as the leaves grow on a tree. The leaves are baked and then hand rolled to lock in the flavours. Laspang tea from China has a unique smoky flavour,” says Nirmal. Buddies Cafe was originally started at Hopes College in Coimbatore in 2012 and later at Peelamedu and Coimbatore Airport. Nirmal moved back to Udhagamandalam when the pandemic stuck. He then launched the tea room in February, last year. This initiative is the outcome of 10 years of hard work, ups and downs in his journey as an entrepreneur, and constant research on tea, experimenting with flavours and blends. But it all began with his father, Daniel Dhanaseelan who worked as a manager and taster at government tea estates in the Nilgiris in the ’80s. “We were literally surrounded by tea,” says Nirmal, adding with a smile, “I would nap on gunny sacks filled with leaves. At night, our home would be filled with aromas from the manufacturing units.”  For a cuppa  Located in the RCTC Building, Garden Road, the tea room is open from 10.30 am to 9 pm on all days.  Book in advance for a tea tasting session where you can taste customised varieties and learn about the history of tea (Rs. 2500 for a session for four).   8220804250  Visit@buddiescafe on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/whats-brewing-a-potful-of-memory/article37118925.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Right foot forward||“Pullingo,” he calls in his deep voice. “Yes coach!” the footballers answer as a team. This isn’t a scene from Bigil . It is coach Francis Sebastian’s way of calling his female students, who flash a smile when asked about their sport: blind football. Tamil Nadu Blind Football Association partnering with the Indian Blind Football Association is all set to host the national level championship for both men and women from October 26 to October 30 with sixteen men’s teams and six women’s teams taking part. About 200 players from West Bengal, Karnataka and many other states are expected to participate. While this is the sixth edition for men, it is the first ever edition for the female army. “I have always wanted to come out big in football, and to represent Tamil Nadu in this sport is a dream come true,” says player R Vijayalakshmi, 21, at a press meet at The Savera. “The first day I entered the field, I was so afraid that I stood rooted in the same spot. My mother convinced me to keep playing and with the support of my family, I am here. I wish to become an international player. I really feel grateful to have coach Sebastian sir who is helping us pursue our interests,” she adds. With the support of the Montfort School, the association conducted a three-day residential camp in September. With a turnover of over 80 players, the camp lay the foundation for TNFBA to host the national level tournament. “We struggled for funding the national level contest because we are privately funded by family, friends and well wishers. But these children were like, ‘Sir do it, we will work hard’. So here we are, six days away from the game,” beams Francis. “Our plan is to get them into a small prep camp before the competition,” he adds. Explaining the game, he says that each player has three reference points: the jingling sound ball, side boards and audio commands from goal keeper, head coach and goal guide. “There is no opportunity for sports for people with disabilities in most special schools. Regular schools focus on academics, but without physical activities it becomes monotonous,” adds Dipti Jha, CEO of the association, adding that the goal was for the players to reach Paralympics. The long term vision of TNFBA is to host an international tournament in Chennai by 2024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/right-foot-forward/article37118927.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A city in mourning||A crime thriller that recalls the twin bomb blasts of Coimbatore in 1998 forms the narrative in author Sandeepika’s Adipatta Puli , written exclusively for audio in Tamil. It is now available on Storytel and is narrated by Saki. “It is my first attempt in crime and also an audio story format,” says author C V Varadarajan who writes under the pen name Sandeepika. The 66-year-old author, who did his engineering at Government College of Technology in Coimbatore, says it was an opportunity to revisit his college days spent in the city and come up with a storyline based on the bombings. While studying, he has published stories in popular Tamil magazines like Kalaimagal , Kalki and Ananda Vikatan . “I have published 18 stories in Tamil, mostly short stories and novellas. After retirement, I started blogging in English and Tamil on topics like relationships, family values, and epics to keep my passion for writing going.” When storytel approached him to write a story and gave three themes, he chose the thriller genre as it was something new. “I enjoyed writing this story, because in my 45 years of writing experience, this is the first crime thriller I have ever written. As an audio book, I had to ensure that the story keeps the listeners hooked right from the start. The story begins with the twin blasts. The dialogues and conversations that follow highlight the emotions. I had to keep the listener in mind and that he shouldn’t feel bored after listening to a few lines of the story.” Audio books is a giant leap says the author who gears up for his next one titled Buswana Kadhal Kadhai.   Adipatta Puli runs for 50 minutes and is available on Storytel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-city-in-mourning/article37118924.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Joe mixes love and control’||Though the well-read serial killer Joe Goldberg, (Penn Badgley) settles down to domestic bliss with Love Quinn (Victoria Pedretti) and baby Henry in the suburbs in the third season of the Netflix show You , his print avatar, that the show is based on, marches to a different drum. Caroline Kepnes’ You Love Me (Simon & Schuster, Rs. 550), the third book in the series, following You (2014) and Hidden Bodies (2016) sees Joe fed up with cities, moving to Bainbridge Island in the Pacific Northwest. Working as a volunteer at the local library, Joe’s rampaging cognitive dissonance sees him determined to make the librarian, Mary Kay DiMarco, love him. “Joe on screen is different from Joe on the page,” says Kepnes over a video call from Los Angeles. “When I sat down to write You Love Me , I went back to my notes from 2015. I did not want to write a book to respond to the show. I wanted these books to have the integrity and their own world so that the show can also have its own world.” The makers’ goal, the 44-year-old writer says is to make the best TV show they can make. “My goal is to write the best book I can. We have different strategies of doing that. In some ways, it is easier because the Love Quinn in the show is not one I built. At this point, the show is fully in its own direction, and I get to go back to my direction.” In the books, we do not know much about Joe, including how old he is. “I thought he would be in his early 30s. It was part of the blur, where Joe does not tell you how old he is. He does not think of himself as one of us. So he is not going to announce his age. It is part of his ultimate secrecy. I felt with his parents the way they are, it could turn out that he is older or younger than he thinks he is.” That is what is fascinating about the TV show, where an actor, a living person is attached to a part and has an age in real life, Kepnes says. “ You started as a total head trip with every book taking place in Joe’s head. He is in control of what he dishes out. When I am writing, I still go back to reminding myself we do not know what Joe looks like in the book world.” Joe never seems to catch a break because he mixes love and control, says Kepnes. “That is part of his tragedy. Ultimately, it is all about the cage, he wants someone to want to give up their whole life and be with him. I love him trying and that is where I am going with each book.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/joe-mixes-love-and-control/article37118932.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||When Lalettan flexes||The first time Aynus Antony met Mohanlal, he was floored. “I forgot that I had gone to train him. It took me a couple of minutes to regain my senses,” he says. Having trained the actor for four years, Aynus says he is still in awe of the superstar. “His energy is remarkably high. There is nothing he [Lalettan] cannot do. He never asks questions; never expresses doubt and never says no to working out, however strenuous the session might be.” Mohanlal has been sharing videos of his high-intensity workouts — from lifting weights, doing battle ropes to bench press — on social media, motivating fans to “keep exercising every day for a healthy mind and healthy body”. His routine workout sessions last about one-and-a-half hours, says Aynus, adding that they are often at the end of a day’s shoot. “On a normal session, we start with warming up and stretching. Core conditioning and balancing are absolutely essential too. We also add progressively overloaded forms of resistance training on most workout days,” Aynus explains. It was 2018 and Mohanlal was shooting for Priyadarshan’s period film Marakkar , when Aynus was introduced to him by a friend.  “We had to build his core strength to increase stamina for the character, since there were a lot of action scenes involved. It helped that he was extremely flexible, but we did special cardio workouts for two muscle groups.” Mohanlal usually discusses his characters with Aynus, who helps him get physically toned for the roles. “While Marakkar required strength, Drishyam needed him to be fit. He plays a family man and there was no need to have a bulky body,” says Aynus, adding, “He understands the plan I have for his fitness and works towards it.” “During the shoot of Marakkar , Lalettan came in at 10 pm. In between, I saw him dozing off. He was exhausted after a long day of shoot and yet showed up for training. It was only after I told him that we could take it easy, did he leave,” says Aynus. The duo works out together every time Mohanlal visits Kochi. “I am amazed by how Lalettan keeps up with me in terms of stamina,” says 28-year-old Aynus. “I am inspired by his impeccable work ethic. He always pushes himself to do more,” he adds.  Aynus’ tips on fitness  A balanced diet— fruits, vegetables, complex carbohydrates, complete proteins and healthy fats like fish oils and flax seeds  Hydration— Drink three to four litres of water a day  Fat loss— Think of food as fuel and stop calorie counting  Walk— At least 5,000 steps a day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-lalettan-flexes/article37118933.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Resilient together||Augmented or virtual reality projects, co-productions, tours, exhibitions, art residencies, films, installations... the list is long and possibilities are endless. The British Council’s latest open call looks to spot creative and artistic projects that are born out of collaborations between India and the UK, rooted in arts. On offer are four grants worth a total amount of Rs. 25 million. The programme titled India-UK Together 2022, through these grants, hopes to address common challenges that the arts sector is facing, in a pandemic world, seeped in uncertainty. The inception of it was a way to mark 75 years of India’s independence from colonial rule. Through enabling collaborations, Jonathan Kennedy, director of arts, British Council, India, believes that “we can build programmes in arts, culture and heritage”. The programme also invites those in the arts sector to build networks and create a greater sense of community. Which is why it is called India-UK Together, Kennedy adds, “the key word here is ‘together’.” The open call comes at a pertinent time as COVID-19’s effect on the arts sector has been brutal. “Covid has transformed how we experience our day-to-day lives, how we experience art and to some extent, how we make art. We know that in the past 18 months, the impact of Covid on the creative economy of India and the UK has been challenging. So, there is a sense of togetherness. And innovating digitally and having a global consciousness of not only the pandemic but climate change too, are all part of our shared futures,” says Kennedy. The next season will capture and address these collective challenges. Considering how the arts have pivoted in the past couple of years to adapt and remain resilient, more hybrid and digital projects are expected in the coming season, says Kennedy. “In terms of curation and current grants, our colleagues at British Council in India and the UK, and prominent names in the arts sectors of India and the UK will be reviewing the projects. It is a mix of internal and external evaluation,” he adds. The programme factors in the geopolitical diversity of India and expects to receive proposals from beyond just metropolitan cities. Work across theatre and dance, visual arts, new media, music, film, architecture, design and fashion, literature, and interdisciplinary arts are what they are looking for. Three winning projects will receive grants up to five million rupees each and the fourth project will receive a grant up to one million rupees. Projects will need to be delivered in India between January 2022 and March 2023, with digital or hybrid display for public taking place between September 2022 and March 2023. The winning teams will tour across India and the UK, tentatively in 2022-2023. Arts organisations and their networks, and not individuals, fit the eligibility criteria. “There are already 150 arts organisations that have attended our webinars,” adds Kennedy. On the tour in 2022, he says, “When the season opens, we will start in September which is when the culture season starts in the UK and in August is India’s Independence Day. The public-facing aspect will be held then.”  The last day for submission of proposals is on October 31. For details, visitwww.britishcouncil.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/resilient-together/article37118913.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Martinis, brie and samosas||A lick of creamy camembert, followed by a nibble of spicy papdi . Then, dip toasted garlic naan into warm brie. As get-togethers get homier and hosts work on relaxed appetisers, grazing boards are getting increasingly creative, featuring thoughtfully sourced local produce as well as traditional snacks. Though people started experimenting with these in a pre-COVID world, lockdowns and the subsequent surge in home-cooking has breathed new life into this food trend. So when Vedika Ramraj in Bengaluru — tired of whipping up dalgona coffee for guests — wanted to serve a blend of experimental and familiar flavours, she turned to grazing boards. She planned ahead, sourcing Italian cheeses from Vallombrosa Cheese (a cheese-making shop at Gualbert Bhavan in Bengaluru run by monks), picking up savoury bites from her neighbourhood mom-and-pop store, and making her own chutneys. She looked to Instagram and Pinterest for arrangement ideas, and lo and behold, she was a pro. Vedika is not the only one dipping into grazing boards. The trend has made its way into many homes across India, with countless permutations and combinations, as entertaining at home picks up. Always tempted by the satisfying fix of a grazing board, chef Karishma Sakhrani, in Mumbai, explains, “Cheeseboards can be relaxing to put together; and when people come over, they can enjoy it at their own pace, unlike a hot dish.” As the alternative name ‘nibble boards’ suggests, it is key to have smaller elements instead of multi-bite components; you want guests to dip into everything over the course of the get-together. Blogger Kiran A, ofMirchi Tales, says she used to set up cheeseboards for her friends at home in Melbourne, Australia, but found that guests felt too out-of-water to dig in. She explains, “I started by replacing the crackers with pieces of naan, hot chips, papdi and bhel puri work. I’ve also used mango and other chutneys to switch up flavours.” The basic four principles of salt, fat, acid and heat apply to a desi cheeseboard, so permutations and combinations for these spreads are endless. Desi grazing boards shown across social media include methi puri , makhana , chickpeas, kebabs, jeera puffs, khakhra , pickled onions, vadiyalu , chekkalu and mixture. Chef Karishma admits it does seem intimidating at the start — which is why the trend is picking up at a slower pace — but says once you get going, it is simple. And with the wider availability of speciality cheeses and cured meats across India, thanks to platforms such as Meatigo, Gourmaison, The Gourmet Box, Eleftheria Cheese, Living Food Co, Cleaver & Block, Framroze Deli and Black Vanilla Gourmet, you can cherry-pick whatever strikes your fancy. Of these, The Gourmet Box, Gourmaison, Eleftheria Cheese and Black Vanilla Gourmet do custom and set grazing boards. The art of the board Putting together a cheeseboard is also an art experience of sorts, where you juxtapose textures and colours. Start with a neutral and solid board as base, suggests Kiran. Do not feel pressured to choose a very big one because you have to work with all the space. For a more nested and festive look, like that of Graze With Love founded by Delhi-based Ayushi Jain, opt for a tray with higher raised edges in hexagonal or rhombus shapes or, like Hyderabad-based Sonal Goyal’s Grazias Platters, number shapes for milestone birthdays or anniversaries. Pay attention to dimensions. Kiran proposes, “Use a few small bowls of different sizes for things like fruit, loose cheeses and crunchy bites.” Bowls also provide different heights as well as size contrasts; smaller nibbles look good next to a single large block of cheese. For mithai , pick favourites such as barfi , black halwa and kala jamun . By choosing sweet items, the acid will cut through the fatty flavours of cheeses, so diners will feel less full after a few bites. For textural variety, one can also consider dipping sauces; chef Karishma recently launched a range of sauces with Wonder Foods and Farms, including a creamy toum, a fresh garden pesto and a smoked chilli oil that work well with cheeses and Indian crunchy snacks. “Colour variation is also super fun visually, because cheeses and crunchy bites tend to be in beige palettes. So things like green or red grapes and apples and plums are ideal,” says Kiran. Additionally, feel free to brighten up the layout with sprinklings of parsley, dill or edible flowers such as papaya flowers, violas,moringa, lotus or even banana blossoms. ... or just get one delivered If all this feels like a lot of effort, fear not. Inspired by the grazing potential of local spice mixes, more home-run business have popped up, such as Graze With Love in Delhi, Naashitha Nasser’s Platter Mi Amor in Chennai and Grazias Platters in Hyderabad. Most grazing board-makers stick to local orders so that elements retain freshness and stay physically intact. An answer to Delhi’s bustling social scene, Graze With Love averages at 70 to 80 orders per festive month and 40 to 50 orders per regular month. Founder Ayushi says, “For festivals, Graze With Love adapts flavours to suit the occasion; for example, during Holi, we prepped thandai mousse cups.” They have also introduced grazing tables, a rather nascent trend in the country; she recently arranged one for an art show of 150 guests and as per COVID-19 food safety protocol, she arranged two servers on be on hand to eliminate cross-contamination. A younger business, Sonal kicked off Grazias Platters during the lockdowns of 2021, when Hyderabad was slowly waking back up. She sees around 15 local orders a week from clients aged 25 to 40 but as of late, she has seen more clients aged 50-plus wanting to entertain small get-togethers at home. With Deepavali coming up, she is already getting eight to 10 orders of grazing boards a day across the multi-day festival. She is optimistic for other festivals such as Sankranti. You ultimately want maximum impact with minimal effort when making or ordering a desi grazing board. Of course, what you drink with it matters too. Make the most of happy hour with a martini or two, or a palate-cleansing iced tea or lemonade to cut fatty flavours. Bon appetit!  The cheese factor Chef Karishma advises three to five cheeses because it helps to pick each for reason. For something soft and creamy, she suggests goat’s cheese, bocconcini or a burrata ball. For something sharp, try a mature cheddar. Orange cheddar and Gouda are good neutralisers. Making your own flavoured cheese saves money; for example, you can dice up feta and toss it all in olive oil and chilli flakes. Put together a unique cheeseboard, by curating a range of Indian products that boast unique terroir. Chennai’s The Farm offers a Tomme de Semancheri (made from raw cow milk), Himachal’s Himalayan Cheese has a great Garlic Nettle Gouda, Hyderabad’s Sage Farm makes creamy bocconcini and indulgent burrata, Ooty’s Acres Wild makes a great Monterey Jack, Bengaluru’s Begam Victoria has a decent cheddar, Mumbai’s The Spotted Cow Fromagerie makes a luxurious Black Truffle Brie while Chennai’s Käse offers turmeric and pepper crusted feta, as well as a cheddar coated with milagai podi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/martinis-brie-and-samosas/article37118917.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A tasty start||Cafe Totaram offers gift hampers with sweet and savouries sourced from North India and brookies (brownie and a cookie rolled into one). The hamper comprises a mix of dry fruitchivda, jeera cokies,laccha mathri(a multi-layered deep fried savoury), milkmathriand more. The hampers can be customised for occasions like weddings and anniversaries. 0422 4520116/ 9360381511||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-tasty-start/article37118930.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Six peaks and a father’s wish||Rohit Rao starts gasping for air. He is 6000 metres above sea level. The Dzo Jongo peak (6240 metres) in July while still accessible, is not easily scalable. Rohit made it to the base camp at 5,800 metres after six  days of ascent. He is tantalisingly close to the top. As the air gets thinner, the summit seems to get farther. It is dark, too. He left base camp at around 9.30 pm; it is about 2 am now. Or maybe 3 am. After a point, he does not know what time it is, where he is or where he is going. His trek leader is concerned and advises Rohit to return. The latter, however, is on a mission. He wants to display a photo atop the mountain. He convinces the leader and himself that he can push further. Rohit trudges on. At 6,150 metres, he needs to climb a near-vertical slope to get to the mountain. Looking down would bring in a rush of panic. A slip could prove fatal. The following 90 meters was the biggest challenge of his life. Rohit, however, overcomes it. At 6,240 metres above sea level, he displays a photo of his father, Srinivas Rao Madasu, an Arjuna Award-winning para-athlete who passed away in March after battling cancer. “It is the most wonderful experience of his life,” Rohit recalls the trek he did three months ago. Srinivas Rao represented India in the Paralympics, world championships, and Asian meets in badminton, shooting, table tennis, fencing, and weightlifting. He also participated in various wheelchair marathons. Srinivas won a gold medal in the 1996 para world shooting championships in London. In 2002, he won gold in the world para-badminton championship. The following year he received the Arjuna Award. His enthusiasm for sports, however, hardly rubbed off on his eldest  son. “I was lazy. I hated getting up early. My father tried to enrol me in badminton and table tennis when I was in fourth grade. I was not interested,” says Rohit, who seemed to have a disposition for mountains even then. When his parents scolded him, he would threaten them, saying, “I will leave home and go to the Himalayas.” Much later in life, he remembered these juvenile ultimatums when he got interested in mountaineering. Rohit was working in software by now. He was the son of an accomplished athlete. And, he felt he did not have a single achievement to his name. He wanted his father to be proud of him. In December 2018, he signed up for his first-ever trek to Kedarkantha, a 4115-metre peak in Uttarakhand. He was not sure if he could pull it off. When he scaled the mountain, however, he felt thrilled, proud, and confident. “It gives you a high. When you reach the top, everything looks small. It is as if you are on top of the world.” Rohit was aware of taller peaks. He felt he could conquer them too. So, in 2019, he went for the Pangarchulla peak (about 4500 metres) trek and Stok Kangri (6153 metres). The COVID-19 pandemic paused his expeditions for most of 2020. In December, he scaled Dayara Bugyal (3639 metres). He started 2021 with a trek of Brahmatal (3734 metres) before his Dzo Jongo adventure in August. Mount Everest beckons That will take at least another three years, says Rohit who works in Hyderabad. “You have to increase the height gradually. I am already running and cycling in preparation for scaling greater heights. I am also looking for some financial support in my quest. I will not rest until I get to the top of Everest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/six-peaks-and-a-fathers-wish/article37118951.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Zimmer of hope||“I never thought I would ever get to score for a Bond movie,” laughs Hans Zimmer over a video call from his London home. “Having done The Dark Knight trilogy, which are three movies to you but 12 years of my life to me, I really understand where Daniel [Craig] was with this; he dedicated 16 years of his life to Bond,” he empathises, “Of course, the big difference is I don’t get hurt or injured when I do a Bond film ( laughs ). I wanted to not only do a good score but dig a little deeper and honour the man, the work and all the people who have been working on this for so long.” In a nationally exclusive interview, the American-German composer reminisces on what has been a remarkable year for cinema and himself, with blockbuster feature films Dune and No Time to Die releasing theatrically within a span of two months. Honouring Craig Since the 1980s, Zimmer has worked on more than 150 films, but he always looks at each collaboration like his first. Having helped close the book on Daniel Craig’s tenure as James Bond with No Time To Die while opening audiences to the renewed world of Dune , Zimmer explains, “I suppose what the scores have in common is, there are teams of people working very much together: Steve Mazzaro (score producer for No Time to Die ), Johnny Marr (for No Time to Die ), Dave Fleming (additional music composer for Dune ), Chas Smith (instrument creator) and Lisa Gerrard (vocalist for Dune ) — people who are talented, brave and reckless and will lead you into new directions. I know I am on the right path when I hear someone tell me, ‘this may be the worst idea you’ve ever heard!’( laughs )” He fondly recalls a phone call with The Smiths guitarist, Johnny Marr, after they joined No Time To Die ; the two discussed the need for a guitar in the score that cleverly uses motifs from On Her Majesty’s Secret Service (1969) and other past Bond movies. Marr simply said Bond alone was reason enough — and Zimmer was convinced. Of voices and metals  Dune paved the way for the reunion of Denis Villeneuve, Hans Zimmer and sound designer Max Mangini who had worked on Blade Runner 2049 ; Villeneuve approached Zimmer while they were still working on the 2017 sci-fi film. For Zimmer, coming on board was a no-brainer, given Dune by Frank Herbert is one of his favourite books. The 1984 original film, directed by David Lynch, was scored by American rock band TOTO, but Zimmer neither watched the original, nor the mini series Frank Herbert’s Dune ( 2000), in order to retain the purity of the book he read as a teenager 40-odd years ago. That said, the challenge lay in breathing new life into something Villeneuve and Zimmer know inside-out, to create a provocative and unfamiliar soundscape that is not of this time but is still accessible to audiences across generations. Composing a score of this scale during the pandemic could not have been easy but Zimmer rose to the challenge, working with teams in Australia, Austria, the United States and the UK. He explains, “Rather than even thinking — which I hadn’t anyway — to write a conventional score with an orchestra, one of the things about movies that take place in the galaxy far from here, is we should never hear a conventional orchestra at all. The idea of social distancing got on my nerves so I wanted to bring people together from all different continents as much as possible, to make the music in Dune as universal as possible.” The majority of Dune sees Paul Atreides (Timothée Chalamet) and Lady Jessica (Rebecca Ferguson) in the deserts of Planet Arrakis , so naturally, the sounds of the desert made their way into the score and sound design. “Very often I would say to Lisa [Gerrard, vocalist], ‘Just breathe, make the sound of the wind going through the dunes’ so a lot of sound design is extraordinarily human...” he says, adding with a laugh, “Find every way to torture your best friends till they make the right sounds!” In creating instruments, Zimmer turned to Chas Smith, a sculptor, musician and weldor in Encino, northern California, whom he had approached years ago for Man Of Steel . “His whole house is an instrument, a resonating body; and he makes these instruments out of discarded metal from Boeing that were used to make experimental aircraft and spacecraft.” On being asked how 2021 has treated him so far, the often-jovial composer pauses and seems to get wistful, before responding, “It has been a very special year for me, both of these films were incredibly personal. I have been trying to think for the last few weeks about how my life has been; somehow I am not quite finding an answer. I have been able to work with extraordinary people on extraordinary projects. Both Dune and No Time To Die are vastly meaningful to me because as a teenager, Dune was one of my favourite books and, in one way or another, we have all lived our life with Bond.” No Time To Die is playing in theatres and Dune releases in theatres today.   It has been a very special year for me, both Dune and No Time To Di e were incredibly personal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/zimmer-of-hope/article37118959.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Fields of gold||Dressed in simple white pancha and shirt, 65-year-old Malkaiah Mirjaguda stands out in contrast to his vibrant backdrop of golden-yellow marigolds and sunflowers. When driving to Chevella in Ranga Reddy district (45 kilometers from Hyderabad), you can now pause to smell the roses, as well take selfies between marigolds of different colours and a cheery field of sunflowers. Seated in the shade of a neem tree is Malkaiah, the farmer who created these joyful fields. Taking a break from growing pulses in his four acre plot in Mirjaguda village enroute to Chevella, he has transformed half of the fields into a flower bed because he wants his land to look beautiful from a distance. He shares, “During the lockdown in 2020, when there was nothing much to do, I got a few farm workers and planted the seeds. I wanted to bring happiness to my land and make the colours cheer up people in and around the villages as well as passers-by on the highway.” Surrounded by Agar trees on the far end of his land is a small house which doubles up as storage. This is where he and his wife Venktamma retire for an afternoon nap post lunch. Daily routine Every morning Malkaiah walks from his home in the village which is 3 kilometers away from the farmland. “I prefer to walk; my wife is diabetic, she cannot walk a lot because her knees hurt, so she is helped by a neighbour or anyone on our two-wheeler,” informs Malkaiah. On weekends, Malkaiah’s farm land filled with flowers is busy as families heading to Chevella for weekend stays or to their respective farmhouses make a pitstop for selfies and photos. Malkaiah is kept busy giving people a tour of the plot. Though he is unable to pay attention to all, he says many kind visitors make sure to thank him for the flower garden. “On weekdays, I see around 50 people. The number multiplies manifold on weekends. Children and women love taking photos next to flowers. Some people extend their photo break and sit down under the shade of this neem tree to simply admire the field. Those living in the city, especially children, don’t get to see so many flowers blooming at one place,” he says. Malkaiah is not particular about the price he gets to sell his flowers. He sells them for whatever he gets. “There is no point in letting them rot.” Malkaiah adds that sunflowers don’t find many customers. “I planted them because when they bloom together, they all turn towards the highway and provide a cheerful sight. When the sunflowers dry, we extract oil for use at our home or use the seeds as snacks.” Though he admits that it is a laborious process to extract the seeds when the flowers dry, they do it since he has heard that the roasted seeds are good for health.” Malkaiah informs they get five litres of oil from the sunflowers if they extract from all the seeds. “The cost of oil extraction is more than the amount of oil. We just let the flowers be.” Malkaiah admits he can afford the luxury of growing these flowers since his employed sons take care of his expenses. One of his two sons is a lawyer and the other works with the Telangana police department. He says, “My sons want me to retire and rest, but I cannot think of doing so. I may not need to support my family economically, but I cannot think of not growing anything on my land. I believe, ‘once a farmer, always a farmer.’”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/fields-of-gold/article37118950.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Cry, the beloved||A six-footer looks like a dwarf beside a towering Banyan tree. Along the Hyderabad-Chevella highway (20 kilometre stretch), the gigantic trees are easily the size of the city’s Metro Rail pillars. Under their shade locals sell toddy, coal-roasted corn or seasonal fruits , using the intertwined roots to secure everything from paper notes to bottles, blades and brooms. The sturdy aerial roots make for a beautiful, dramatic setting. Over 100 years old, these trees offer a welcome respite from the heat. This two-lane highway has close to 1,176 banyan trees, which makes for a memorable sene, especially during the monsoon. Now the stretch is attracting more attention than ever before. The highway is fringed by 8,000 other trees, and also houses the Mudimiyal reserve forest (a scrub jungle) rich with Palash, tamarind and mango trees. All this in the highway could disappear, as the trees are likely to be axed for road widening, says Sadhana Ramchander, a member of Save the Banyans of Chevella. The group came together in 2018 when a proposal for widening the road into a four-lane highway made news. At present the movement is running a signing petition on Change.org and have managed over 40k signatures and steadily heading to the 50k mark. Sadhana explains, “Our work involved doing the rounds of government offices like NHAI, Forest department, filing several RTI queries and looking for alternative solutions. We started making noise after members worked on finding an alternative route — Chilkur to Vikarabad — that can be made without felling the trees.” Having found that option, the group decided to involve the public and create awareness. More than 200 members have been active in this mission. Sadhana and Kobita Das also run The Tree Walkers group, which seeks to connect children with nature through tree walks and talks. They, along with the Save the Banyans of Chevella group, organised a few trips to the site where children painted, read poems and told stories. Sadhana believes that these peaceful initiatives serve to raise awareness and spur people to raise their voices against felling the trees. Ashiya Khan, a tree walker, says that even though the forest department claims that the trees will be translocated, the group’s botanists and naturists are sceptical. “Translocation of trees of that size and age is impossible. When trees are translocated, most of their branches, the aerial roots are all chopped off. What gets shifted is the trunk making its survival probability near zero.” She adds, “Which extractor can uproot an old banyan tree? Its roots run wide and deep.” The group plans a Deepavali meet on October 31. “We are planning to take a few children, light diyas and celebrate the trees by giving them (the ones that have space on the sidewalks to accommodate people) a festive look,” says Ashiya.  Save the Banyans of Chevella’s petition includes  Replanning of the project to save the best stretches with large, mature banyans. Declare the highway till Vikarabad, which includes the reserve forests/scrub habitats at Mudimiyal and Kandlapally abutting NH-163, as the Telangana Biodiversity Heritage Road. The banyans of Chevella may be one of the last stretches of road-lining banyans to survive in Telangana. Since this is an old highway, the banyans can be dated to the last Nizam’s enlightened green policy of planting shade-bearing trees alongside major roads. Mudimiyal and Kandlapally are two of the few remaining grassland/scrub habitats on NH-163. They play host to many grassland specialist animals, notably the migrating Harriers that winter here and the now rare Tawny Eagles that nest here (listed as ‘vulnerable’ in the IUCN Red List).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/cry-the-beloved/article37118941.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Sandhya Raju courts a new stage||For Telugu film buffs, the gold standard for mainstream films that incorporate classical dance or music would be director K Viswanath’s Sankarabharanam (1979), Sagara Sangamam (1983) and Swarna Kamalam (1988). Hyderabad-based Kuchipudi dancer Sandhya Raju, who will be making her feature film debut as producer and actor with Natyam , releasing on October 22, is aware of the inevitable comparisons. Having sought the blessings of the nonagenarian filmmaker, accompanied by Natyam’s director Revanth Korukonda, Sandhya says, “Our film is driven by hard work, passion and creativity. But we are nowhere close to matching the films of the legendary director.” Sandhya is calm and composed even as the Nishrinkala Dance Academy that she founded is abuzz with pre-release promotional activities. In a corner of the room, a whiteboard lists the tasks to be done each day. For Sandhya and Revanth, Natyam is the fulfilment of a dream of nearly five years. Sandhya recalls the events that led her to act in a short film directed by Revanth in 2016: “I was looking to expand my vistas and take up occasional modelling, theatre or short film opportunities. Around the same time, Revanth was looking for a Kuchipudi dancer who could act and reached out to me.” The short film, also titled Natyam , had Sandhya portraying a housewife who rekindles her lost passion for dance. “I was not into acting and did not pay close attention to the story when Revanth narrated it. The five-minute dance towards the end caught my attention first,” laughs Sandhya. Once the short film was online, Sandhya was surprised with the response. There were times when young women who spotted her at a mall would come up and talk to her about how the film inspired them to start dancing again. She and Revanth also noticed how short filmmakers were making a mark with feature films in Telugu cinema. When Revanth decided to work on a full-fledged dance-based feature film, Sandhya was game to act and produce the project. Intermittently, she acted in a Malayalam film titled Careful (2017). Fictional dance village The feature film Natyam , says Sandhya, has nothing to do with the short film and the similarities end with the title. The story is set in a fictional village called Natyam, inspired by Kuchipudi village in Andhra Pradesh. The village attracts artistes from all over and everything happens around a temple that is home to a powerful Goddess. Sandhya plays a dancer wanting to remove superstitious beliefs by performing the story of Kadambari: “The historical events on which the story of Kadambari is based are true, but the character and story are fiction,” says Sandhya. “The film goes beyond exploring the physicality of dance and uses it as a means of storytelling.”  Natyam was filmed near Bengaluru, Hampi, Lepakshi in Andhra Pradesh and Shamshabad in Hyderabad. Having grown up in Chennai, Sandhya sought the help of Telugu tutors to prep for the film: “I wanted to learn to speak Telugu well so that my mannerisms and movement of facial muscles are appropriate. Not knowing Malayalam was a drawback while filming Careful . Only when you can speak the language can the acting appear spontaneous.” Sandhya also took up the responsibilities of choreography and costume design for Natyam . Given her prowess in Kuchipudi, she could have choreographed complex moves, but she kept it simple. “We did not want it to look like a rangapravesam of classical dances.” Ironically, in the film, she portrays a dancer who has to prove herself while Kamal Kamaraju plays the more experienced dancer. Executing the project was challenging, she concedes, but the business decisions she had to take during the pandemic were tougher. The team held a test screening and the audience included people from different socio-economic strata and age groups; many of them seemed to enjoy the big screen experience. A few film industry people also weighed in and suggested she wait till the theatres reopen: “Production has been tough; one hears many stories of how women have to rough it out in this industry. I am blessed to have found support from established personalities, be it Chiranjeevi, Balakrishna, Ram Charan or NTR for the promotions,” says Sandhya. While classical dance will continue to be her mainstay, Sandhya says she is open to acting opportunities.  (For Kamal Kamaraju’s interview, check www.thehindu.com)   The film goes beyond exploring the physicality of dance and uses it as a means of storytelling. Sandhya Raju||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sandhya-raju-courts-a-new-stage/article37118960.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The colours of lockdown||From themes of landscapes, portraits and divinity to the essence of impermanence, and shades of solitude, the works of about 90 artists from across Andhra Pradesh will be displayed at the art festival being organised in Visakhapatnam from October 25 to 27. Planned at the heritage site of Hawa Mahal overlooking the Bay of Bengal, the event will be the first art show since the pandemic began. “The show aims to revive the fine arts market by providing a platform to celebrate art once again at the physical realm,” says Ravi Kattakuri, artist and curator of the show. “Through the pandemic, many artists explored the digital medium of exhibiting their works and showed the world that art can stand up in the face of adversities. But the connect and engagement between art connoisseurs and artists were largely missing. This is something that physical art shows foster,” adds Ravi. The four-day art festival is being supported by Mayank Kumari of Hawa Mahal. It will feature works of prominent artists like G Ravinder Reddy, V Ramesh and Bothsa Venkat alongside others, including 27 fine art students. Known for his portraiture, artist Naresh Mahanta has experimented with a bigger series on landscape works in water colour medium. One of his works titled seascape depicting a sunset scene of R.K. beach will be displayed at the show. “During the pandemic, I had the space and time to reflect on mediums and themes that I have been wanting to explore for a long time. In my recent works, I have tried to capture the beauty of Visakhapatnam through my watercolour works,” says the artist who is working on a bigger series on landscape for a solo show. The art show will also see sculptures, graphics works and photographs of artists from Vijayawada, Kadapa apart from Visakhapatnam. While the pandemic was tough on artists, it permeated through the works as well. "The pandemic, I feel, has had a telling effect and manifested in a dark toned choice of palette in my works. I found myself gravitating towards shades of brown. Guided by this uncharacteristic affinity, I sought suitable subject matter, engaged with portraiture in our Indian skin hues," says artist Anita Rao, who is pursuing her Bachelors in Fine Arts from Andhra University. Anita's inclusions in the exhibition are A3-sized earthy portraits, meant to bring cheer to the viewer — a joyous farmer (another deliberate choice of subject) and a young boy who just emerged from a dip. Artist Sharmia Karri will be displaying her work titled ‘Divinity’ at the show — a reflection of the forest Goddess Aranyani Devi. “A couple of years ago, when when I read about ‘Aranyani Devi’ a forgotten goddess, I wanted to put it on the canvas. One of the most descriptive hymns in Rigveda is dedicated to her where she is described as beautiful, shy and fond of the quiet glades, a protector of the forests and all that dwells within it,” says Sharmla. Intrigued by the beauty, the artist made a series of paintings on theme. “It's an ongoing series that I keep working on,” she says. Sharmla says the challenges of the pandemic offered valuable lessons. "One thing that I realised while adjusting to the new normal is that even with a limited palette, there was so much to explore. Earlier, it wouldn't ever have occurred to me that I could paint on a broken cement tile or a rolling pin for that matter,” she says. She then adds, “The best part is hearing so many heartening stories like artists displaying their artworks on the windows facing the streets in New York.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-colours-of-lockdown/article37118953.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Yoga, walks and a concert||At 6 am a gentle breeze fills Dr GS Melkote Park in Narayanaguda. Six volunteers are working on a makeshift stage: unrolling a dhurrie, setting up microphones and multi-speakers. A motley crowd gathers, from yoga enthusiasts to senior citizens taking a stroll. Soon, the park transforms into a concert venue as violinist Bhatti Pavan Singh accompanied by M Chandrakant on ghatam and Krishna Sravan on mridangam begin to perform. Titled Shubhodayam, the recital continues for an hour, with walkers enjoying listening to ‘Sri Mahaganapathim’ kriti as they stroll, and yoga enthusiasts perfecting the Adho Mukha svanasana with ‘Brochevaarevaru ra’ playing in the background. It has been over 10 months since the Shubhodayam- Music Unlock series was launched. Curating this outdoor musical experience are Akhilesh Washikar (managing partner) and tabla artiste Gajendra Shewalkar (co-founder and son of theatre personality Bhaskar Shewalkar) of city-based Tatvaa arts. The initiative stemmed from onscreen fatigue. “In 2020, we organised around 300 virtual shows, but nothing came close to a live performance,” says Akhilesh. In January this year when the number of COVID-19 cases dipped, Akhilesh — who has been part of SPICMACAY ‘s early morning concerts at Public Gardens and Gudi Sambaraalu performances at Indira Park — met members of the Walker’s Association at Melkote Park. “They simply asked us the date of launch; their encouragement gave the initiative a flying start,” says Akhilesh acknowledging the support of members Pritesh Patil and Prashant Sardeshmukh and volunteers who begin their day at 4 am on concert days. The first concert on January 24 was a flute recital by ENT specialist Dr Ramakanth Katti, accompanied by Vijay Kumar Panchal on the tabla and Ramu Vedma on the flute. “The speakers and mic setup cover the radius of the park and we make sure we do not disturb people outside,” says Akhilesh. This simple idea of playing music in a natural setting in order to spread music and connect to classical music has found resonance. With two or three instrumental concerts per month, Tatvaa has organised 18 such recitals. These have been held at Dr G S Melkote Park, Botanical Garden (Kondapur), Krishna Kanth park (Yousufguda) and Indira Park, with Hyderabad-based musicians, as well as Jal Tarang artiste Milind Tulankar from Maharashtra. Milind shares that such park recitals are common in Maharashtra. He says people enjoy music more in a natural environment than in an auditorium: “In an open-air setting, the body reacts positively to music.” Violinist Pavan Singh adds, “We usually play to a discerning audience in auditoriums. In these parks we are able to reach out to those who don’t know classical music but enjoy the experience.” Music lover Dr Madhusudhan Joshi jokes that he goes to parks for both walks and music; the 67-year-old has attended eight outdoor concerts so far. “Some of us are not aware of all the classical instruments. We discover new sounds and these recitals provide artists an opportunity to perform in our places,” he says. With plans to hold 52 concerts in 52 weeks, Akhilesh says “Music relaxes and rejuvenates. This is a unique experience for visitors, who can listen to uplifting music while breathing in fresh air.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/yoga-walks-and-a-concert/article37118958.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Culture, with a dash of Kimchi||If you have watched K-dramas, you are likely to be hungering for Korean cuisine. The sight of K-drama actors relishing Korean fried chicken, japchae , bibimbap , kimbap , ramyun , kimchi pancake and grilled meats is sure to have you craving to taste them. Now you can. Hyderabad finally has a Korean restaurant. Called Goguryeo, it is run by Cho Min Yun, a Korean national who has lived in Hyderabad for more than a decade. She used to cater Korean food on request to friends and acquaintances but as word spread along with the cultural hallyu (Korean wave), orders for her food increased on weekends. “So I decided to start a restaurant. With the popularity of K-drama and K-pop, there is a growing interest in Korean food as well,” Cho Min Yun says. The restaurant in Madhapur, situated in a quiet lane between Avasa Hotel and Karachi Bakery. It is spacious, with eight grill tables, and can accommodate up to 80 diners. The interiors are basic, but clutter-free, sporting glossy posters of BTS and Blackpink on the walls. One wall is free for projections of pre-recorded concerts for K-pop fans. As I sit down, BTS’ addictive track ‘Permission To Dance’ booms through the speakers. A taste of Korea The extensive menu offers lots of Korean favourites, including chicken katsu, kimbap , fried dumplings, ramyun , jjajangmyeon and a barbecque section. The hot seller here is the tteokboki , a fried rice cake popular as a street food. The ramyun , Korean fried chicken and grilled meats are also ordered by most of the customers. The food has a unique flavour thanks to gochugang , the fermented pepper paste. The paste is slightly sweet with a mild smokey and fermented kick that enhances the flavour profile of a dish it is added to. For example, pre-seasoned pork ribs for grill might come across as salty until a dash of the gochujang is added to balance it. I ordered the Korean fried chicken, grilled meat (tender cuts of marinated pork ribs) with rice. On Cho Min Yun’s recommendation, I tried a bowl of Korean steamed eggs as well. Before they arrived, as per Korean restaurant tradition, a set of starters including cabbage kimchi, cucumber kimchi and braised baby potatoes in soya sauce — all made in house — were served. Korean kimchi — comprising long and tender leaves of Chinese cabbage — balances salt, chilli and sourness so that the tangy flavour stands out, The steamed egg bowl is like a scrambled egg without oil or butter. The fried chicken, given the honey-rich marinade, is slightly on the sweeter side and remains crunchy even after it has cooled down. I was quite excited at the process of seeing the grill station being readied. It comes with a big burner that gets fuelled by mini gas cans, over which a cast iron grill tray is placed. When heated, pre-seasoned meat with potato and onions are placed on it and begin to cook, filling the air with a delicious steam. The meat can be enjoyed with either a bowl of rice and stew or wrapped in cabbage leaves with gochugang and onion. Cho Min Yun explains that as an alternative to meat, rice can be wrapped in the cabbage leaf with fresh vegetables and gochujang . And if you find the menu a little daunting and need some guidance, the restaurant’s friendly staff are happy to explain the dishes, as well as tell you how best to enjoy them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/culture-with-a-dash-of-kimchi/article37118944.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Martinis, brie and samosas||A lick of creamy camembert, followed by a nibble of spicy papdi . Then, dip toasted garlic naan into warm brie. As get-togethers get homier and hosts work on relaxed appetisers, grazing boards are getting increasingly creative, featuring thoughtfully sourced local produce as well as traditional snacks. Though people started experimenting with these in a pre-COVID world, lockdowns and the subsequent surge in home-cooking has breathed new life into this food trend. So when Vedika Ramraj in Bengaluru — tired of whipping up dalgona coffee for guests — wanted to serve a blend of experimental and familiar flavours, she turned to grazing boards. She planned ahead, sourcing Italian cheeses from Vallombrosa Cheese (a cheese-making shop at Gualbert Bhavan in Bengaluru run by monks), picking up savoury bites from her neighbourhood mom-and-pop store, and making her own chutneys. She looked to Instagram and Pinterest for arrangement ideas, and lo and behold, she was a pro. Vedika is not the only one dipping into grazing boards. The trend has made its way into many homes across India, with countless permutations and combinations, as entertaining at home picks up. Always tempted by the satisfying fix of a grazing board, chef Karishma Sakhrani, in Mumbai, explains, “Cheeseboards can be relaxing to put together; and when people come over, they can enjoy it at their own pace, unlike a hot dish.” As the alternative name ‘nibble boards’ suggests, it is key to have smaller elements instead of multi-bite components; you want guests to dip into everything over the course of the get-together. Blogger Kiran A, ofMirchi Tales, says she used to set up cheeseboards for her friends at home in Melbourne, Australia, but found that guests felt too out-of-water to dig in. She explains, “I started by replacing the crackers with pieces of naan, hot chips, papdi and bhel puri work. I’ve also used mango and other chutneys to switch up flavours.” The basic four principles of salt, fat, acid and heat apply to a desi cheeseboard, so permutations and combinations for these spreads are endless. Desi grazing boards shown across social media include methi puri , makhana , chickpeas, kebabs, jeera puffs, khakhra , pickled onions, vadiyalu , chekkalu and mixture. Chef Karishma admits it does seem intimidating at the start — which is why the trend is picking up at a slower pace — but says once you get going, it is simple. And with the wider availability of speciality cheeses and cured meats across India, thanks to platforms such as Meatigo, Gourmaison, The Gourmet Box, Eleftheria Cheese, Living Food Co, Cleaver & Block, Framroze Deli and Black Vanilla Gourmet, you can cherry-pick whatever strikes your fancy. Of these, The Gourmet Box, Gourmaison, Eleftheria Cheese and Black Vanilla Gourmet do custom and set grazing boards. The art of the board Putting together a cheeseboard is also an art experience of sorts, where you juxtapose textures and colours. Start with a neutral and solid board as base, suggests Kiran. Do not feel pressured to choose a very big one because you have to work with all the space. For a more nested and festive look, like that of Graze With Love founded by Delhi-based Ayushi Jain, opt for a tray with higher raised edges in hexagonal or rhombus shapes or, like Hyderabad-based Sonal Goyal’s Grazias Platters, number shapes for milestone birthdays or anniversaries. Pay attention to dimensions. Kiran proposes, “Use a few small bowls of different sizes for things like fruit, loose cheeses and crunchy bites.” Bowls also provide different heights as well as size contrasts; smaller nibbles look good next to a single large block of cheese. For mithai , pick favourites such as barfi , black halwa and kala jamun . By choosing sweet items, the acid will cut through the fatty flavours of cheeses, so diners will feel less full after a few bites. For textural variety, one can also consider dipping sauces; chef Karishma recently launched a range of sauces with Wonder Foods and Farms, including a creamy toum, a fresh garden pesto and a smoked chilli oil that work well with cheeses and Indian crunchy snacks. “Colour variation is also super fun visually, because cheeses and crunchy bites tend to be in beige palettes. So things like green or red grapes and apples and plums are ideal,” says Kiran. Additionally, feel free to brighten up the layout with sprinklings of parsley, dill or edible flowers such as papaya flowers, violas,moringa, lotus or even banana blossoms. ... or just get one delivered If all this feels like a lot of effort, fear not. Inspired by the grazing potential of local spice mixes, more home-run business have popped up, such as Graze With Love in Delhi, Naashitha Nasser’s Platter Mi Amor in Chennai and Grazias Platters in Hyderabad. Most grazing board-makers stick to local orders so that elements retain freshness and stay physically intact. An answer to Delhi’s bustling social scene, Graze With Love averages at 70 to 80 orders per festive month and 40 to 50 orders per regular month. Founder Ayushi says, “For festivals, Graze With Love adapts flavours to suit the occasion; for example, during Holi, we prepped thandai mousse cups.” They have also introduced grazing tables, a rather nascent trend in the country; she recently arranged one for an art show of 150 guests and as per COVID-19 food safety protocol, she arranged two servers on be on hand to eliminate cross-contamination. A younger business, Sonal kicked off Grazias Platters during the lockdowns of 2021, when Hyderabad was slowly waking back up. She sees around 15 local orders a week from clients aged 25 to 40 but as of late, she has seen more clients aged 50-plus wanting to entertain small get-togethers at home. With Deepavali coming up, she is already getting eight to 10 orders of grazing boards a day across the multi-day festival. She is optimistic for other festivals such as Sankranti. You ultimately want maximum impact with minimal effort when making or ordering a desi grazing board. Of course, what you drink with it matters too. Make the most of happy hour with a martini or two, or a palate-cleansing iced tea or lemonade to cut fatty flavours. Bon appetit!  The cheese factor Chef Karishma advises three to five cheeses because it helps to pick each for reason. For something soft and creamy, she suggests goat’s cheese, bocconcini or a burrata ball. For something sharp, try a mature cheddar. Orange cheddar and Gouda are good neutralisers. Making your own flavoured cheese saves money; for example, you can dice up feta and toss it all in olive oil and chilli flakes. Put together a unique cheeseboard, by curating a range of Indian products that boast unique terroir. Chennai’s The Farm offers a Tomme de Semancheri (made from raw cow milk), Himachal’s Himalayan Cheese has a great Garlic Nettle Gouda, Hyderabad’s Sage Farm makes creamy bocconcini and indulgent burrata, Ooty’s Acres Wild makes a great Monterey Jack, Bengaluru’s Begam Victoria has a decent cheddar, Mumbai’s The Spotted Cow Fromagerie makes a luxurious Black Truffle Brie while Chennai’s Käse offers turmeric and pepper crusted feta, as well as a cheddar coated with milagai podi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/martinis-brie-and-samosas/article37118954.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Khushbu on ‘Annaatthe’: Rajinikanth sir still remains like a kid on his first day to school||Ask Khushbu if she would have traded off the temple her fans built for her with better roles in films, and she instantly answers. “No,” she says, “I would have definitely preferred the temple. If not for the temple, you wouldn’t be sitting here and asking me questions.” One might have to agree with her. Khushbu the star, is bigger than Khushbu the actor. She was the go-to heroine of the ’90s. During that decade, she sometimes acted in over 10 films in a single year. After sparkling through the ’90s, the number of films reduced in the 2000s. Khushbu forayed into television, plunged into politics and had to take care of her children. She hardly appeared on the big screen after 2010. This year though, there will be a change. She will be in the Rajinikanth-starrer Annaathe (she does not want to call it a ‘comeback’ though). Khushbu is also one of the judges in Colors Tamil’s reality show, Dance vs Dance Season 2 . Excerpts from an interview: You have completed four decades in films... It has been a roller-coaster ride, and I think that’s why I loved every bit of it. If not for the ups and downs, I might have easily gotten uninterested.   In this journey, you have been a child artiste, a female lead, show host, reality TV judge, producer, politician... which of these roles were your favourite?   Being a mother; that has been my most favourite role. Now, of course, I have become a politician. I had to cut down on films and TV because politics requires a lot of time and attention. And I look forward to being better at it. You’re a judge on a dance reality show now. In the ’80s and ’90s, almost every Tamil movie had a dance number. It’s not the case now. Do you think dance could slowly fade out of mainstream cinema? Dance in cinema is never going to fade away; it’s part and parcel of cinema. We have had people like Vyjayanthimala ji and Puppyma(Padmini). The generation just before me had excellent dancers like Jaya Prada, Jayasudha, Sridevi, Sripriya akka . I was a huge fan of Ambika’s dancing. After my generation, there have been a lot of good dancers too. You need to know how to dance; you can’t have two left feet and say ‘I want to be a great actor.’ Yes, maybe in an OTT film, you might not need to dance. But to at least emote on screen, you need to have a sense of rhythm. But do you see dance choreographers retaining their significance in Tamil cinema in this era? Definitely. It’s not just about the dance steps; choreographers know how to take the story forward. They understand the situation of the song, the emotion it tries to convey. A song essentially says a story in four minutes. My husband (Sundar C), for instance, cannot do without someone like Brindha. The same goes for someone like Mani Ratnam. As long as you have cinema, there will be choreographers around. You are going to act with Rajinikanth after a long time in Annaatthe … It’s going to be a fun film. People will get to see the Rajinikanth they always wanted to see. It will be like the Rajinikanth from Annamalai, Arunachalam , Muthu , and Padayappa . That Rajinikanth was missing for a very long time. Meena and I have cute roles to play in it. There are multiple theories on social media on what it would be. But it will be a nice surprise.      Favourite dance numbers Rum Bum Bum (Michael Madana Kama Rajan), Per vachalum Vaikama Ponalum (Michael Madana Kama Rajan), Illavattam Kai Thattum (My Dear Marthandan), Satham Varamal (My Dear Marthandan), Metro Channel (Indhu), Kotta Paakkum Kozhundhu Veththalaiyum (Nattamai), Otha Rooba (Naattu Purapaatu)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/khushbu-on-annaatthe-rajinikanth-sir-still-remains-like-a-kid-on-his-first-day-to-school/article37119212.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Everything starts on paper||If you have laughed and cried and bitten your nails to the quick binge-watching Raj and D.K.’s The Family Man, some of the credit goes to the writer, Suman Kumar. The Bengaluru-based Suman was born in Chennai and grew up in Andhra. “I came here in 2004 and made it my home,” says Suman, who started off as a software professional. “I felt a complete misfit in the industry.” Suman and D.K. studied together in high school. “We used to write stories as teenagers.” Suman quit his job to become a fulltime writer, which he says was always his passion. “Those days, you either became an engineer or a doctor and I got a B.Com, to satisfy my parents,” he says. How to get ahead His stint as a copywriter brought Suman no joy. “I was not satisfied writing to sell someone else’s product. That is when I decided to write a book.”  Ranga Half-pants was published in 2016. “The irony was when I sat down to write, I realised how ill-equipped I was to pen anything! So before the book, I wrote a blog and did stand-up. I found I was getting better everyday. Writing became an escape from being a cubicle slave. There is nothing wrong with a corporate job, just that the rat race did not make sense to me as I am not a rat. I did not understand corporate designations and protocols. When an ex-boss said I did not have any communication skills, I decided to jump out of that well and dive into writing.” All for one By 2016, Suman was already collaborating extensively with Raj and D.K. “We started scripting together and I learnt how to build a narrative and a character that would connect with the audience on the job. Then The Family Man happened. It was new for three of us as we were looking at a 10-part series, with 45-minute episodes. That was a challenge and we had to write in such a manner that the audience would return for the next episode.” Equal distribution Suman says he did not feel left out when the actors walked away with the accolades. “Writers, DOPs and editors fall under the B-to-B category — business to business. Actors are in the B-to-C (business-to-consumer) category. They are the ones who bring the character to life and present it to the consumer.” Cinema is team work and not a solitary activity like writing, says Suman. “It involves a bunch of creative people, each bringing in their expertise to the table. Actors bring in their perspective to the writing. I was bowled over by Manoj Bajpayee’s approach to the role. He is an institution and took the role to another level by bringing in his expertise. Same with Samantha. None of us had seen her doing such an intense role nor had we seen her doing her own stunts,” he says. The basics The foundation for anything, Suman says, is the writing. “Everything starts on paper.” On how much of himself goes into the characters he creates, Suman says. “It is impossible not to let a bit of you creep into your writing. No matter how careful you are, you end up giving a little bit of yourself to each and every character. It may happen subconsciously, but consciously, I would not want to inflict myself on my reader or audience, because I know me.” The fundamental quest of a writer Suman says is to find an interesting character. “A writer has to keep his eyes and ears open and constantly absorb everything that is happening around him/her. When you say you are a writer, people imagine the act of writing. That, in fact, is the last thing you do. You begin with characters, ideas, narrations, and structuring a story. It is after we have all this in place that writing happens. Sometimes you even think of an idea in your dream. The process of creation is a constant. I spend about six to seven hours every day in the physical act of writing.” Season 3 of The Family Man could be in the northeast, according to Suman. “Our country is so rich and diverse, there is a lot to explore. India is one country with different worlds and OTT provides a platform to explore regions, cultures and people.” Cinema keeps evolving, says Suman. “Now it is all about binge watching. That itself is an evolution and cinema has broken from the shackles of the large screen and has become device independent. You need to be good enough to break through the visual clutter. That is the biggest challenge as there are so many players here today. It is good, because this is a golden era for content,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/everything-starts-on-paper/article37119210.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Mum’s the word||While there may be those who are not comfortable playing mother on screen, Archana Jois, who is still in her late 20s pulled it off with great elan in KGF Chapter 1 . Despite sharing the screen with seasoned actors such as Anant Nag, Yash and Nagabharana, Archana made her presence felt. She played Yash’s mother in the film and earned the nickname of “KGF mother” or “Rocky Bhai’s mother”. She has no regrets about playing mom so early in her career. “I am thrilled that I am part of KGF. I was surprised and apprehensive when Prashanth Neel approached me to play the mother of the protagonist. It is thanks to my friend, RJ Pradeepa, who insisted I give the film a shot that I came to be part of KGF. ” Archana will be part of KGF 2 as well . Life post KGF, Archana says, has been good. She has not been bombarded with mother roles, rather she is being wooed with interesting roles. “I come from a typical middle class family and this sudden recognition and adulation was a bit overwhelming.” The young actor is looking forward to the release of Hondisi Bareyiri , directed by Ramenahalli Jagan, where she shares the screen with ‘Gultu’ Naveen. “I play a character named Pallavi, whose journey from youth to middle-age is covered in the film. She is a mature, independent and an emotionally strong woman. I fell in love with the character. She appealed to me as an actor. It gave me immense satisfaction to play this role. Hondisi Bareyiri and Pallavi are close to my heart. Her motto is to ‘welcome everything that life throws at you with open arms’, which in itself is a huge learning curve for anyone.” Jagan has come up with a profound story, says Archana. “He has made us communicate even in places where there are no dialogues in the film.” Archana is excited about Mute and Nakshe , both of which are in post-production. “They are content-based films and the former is a psychological thriller.” Archana has also acted in a Marathi film, Rajkumar. “It is an adaption of the Kannada film, Bombaygala Love and was made by theatre artistes from Maharashtra. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the film was released on YouTube. Though bad things did happen due to the pandemic, a lot of good also came out of it. Entertainment and cinema changed due to OTT, which has opened up a larger alternative platform for film-makers and artistes,” she says. Archana started her career on the small screen with serials such as Durga and Mahadevi. She says, “I think today the line between the big and the small screen is almost non-existent. Be it a TV serial or a web-series, both are made just like cinema, when it comes to the cast, cinematography and budget. The small screen has also grown in leaps and bounds.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mums-the-word/article37119209.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Joe mixes love and control’||Though the well-read serial killer Joe Goldberg (Penn Badgley) settles down to domestic bliss with Love Quinn (Victoria Pedretti) and baby Henry in the suburbs in the third season of the Netflix show You , his print avatar, that the show is based on, marches to a different drum. Caroline Kepnes’s You Love Me (Simon & Schuster, Rs. 550), the third book in the series, following You (2014) and Hidden Bodies (2016) sees Joe fed up with cities, moving to Bainbridge Island in the Pacific Northwest. Working as a volunteer at the local library, Joe’s rampaging cognitive dissonance sees him determined to make the librarian, Mary Kay DiMarco, love him. “Joe on screen is different from Joe on the page,” says Kepnes over a video call from Los Angeles. “When I sat down to write You Love Me , I went back to my notes from 2015. I did not want to write a book to respond to the show. I wanted these books to have the integrity and their own world so that the show can also have its own world.” The makers’ goal, the 44-year-old writer says is to make the best TV show they can make. “My goal is to write the best book I can. We have different strategies of doing that. In some ways, it is easier because the Love Quinn in the show is not one I built. At this point, the show is fully in its own direction, and I get to go back to my direction,” she says. In the books, we do not know much about Joe, including how old he is. “I thought he would be in his early 30s. It was part of the blur, where Joe does not tell you how old he is. He does not think of himself as one of us. So he is not going to announce his age. It is part of his ultimate secrecy. I felt with his parents the way they are, it could turn out that he is older or younger than he thinks he is.” That is what is fascinating about the TV show, where an actor, a living person is attached to a part and has an age in real life, Kepnes says. “ You started as a total head trip with every book taking place in Joe’s head. He is in control of what he dishes out. When I am writing, I still go back to reminding myself we do not know what Joe looks like in the book world.” Joe never seems to catch a break because he mixes love and control, says Kepnes. “That is part of his tragedy. Ultimately, it is all about the cage, he wants someone to want to give up their whole life and be with him. I love him trying and that is where I am going with each book.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/joe-mixes-love-and-control/article37119211.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||For a better world||Name: The United Nations (UN)  Who I am: The world’s largest and most familiar international organisation  It all started when: 51 countries signed a charter to bring me into existence on October 24, 1945  I strive to: Work towards global peace, develop friendly relations among countries, and promote social progress and human rights.  Find me at: My headquarters in New York City (The U.S.) or my regional offices in Geneva (Switzerland), Vienna (Austria) and Nairobi (Kenya).  Who’s at the helm: António Guterres, UN Secretary-General.  My biggest asset: My 193 member states  What I speak: My six official languages are Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish.  A significant milestone: The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, proclaimed in in 1948, set out fundamental human rights to be protected for the first time.  Eyes on the future: I adopted the Sustainable Development Goals in 2015 as the world’s plan to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030.  Fun fact: The longest statement made at the UN was by V.K. Krishna Menon from India in 1957; it lasted almost eight hours.  Stat for you: I supply vaccines to around 50% of the world’s children||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/for-a-better-world/article37119450.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Vineet’s Magic Mantra In trouble again||Vineet Malhotra always got into trouble, for no fault of his own. While playing cricket, if his friend broke a window hitting a sixer, he was punished for it. In school, if his friends whispered behinds the teacher’s back, he stood outside the classas punishment. One Saturday morning, while playing cricket, one boy ended up breaking the window pane of Mrs. Satya Sen’s house. Seeing Mrs. Sen stride out of her house in her nightgown, the boys ran away, dropping the bat at Vineet’s feet. Caught Assuming that Vineet had broken her window, Mrs. Sen grabbed his arm, ignoring his pleas that he was innocent. Her raised voice awakened the Malhotras. “See what your son has done,” Mrs. Sen screamed. “I’ll pay for new windowpane,” Mrs. Malhotra’s words only stoked the fire. “How dare you try to buy my silence?” Mrs. Sen yelled. Mr. Malhotra joined them at the gate. “What’s the noise about?” he blinked in surprise at the large crowd gathered outside his bungalow. His eyes widened when he saw his son’s arm in Mrs. Sen grip. “How dare you treat my son like this?” he fumed. “Your son deliberately broke my window pane, as I had forbidden the boys from playing in the lane.” “I didn’t break the window, dad,” Vineet said, “it was Parth,” “Stop lying,” Mrs. Sen scolded. “The bat was at your feet.” “Exactly,” Vineet replied. “I wasn’t holding it. And didn’t you realise that the boys had run away?” “How dare you?” Mrs. Sen shouted. “Your rich parents haven’t taught you manners, you think you can buy our silence with your money.” Mr. Malhotra was shocked. “I don’t know about the other boys, but I’ll ensure Vineet doesn’t play in the lane again.” Assured that Mr. Malhotra would take care of his son, the crowd dispersed. Grounded “No one has ever spoken to me like that,” Mr. Malhotra stormed into his living room, after the crowd dispersed. “You should be ashamed of yourself. I had forbidden you from playing with those rowdy boys. See what happened now. They got you into trouble, leaving you to shoulder the blame and get the punishment for something they have done.” “I promise I won’t go against you again,” Vineet sobbed. “You are grounded,” his dad shouted. “No moving out of the house for the duration of the Deepavali Holidays. I’ll personally keep a watch over you.”  To be continued   While playing cricket, one boy ended up breaking the window pane of Mrs. Satya Sen’s house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/vineets-magic-mantra-in-trouble-again/article37119455.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Ghostly goings-on||Ankit, Natasha, Varun and Sachin began planning for Halloween at the beginning of October. “Let’s make our own costumes and masks for Halloween and then guess who each one is,” Natasha suggested. For a few moments, there was silence, then Ankit piped up, “Maybe we could do our costumes in pairs…?” “There are only the four of us, there is no fun in that,” grunted Sachin. “We can guess who the others in the blocks are then,” said Ankit. “We can get everyone involved in that — have a competition!” exclaimed Natasha. Double the fun Holi, Eid, Dussehra, Diwali, Halloween, Christmas and other festivals were celebrated with great gusto in their gated society. Now, in these pandemic times, with everyone behind masks, Halloween would be even more fun. “That’s another great idea from you in five minutes. What did you have for lunch? Genius jelly?” exclaimed Varun. “Ha-ha! I’m just naturally smart!” said Natasha, tossing her hair. “And now, I’m going to start work on my costume. I have some great ideas.” Through October, they continued to meet regularly, each one trying to be more mysterious than the other. “Why don’t we ask the society’s entertainment committee to sponsor a prize for the best costume?” asked Ankit. “That’s a good idea!” said Sachin. “But, if we suggest everyone joins in and grown-ups get involved, then, who will stock up on treats for us?” murmured Varun, thinking of all the goodies he would collect. “So, what do we do?” asked Ankit, trying not to appear eager. “Dump the idea?” Natasha nodded. “Maybe it’s better to dump it. If we get the entertainment committee involved for Halloween, it will distract them from Diwali — and you know Diwali’s just a couple of days later.” The others agreed. “Less pressure,” said Varun. “I don’t have to compete with dozens of kids. I just have to disguise myself from you three…” On D-Day On Halloween evening, four figures met under the banyan tree in the park as they usually did. “You didn’t even try!” Natasha and Sachin said together as they inspected Varun’s wizard’s robes and Harry Potter glasses. All he had done was substitute his regular spectacles for the round ones and wear a cloak and pointed hat — and, of course, a mask. “And you can’t keep yourselves from talking,” said Varun, “so it’s easy to guess the scary mummy is Sachin. And your Shrek head is pretty original, Natasha.” All three of them turned to the fourth figure, silently standing with them in a white sheet from head to toe. “Your silence is your weapon, huh, Ankit?” said Sachin. “But your red and yellow sneakers give you away.” He pulled Ankit’s sheet and they set out to ring doorbells and accost late evening walkers with a ‘Trick or Treat’ demand. Collecting treats Usually, Ankit was the quietest of their group, but now the costume made him bold and loud. He made his demands in a gruff, unrecognisable voice, as he held out his basket. Soon all of them had a large collection of cupcakes, cookies, chocolate bars, fruit, laddoos and other goodies. Some, they popped into their mouths immediately, but the rest they stuffed into the pockets of Ankit’s sheet costume. He had been the only one to make provision for storage, it seemed. “Next year, I’m going to stitch pockets into my cloak!” vowed Varun. “Are you planning to be a wizard every year?” asked Sachin incredulously. “Where’s your imagination?” It was late by the time they completed their round of the eight blocks and all of them were tired — and quite stuffed. “We’ll collect our shares tomorrow!” called Natasha to Ankit, as they made their way back to their homes. The next day, it was late when the three friends met at Ankit’s door and rang the bell. His mother came out. “Ankit’s sleeping,” she said. “He’s not feeling well.” “Did he eat too much? Did he finish up all the treats he brought back with him last evening?” asked Varun, disappointed that their huge cache was gone. “What treats?” asked Ankit’s mother. “Ankit didn’t have any treats — he was ill all of yesterday and didn’t go out at all!” “But…but…” sputtered Varun, “The ghost costume … his red and yellow sneakers…” “Who was that?” asked Sachin. Natasha whispered fearfully, “Who took Ankit’s place?”   “Your silence is your weapon, huh, Ankit? But your red and yellow sneakers give you away.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/ghostly-goings-on/article37119491.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||HOW TO PARTICIPATE||Choose a topic in your category and paint on a blank A3 sized (11.7 x 16.5 inches) sheet  Log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com/ clubmahindra Completeyour registration, upload a clear scanned copy of your painting and generate your Unique Registration Number On the front of the sheet, write your Unique Registration Number and Topic. On the back, write your Name, Age, Gender, Class, School Name (with branch), City, State, Category of Participation, Parent’s name, and Registered email ID and mobile number. Entries without these details will not qualify for the next round Your physical drawing should be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu, as chosen during the online registration process On the top left of the envelope, mention, “Club Mahindra National Painting Competition 2021” Online registration closes on November 23, 2021. The physical painting must reach The Hindu Office before November 25, 2021. Those who qualify for the finale will receive the details through the registered email ID Paintings received without the Unique Registration Number or after the deadline will not be considered For help, call our toll-free number 1800 102 1878 from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (Monday to Saturday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/how-to-participate/article37119492.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Triple treat||Unamsked: Stories from the Pandemic  The pandemic and the destruction it wrought across the globe is a common thread that not only bound humanity but also divided it in the manner in which people responded to it. In this set of 18 short stories, Paro Anand writes of despair, courage, and hope. She has also left the final “19th chapter” blank so that readers can write about their own pandemic experiences and share it with their family and friends.   The Magic in my Fingers  If Roohi’s mischievous brother doesn’t attend sitar practice, then Baba won’t take him to the market. And Roohi won’t get the kite that she so badly wants! Can she keep Baba from losing his temper? Loosely based on the childhood of renowned sitar  and  surbahar  player Annapoorna Devi, this is a charming tale about how a young girl discovers the magic in her fingers in more ways than one.  NoNo and Plink Plunk: Quests and Questions  NoNo and Plink Plunk, who live by the sea, are often intrigued by questions about the oceans, tides and their surroundings. But what happens when they go on a quest to find the answers? This delightful story is laced with splendid illustrations, and interesting science fun-facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/triple-treat/article37119497.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Chase a RAINBOW||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/chase-a-rainbow/article37119511.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||From the kitchen||Across  1 Salt and ____, essential spices (6) 4 Broth, best served hot (4) 6 A pressure ____ makes cooking faster (6) 7 Lemon ____: The flavorful portion of the rind (4) 8 Black coffee (8) 11 Raw vegetables tossed with seasoning (5) 13 Use ____ iron pans for cooking on high flame (4) 14 A list of dishes planned (4) 15 Corn on the ___ (3) 16 Used to shred cheese (6) 17 You can make an omelette with this (3)  Down  1 Add more toppings to this? (5) 2 Flat dish from which food is eaten (5) 3 Cooking instructions (6) 4 Uses gas or electricity to generate heat (5) 5 Machine used to make filter coffee (10) 9 Used in vegan cooking (4) 10 Food that is served ablaze (6) 11 Cut into thin pieces (5) 12 Holds water or juice (3) 13 Tea, made the Indian way (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/from-the-kitchen/article37119464.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article37119461.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article37119478.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A well-planned presentation||After almost 16 months, it felt nice to sit in an auditorium and listen to a kutcheri. Vidya Kalyanaraman’s concert at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan’s Navaratri music festival brought alive the delightful experience that a live performance can be. Featuring only compositions on Devi, she lent variety by choosing kritis by different composers and did full justice to the 75-minute concert. Two fairly detailed ragas, kritis in different gaits, and measured kalpanaswaras made it a smart concert. Even though Kalyani raga and Pallavi Gopala Iyer’s ‘Needu charana pankajamule’ were technically the centrepiece, a refreshingly rendered Kedaragowla alapana followed by Muthuswami Dikshitar’s Abhayamba panchami vibhakti kriti, ‘Abhayaambikaayah anyam na jaane’ was the more striking bit. Marked by clear diction and sung at an enjoyable pace, Vidya’s handling of every line in the charanam, brilliantly composed in single words, was indeed impressive. Violinist R. Raghul matched the singer in the neat Kedaragowla essay while in Kalyani, he highlighted the essence of the raga with sharp and elegant sancharas both in the raga essay and kalpanaswara segment. Vidya’s akarams with jhanta prayogams during the alapana showcased her raga elaboration prowess. Going beyond the upper octave panchamam is tricky, and Vidya could have skipped it and instead explored the many melodious phrases in Kalyani’s madhya sthayi. However, she made good with the beautiful and detailed niraval in the charanam lines, ‘O jagajjanani manonmani’ with Raghul’s well-aligned sequences. Nellai Balaji’s brief thani was perfect for the short duration concert, and he managed to create quick sparklers and garner applause. Pleasing swara patterns Vidya opened the concert with ‘Amboruha paadame’, a varnam in Ranjani composed by G.N. Balasubramaniam with chittaswarams in pleasing patterns. She moved on to Ponnaiah Pillai’s composition ‘Mayaatheetha swaroopini’ in Mayamalavagowla. She picked up the pallavi line for swarakalpana and embellished it with a spate of patterns in Rupaka tala, both simple and complex. Nellai Balaji on the mridangam followed her creativity and the subtle cues exchanged between them resulted in an aural treat for the listeners. ‘Nannu kanna talli’ in Sindhukannada was the customary swift part of the concert, slotted between the two grand kritis in Kedaragowla and Kalyani. Vidya approached this sprightly ekaika raga composition by Tyagaraja with modesty, without overdoing the brigas. The Tamil composition ‘Karunai deivame karpagame’ (Sindhu Bhairavi, Madurai Srinivasan) was a thoughtful choice both for the concert location, Mylapore, as well as for the ending lines ‘Nalamudan vaazha arulal vendum’, praying for the well-being of all. The concert ended with Lalgudi Jayaraman’s formidable thillana in Maand invoking the grace of Kanchi Kamakshi.  The Chennai-based author writes on classical music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-well-planned-presentation/article37118796.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A flashback||The scene being screened is from the Tamil film, Paasa Malar . Gemini Ganesan, an employee, enters the boss’s (Sivaji Ganesan) cabin with his co-workers who are on strike. While Gemini delivers a powerful dialogue about workers’ rights, Sivaji conveys his anger with controlled and subtle emotions, ending with an almost inaudible ‘Get out’. As the scene ends, Y. Gee. Mahendra enters the stage amidst applause to talk about the film that was released 60 years ago. “Just see how he lets Gemini steal the scene while he appears relaxed,” says Mahendra. “His range of expressions is unbelievable. His Tamil diction is impeccable. That is ‘Nadigar Thilagam’ Sivaji.” As three of Sivaji’s super hit films — Paava Mannippu , Paasamalar and Paalum Pazhamum — complete 60 years, a tribute was paid to the late thespian with an audio-visual event at Vani Mahal. Apart from screenplay and dialogue, these films became famous not just for Sivaji’s histrionics, but that of the other actors as well, including M.R. Radha, Gemini Ganesan, Nambiar, Savitri, Devika, Saroja Devi, M.N. Rajam, Thangavelu and Balaiyya. , The films also stood out for A. Bhimsingh’s direction, Kannadasan’s lyrics, and M.S. Viswanathan and T.K. Ramamoorthy’s music. Singers T.M. Soundararajan, P.B. Sreenivas and P. Susheela added further lustre. The AV show The audio-visual presentation was engaging as it was interspersed with interesting nuggets about Sivaji’s acting skills and behind-the-scene anecdotes. The audience hummed along as songs such as ‘Kaalangalil aval vasantham’, ‘Athan ennathan’, ‘Vandha naal mudal’, ‘Malargalai pol thangai’, and ‘Paattondru kaettaen’ were rendered.  The Chennai-based author   writes on music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-flashback/article37118781.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Ten years later||It was September 23, 2011. Jagjit Singh and Ghulam Ali were to perform together at Mumbai’s Shanmukhananda Hall. A few hours before the show, Jagjit suffered a stroke. He eventually passed away on October 10 (this year is his 10th death anniversary), leaving behind a rich legacy of music. For an entire generation, he was one of the most prominent voices in ghazal. His versatility helped make the genre extremely popular. Some of his ghazals such as ‘Baat niklegi to phir’, ‘Kal chaudhvin ki raat thi’, ‘Sarakhti jaaye rukh se naqaab’, ‘Sadma toh hai mujhe bhi’, ‘Woh kaagaz ki kashti’, ‘Honton se choolon tum’ and ‘Tum itna jo muskura rahe ho’ remain unforgettable. Besides his deep, serene voice, what endeared him to listeners was his ability to move beyond the traditional format with innovative orchestration. His ghazal concerts featured not only the harmonium and tabla, but also guitar, keyboard, violin and mandolin. Whether he performed solo or with wife Chitra, Jagjit’s shows were always sold out. He preferred ghazals with simple lyrics instead of those in chaste Urdu to reach out to a larger audience. In an interview to this writer, he had said, “People will enjoy the songs more if they can relate to the lyrics and situations. But at the same time, the poetry should be good.” Rise to fame Jagjit’s journey to fame began through successful albums with Chitra such as The Unforgettables , A Milestone , A Sound Affair , Tum Laut Aao, Ecstasies, and Desires . His albums Sajda with Lata Mangeshkar, Ghalib and Marasim with Gulzar, and Silsilay with Javed Akhtar were also well-received. The ghazals he sang for films — such as ‘Honton se choolo tum’ ( Prem Geet ), ‘Tum ko dekha toh ye khayal’ ( Saath Saath ), ‘Tum itna jo muskura rahe ho’ ( Arth ), ‘Hoshwalon ko khabar kya’ ( Sarfarosh ), ‘Koi fariyaad hai’ ( Tum Bin ), ‘Badi naazuk hai yeh manzil’ ( Jogger’s Park ) and ‘Jaag ke kaati saari raina’ ( Leela ) were huge hits, proving his ability to push the boundaries of the genre. He later widened his repertoire by including devotional songs, and his Krishna bhajans as well as songs like ‘Varde varde’, ‘Vakratunda mahakaya’, ‘Tum karuna ke saagar’ and the Sikh shabad ‘Mittar pyaare nu’ are favourites among listeners. Chitra gave up singing following the death of their 20-year-old son Vivek in an accident in 1990. So Jagjit performed solo, singing ghazals, film songs and bhajans. While listeners loved his album, Different Strokes , featuring traditional compositions like ‘Babul mora’ and ‘Baaju band’, in the latter part of his career, he also faced criticism for sounding repetitive. Yet, he knew how to reinvent himself and always returned with a hit. After his death, many tribute shows were organised and albums such asThe Master And His Magicand The Voice From Beyond featuring Jagjit’s unreleased songs were launched. While filmmaker Brahmanand Singh made the documentary Kaagaz Ki Kashti, journalist Sathya Saran wrote the biography Baat Niklegi To Phir: The Life And Times of Jagjit Singh . This year, singers Hariharan, Talat Aziz, Sonu Nigam, Shaan, Babul Supriyo and others teamed up with composer Shameer Tandon to record the album, Tribute To Jagjit Singh .  The writer is a Mumbai-   based music journalist.   Besides his deep, serene voice, what endeared him to listeners was his ability to move beyond the traditional format with innovative orchestration||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/ten-years-later/article37118813.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The beauty of a bandish||Listening to some of the classical music performances held as part of Anubhav-3, the online convention of Spic Macay to celebrate India’s 75th year of Independence, one realised the importance of compositions in the context of refining the mind and spirit that takes place in the pursuit of raag-vidya. Access to the timeless compositions of the Carnatic Trinity from childhood is a blessing for Carnatic musicians. It develops their understanding of the sahitya and the inherent emotion in them. This could enhance their musical expression when they undergo training. This was proved by vidwan T.V. Shankaranarayanan and violin exponent A. Kanyakumari. Similarly, the bandish (composition) is one of the most intriguing devices to sum up a raag through musical and lyrical nuances. . It is easy to distinguish between a singer whose approach to music is academic and one who goes beyond grammar and syntax to embrace the beauty of the lyrics. Besides systematic training, an aspiring artiste should keep his ear open to all kinds of music — folk, classical and semi-classical. The performances by Begum Parveen Sultana, vidushi Ashwini Bhide Deshpande, Pt. Venkatesh Kumar and Prof. Ritwik Sanyal reiterated this strongly. Bhava-rich renditions Opening with raag Yaman on the inaugural evening, Begum Parveen Sultana rendered ‘Aaj mangal gao,’ the bada khayal set to slow tempo of Ektaal and the popular Teentaal bandish, ‘Kal na pare, mori aali.’ She brought out the essence of the raag elaborating the bandish with bol-badhat to boltaan followed by sargam and aakar taans. Even the concluding tarana in Yaman resembled the popular bandish, ‘Main vaari vaari jaaun preetam pyaare’. The thumri in Khamaj, ‘Nadiya kinare mora gaanv’, the bhajan ‘Ram bina na kachhu hoye’ and, on popular demand, the Mishra Bhairavi ‘Bhavaani Dayaani’ were all, of course, shabda-pradhaan’ offerings, where the emotional outpouring delighted the audience along with the rasa-bhava. Ashwini Bhide Deshpande, whose voice has the delicate touches of breath and inflection that make raags come alive, opened the overnight concert with a soulful rendition of Jhinjhoti. The slow Jhaptaal bandish, ‘Mahadeva Shankar’, rendered with perfect enunciation, had the bol-badhat exploring each word of the traditional composition as if invoking Shiva with fervour. The following tarana in Drut Teentaal with its ‘sam’ on the tuneful taar shadja was a fine transition from Jhaptaal to Teentaal. Next came the popular Miyan Malhar bandish, ‘Bol re papihara’, famous from the film Guddi, which the singer explained is a 350-year-old bandish composed by Sadarang. She also sang a Drut Ada Chautal bandish by the same composer and in the same raag with an altogether different flavour. This underlined how two bandishes in the same raag may focus on different aspects, evoking contrasting moods. She concluded with a Kabir Nirgun bhajan and one felt her love for the lyrics all through the performance. Masterly delineation How a bandish is rendered reflects how the artiste perceives the raag. Pt. Venkatesh Kumar proved this with his masterly rendition of Lalit, Jaunpuri and Deshkar, and finally a Kannada bhajan; although the selection of raags made it sound like a morning concert rather than the midnight when the concert was streamed. Apart from being a melodic interpretation of a raag, the lyrical content of a bandish often does not inspire engagement because the quality of a bandish is never judged by its lyrics. This was felt with the nonchalant renderings of raags Bhairav and Bairagi by Pt. Prabhakar Karekar although the Nirgun bhajan ‘Ek sur charachar chhayo’ and the Bhairavi bandish ‘Murali wale Shyam’ showed some involvement of the vocalist with the lyrics too. Prof. Ritwik Sanyal, the final artiste of the overnight concert, took the stage in the early hours of the morning and very thoughtfully chose the Dhruvapada, ‘Naad-shruti brahma-muhurta mein pargat bhayo’ set to Chartaal in raag Lalit, preceded with a detailed aalapchari of dhrupad ang. Ably accompanied on the pakhawaj by Ankit Parikh, he concluded with a Sooltaal nandish in raag Bhathiyar ‘Bhajman Ram naam, tribhuvan taaran’ and carried the sublime ‘Anubhav’ to its climax. Over 15,000 young participants experienced the richness of the arts, not just through these performances but also through the intensive workshops conducted by renowned musicians, dancers and award-winning craftspersons for the occasion.  The Delhi-based writer specialises in classical music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-beauty-of-a-bandish/article37118818.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Myriad hues of Kamboji||Vocalist A.S. Murali strung together lively raga sequences in his concert for Arunachala Ramana Sangeetha Sabha’s Navaratri series. In the Kamboji alapana, he effectively brought out the raga’s graceful characteristics. On the violin, Pakkala Ramadas ably and creatively responded with a perfect delineation. Murali, a student of guru P.S. Narayanaswamy, presented Papanasam Sivan’s composition on Shiva, ‘Aadum deivam nee arulvaay’. He used the scope that the pallavi offers for improvisation to come up distinct and charming phrases. In the swaraprastara at the charanam, ‘Subhamser kaaliyudan aadi padu tholvi anji’ he once again showed his training and considerable skill. This line brings to the fore the composer’s love for chaste Tamil and knowledge of mythology. Accompanying him on the mridangam and morsing were his brothers, A.S. Ranganathan and A.S. Krishnan, who struck a fine partnership in the tani avartanam. They contributed to enhancing the concert’s appeal. Murali, who is also a ghatam artiste, enjoyed every moment of the thani. Apt choice of songs The Kiravani alapana was conceived well. Ramadas’s repartees were engaging. Murali’s choice of the Appar Thevaram, ‘Vaananai mathi choodiya’, in praise of Shiva at Tiruvannamalai, was appropriate, as the recital was for the Arunachala Ramana sabha. The niraval at ‘Veeranai vidamundanai' was one from the heart, with a ably-structured swaraprastara in misra chapu. Murali had begun his concert with ‘Saraseeruhaasana priye’ in Nattai by Puliyur Doraiswamy Iyer, with swaras at the usual ‘Saraswathi’. This was followed by the popular Janaranjani kriti by Mahavaidyanatha Iyer, ‘Pahimam sri raja rajeswari’. Its sparkling chittaswara has become a staple for this raga. The exchange of swaras between the vocalist and the violinist was enchanting. Dikshitar’s ‘Renuka devi samrakshithoham’ in Kannada Bangala (khanda chapu) was a connoisseur’s delight. This composition is in the eighth Vibhakti. Tyagaraja’s Bhavapriya kriti, ‘Sri kanthaniyeda’, in Desadi was crisply rendered. Murali concluded with Madurai Srinivasan’s popular piece, 'Karunai Deivame' in Sindhu Bhairavi. Vocal support was by Shyam Sundar and tambura by Amritha. The concert is available on Arkay Convention Centre's YouTube channel.  The Chennai-based author specialises in Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/myriad-hues-of-kamboji/article37118790.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Bharatanatyam’s Marathi flavour||Intriguing sollus and themes marked veteran artiste Sucheta Chapekar’s Bharatanatyam tribute to vaggeyakara Raja Serfoji II on his 244th birth anniversary. It is likely that the king’s Marathi dance compositions were for the pre-systematised court dance Sadir, that is, before the Thanjavur Quartet modified the training and repertoire. This assumption was corroborated by Sucheta through her guru Parvati Kumar’s book Tanjavur Nritya Prabandha . She said that the brothers performed their arangetram in Raja Serfoji’s court, but matured as artistes in Raja Sivaji’s court. This explains the use of Nirupanas in Raja Serfoji’s compositions, a set of 18 pieces with the same theme and in the same raga. In 1968, under Parvati Kumar’s tutelage, Sucheta presented 18 of his compositions but taken from different Nirupanas. Different ragas and talas Her recent online performance was also a compilation of five pieces in different ragas and talas. ‘... Jaga jaga naga dhiminaga jaganagi, Kirrrra kinajaga kinajaga namtari’ went the sollus in the invocatory Kavuthuvam in praise of Shiva, the presiding deity of Thanjavur. The rhyming lyrics ‘Yavari soduni bheda bhavana, Lavakari bhaja tu Gowri Ramana’ and resonant sollus were brought out beautifully in Sucheta’s vintage Bharatanatyam performance style. Having learnt from guru Kittappa Pillai as well, the choreographies, adapted from Parvati Kumar’s originals, combined her masters’ sensibilities and her own. In the swarajathi (Pantuvarali, tisra Ata tala) ‘Changa bhanga tu karavuni ghe’ a mature sakhi advises a newly-wed on how to keep her husband happy. The swaras in between the lines were short and melodiously sung by Shivaprasad, who lent soul to the music. The narrative behind every piece was unusual. The lyrics were in Sanskritised Marathi, with a few Tamil and Persian words. Some compositions had notations, some did not. Janardhan Tanjorkar set each composition to music according to the raga and tala notations mentioned in the manuscripts. The Jakkini Daru was the most delightful, with sollus, swaras and sahitya. Couched in a folk beat (Sankarabaranam, Adi), it was a fast piece, with jathis and swaras. Little phrases such as ‘Yellilam yellilam le devaadhideva’ reflected the outside influences within the framework of the piece. Sucheta presented abhinaya in ‘Housesa to mola nahi re’ (Khamas, Adi) and ‘Aji sonyacha Divasa,’ (Ritigowla, Adi), where the former has a sarcastic nayika asking Krishna, ‘There is no limit to enjoyment, you can do what you want. Why this secrecy?’ The latter was a bhakti piece where the protagonist feels her life’s mission is complete after a glimpse of Shiva. Sucheta’s experience shone in her handling of the pieces. As a researcher and repository of Marathi songs, she has contributed deeply to the understanding of dance literature.  The Chennai-based author writes on classical dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/bharatanatyams-marathi-flavour/article37118798.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Songs of love, loss and hope||His demise on October 13, 1987 was as sudden as his ascent to superstardom in 1969, the year he staged a melodious coup with the songs of Aradhana and emerged a formidable competitor to Mohammed Rafi. Overnight, Kishore, who had been ignored for long, became a favourite of an entire generation of music-lovers. For the next 18 years of his life and all 34 years since his death, Kishore has remained not just popular, but also the most emulated male playback voice. What is it about Kishore’s voice or singing that contributes to his everlasting appeal? The question defies an easy answer. To millennials, it may never make sense that he had to wait 21 years to be considered good enough to sing for the top heroes of his time; that from 1948 to 1969, he sang playback only for himself in the movies he acted in, or intermittently for Dev Anand at the insistence of his mentor, S.D. Burman. Other top composers of the 1950s and 1960s — Naushad, O.P. Nayyar, Shankar -Jaikishan — rejected his voice as non-musical. Last week, October 13, was Kishore’s 34th death anniversary and a good way to remember him would be by delving deeper into the songs that are milestones in his musical trajectory.  As a composer and lyricist We start with his own composition, ‘Aa chal ke tujhe’ from Door Gagan Ki Chaon Mein (1964), for which he also wrote the lyrics. The song talks of a world where only love reigns. Even today, the song beckons us, asking us to interrogate the choices we make and the price we sometimes pay in the process. In Aradhana , his velvety vocals enhance Rajesh Khanna’s youthful charm while in the other Rajesh -starrer Khamoshi, his sublime rendition leaves us spellbound. What he brings to the Aradhana songs is a quality of buoyancy and audacity of first love, laced with desire. In sharp contrast, ‘Woh shaam kuch ajeeb thi’ from Khamoshi puts us in touch with the precarious hope that love brings, where joy is never too far from the anxiety of loss. The song helps articulate feelings that we grapple with all too often, but find no words for. Among the many hits that Bollywood’s most enduring musical partnership — the trio of S.D. Burman-Kishore Kumar-Dev Anand — produced, the one song where Kishore best captures the joie de vivre that permeated all Navketan films would be ‘Phoolon ke rang se’ in Prem Pujari (1970). S.D. with his emphasis on simple and hummable tunes, and Kishore with his penchant for infusing a layer of emotion beyond what the lyrics imply, together convert this song into an eternal tribute to the joy of making music. It is not without reason that even today there is virtually no mehfil of music-lovers where this song doesn’t feature. By the time Gulzar’s Ghar (1978) hit the theatres, Kishore’s voice had surpassed the hero it was filmed on and stood on its own. That same year, he sang for many Amitabh Bachchan blockbusters, but it’s in the offbeat Phir wohi raat hain that he brings to bear all his musical sensitivity. Gulzar’s lyrics are an ode to hope amidst despair. R.D. Burman’s chords-based tune and Kishore’s compassionate rendering make it unforgettable, like many of the singer’s songs.  The Chennai-based writer is the author ofBollywood Melodies: A History of the Hindi Film Song.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/songs-of-love-loss-and-hope/article37118784.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Adding colour to music||MadRasana will present a concert series that blends music and colour called Tinge Festival. The series will feature five concerts by five young musicians, each representing a colour. S. Adithya Narayanan (red), Anahita-Apoorva (yellow), Aditya Madhavan (blue), Spoorthi Rao (green) and Sunil Gargyan (white). “The public was invited to suggest songs pertaining to each colour and art director Vinay Varanasi was brought in to compose a new pallavi for the ragam-tanam-pallavi portion of each concert,” said Mahesh Venkateswaran, founder, MadRasana. “Not just the lyrics, but even each ragam is selected based on the colour,” he added. Tinge Festival is MadRasana’s first concert series of the year. Inspired by the String Quartet’s performance for an audience of 2,300 plants in Barcelona in 2020, MadRasana recorded the entire concert series in front of 225 plants that were placed on alternate seats at the IIT Research Park auditorium, Chennai. “The aim is to also make the event a carbon neutral one,” said Venkateswaran. They plan to do that by planting 150 saplings to offset the electricity used. “We are inviting the public to be part of it, so that they can donate a small sum (while purchasing the tickets) and once the concert series is over, we will plant the saplings and send them the certificates,” he added. Tickets to the digital concert series are available on MadRasana’s website. The concerts can be watched from October 27 to 31, 7 p.m. daily. A replay of each performance will be available for viewing till November 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/adding-colour-to-music/article37118793.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Odissi workshop||The dance workshop series organised by NCPA as part of ‘Celebrating Devi’ culminates in a three-day Odissi workshop, to be conducted by senior dancer Aruna Mohanty on Zoom from October 22 to 24, 6.30 p.m. Spread over three comprehensive sessions, the workshop will also have scholar and dancer Rahul Acharya speak on the influence of tantra in the temple tradition of Puri. Odissi has its roots in the temple, where it was performed as Gotipua and Mahari before it was revived for contemporary audiences. Aruna Mohanty will teach the popular Devi composition‘Aigiri Nandini’.  For registrations, call 88791 14939/98190 02515. For more details, log on to the NCPA website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/odissi-workshop/article37118811.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Year-long music series||To provide interesting insights into Carnatic music, musician and musicologist Dr. Radha Bhaskar has launched ‘CM 365’, a year-long series that began streaming daily from October 15. Topics such as different musical patterns, raga classifications, new ragas created by vaggeyakaras, etc have been dealt with so far. Log on to Samudhra’s Facebook page or mudhrabhaskar’s YouTube channel at 6 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/year-long-music-series/article37118786.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Courses for art aspirants||Mahagami Gurukul Centre for Performing Arts in association with MGM University offers admission to PG, UG, Diploma, Certificate and short-term courses in various Indian classical arts and Indic Studies. The Gurukul, that enters its 25th year, also proposes to offer Masters degrees in Odissi, Kathak, Musicology and Indology. For details log on to Mahagami’s website or Whatsapp 98222 44250/ 93720 93189.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/courses-for-art-aspirants/article37118794.ece
22 October 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers’ protest to continue at Ghazipur border, says BKU||After the Supreme Court’s observation on indefinite blockage of roads during the ongoing farmers’ agitation against three contentious farm laws, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) removed a tent from the service lane that connects Delhi to Uttar Pradesh. BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait reiterated that they never blocked the road and it was the Delhi Police that had been preventing them from moving inside Delhi by putting a seven-layered barricade. “We have been waiting at the border for 11 months. It seems the SC feels that we have been blocking the road so we have cleared this road. Delhi Police should allow us to move into Delhi,” Mr Tikait told reporters. When asked where do the farmers want to proceed, he said, “to the place where these laws had been made.” Yudhvir Singh, general secretary, BKU, said only one tent that housed the media centre for some time had been removed. “There is a misconception that we have concluded the protest at the Ghazipur border. The tent has been removed to dispel the notion that we are blocking the route. The protest is very much on,” he said. On the postponement of the Lucknow mahapanchayat scheduled for October 26, Mr Singh said the mahpanchayat has been pushed by a month because of unseasonal rains. “Farmers have suffered loses because of the rains and we don’t want to push them into the protest at this time,” he said. ‘Centre-State tussle’ However, senior sources in BKU said they could sense a tussle between the Central and State government on the farmers’ issue and they wanted to “wait and watch” its outcome. “The way Yogi Adityanath handled the Lakhimpur violence showed his positive intent before the polls. He sent his best officers to the ground and allowed access to Rakeshji to Lakhimpur. It saved the situation from going out of hand and the immediate demands of farmers were met. In contrast, the central government is not dismissing the minister who is accused in the case. It appears that the Centre wants to weaken the Yogi government as part of BJP’s internal tussle,” said a senior BKU leader on condition of anonymity. “In fact, all State governments, including that of Haryana are against the farm laws but the Centre has made it an ego issue,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-protest-to-continue-at-ghazipur-border-says-bku/article37119225.ece
22 October 2021||Mumbai,||U.K., India joint military exercise is to keep peace and stability: CSG top officer||As the United Kingdom’s Carrier Strike Group (CSG) gets ready for one of the biggest joint exercises — Konkan Shakti — with India’s armed forces, its aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth has an added task — it aims to strengthen military as well as cultural ties with India with an intent to “demonstrate that democracies that have similar views of the world want to work together to keep peace and stability”. Amid reports that the joint exercise may not be appreciated by China, which could see it as an answer to its might, the CSG’s top officer said peaceful negotiations remained the only answer but like-minded nations must stand together to protect free flow of trade. “But what is really important is the nations, I mean India, the United Kingdom and Japan and many others, in that region are maritime trading nations. Have been for hundreds of years. We rely on the free flow of trade, unencumbered and that is hugely important to us. And I think if anybody tries to stymie that or stop that, the like-minded nations would want to come together and stand against it,” Commodore Steve Moorhouse OBE, CSG Commander, told reporters onboard HMS Queen Elizabeth . He stated that was what lot of these exercises were about. “They demonstrate that democracies that have similar views of the world want to work together to keep peace and stability. That could be in the South China Sea or the western Indian Ocean or the Gulf of Aden or the North Sea,” he observed. Stationed 50 miles off the Mumbai coast, this is the first aircraft carrier in the world, designed from the outset to operate fifth generation combat aircraft, which will be hosting members from industry, trade, science and technology in coming days, including a chef. “Specifically with India, there is a whole comprehensive and strategic partnership that the two Prime Ministers have signed and visioned out at Roadmap 2030. We are one part of it. I am the expert in military field. There are other areas of partnership with India that we are looking to strengthen and take forward.” Commodore Moorhouse noted. Common protocols Referring to the one of the biggest exercises with India, he pointed out that it was very few times that the U.K. as a nation held an exercise of maritime, land and air at the same time. “Can the British Army quickly and securely set up communication with the Indian Army? Can we do that with the Indian Navy. Traditionally speaking, we can’t. We got to go beyond that. Common protocols are needed so that Indian ships can replenish from British ships and vice-versa. You got to have common operating procedures. No matter where you meet in the world, you can come together as an alliance, as a group of like-minded nations and look as a coherent and competent force,” he explained. The exercise would test anti-submarine procedures, where an Indian submarine would pretend to be the enemy and the Indian and Royal Navy ships would try to find it. In addition, in air defence exercises where F-35s would attack the group, the Indian Air Force would be there. “These are the exercises where we will work together, but the forces will change the side just to increase the complexity of what we are trying to do,” he added.  HMS Queen Elizabeth , commissioned on December 7, 2017, has a displacement of 65,000 tonnes. A second ship, HMS Prince of Wales , is also in commission meaning one carrier is always available for operations. It can accommodate 40 aircraft, including F-35B fighter jets, along with a tailored mix of Merlin, Chinook, Wildcat and Apache helicopters. It is 280 meters in length, 70 meters beam and 11 meters draft. The CSK consists of the aircraft carrier, air defence destroyers, anti-submarine frigates, hunter-killer submarine and tide-class tanker RFA Fort Victoria – the replenishment ship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/uk-india-joint-military-exercise-is-to-keep-peace-and-stability-csg-top-officer/article37119223.ece
22 October 2021||PUNE,||HC grants interim protection from arrest to Eknath Khadse||The Bombay High Court on Thursday granted interim protection from arrest for a week to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and former Maharashtra Minister Eknath Khadse in a 2016 money laundering case related to a dubious land deal in Bhosari in Pune. A single-judge bench of Justice Nitin W. Sambre, hearing Mr. Khadse’s anticipatory bail plea, directed the NCP leader to approach the special PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) court to seek regular bail. Mr. Khadse’s counsel, Shirish Gupte, argued that a chargesheet in the case had already been filed and that the NCP leader had never been arrested during the investigation. Last month, a special court had initiated proceedings against Mr. Khadse and four others, including his wife Mandakini and son-in-law Girish Choudhary, observing that there was a prima facie case against them in the chargesheet filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). ‘File for regular bail’ Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the ED, argued that Mr. Khadse would have to approach the special court to seek regular bail after which Justice Sambre directed the NCP leader to “file for regular bail or seek interim bail before the special court in one week from today”. The High Court’s order noted that the special court “shall not take the applicant in custody for one week and shall decide the bail plea expeditiously.” In July this year, the ED had arrested Mr. Choudhary after quizzing him extensively in connection with the land grab case in a Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) zone in Pune’s Bhosari area. Along with Mr. Chaudhary, Mr. Khadse’s name had figured prominently in the case which concerned a prime plot of land in the Bhosari area that the latter had allegedly acquired by abusing his position as Revenue Minister in the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government. The incident had triggered Mr. Khadse’s fall from grace within the BJP and led to his resignation in 2016. In January 2020, the ED had recorded Mr. Khadse’s statement in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-grants-interim-protection-from-arrest-to-eknath-khadse/article37119218.ece
22 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||151 ‘criminals’ shot dead in encounters since 2017: Yogi||Ever since the BJP-led Government came to power in Uttar Pradesh in March 2017, the State police have shot dead 151 suspected criminals in alleged exchange of fire, officially termed as ‘encounters,’ Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said here on Thursday. “We have a policy of zero tolerance against crime and criminals,” said Mr. Adityanath at the Police Smriti Diwas Parade. The Chief Minister also said 3,473 suspected criminals were injured in these operations. During the same period, from March 30, 2017 to October 10, 2021, 13 police personnel were killed while 1,198 were injured, he said. Mr. Adityanath also said the police had taken action against 45,603 persons under the Gangsters Act and against 657 under the National Security Act, and seized, demolished or freed from illegal occupation property worth Rs. 1,500 crore from 25 persons designated as ‘mafia' criminals and their gang members. “It has sent a good message in society. The credit for creating fear of law among criminals goes to the tough action under law, action plan and hard work of the U.P. police,” said the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/151-criminals-shot-dead-in-encounters-since-2017-yogi/article37119220.ece
22 October 2021||Pune,||Pawar hits out at BJP after raids||After enduring Income Tax raids on businesses owned by his relatives and aides earlier this month, Deputy Chief Minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar on Thursday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) allegations that he had purchased the Satara-based Jarandeshwar sugar factory through shell companies. Mr. Pawar said that he has data of around 60-70 such sugar factories being purchased by builders, politicos, big farmers and that he would reveal all in a press conference soon. “It is not only about the Jarandeshwar factory, but I have all the records of other factories which are being sold and purchased in the State and I will reveal this in a detailed press conference tomorrow in Pune. The number of such factories are 60-70… I will give information about how many factories were sold in the State from the beginning, at what price, and in whose tenure,” said the Deputy Chief Minister. Lashing out at the opposition’s attempts to throw muck at him, Mr. Pawar said he had been active in Maharashtra’s politics since 1990 and that the State’s public knew very well that he was not dishonest. “The whole of Maharashtra knows me and that I am not dishonest and that I will never lie... There is no dishonesty in our blood,” said Mr. Pawar, who is also Pune’s Guardian Minister. At the time of the I-T raids, Mr. Pawar had said he felt aggrieved that authorities were raiding the homes of his sisters in Pune and Kolhapur, while promising that he would speak out in detail once the authorities had departed. Somaiya’s visit Earlier on Wednesday, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya showed up outside the Enforcement Directorate’s zonal office in south Mumbai to furnish more information regarding alleged financial wrongdoings in businesses linked to Mr. Pawar. NCP activists staged a protest against him and the BJP, demanding a status report on complaints filed against four BJP leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pawar-hits-out-at-bjp-after-raids/article37119222.ece
22 October 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra to start special vaccination drive in colleges||A day after colleges opened in Maharashtra, Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday announced a special drive to vaccinate students between the age group of 18 and 25. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Tope said the drive would start from October 25 and would continue till November 2. “We have given three days to colleges to collect data on how many students have received the first dose. Based on that, we will make our assessment on the doses required to fully vaccinate the students,” he said. Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant was also present. Talking about the State’s overall performance with regard to COVID-19 vaccination, Mr. Tope said Maharashtra had the highest number of people who had been given both doses of the vaccine. “Around 6.4 crore people in the State have been given one dose, while 2.9 crore have got the second dose,” he said. The Minister added that since restrictions on various activities and movement were being lifted and the festive season was in progress, a possible third wave of the pandemic post-Deepavali could only be countered by increased vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-to-start-special-vaccination-drive-in-colleges/article37119231.ece
22 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Modi comes to the rescue of ‘beleaguered’ Lal||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal came in for some lavish praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, at a virtual event on Thursday for heading an “honest” and “innovative” government. Inaugurating the Infosys Foundation rest house at AIIMS National Cancer Institute in Jhajjar, Mr. Modi said that Haryana had got an “honest government under the leadership of Manohar Lal, deliberating about the bright future of the State round-the-clock”. The Prime Minister added that Mr. Lal’s government would be adjudged as the most innovative and one with a vision if the performance of successive Haryana governments over past five decades was ever evaluated. In the headlines Mr. Lal has been making headlines for all the wrong of late for his statements on how to tackle the ongoing farmers’ agitation, and also for unemployment, corruption, and incidence of rising crime in the State. The Chief Minister has been under attack from his own party leaders. Union Minister of State and the Lok Sabha MP from Gurugram Rao Inderjit Singh had spoken of the party’s poor performance at the Assembly polls at a recent rally. Mr. Lal’s strained relations with Home Minister Anil Vij have also been making headlines. In August, Mr. Lal had fuelled speculations of a shake-up within the party’s State unit with his remarks hinting that newly-appointed Union Cabinet Minister, Bhupender Yadav, could take up the leadership baton from senior leaders in the State.  Against this backdrop, Mr. Lal’s supporters now construe Prime Minister’s remarks as a response to his detractors and a stamp of approval on his “style of working”. This, they feel, also puts to rest all speculations on any change in State leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/modi-comes-to-the-rescue-of-beleaguered-lal/article37119228.ece
22 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Committee set up to evolve youth policy||The Karnataka Government has formed a 13-member committee of experts to formulate the Karnataka Youth Policy-2021, led by Swamy Vivekananda Youth Movement founder R. Balasubramanyam. According to Youth Empowerment and Sports Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda, the committee has been asked to elicit opinion about expectations from the new policy and to submit a report within two months. Karnataka had evolved its youth policy in 2012. However, there was a need to evolve a new policy now to keep in tune with the changing times and aspirations, the Ministry said. Expressing concern about substance abuse among youth, the Minister said the proposed policy would spell out measures to fight it. It would also focus on new technologies and innovations besides giving importance to sports through youth organisations, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/committee-set-up-to-evolve-youth-policy/article37118988.ece
22 October 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat to achieve universal vaccination by year end: Govt.||With 90% of its eligible population covered with at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, the Gujarat Government has set its sights on achieving universal vaccination by year end. The State has so far covered nearly 47% eligible population with both the doses. “Till 10 a.m. on Thursday, nearly 4.41 crore people, which means around 90% of the eligible population, have received their first dose, while 2.35 crore have taken their second as well,” said Health Minister Rushikesh Patel. As per the official figures, Gujarat has around 4.93 crore people above the age of 18 who are eligible to take the vaccine against the pandemic that has officially claimed 10,000 lives in the State but unofficial figures would likely to be in several lakhs during the two waves in 2020 and this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gujarat-to-achieve-universal-vaccination-by-year-end-govt/article37119232.ece
22 October 2021||Gurugram,||I should have been invited, says Hooda||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda on Thursday strongly objected to not being invited to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s virtual programme for the inauguration of Infosys Foundation’s rest house at AIIMS National Cancer Institute in Jhajjar. In a press statement, Mr. Hooda said he would have made an appeal to the Prime Minister for the completion of ten more institutes at the cancer institute if invited for the event. He said these were approved during the UPA rule and he was duty-bound to raise the demand for their completion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/i-should-have-been-invited-says-hooda/article37119216.ece
22 October 2021||Panaji,||Former Sena leader joins Cong. in Goa||Former vice-president of the Shiv Sena’s Goa unit Rakhi Prabhudesai Naik, who recently resigned from the party, joined the Congress here on Thursday. Mr. Naik was inducted into the party in the presence of Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar and Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Chodankar said that it is a welcome step that several leaders are joining the party ahead of the upcoming State Assembly elections. Mr. Naik had resigned from the Shiv Sena last week accusing the party of paying “only lip service” to the social issues in the coastal State. “I am joining the Congress, as I look at it as the only hope for the better future of Goa,” she said during a press conference. Goa is safe in the hands of the Congress, which has credible leadership, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/former-sena-leader-joins-cong-in-goa/article37119217.ece
22 October 2021||October 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering dad||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/remembering-dad/article37119230.ece
