23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India weighs ‘net zero’ target ahead of CoP||India has not entirely ruled out the possibility of agreeing to a “net zero” climate target, though it will not budge on demanding that developed nations make good their previous commitments, such as an annual $100 billion to developing countries for mitigating the impacts of climate change, facilitating technology transfer and putting in place a tangible market-based mechanism to activate the moribund carbon credit markets, senior officials said. Ahead of the 26th meeting of the United Nations’ Conference of Parties (CoP) that begins in Glasgow on November 1, the focus on making the meet a success is to have all nations commit to “net zero”, or a year by when a country’s fossil fuel emissions will peak and at some point be neutralised by taking out excess carbon from the atmosphere. All countries doing this by 2050, scientists say, will mean a chance of restricting the average temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius, provided emissions fall to around 45% of the 2010 levels by 2030. Impact on development This, however, means deep and significant cuts to fossil fuel use that can affect the development trajectory of India and other developing countries. A study by the think tank Council for Energy Environment and Water projects said that for India to achieve the net zero target even by 2070, usage of coal, especially for power generation, will need to peak by 2040 and drop by 99% between 2040 and 2060. The consumption of crude oil across sectors will need to peak by 2050 and fall substantially by 90% between 2050 and 2070. India’s long-term position in climate talks has always been that it will eschew the use of fossil fuels but only gradually because it cannot compromise on development, which is now primarily reliant on coal. Also because it goes against the core principle of “common but differentiated responsibility” that requires developed countries, which are responsible for the climate crisis, to take on deeper cuts and pay developing countries for the environmental damage from rising temperature as well as finance their transition to clean energy sources. However, the U.S, and EU delegations, in recent months, had several meetings with the Indian officials to chart out a more ambitious pathway to cut emissions. “All options are on the platter,” a senior official who will be representing India at Glasgow told The Hindu , “but it will depend on how the negotiations will progress and whether we will be able to move ahead on getting developed countries to honour their commitments”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to be in Glasgow for the Leaders’ Summit on the first two days. At least 120 heads of state have confirmed their participation. There are also expectations that even if India doesn’t announce a net zero target, it may hint at an updated set of Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC), or a firmer set of commitments that could include higher clean-energy targets or reductions in specific categories of emissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-weighs-net-zero-target-ahead-of-cop/article37134438.ece
23 October 2021||Hassan,||Good response to Sringeri bandh call||A day-long Sringeri bandh, called by various organisations in support of setting up a super-speciality hospital in the town, was successful on Friday. Business establishments remained closed and there was hardly any movement of vehicles. There were no devotees in the temple town, widely known for the Sharada Peetha. Shops in villages near Sringeri also remained closed. Residents of Sringeri taluk have been demanding a 100-bed super-speciality hospital in the town. In fact, the State Government had issued an order sanctioning a hospital in 2007 itself. However, there had been no progress on allocating suitable land for it. Malenadu Janapara Horata Vedike and Sringeri Yuva Vedike, among others, had given the bandh call. Leaders of political parties extended support to the bandh, stressing the need for a hospital in the town, which attracts lakhs of visitors every year. Hundreds of people participated in a protest march and raised slogans demanding a hospital. The protesters said that if someone fell sick and needed emergency healthcare, the person had to be taken to either Manipal or Shivamogga, both of which were about 100 km from Sringeri. In many cases, those injured in accidents died while being taken to cities for treatment. The 30-bed hospital, functioning in the town, was not sufficient to cater to the needs of patients in critical condition. The protesters also alleged that the public hardly had ambulance facility in the town and they were forced to depend on private service providers. The protesters submitted a memorandum to Assistant Commissioner H.L. Nagaraj. They said the Government had resolved to upgrade the existing hospital in 2007. A suitable piece of land in survey number 61 at Vykuntapura was identified for the project. However, the Forest Department raised objections to constructing the hospital there, claiming it was part of the forest area. The protesters urged thedistrict administration to find suitable land for the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/good-response-to-sringeri-bandh-call/article37134703.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Synergy between forces and Govt. won 1971 war: Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said that Indo-Pak War in 1971 was decisively won due to the synergy between the Government and the three services. “The political leadership had full faith in the military leadership, which rose to meet the aspirations of the people. Despite international pressure, no direction was issued to the military to end the war,” he said, at the three-day Indian Air Force Conclave here that was organised to mark 50 years of the victory. “How does it matter who handled the war?” he asked, pointing out that General Sam Manekshaw was a Parsi, Air Force Chief P.C. Lal was a Hindu, Assistant Chief of Air Staff (Plans) I.H. Lathif was a Muslim, General Officer in Command in Eastern Command Jagjit Singh Aurora was a Sikh and Maj. General J.F.R. Jacob who negotiated surrender with Pakistan General A.A.K. Niazi in Dhaka was Jewish. “What matters is the efforts of all these were for dharma of humanity,” he said. The war, he said, was fought for humanitarian purposes and to save the democratic process, and not to show the supremacy. “The power was returned to people of Bangladesh without it being imposed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/synergy-between-forces-and-govt-won-1971-war-rajnath/article37134450.ece
23 October 2021||Belagavi,||205 booked for Ranakunde group clash||The police have booked 205 people on charges of involvement in the group clash at Ranakunde village that left at least four persons injured. The cases were booked on Thursday. The incident occurred on Wednesday. They include five persons originally booked in the case. The Belagavi Rural police had registered a case under IPC provisions relating to injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class, attempt to murder, rioting, and other sections. Similar provisions have been applied against the 200 others, the police said. On Friday, some villagers urged the police to withdraw the cases registered against them, but their effort went in vain. After consultation with senior officers, the district administration allowed villagers to reconstruct the demolished temple. Wednesday’s group clash was the result of an altercation between members of a Belagavi-based family that tried to stop the construction of a place of worship in the village, claiming it was being built on their family property. The villagers, however, argued that the land belonged to the Huda temple trust and that the Inamdar family from Belagavi had not only obstructed the construction, but also hurt their religious sentiments. Villagers maintained that prayers had been offered at the place for several years. A crowd began a street fight that led to some persons getting injured. They were treated at the district hospital. They were all declared to be out of danger. Police officers rushed to the spot and dispersed the crowd. Dhananjaya Jadhav, BJP leader, alleged that the Inamdars had no claim over the land as they had sold it long ago. However, inspection of documents by the tahasildar revealed that the land belonged to the gram panchayat. The Assistant Commissioner of police and others held a peace committee meeting in the village. He asked the general public not to take the law into their own hands till the dispute over ownership of the land was resolved. He promised to station a city armed reserve van in the village till peace returned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/205-booked-for-ranakunde-group-clash/article37134699.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Nearly 700 detained in J&K ahead of Amit Shah’s visit||Following the civilian killings and ahead of Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir beginning on Saturday, nearly 700 people have been detained in the Union Territory, including a few under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA). The detentions have been made particularly in south Kashmir, a senior Government official said, adding that many overground workers of terrorist groups were among those picked up by the police. Scores of detainees under the PSA have been moved to jails outside the Union Territory. Under the PSA, unique to Jammu and Kashmir, an individual can be detained for a maximum of two years, without trial, if his or her act is prejudicial to the security of the state or the maintenance of public order. First visit since 2019 This will be Mr. Shah’s first visit to Jammu and Kashmir after Article 370 of the Constitution was read down, and the former State was downgraded and bifurcated into the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in August 2019. Mr. Shah is expected to review security and development-related projects in Srinagar on Saturday, and is likely to hold a public rally in Jammu on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-700-held-in-jk-ahead-of-shahs-visit/article37134444.ece
23 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||SilverLine: CM meets Rail Minister for nod||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan called on Union Minister for Railways Ashwini Vaishnav in New Delhi on Friday to get the final sanction for the 540-km semi-high-speed railway project SilverLine. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) Government’s ambitious flagship scheme seeks to reduce the 16-hour travel time between Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod to less than four hours. Moreover, SilverLine is expected to open up the State’s verdant hinterlands to tourism and development, decongest its highways and reduce its carbon footprint. Financing Mr. Vijayan and Mr. Vaishnav reportedly discussed raising funds for the project from international financing agencies. Mr. Vijayan had said in the Assembly earlier that several agencies such as the Japan International Cooperation Agency, Asian Development Bank, AIBK and KfW had promised to extend low-interest and long-term loans for the project. The State hoped to raise Rs. 33,700 crore. However, some of the prospective financiers for SilverLine had demanded a Central Government guarantee for their credit. Alternative plans Mr. Vijayan’s closed-door meeting with Mr. Vaishnav triggered speculation that the Central Government, chiefly Railways, was hard-pressed to provide such a guarantee. Hence, the Centre reportedly advised the State Government to come up with alternative guarantee plans. The Government has pegged SilverLine’s total outlay at Rs. 63,941 crore. The Centre’s share is an estimated Rs. 2,150 crore. It has also accorded 185 ha of land valued at Rs. 975 crore for SilverLine. Land acquisition The State has to find the rest of the amount. Land acquisition alone would cost the public exchequer Rs. 13,362 crore as per a conservative estimate. HUDCO, Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, Railways will bear the cost. The Government will also issue public equity to raise funds for SilverLine. The Centre has granted approval in principle for the project and sanctioned land acquisition. BJP demand BJP State president K. Surendran said the State Government should stop pressurising the Centre to sanction an economically and environmentally unviable project. SilverLine is a quixotic scheme and it would push Kerala into irredeemable debt. Moreover, SilverLine provided the LDF to enable private miners to hollow out the Western Ghats on the pretext of delivering granite for the project.  Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan had also opposed SilverLine on similar grounds.  The State Government has pegged SilverLine’s total outlay at Rs. 63,941 crore, and the Centre’s share is an estimated Rs. 2,150 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/silverline-cm-meets-rail-minister-for-nod/article37134756.ece
23 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||HC declines to interfere in plea over inter first year exams||Telangana High Court on Friday declined to interfere in a writ petition seeking adjournment of intermediate first year exams, schedule for which was announced by the government. Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili, after hearing contentions of the petitioner who moved a lunch motion, stated that the court cannot interfere since the plea was filed in the last minute while the government had already made all arrangements for conducting the exams. Telangana Parents Association represented by N.Narayana, which filed the petition, stated that the first year intermediate exams announced by the government were meant for the students who were already in second year. The first year exams for the academic year 2020-21 were postponed due to second wave of COVID-19. As cases of persons testing positive came down and the incidence of the pandemic dipped, the government decided to hold first year exams. However, as per the schedule these students were being taught second year syllabus as they had entered the second academic year 2021-22. Special Government Pleader Sanjeev Kumar informed the court that the students whose first year intermediate exams were postponed and were being asked to write those exams now were in 10th standard in 2019-20. Due to first wave of COVID-19 in 2019, the government then cancelled the tenth standard exams and declared all students passed. Thus, they did not write tenth standard exams and could not appear for inter first year exams this year. In the event of a possible outbreak of a third wave in March next year as anticipated by some, they stand to lose their second year exams as well, the SGP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-declines-to-interfere-in-plea-over-inter-1st-yr-exams/article37134739.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Bengal can’t bar CBI from probing crimes in State, Centre tells SC||The Union Government told the Supreme Court that the Mamata Banerjee Government in West Bengal does not have any “absolute” power to keep the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) from investigating crimes inside the State. It said that “no power, not even the Union Government”, has the authority to rattle the autonomy of the premier agency to conduct investigations, especially in cases of post-poll violence transferred to it by the Calcutta High Court, in which the State police are under a cloud. The Union Government, through the Department of Personnel and Training, was responding to a suit filed by the West Bengal Government against the Union of India under Article 131 of the Constitution. The State has challenged the CBI’s jurisdiction to register FIRs and conduct investigations in the State in myriad cases. West Bengal said it had withdrawn “general consent” to the CBI way back in 2018. The State said the CBI’s actions were a direct attack on the federal structure of governance and aimed at harassing ruling Trinamool Congress leaders in the State. The case came up for hearing before a Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and B.R. Gavai on Friday. The Bench said the arguments in the case need to be heard in detail, and posted it for hearing on November 16. “The suit is filed by proceeding on the basis that the power to withhold consent is absolute. This certainly cannot be so...,” the Union Government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-cant-bar-cbi-centre-tells-sc/article37134440.ece
23 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Only Centre’s intervention can end lawlessness’||On the second day of his protest against what he termed “State-sponsored terrorism”, Telugu Desam Party president N. Chandrababu Naidu reiterated his demand for imposition of President’s Rule, as “that’s the only way to restore peace”. Mr. Naidu said invoking Article 356 was the only way to end the “State-sponsored terrorism” and added that though his party was against President’s Rule in principle, it had made the request for the first time “in view of the prevailing situation in the State”. “Only the Centre’s intervention can reverse the law and order failure, financial bankruptcy and economic collapse of the Andhra Pradesh,” he said. Mr. Naidu alleged that the State government had spared none and had resorted to targeted attacks on all sections, from the Opposition TDP leaders to the common public, employees, farmers and constitutional institutions such as courts and the Election Commission. The “faction-ridden Pulivendula settlements” had penetrated every nook and cranny, he alleged, demanding a CBI inquiry into the attacks on TDP offices, including its Central office in Mangalagiri. “This place is not just a brick and mortar structure, it is a temple for over 70 lakh committed activists of the party,” he said. Dig at police He criticised the State police for neither registering a case nor arresting the perpetrators of the mindless violence and instead, framing attempt to murder cases against TDP leaders. “The house of TDP leader Pattabhiram was vandalised and he was implicated in a fabricated case,” he alleged. Mr. Naidu said the destruction spree of the YSR Congress Party in the State started with the demolition of the Praja Vedika. “Then the government targeted the Amaravati capital city, Polavaram project and all other development works initiated by my government,” he said He accused the government of unleashing a reign of loot in the State. “ Mr. Jagan is fleecing the public with his own liquor brands which are not seen or heard in any other part of the world. The Chief Minister should stop cheating the public and bring in national and internationally popular brands,” he said. Referring to Mr. Jagan’s justification of the attack saying that the TDP leader’s comments against him had enraged the party cadre, Mr. Naidu said the YSRCP had given countless reasons to people to lose their temper. “Think of the plight of farmers in Amaravati who gave away their 35,000 acres of land for construction of the capital city and are made to take to the streets seeking justice,” he said. The party cadres and leaders gathered in large numbers in a symbol of solidarity with their leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/only-centres-intervention-can-end-lawlessness-naidu/article37134393.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Celebrate festivals with caution, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday advised people to celebrate festivals with the utmost caution in view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. “No matter how good the cover is, no matter how modern the armour is, even if it gives complete guarantee of protection, weapons are not given up while the battle is on. There is no reason to get careless,” Mr. Modi said in his address to the nation a day after India reached the milestone of 100 crore COVID-19 vaccinations. Lauds dedication Mr. Modi lauded the difficult but remarkable feat of administering 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses and attributed it to the dedication of 130 crore countrymen. “Hundred crore is not just a figure, but a reflection of the strength of the country. It is the creation of a new chapter of history. This is a picture of a new India that sets difficult goals and knows how to achieve them,” Mr. Modi said. The Prime Minister said the vaccination coverage came with the challenge of needing to scale up production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/celebrate-festivals-with-caution-says-modi/article37135005.ece
23 October 2021||Agartala,||Trinamool MP hurt in attack in Tripura||Sushmita Dev, Rajya Sabha member of the Trinamool Congress, and some party workers sustained minor injuries when miscreants attacked them at Amtali Bazar near here on Friday. The incident occurred on the day the party launched a “Tripurar Jonya Trinamool” (Trinamool for Tripura) campaign targeted at voters ahead of the municipal elections in the State. The polls will be held on November 25, and the results will be declared on November 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trinamool-mp-hurt-in-attack-in-tripura/article37134806.ece
23 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Police sub-inspector, constable suspended||A police sub-inspector and a constable have been placed under suspension for allegedly allowing an advocate, who is accused of sexually harassing a law student, and his friend, a woman activist, to force in the police station a friend of the victim to sign a document for closing sexual harassment case. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar has placed police sub-inspector Srikala K.T. and police constable Pramod under suspension, pending inquiry. The law student, who was interning at the office of K.S.N. Rajesh, a Special Public Prosecutor for the Lokayukta, on October 18 filed a compliant at the Women’s Police Station accusing the latter of sexually harassing her in his office on September 25. The police are still tracing Rajesh, who is reportedly at large. He has been booked for offences punishable under sections 376, 376 (2)(f), 376(2)(k), 376(c), 354 (A), 354 (B), 354 (C), 354 (D), 506, 384, 388, and 389 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Forced closure On the same day, the victim’s friend, who worked in Rajesh’s office, filed a complaint against Pavitra Acharya, president of Ashok Nagar Jagruta Mahila Vedike, accusing the latter of bringing her (the victim’s friend) to the Urwa Police Station on October 14 and forcing her, on behalf of Rajesh, to sign a document denying occurrence of the incident. This case was registered for offences under Sections 363, 384, 504, and 506 of the IPC. Following a preliminary inquiry report by Assistant Commissioner of Police (Central) P.A. Hegde, Mr. Kumar ordered the suspension of the two police personnel. Mr. Kumar told reporters that the two police personnel failed in their duty in preventing an accused and his supporters to settle disputes in the police station, he said. Mr. Kumar said the police have arrested Pavitra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-sub-inspector-constable-suspended/article37134836.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,||Customs cites grave breach of security||State Ministers, senior officials and politicians were directly called to the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram and to the residence of Consul General Jamal Hussein Alzaabi, bypassing the State Protocol Department and violating the protocol laid down by the Union Ministry of External Affairs, which “must be considered as a grave breach of national security,” according to the Cochin Customs. The Customs made these observations in its final complaint in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case that was filed before the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, on Friday. The agency named P.S. Sarith and Swapna Suresh as first and second accused and M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, as 29th accused. The agency noted that the Consul General, through Swapna and Mr. Sivasankar, had arranged numerous meetings at his residence with the Chief Minister and also at the residence of the Chief Minister, bypassing the Protocol Department and breaching the protocol laid down by the Ministry of External Affairs. Mr. Sivasankar had deposed that he used to arrange meetings for the Consul General with the Chief Minister when informed by Swapna. He also stated that he and Swapna were always present during the meetings, the Customs noted. According to the Customs, the statements of Swapna, Sarith and Mr. Sivasankar revealed that the Consul General, Admin Attaché Rashed and finance head of the consulate Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry were eager to make money through illegal means.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/customs-cites-grave-breach-of-security/article37134770.ece
23 October 2021||Hyderabad,||Missing boy found dead||The body of a seven-year-old boy, who went missing on Thursday, was found in a water pit on his apartment premises at Rajendra Nagar. The victim, Anvesh, a student of Class II, was missing from 1.30 p.m. on Thursday and a boy kidnap case was registered at Rajendra Nagar police station and a search operation was launched. On Friday morning, Anvesh’s body was found floating in the pit, while his clothes were found outside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/missing-boy-found-dead/article37134937.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Bengal can’t bar CBI from probing crimes: Centre||The Union Government told the Supreme Court that the Mamata Banerjee Government in West Bengal does not have any “absolute” power to keep the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) from investigating crimes inside the State. It said that “no power, not even the Centre”, has the authority to rattle the autonomy of the premier agency to conduct investigations, especially in cases of post-poll violence transferred to it by the Calcutta High Court, in which the State police are under a cloud. The Centre, through the Department of Personnel and Training, was responding to a suit filed by the West Bengal Government against the Union of India under Article 131 of the Constitution. The State has challenged the CBI’s jurisdiction to register FIRs and conduct investigations in the State in myriad cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-cant-bar-cbi-from-probing-crimes-centre/article37135004.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||CM’s Vizag tour cancelled||In a late night development, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s tour to the city on Saturday has been cancelled. The Chief Minister was supposed to attend a private function in the evening and as well as inaugurate about 10 projects worth around Rs. 300 crore of GVMC and VMRDA. Among the projects to be inaugurated were the NAD Flyover and the renovated VMRDA Park, earlier known as VUDA Park, on the Beach Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cms-vizag-tour-cancelled/article37134991.ece
23 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||10 get notice for attack on TDP office||The Guntur Urban district police reportedly served notices on 10 persons, who allegedly resorted to attack on Telugu Desam Party (TDP) office. Miscreants attacked on TDP State office in Guntur district, and damaged the furniture, glass panes and ransacked the office, on October 19. Following a complaint, the police registered a case and took up investigation. Police reportedly served notices on 10 persons on Friday, and asked them to submit explanations. Responding to the series of incidents across the State, Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang said that police were scanning the CCTV footage and stern action would be taken against the attackers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10-get-notice-for-attack-on-tdp-office/article37134990.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Towering inferno||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/towering-inferno/article37134454.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Celebrate festivals with caution: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday advised people to celebrate festivals with the utmost caution in view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. “No matter how good the cover is, no matter how modern the armour is, even if it gives complete guarantee of protection, weapons are not given up while the battle is on. There is no reason to get careless,” Mr. Modi said in his address to the nation a day after India reached the milestone of 100 crore vaccinations. Lauds dedication Mr. Modi lauded the difficult but remarkable feat of administering 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses and attributed it to the dedication of 130 crore countrymen. “Hundred crore is not just a figure, but a reflection of the strength of the country. It is the creation of a new chapter of history. This is a picture of a new India that sets difficult goals and knows how to achieve them,” Mr. Modi said. The Prime Minister said the vaccination coverage came with the challenge of needing to scale up production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/celebrate-festivals-with-caution-says-pm-modi/article37134445.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Chief Minister opens portals to monitor infra projects||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday launched web portals developed by the Department of Information Technology for reviewing the progress of major infrastructure projects and for enabling IT/ITES companies to interact with the government on policy-making. The Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency (TNeGA) has developed ‘e-munnetram’, which contains the key details of projects such as agreement dates, start dates, cost estimates, the monthly progress of projects based on financial as well as physical parameters, location data and GIS layers and the periodic photographs of the sites. The portal allows the head of departments to update the progress and flag issues that cause delays. Private portal However, a senior official said a high-level committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary, periodically monitors the progress of about 200 major infrastructure projects, together costing over Rs. 1 lakh crore. “e-munnetram is a private portal for now,” he said. The TNeGA has also conceptualised a platform, ‘IT Nanban’, to help IT/ITES firms interact with the government on policy-making. “Companies can access all IT policies, GOs and tenders issued by the IT Department. They will also be able to give feedback on the latest policies or flag issues which they are facing and need to be addressed. The Department shall address these feedbacks/concerns and help to resolve them,” an official release said. The exports from the IT/ITES sector in the State has been growing at 10% year-on-year, and there is a great potential to increase it further. Mr. Stalin released two Tamil computing software with advanced features, which had been developed by the Tamil Virtual Academy. The Keezhadi-Tamizhinaiya keyboard will function with three types of keyboards: Tamil’99 keyboard; Phonetic keyboard; and Old Typewriter keyboard. The Tamizhi-Tamizhinaiya Unicode Converter will convert the text, file and folder, typed in Vanavil and other fonts, into the doc, docx, rtf, xls, xlsx, ods ppt and pptx formats. These can be downloaded free from www.tamilvu.org. Information Technology Minister T. Mano Thangaraj; Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu; Planning Secretary Vikram Kapoor and IT Secretary Neeraj Mittal were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-opens-portal-to-review-infra-projects/article37134518.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Families tighten budget as prices go up||The festive season is a time for celebration, but most households are instead tightening their purse strings. The rising cost of fuel as well as unexpected heavy rain in October have driven up the price of essential commodities. Onions for instance were retailing at Rs. 60 per kg while a kg of beans was Rs. 85 on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/families-tighten-budget-as-prices-go-up/article37134452.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Harish Chaudhary is AICC in-charge for Punjab||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday appointed Harish Chaudhary as the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Punjab, replacing Harish Rawat, who had asked to be relieved of his duties in the State. Mr. Chaudhary, an MLA in the Rajasthan Assembly, was an AICC secretary for Punjab but has been elevated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/harish-chaudhary-is-aicc-in-charge-for-punjab/article37134625.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Winter season starting with better air, says CSE||The winter season this year is starting with much cleaner air compared with the last three years in Delhi, the National Capital Region and the Indo-Gangetic Plain region, according to an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/winter-season-starting-with-better-air-says-cse/article37134627.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Vaccine did not cause Vivekh’s death: panel||The death of actor Vivekh, two days after inoculation against COVID-19 earlier this year, was not due to the vaccine, the National Adverse Events Following Immunisation Committee has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccine-did-not-cause-vivekhs-death-panel/article37134592.ece
23 October 2021||Hubballi,||Bommai, former CMs campaign for bypolls||With less than a week left for the byelections to Hangal and Sindgi, the campaign pitch rose particularly in Hangal where two former Chief Ministers, the present Chief Minister, and the state president of Congress were seen wielding their swords on ground, on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bommai-former-cms-campaign-for-bypolls/article37134837.ece
23 October 2021||Mysuru,||Inspection of rail track electrification work||The Commissioner of Railway Safety will conduct the statutory inspection of electrification work in the Chitradurga-Chikjajur section in Mysuru Railway Division on Saturday. A speed trial by special train will be conducted in the section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inspection-of-rail-track-electrification-work/article37134698.ece
23 October 2021||Kolkata,||TMC appoints Luizinho Faleiro as vice-president||Days before West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit Goa and hold meetings there ahead of the Assembly poll in the State, the Trinamool Congress on Friday appointed Luizinho Faleiro its vice-president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tmc-appoints-luizinho-faleiro-as-vice-president/article37134805.ece
23 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||79 cases under unlawful conversion law in U.P.||Of the 79 cases registered against unlawful conversion under the 2020 law in Uttar Pradesh till July this year, chargesheets have been filed in 50, while the final report was filed in seven, according to a document submitted by the State Government in the Allahabad High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/79-cases-under-unlawful-conversion-law-in-up/article37134865.ece
23 October 2021||Mumbai,||Bhima Koregaon panel summons Param Bir||The Bhima Koregaon Commission on Friday issued summons to IPS officers Param Bir Singh and Rashmi Shukla to appear as witnesses in the violence that broke out on January 1, 2018 in Pune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bhima-koregaon-panel-summons-param-bir/article37134866.ece
23 October 2021||Kolkata,||TMC appoints Luizinho Faleiro as vice-president||Days before West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit Goa and hold meetings there ahead of the Assembly poll in the State, the Trinamool Congress on Friday appointed Luizinho Faleiro its vice-president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tmc-appoints-luizinho-faleiro-as-vice-president/article37134867.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Harish Chaudhary is AICC in-charge for Punjab||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday appointed Harish Chaudhary as the All India Congress Committee in-charge for Punjab, replacing Harish Rawat, who had asked to be relieved of his duties in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/harish-chaudhary-is-aicc-in-charge-for-punjab/article37134868.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Stalin seeks more fertilizers from Centre||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday wrote to Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya, urging him to ensure the timely supply of urea. Mr. Stalin also requested supply of an additional 25,000 MT of DAP and 10,000 MT of MOP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-seeks-more-fertilizers-from-centre/article37134516.ece
23 October 2021||Agartala,||Trinamool MP hurt in attack||Sushmita Dev, Rajya Sabha member of the Trinamool Congress, and some party workers sustained minor injuries when miscreants attacked them at Amtali Bazar near here on Friday. The incident occurred on the day the party launched a “Tripurar Jonya Trinamool” (Trinamool for Tripura) campaign targeted at voters ahead of the municipal elections in the State. The State Election Commission on Friday declared the election schedule for the Agartala Municipal Corporation and municipal councils across the State. The election will take place on November 25, and the results will be declared on November 28. Prior to the announcement of dates, the State Election Commission hosted a meeting with the representatives of various political parties to discuss the modalities, security arrangements and the code of conduct. The Trinamool Congress has declared that it will contest the election, apparently to test its support base in Tripura. The State unit of the party got some customised vans to undertake the election campaign. Ms. Dev and some local leaders took one of the vehicles to Amtali Bazar to campaign for the party. Some hooligans suddenly attacked the vehicle and Trinamool workers, which left six people including Ms. Dev injured, the party alleged. The Trinamool blamed the BJP for organising the attack, a claim the latter strongly denied. Trinamool general secretary Abhishek Banerjee condemned the incident and lashed out at the BJP Government in Tripura for repeated acts of violence. He tweeted that manhandling a woman Rajya Sabha member was “beyond shameful” and “political terrorism” by the BJP goons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-mp-hurt-in-attack/article37134037.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||PM misleading people on vaccines: Congress||Accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of misleading the country during his address to the nation on Friday, the Congress asked for a White Paper on how the Union Government intended to vaccinate all adults by December 31, a deadline fixed by it earlier. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said at a press conference that only 21% of the country’s population was fully vaccinated, while China, the only other country with over 100 crore population, had given two shots to 80% of its population in September. He also said that instead of offering condolences to the families of 4.53 lakh people who died during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Government was busy “celebrating Mahotsava” and ignoring issues affecting common people. “We thought he would talk about inflation because from January 1 till date there is a hike in [price of] diesel by 29% and petrol by 27%... We were expecting him to speak on the issue when innocents were killed in Jammu and Kashmir, including 32 persons murdered in the last two weeks and nine soldiers made the supreme sacrifice. But the Prime Minister does not have time for any of such things,” Mr. Vallabh said. “We were expecting that the Prime Minister would offer condolences to the families of people who lost their lives due to coronavirus. He has no time for them and instead he is celebrating Mahotsavs,” the Congress leader added. The Congress said Mr. Modi should have shared information on when the Government intended to vaccinate school and college goers and the remaining adult population. The party said 32 crore Indians had not received even the first dose of the vaccine while another 42 crore were waiting for the second dose. “Please share a White Paper on how we are going to receive 106 crore vaccine doses in the next 70 days [December 31 deadline],” Mr. Vallabh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-misleading-people-on-vaccines-congress/article37134042.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||NIA arrests eight more terror suspects in J&K||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested eight more persons on Friday in connection with a conspiracy to carry out terrorist activities in Jammu & Kashmir and other places, taking the total number of arrests in the case to 13. The agency conducted searches at 10 locations in Srinagar, Kulgam, Shopian, Pulwama, Anantnag and Baramulla, leading to the arrest of Adil Ahmad War, Manan Gulzar Dar, Hilal Ahmed Dar, Sobhia, Rouf Bhatt, Shaqib Bashir, Zamin Adil and Haris Nisar Langoo. Support to terrorists “They are operatives of various proscribed terrorist organisations and have been instrumental in providing logistical and material support to terrorists,” an NIA official said. The case was registered on October 10 against those associated with Laskhar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Hizb-ul-Mujahideen, Al Badr and their affiliates such as The Resistance Front and the People Against Fascist Forces (PAFF). The NIA had recently come across a blog post, uploaded last month, which enumerated a new strategy to be adopted by the terror outfits in Jammu & Kashmir in view of the steps being taken by the Government to promote industrial development and extend domicile status to various categories of people. The blog exhorted terrorists to target “non-locals”. In the latest spate of attacks, 11 civilians have been killed in the State. Blog blocked While the blog was later blocked on the orders of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, the agency is trying to identify the person who opened the account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-arrests-eight-more-terror-suspects-in-jk/article37134016.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||CPI(M) meet to take stand on Cong.||The three-day meeting of the CPI(M) Central Committee which began on Friday is to decide on the party’s political line and its position in relation to the Congress. The meeting comes ahead of the party congress scheduled for April next year. At the 22nd party congress held in Hyderabad in April 2018, the CPI(M) had taken a call that the Congress and the BJP could not be treated as an equal threat. The party had agreed to rally all “secular and democratic forces.” It had also agreed to have an understanding with all “secular opposition parties” including the Congress inside and outside Parliament for a broader mobilisation of people. But in all this, there was a caveat that there can be no political alliance with the Congress. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, according to sources, argued that the situation under which the 2018 line was decided had not changed and there was no reason to reopen the debate. He further said that after the second consecutive victory of the BJP in the 2019 general elections the threat from the right wing had only aggravated and therefore there was a need to reinforce the 2018 line. Nearly 20 delegates spoke at the meeting on the first day. Vijayan’s view Last week, in an article in the CPI(M) magazine Chintha , Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote that the Congress could not be the axis of the Opposition. In all the States, apart from Kerala, Congress leaders are abandoning the party to join the BJP, and therefore, there are very few characteristic differences between the two. Sources said Mr. Vijayan, who spoke on Friday at the meeting, articulated on similar lines. He also advocated concentrating the party’s energies on the grassroot mobilisations. The political resolution approved by the Polit Bureau last week was laid before the Central Committee. The committee meeting concludes on Sunday. The party congress has to take a call on Mr. Yechury’s tenure. His first term comes to a close. And the CPI(M) has often offered the incumbent General Secretary two terms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-meet-to-take-stand-on-cong/article37134035.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Petro taxes funding vaccines: Puri||Reiterating that the excise duty levied on petroleum products is funding free COVID-19 vaccines and public welfare schemes, Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Hardeep Puri said on Friday that global oil prices would likely fall by the time India vaccinated its entire population, indicating no tax cuts might be expected at that time. Facing multiple queries about the high retail prices for fuels, at the closing press conference of India Energy Forum by CERAWeek, Mr. Puri said the Centre had been charging Rs. 32 a litre as excise, irrespective of whether the oil price was $19 a barrel or $84 a barrel, whereas the States charge an ad valorem duty. Stressing that oil prices had risen following the global coal crisis caused by “severe winters somewhere and a problem between two countries”, the Minister said political narrative in India was “simplistic” and didn’t grasp the “difficult causation” at work. “I think the simplistic political narrative in India — prices have gone up, why don’t you reduce your taxes? So every time prices goes up due to something else, it says you axe your own feet in the process. I am not very sensitive to that kind of discussion,” he said. Social inclusion “Yesterday, we completed one billion vaccines being administered. We fed 90 crore people for one full year, three meals in a day. We do Ujjwala which is a social inclusion scheme getting the mothers, sisters and daughters away from unhealthy cooking fuels. We distributed eight crore cylinders and another one crore now. So that Rs. 32 of tax we collect, provides us the ability to provide all these welfare services, including one billion vaccines,” Mr. Puri said. Responding to a query if the government would cut petroleum taxes once the vaccination drive is completed across the country, the Minister said: “ Arre yaar, tab tak to vaise hi daam neeche aa jaayenge yaar. Aap itni lambi soch kyon karte hain? (By then, prices will fall anyway, friend. Why do you think so far ahead)?” “I am fully optimistic. If you see the analysis for 2022 from OPEC plus, supply is expected to be higher than demand. At that time, another question can crop up, which I don’t want to say here,” he added. However, to a follow-up query about the outlays on vaccines and free foodgrains, the Minister said he had cited them as illustrative examples. “This is not a question of arithmetic. Any democratically elected government has the duty to make roads and provide other facilities for their citizens. If we get guided by this talk and shut down everything… it is also possible later that they want to sell oil and you don’t need to take it at all,” he said. Duty levied by States “I can tell you the government is giving full attention to this. We are in a federal system. There is an element of excise from the Centre, there is an ad valorem percentage duty by the States irrespective of where the price is,” he said. Asked by a Kolkata-based newspaper’s reporter whether tax cuts would be considered on fuel products to prevent an adverse impact on growth as higher volumes could help boost revenues, the Minister said the high oil prices in West Bengal were due to recent tax hikes by the State government. “When I was there during a political meeting, I was asked why the prices have gone up, I said the State government has raised it by Rs. 3.51 since July and that is the result,” he said. On India making a case for OPEC to lower oil prices, Mr Puri said this was not an adversarial issue and was in the interest of oil-producing as well as consuming countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petro-taxes-funding-vaccines-puri/article37134388.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Contours of theatre command in the works’||India is in an advanced stage of drawing up the contours of the structure and processes of the “theatre command” to bring integration and coordination of all the three services. The timeline for operationalising this is yet to be made public. Speaking at the Indian Air Force conclave here on Friday on “Synergised Objectives”, organised to mark 50 years of victory in the India-Pakistan War in 1971, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said theatre integration would be ensured following the creation of Chief of Defence Staff and Department of Military Affairs in the Defence Ministry. Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat detailed the work done on theatrisation so far. Recalling the integrated efforts of the three services in bringing victory in the India-Pakistan War in 1971 and led to the biggest surrender of troops after World War II, they emphasised the need for integration in the changing situation. “The armed forces and Defence Ministry will be further integrated,” the Defence Minister said. “In the coming days as forward process, theatre integration will be ensured. Integration will be in procurement, indigenisation and prioritising capability development.” Borrowing from the best General Rawat said India had extensively studied the theatre command models of the U.S., the U.K., Russia and China to adopt some of the best practises. “We will adopt a tailor-made model to meet our national security. We are moving forward with maritime theatre command, joint air defence structure and land-centric theatre command,” he said. “The concept of theatrisation is being progressed on a consensus-based approach at various levels. To bring about greater synergy and bring down redundancy, the service chiefs are likely to retain operational control.” Identification of theatre command, he said, would be based on the tasks, threats, opportunities and assets. After the proposal was examined and finalised by the chiefs of staff committee, it would be operationalised by the Government. Speaking to reporters later, General Rawat, said, “there are no differences on creation of theatre command. We will take all services on board and then create theatre command that will suit our requirement.” On the timeline for theatrisation, he said: “Creating an organisation and putting a structure in place will take a long time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/contours-of-theatre-command-in-the-works/article37134013.ece
23 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘SP Govt. had targeted Hindus’||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday that cases lodged against “terrorists” were withdrawn during the Samajwadi Party rule, while fake cases were lodged against Hindus. He was addressing representatives of the Noniya Chauhan backward community in Lucknow. He called the dilution of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir by the Narendra Modi-led Union Government the “final nail in the coffin of terrorism”. “Ram bhakts would be fired upon. Arti would be performed on terrorists [during the SP rule],” Mr. Adityanath said at the “samajik pratinidhi sammelan,” one of the many meetings planned by the ruling party to woo various castes. Mr. Adityanath said the first decision taken by his Government after coming to power in 2017 was to waive farm loans. In contrast, the SP Government, he claimed, had taken steps to withdraw cases lodged against “terrorists” who attacked the Ram Janmabhoomi. Targetting the three major Opposition parties, the Chief Minister alleged that they could not look beyond their families, and “worked for terrorists,” while the BJP strived for all sections of the society. “Memories of the medieval period were refreshed when terrorists attacked mandirs and mutts,” he said. The sentiments of Hindu society were crushed under the SP, he said. Mr. Adityanath also recalled the firing on ‘karsevaks’ by the police under the Mulayam Singh government in 1990 when they tried to force their way into the Babri Masjid enclosure. “If there was a BJP government in 1990, would there be firing on Ram bhakts? Will you forgive those who fired at Ram bhakts,” he asked. He also referred to the Kosi Kalan (2012) and Mau (2005) riots under previous Governments, and stated that if the BJP remained in power, nobody would dare to start a riot in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-govt-had-targeted-hindus/article37134029.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Air bubbles to continue for some time||International air travel to and from the country will continue only under the “air bubble” arrangement for the foreseeable future, according to Minister for Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia. If certain routes see a spurt in demand, the Government could look at increasing frequency of flights within the “air bubble”. “Within our current air bubble arrangement, we are scaling up. Earlier, the U.K. was only 15 flights, which we have now increased to 35 flights. We are going to do this across the board. As the demand goes up, we are going to increase that [the number of flights] in the bubble,” Mr. Scindia said at an event organised by Public Affairs Forum of India. He was responding to a question on resumption of international flights. “International travel is not governed by the Ministry of Civil Aviation alone, but also by the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs and [also depends on] other countries,” Mr. Scindia said, implying that concerns over the spread of COVID-19 as well as travel restrictions by various countries were hindering India from fully opening up international travel. Scheduled international flights were banned by the government on March 23 last year. Later that year, the Government started gradually opening up the skies by entering into “air bubble” agreements with various countries, with a limited number of direct flights permitted to and from India. India now has “air bubble” tie-ups with 28 countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/air-bubbles-to-continue-for-some-time/article37134386.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Chaudhary takes charge as AICC in-charge of Punjab||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday appointed Harish Chaudhary as the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Punjab, replacing Harish Rawat, who had earlier asked to be relieved of his duties in the State. Mr. Chaudhary, an MLA in the Rajasthan Assembly, was an AICC secretary for Punjab but has been elevated as the AICC in-charge for the State. To remain in CWC “Congress president has appointed Harish Chaudhary as AICC in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh with immediate effect. Harish Rawat is being relieved from his current responsibility as AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh,” general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal said in a statement, adding that Mr. Rawat would remain a CWC member. Thanks colleagues Mr. Rawat, too, tweeted to thank his colleagues from Punjab for the support he got during his stint as AICC in-charge and stated that he would now focus on his home State of Uttarakhand, where election is scheduled next year along with Punjab. But the change of guard also comes when the crisis in the Punjab Congress seems to show no signs of ending, with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu sharing a frosty relationship. On Wednesday, asking the party leadership to relieve him of his Punjab duties, Mr. Rawat had put out a statement on Twitter: “Today I have been able to overcome a big dilemma. One the one hand, I have a duty towards my janmabhoomi [birthplace] and the other hand, I have to offer my services to my karmabhoomi [land where one works]. Things are getting complicated as elections are drawing closer and a person has to give full time to both the places. So that I can devote myself to Uttarakhand completely, I should be relieved of my present duties.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chaudhary-takes-charge-as-aicc-in-charge-for-punjab/article37134031.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||OTT platforms to participate in IFFI||Acknowledging the change in viewers’ preferences, the 52nd International Film Festival of India (IFFI) will provide space to five key streaming platforms — Netflix, Amazon Prime, Zee5, Voot and SonyLIV. The film festival is scheduled to be held from November 20 to 28 in Goa. American filmmaker Martin Scorsese, one of the most influential directors in the world, along with critically acclaimed Hungarian director Istvan Szabo, will be conferred the Satyajit Ray Lifetime Achievement Award at the festival. Ministry of Information and Broadcasting officials said that both the directors hade been invited to receive the award in person but, so far, there is no confirmation from them on it. A total of 22 international guests have confirmed their presence. This is the first time that the OTT (over the top) platforms will be participating in the festival. “When cinema halls shut down during the pandemic, filmmakers moved to OTT platforms. We decided to embrace this change and take the step in the right direction. Films made especially for OTT platforms will be showcased at the festival,” said Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur, briefing presspersons in Delhi. Mr. Thakur said that OTT is also emerging as “one of the leading job creators”. The Government, he said, was open to addressing any challenges that OTT platforms faced. Inaugural film Spanish film The King of All the World will be the opening film. The festival will also pay a special tribute to Sean Connery, the first actor to portray fictional British secret agent James Bond on the big screen. Mr. Thakur also announced that the BRICS Film Festival will be showcased alongside the IFFI. Around 30 films have been shortlisted for screening in the Festival Kaleidoscope and World Panorama sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ott-platforms-to-participate-in-iffi/article37134044.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Embracing different ideas is essence of Hindutva: Hosabale||Hindutva is “neither Right nor Left” and its essence is the embracing of different ideas, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ‘Sarkaryawah’ or general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale said on Friday. He was speaking during a discussion on the recent book by former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general secretary and RSS executive member Ram Madhav, The Hindutva Paradigm: Integral Humanism and the Quest for a Non-Western Worldview . “I don’t belong either to the Right or Left….Hindutva, it is neither Left nor Right,” Mr. Hosabale said. In response to an earlier speaker, former diplomat Pavan K. Varma, saying that there was a need for “ shaastraarth ” or discussion today, Mr. Hosabale said he was ready to organise such a debate. “There is no full stop in Indian tradition. Calling this West or East, the Left or the Right, all these things are suitable for our present day political discourse... I am from RSS. We have never said in our discourses inside the RSS, in any training camps, that we are Rightist. Many ideas, they are almost like Lefitist ideas, and many definitely the so-called Rightist,” Mr. Hosabale said. He said the “integral humanist thought” of Deendayal Upadhyaya that Mr. Madhav’s book discussed would provide the way forward. “Churning” was a part of Indian tradition, he said. ‘Best of everything’ “Today, the world is embracing each other’s ideas and a new man is emerging, this is the essence of Hindutva. You have to take the best of everything from every corner and mould it to suit your surroundings, your environment,” he said. Earlier in the event, Mr. Madhav kicked off the discussion by saying the book was “not anti-West” but rather espousing the need for a non-Western worldview. Former Supreme Court judge Justice Anil R. Dave also spoke at the event and termed the book as “one to be chewed and swallowed”. Editor of Open magazine S. Prasannarajan also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/embracing-different-ideas-is-essence-of-hindutva-hosabale/article37134430.ece
23 October 2021||TENGA (Arunachal Pradesh),||Rocket systems, BrahMos add offensive punch along LAC||India’s military posture in the Tawang sector of Arunachal Pradesh has added an offensive punch with the Army deploying Pinaka and Smerch long-range, multi-barrel rocket launch systems as well as BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles in the region. In a rare demonstration, the Army showcased its Pinaka and Smerch units deployed on the Arunachal Pradesh-Assam border to a group of visiting journalists from Delhi. “The Pinaka and Smerch rocket systems have been deployed closer to the LAC,” said a senior officer at the demonstration. The BrahMos has also been deployed in the Tawang sector, the officer stated. In addition to the rocket systems, deployment of BrahMos missiles, which have a range of over 290 km, gives the Army the ability to hit targets deep inside China in case of any Chinese misadventure in this sector. 90-km range Smerch, procured from Russia, is the longest range conventional rocket system in the Army’s inventory with a maximum range of 90 km, said Col. Gaurav Sood explaining about the rocket systems at the demonstration. A battery of four launchers can fire a salvo of 48 rockets in 40 seconds, neutralising an area of 1200mX1200m, explained Major Sreenath V.E., Battery Commander of a Smerch unit. Pinaka, indigenously designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, has a range of 38 km. “A battery of six launchers of Pinaka can fire a salvo of 72 rockets in 44 seconds, thereby neutralising an area of 1000mX800m,” said Lt. Col. Samarth. The upgraded version of the Pinaka ammunition systems were already in production line and could fire up to a range of 75 km with superior precision, he added. Both Pinaka and Smerch have 12 rockets in each launcher. “In high-attitude areas, the ranges are enhanced significantly which further augments the deep strike capability of the weapon system,” Col. Sood added. Currently, the Army has five Grad rocket regiments, three Smerch regiments and four Pinaka regiments. Another six Pinaka regiments are in the process of being procured. Integrated rocket force The Chief of the Defence Staff had recently talked of creating an integrated rocket force in addition to the proposed integrated theatre commands, which a senior official had stated was a concept under examination. As reported by The Hindu recently, the Army has significantly augmented its firepower along the 1,300 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the eastern sector and also beefed up overall defences in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/armys-array-of-rocket-systems-along-lac/article37134018.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Winter session likely from November-end||The month-long winter session of Parliament is likely to commence from the fourth week of November following all COVID-19 protocols, Parliamentary sources said on Friday. The session, which is likely to have around 20 sittings, would conclude ahead of Christmas, they said. In the wake of the pandemic, the winter session of Parliament was not held last year and all the subsequent sessions — Budget and Monsoon — were curtailed because of COVID-19. Though an official decision has not been taken yet, the sources said the session could commence from November 29 and would end around December 23. Though the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha will sit simultaneously, the members will follow social distancing norms. In a few sessions earlier, both the Houses used to meet at separate times to ensure that not many people were present inside the Parliament complex. In the winter session, those entering the complex and the main Parliament building will have to wear masks all the time and may have to undergo COVID test. The winter session assumes significance as it will be held just months before the Assembly elections in five States, including politically-crucial Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/winter-session-likely-from-november-end/article37134032.ece
23 October 2021||Guwahati,||Sikhs facing eviction in Shillong seek safety||The Mazhabi or Dalit Sikhs of Shillong, who are facing eviction, have asked the local authorities to ensure their safety and security besides the protection of minority religious institutions. In a letter to the East Khasi Hills Deputy Commissioner Isawanda Laloo on October 21, the Harijan Panchayat Committee (HPC), comprising the Sikh residents of Harijan Colony or Punjabi Lane, also sought “no intervention” by the district administration or any other authority in their case pending before the High Court of Meghalaya as well as the Supreme Court. “For the last 200 years, we have lived here peacefully, worked very hard to earn our livelihood and have contributed substantially to the welfare of the people of the area,” the letter by HPC secretary Gurjit Singh said. He reacted to State Planning Board chairman Lambor Malngiang’s advice to the State Government not to let any delegation from outside interfere in the Harijan Colony issue. “This is an insult because in India we can move around freely, and this is what the Constitution says,” Mr. Singh said. Mr. Malngiang had opposed the visit of a delegation of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee after the issue of relocating the Harijan Colony residents cropped up a few days ago. Mr. Singh also dismissed Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong’s statement that the high-level committee the government had set up to resolve the Harijan Colony issue had given the residents many opportunities to prove their ownership of the land. “He should show us the proof of when the committee gave us the opportunity to submit documents, when they served us a letter and when we received it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sikhs-facing-eviction-in-shillong-seek-safety/article37134391.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul Gandhi meets Gujarat Cong. leaders||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday met with party leaders from Gujarat to discuss organisational issues, including the selection of a new Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief in the State, ahead of next year’s Assembly elections. The delegation Mr. Gandhi met included the Congress’ Gujarat unit working president Hardik Patel, Jignesh Mevani, Amit Chavda, Shaktisinh Gohil, Paresh Dhanani, Arjun Modhwadia and Amee Yajnik, among others. For the post of the Gujarat PCC chief, Mr. Patel and Mr. Gohil are said to be among the top contenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-gandhi-meets-gujarat-cong-leaders/article37134433.ece
23 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||79 cases under unlawful conversion law in U.P.||Of the 79 cases registered against unlawful conversion under the 2020 law in Uttar Pradesh till July this year, chargesheets have been filed in 50, while final report was filed in seven, according to a document submitted by the State Government in the Allahabad High Court. Of the 79 FIRs, investigation was pending in 22, the State government said in a counter-affidavit in response to a bunch of PIL petitions challenging the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act, 2021 (earlier Ordinance 2020). Governor Anandiben Patel promulgated the Ordinance on unlawful conversion days after it was passed by the Yogi Adityanath Cabinet last November. Out of the 79 FIRs lodged till July 7, the highest 21 were registered in Bareilly zone, followed by Meerut 15, Gorakhpur 12, Agra seven and Prayagraj five. The cases in which final report was submitted include the Moradabad case last December when the husband of a Hindu woman Pinki, who was pregnant, was arrested under the law. The woman, who was temporarily kept in a Government shelter, had reportedly suffered a miscarriage leading to outrage over the case. Her husband Rashid and his brother were arrested when they had reached the marriage registration office in Kanth on the complaint of Pinki’s mother who alleged Rashid had induced her into marriage and converted her under the garb of providing her a job. Later, in her statement before a magistrate, Pinki had said they married through consent as both were adults. The final report was also placed in the Shahjahanpur case where five persons, including two Christians originally from Tamil Nadu and two Dalits, were booked under the Ordinance on the complaint of Ram Lakhan Verma, a city convenor of the Bajrang Dal. Mr. Verma had alleged that they were trying to lure him and others into converting. However, the accused denied the charges and said they were only participating in a musical prayer service in a marriage lawn on January 3, 2021, to mark the first Sunday of the New Year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/79-cases-under-unlawful-conversion-law-in-up/article37134022.ece
23 October 2021||PATNA,||Cong. not part of Bihar ‘grand alliance’, says Das||Congress leader in-charge of Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, on Friday said his party was not part of the mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) in the State. Mr. Das also added that with the bypolls for two seats, Tarapur and Kusheshwarsthan, scheduled to be held on October 30, the Congress had started preparations to contest all 40 parliamentary seats in Bihar. “Today, the Congress party is not part of the mahagathbandhan . When the RJD (Rashtriya Janata Dal) could not spare just one seat of Kusheshwarsthan to the Congress to contest the bypoll, which has been our traditional seat, then where is the mahagathbandhan ?” asked Mr. Das, speaking to a private news channel. “If the RJD cannot give us respect, how can we give them respect?” he said. Mr. Das also added that along with the bypolls, the Congress had also “started preparations to contest all 40 parliamentary seats in Bihar”. However, he said, “other secular and like-minded parties are welcome to be with the Congress”. “Until now, the RJD has been getting the traditional votes of the Congress in the State but now we’ve decided to contest all 40 Lok Sabha seats,” asserted Mr. Das, who is in Patna to welcome Kanhaiya Kumar, Jignesh Mewani and Hardik Patel, who joined the Congress recently. Meanwhile, reacting to Mr. Das’s statement, State president of RJD, Jagdanand Singh, said, “The RJD is still a part of the mahagathbandhan .” He also said that the RJD had always been following “mahagathbandhan dharma ”. “The Congress leaders may have their wishes but there is not going to be any mid-term poll in the country,” Mr. Singh added. RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said, “Bihar in-charge of the Congress party, Bhakta Charan Das, has no idea of the ground reality in Bihar. He has been making unwarranted, uncalled for statements, and is hell-bent on finishing Congress in Bihar.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-not-part-of-bihar-grand-alliance-says-das/article37134629.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||HC declines to interfere in plea over Inter exams||Special Government Pleader Sanjeev Kumar informed the court that the students whose first year intermediate exams were postponed and were being asked to write those exams now were in 10th standard in 2019-20. Due to the first wave in 2019, the government then cancelled the tenth standard exams and declared all students passed. Thus, they did not write tenth standard exams and could not appear for inter first year exams this year. In the event of a possible outbreak of a third wave in March next year as anticipated by some, they stand to lose their second year exams as well, the SGP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-declines-to-interfere-in-plea-over-inter-exams/article37134940.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||India weighs ‘net zero’ target ahead of CoP||A study by the think tank Council for Energy Environment and Water projects said that for India to achieve the net zero target even by 2070, usage of coal, especially for power generation, will need to peak by 2040 and drop by 99% between 2040 and 2060. The consumption of crude oil across sectors will need to peak by 2050 and fall substantially by 90% between 2050 and 2070. India’s long-term position in climate talks has always been that it will eschew the use of fossil fuels but only gradually because it cannot compromise on development, which is now primarily reliant on coal. Also because it goes against the core principle of “common but differentiated responsibility” that requires developed countries, which are responsible for the climate crisis, to take on deeper cuts and pay developing countries for the environmental damage from rising temperature as well as finance their transition to clean energy sources. However, the U.S, and EU delegations, in recent months, had several meetings with the Indian officials to chart out a more ambitious pathway to cut emissions. “All options are on the platter,” a senior official who will be representing India at Glasgow told The Hindu , “but it will depend on how the negotiations will progress and whether we will be able to move ahead on getting developed countries to honour their commitments”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to be in Glasgow for the Leaders’ Summit on the first two days. At least 120 heads of state have confirmed their participation. India, U.K. dialogue India and the United Kingdom have agreed to strengthen climate initiatives and further their green partnership, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said on Friday.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-weighs-net-zero-target-ahead-of-cop/article37134010.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||West Bengal cannot bar CBI, Centre tells SC||The State said the CBI’s actions were a direct attack on the federal structure of governance and aimed at harassing ruling Trinamool Congress leaders in the State.    The case came up for hearing before a Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and B.R. Gavai on Friday. The Bench said the arguments in the case need to be heard in detail, and posted it for hearing on November 16.    “The suit is filed by proceeding on the basis that the power to withhold consent is absolute. This certainly cannot be so...,” the Union Government said.  In its affidavit, the Union Government, while maintaining that West Bengal’s power to withhold consent to the CBI was far from absolute, accused the latter of “suppressing” information that the post-poll violence cases were transferred to the agency by the Calcutta High Court. It said withdrawal of general consent would not stand in the way of constitutional courts entrusting the CBI with the cases “where it is found that the State police would not effectively conduct a fair and impartial investigation”. Besides, the CBI was empowered to probe cases concerning any of the Central subjects enumerated in the Union List in the Seventh Schedule. The affidavit said the alleged crimes under investigation were offences under parliamentary laws. “All these would be traceable to laws made by Parliament… the State government would neither have competence to use its police force to investigate these offences,” the Union Government argued. The Union’s affidavit referred to 12 cases highlighted by the State. It said these cases also relate to offences of corruption against Central Government employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-cannot-bar-cbi-centre-tells-sc/article37134011.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India-U.K. ties vital in coming decades’||Relation between the United Kingdom and India is vital over the coming decades, U.K. Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss said here on Friday. Ms. Truss, who is on a three-day visit to India, met External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and is scheduled to be a special guest at a ceremony to mark the visit of the U.K. Carrier Strike Group in Mumbai. “India is our great friend, an economic powerhouse and the world’s largest democracy. Our relationship will be vital over the coming decades,” Ms. Truss said after meeting Mr. Jaishankar where the two discussed closer collaboration. Ms. Truss said her visit would boost the partnership, and pointed out technology and infrastructure, security and defence, and “building back after COVID” as the areas of collaboration between the two sides. “You are a fellow democracy, you believe in free enterprise and you believe in freedom. I think it’s very important that countries like ours work together on our shared plans for the future,” Ms. Truss said in her opening remarks in the meeting with Mr. Jaishankar. Ms. Truss and Mr. Jaishankar “welcomed the progress in delivering the Enhanced Trade Partnership” that was announced at the India-U.K. virtual summit held on May 4, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement after Friday’s meeting. Both Ministers agreed on the need for launching FTA negotiations “at the earliest, with a focus on negotiating an interim agreement that can deliver quick gains to businesses in both India and the U.K.” Ms. Truss’s visit comes against the backdrop of developments in Afghanistan after the departure of U.S. and U.K. troops. There is a vocal section within the Government of Prime Minister Boris Johnson that believes that the people of Afghanistan should not made to suffer while the world waits on the Taliban build an inclusive government in Kabul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-uk-ties-vital-in-coming-decades/article37134020.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC flags vacancies in consumer disputes fora||The Supreme Court on Friday criticised the Centre and States for not filling up vacancies in consumer disputes fora across the country, saying cases in them may not be so high-stake but are nevertheless vital to the common man. A Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said the judiciary should not be made to, time and again, goad the Government to fill up vacancies. “The very purpose of setting up these tribunals and providing consumer remedy goes if these tribunals are not being manned. If the Government feels it does not want them, then abolish the Act. But if you put the Act in place you must man the tribunals,” Justice Kaul addressed the Government side. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi said a meeting was due later in October to fill up the vacancies. But the court said that would only cover the Central Consumer Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-flags-vacancies-in-consumer-disputes-fora/article37134432.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Nearly 700 detained in J&K ahead of Shah’s visit||This will be Mr. Shah’s first visit to J&K after Article 370 of the Constitution was read down and the former State of J&K was downgraded and bifurcated into two Union Territories — J&K and Ladakh in August 2019. The Home Minister is expected to review security and development related projects in Srinagar on Saturday and is likely to hold a public rally in Jammu on Sunday. Traffic curbs Several traffic restrictions were also implemented in Srinagar city, those driving two-wheeler subjected to intensive security checks. Pat-down searches of passengers and shoppers was intensified in marketplaces. Eleven civilians, mostly migrant workers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have been killed in a spate of targeted attacks in the Valley this month. The Resistance Front, a front for Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) has claimed responsibility for the civilian killings. The J&K police, in a series of tweets on Friday, sought public help “to share timely information regarding Terrorism, Narcotic-drug peddling, or any other anti-National/social activity.” Sharing the numbers of police helplines, the tweet said the initiative “will help the JK Police to fight the inimical forces with a stronger punch” and it was an effort to increase the sense of security among the businessmen, tourists, transporters, students and other sections of the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-700-held-in-jk-ahead-of-shahs-visit/article37134026.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrate festivals with caution, says PM Modi||Mr. Modi lauded the difficult but remarkable feat of administering 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses and attributed it to the dedication of 130 crore countrymen. He said it was the success of India and every countryman. “Hundred crore vaccination is not just a figure, but a reflection of the strength of the country. It is the creation of a new chapter of history. This is a picture of a new India that sets difficult goals and knows how to achieve them,” Mr. Modi said. The Prime Minister said the vaccination coverage came with the challenge of needing to scale up production. “After that comes distribution to different States and timely delivery of vaccines to far-flung areas. But, with scientific methods and new innovations, the country has found solutions to these challenges. Resources were increased with extraordinary speed,” he said. Mr. Modi said the made-in-India Co-WIN platform not only made vaccination convenient for the common people but also made the work of the medical staff easier. “Developed countries had decades of expertise in researching and developing vaccines. India mostly depended on vaccines made by these countries. For this reason, when the biggest pandemic of the century struck, various questions were raised about India’s ability to fight the global pandemic. Questions like, from where will India get the money to buy so many vaccines from other countries? Will the people of India get the vaccine or not? Will India be able to vaccinate enough people? These questions were answered by achieving this feat of administering 100 crore vaccinations,” Mr. Modi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/celebrate-festivals-with-caution-says-pm-modi/article37134027.ece
23 October 2021||Mumbai,||Panel summons Param Bir||The Bhima Koregaon Commission on Friday issued summons to IPS officers Param Bir Singh and Rashmi Shukla to appear as witnesses in the violence that broke out on January 1, 2018, in Pune. The commission was appointed in February 2018 to probe the violence that broke out when Dalits were attacked while observing the 200th anniversary of the Bhima Koregaon battle that the British won with the help of Dalits and defeated Peshwas. The commission headed by J.N. Patel, retired Chief Justice of the Kolkata High Court, and including Sumit Mullick, former Maharashtra Chief Secretary, on Friday issued summons to Mr. Singh who was the Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) in 2018 and Ms. Shukla, who was the Police Commissioner of Pune. They are expected to respond to the summons by November 8. So far, several extensions have been given to the commission and over 35 witnesses have deposed before it. “However, the evidence is still evolving and several State and police officials are expected to depose as witnesses soon,” said commission’s lawyer Aashish Satpute. The commission has so far received nearly 500 affidavits — from victims, Dalit outfits, NGOs, right-wing groups, government and police officials — across Pune, Mumbai and Thane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-summons-param-bir/article37134025.ece
23 October 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool Congress appoints Luizinho Faleiro as vice-president||Days before West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit Goa and hold meetings there ahead of the Assembly poll, the Trinamool Congress on Friday appointed Luizinho Faleiro as its vice-president. “Our Hon’ble Chairperson Smt. @MamataOfficial takes great pride in appointing Mr. @luizinhofaleiro as the National Vice President of All India Trinamool Congress,” a notification signed by Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said. The Trinamool Congress chairperson is likely to visit Goa on October 28. Several leaders of Trinamool Congress along with a team from election strategist Prashant Kishor’s firm have been doing ground work in the State. The Trinamool Congress has plans to contest all the 40 Assembly seats in Goa, when the coastal State goes to polls in 2022. The Trinamool Congress chairperson’s visit to Goa as well as assigning a key party post to Mr. Faleiro is significant as Ms. Banerjee has not visited any State except the national capital in the past few years. After joining the Trinamool Congress last month, Mr. Faleiro has brought in several leaders from the Congress. The Trinamool Congress poll slogan for the Goa Assembly poll is “Goenchi Navi Sakal”, which translates to a new dawn for Goa. Goa and Tripura are the two States that are being eyed by the Trinamool Congress to extend footprints beyond West Bengal. As the election in Tripura is scheduled for 2023, the Trinamool Congress is stepping up its efforts for Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-congress-appoints-luizinho-faleiro-as-vice-president/article37134033.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Haj 2022 registration to open in Nov.||Selection of pilgrims for the Haj in 2022 will be decided on criteria such as full vaccination compliance and the guidelines framed by the Government of India and Saudi Arabia due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with the registration process to open in November. Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi made the announcement on Friday while chairing a Haj review meeting in New Delhi, adding that a digital health card, “E-MASIHA” health facility, e-luggage pre-tagging and information regarding accommodation/transportation in Makkah-Madinah, would be provided to Haj pilgrims. The official announcement of Haj 2022 would be made in the first week of November and along with that the process of online applications would begin. The entire process would be digital. India sends the second largest number of Haj pilgrims after Indonesia. Mr. Naqvi said more than 3,000 women had applied for Haj 2020 and 2021 under without “Mehram” (male companion) category. Their applications would be eligible for Haj 2022 too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haj-2022-registration-to-open-in-nov/article37134040.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC on online police activities||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine a petition seeking a direction to the Centre to frame rules to govern police officers posting news about any criminal investigation on their personal or professional social media handles. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar issued notice to the Government on the petition. The petitioner, Delhi-based Mohammed Khalil, represented by senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, alleged that the Director General of Police, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, had posted “various scathing and distasteful tweets” about a young woman who died by suicide and her family. The petition sought the transfer of an FIR registered under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) into her death against some police officers and another person. Mr. Khalil asked the court to transfer the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-on-online-police-activities/article37134021.ece
23 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Pradeep Majhi quits Congress in Odisha||Putting speculation to rest, working president of the Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC) and a prominent tribal leader Pradeep Majhi resigned on Friday from the primary membership of the party. In his resignation letter addressed to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Mr. Majhi said, “I joined the Indian National Congress with utmost enthusiasm with a view to serving the needy people. The party also provided ample opportunity and placed me at the top of others without any demand from my side.” He said the the party was extremely well-managed by Ms. Gandhi’s dynamic leadership until recalcitrant persons occupying pivotal posts caused its gradual decline. Mr. Majhi, it is rumoured, is set to join the Biju Janata Dal shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pradeep-majhi-quits-congress-in-odisha/article37134028.ece
23 October 2021||Guwahati,||3 Assam Rifles soldiers held for drug trafficking||Three Assam Rifles personnel and a civilian have been arrested in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district for drug trafficking. The drugs seized from them, weighing 269 g, were estimated to cost Rs. 1 crore in the international market. Dibrugarh Superintendent of Police Shwetank Mishra said the police had acted based on inputs from a Central intelligence agency on Thursday. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-assam-rifles-soldiers-held-for-drug-trafficking/article37134039.ece
23 October 2021||Washington,||FBI, CBI discuss combating emerging crime trends, including rising telemarketing fraud||Top U.S. officials from the FBI and the Department of Justice held a meeting with their counterparts from the CBI to strengthen law enforcement cooperation between India and America, according to an official statement. It said that the meeting took place in New Delhi this week, and the U.S. delegation was led by Deputy Assistant Attorney General Arun G. Rao. “They discussed means for combating emerging crime trends, including fighting rising telemarketing fraud,” the statement said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fbi-cbi-discuss-combating-emerging-crime-trends-including-rising-telemarketing-fraud/article37134045.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Some broadcasters exploiting a la carte pricing of TV channels: TRAI||Telecom regulator TRAI on Friday said some broadcasters were “exploiting” the freedom available for a la carte pricing of TV channels and warned that it would keep a “strict watch” on them and not shy from taking action in the “larger interest” of consumers and the sector. With an increase in TV channel subscription rates “impending”, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) said in a statement that the new tariff recently announced by “these leading broadcasters” reflects their intention to raise the prices of popular channels.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/some-broadcasters-exploiting-a-la-carte-pricing-of-tv-channels-trai/article37134046.ece
23 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Electric locomotive reaches Guwahati||Guwahati, the largest city in the northeastern region, was brought under the electrified rail network, with the first train – a parcel van – reaching Kamakhya station from New Cooch Behar in West Bengal on October 21. Kamakhya station is on the western edge of Guwahati and about 6 km from the central Guwahati railway station. Northeast Frontier Railway officials said the arrival of the parcel van at Kamakhya station was a major step towards the electrification of all the main and branch lines across the region. This would also translate into huge savings by reducing dependence on diesel locomotives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/electric-locomotive-reaches-guwahati/article37134390.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||BMS to protest privatisation on Oct. 28||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) on Friday announced that it would hold nationwide protests on October 28 seeking a stop to the government’s policies of “divestment, privatisation, monetisation, corporatisation and strategic sale of public sector”. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-affiliated trade union said it would send a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in support of its demands. It said it would wait till the Budget session of Parliament to see if the government continues its policies, and would decide the future course of its action after that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bms-to-protest-privatisation-on-oct-28/article37134014.ece
23 October 2021||Pune,||Successive probes into Maharashtra’s sugar factories have yielded nothing: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar on Friday denied the BJP’s allegations on the sale of sugar factories in the State as “baseless”, while claiming that the processes of selling these factories were carried out in a “strictly legal manner”. Mr. Pawar furnished information on the sale of more than 65 sugar factories in the past few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/successive-probes-into-maharashtras-sugar-factories-have-yielded-nothing-ajit-pawar/article37134024.ece
23 October 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Liquor shop closed after students’ plea to Collector||Collector has ordered relocation of a Tasmac-run IMFL retail outlet at Rajaji Nagar after students of a school submitted a petition seeking her intervention. Officials have been instructed to shut the shop and look for alternative sites. An official of the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) said that Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi took cognisance of the effect of the liquor shop on the children and ordered that it be relocated immediately. The officials have begun to scout for alternative options. The stock kept at the shop has been relocated for the time being, he added. E. M. Izhanthendral, a Class VI student and her brother Tamilarasan of Class IV had filed a petition on October 18, during the grievance redress meeting to close the TASMAC shop near their school. Bottles strewn around the entrance of their school on a daily basis were posing an inconvenience to them on a daily basis, they had said. “The bottle pieces would pierce the feet of students who would walk over it unknowingly,” the petition read. Further, when the students returned from school in the evening, many men would crowd around the liquor shop and consumed alcohol, due to which the students felt unsafe, the children petitioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-shop-closed-after-students-petition-collector/article37134666.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. has done over 5 crore tests||With 1,29,573 samples tested for COVID-19, Tamil Nadu crossed a landmark of sorts on Friday, even as the State reported 1,152 fresh cases and 19 deaths. The State has so far tested 5,00,51,603 samples taken from 4,91,32,122 persons through RT-PCR. The State’s overall case tally has gone up to 26,92,949. Chennai reported 147 fresh cases and Coimbatore 140. The other districts that reported more cases included Chengalpattu, 93. and Erode, 83. Tiruppur reported 67 cases and Salem 57. In Thanjavur, 51 fresh infections were found. Ariyalur, 1; Ramanathapuram, 2; Perambalur, Tenkasi and Theni, 3 each; and Tirupattur, 5, reported the lowest number of cases. As many as 1,392 persons were discharged after treatment. The number of recovered patients has gone up to 26,43,431. While 15 deaths occurred at government hospitals, four patients died at private hospitals. The State’s toll has gone up to 35,987, said the daily bulletin of the Department of Public Health. Most deaths The most number of deaths, 5, occurred in Coimbatore and three persons died in Tiruvallur. Two persons each died in Kanniyakumari, Thanjavur and Tiruppur. One death each occurred in Chennai, Namakkal, Salem, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi. While two among the dead had no co-morbidities, the rest had pre-existing health conditions. A 42-year-old woman from Salem with Type 2 diabetes was admitted to Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital on October 5. She tested positive the next day and died of COVID-19 pneumonia on October 20. At 2,618 sessions, 1,30,492 persons were vaccinated. Among them were 58 healthcare workers; 1,192 frontline workers; 75,058 persons aged 18-44; and 39,065 persons aged 45-59; and 15,119 senior citizens. The bulletin said that so far, 5,16,99,793 persons had been inoculated. The vaccination coverage through private centres since May 1 is 26,23,258.  At 2,618 sessions, 1,30,492 persons were vaccinated. Among them were 58 healthcare workers; 1,192 frontline workers; 75,058 persons aged 18-44; and 39,065 persons aged 45-59; and 15,119 senior citizens||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-has-done-over-5-crore-tests/article37134565.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Solar lights planned at black spots on highways||Minister for Highways E.V. Velu on Friday said that solar lights will be installed at curves on highways in the State to prevent accidents. The State had 1,340 black spots, of which 748 were on roads maintained by the National Highways Authority of India and these included blind curves. Black spots are defined as 500-m long stretches where 10 fatal accidents or five major accidents happened over a five-year period, he said. Mr. Velu was addressing officials at a meeting to review steps taken to eliminate black spots. He said that after correction of black spots, including junction improvements, the officials must study the location once again to ensure that the work had been carried out properly and the risk of accidents had come down. Mr. Velu asked the engineers to incorporate road safety aspects at the design stage itself. Later in the evening, Mr. Velu inspected the flyover at Koyambedu which is nearing completion and is likely to be opened by this month-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solar-lights-planned-at-black-spots-on-highways/article37134532.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three dogs in malnourished state taken out of IIT-M shelter||Three dogs, which were very ill and malnourished, were taken out of the dog shelter inside the IIT-Madras campus on Friday for treatment by a few activists. This comes five days after Health Minister Ma. Subramanian inspected the shelter. The Minister, who inspected two confinements spanning around 10,000 square feet, quoted the administration as saying that there were 87 dogs kept in the shelter. He expressed satisfaction on the functioning of the shelter. Activists, who took the dogs out on Friday, alleged that the sick dogs were kept in a third area that was not inspected earlier. The dogs that were unwell were taken out as per the suggestion of the Madras High Court. In a public interest litigation filed by People for Cattle in India (PFCI) regarding the dog shelters in IIT Madras campus, the court said that it was open to the sick dogs being moved out for better care. PFCI had informed the court then that at least 14 dogs in the shelter were sick. However, the activists alleged that some of them were missing during their visit on Friday. They said that although a court order was issued in September, IIT Madras delayed permission to attend to the dogs for a month. During the Minister’s visit last week, the administration informed him that 56 of the 188 dogs kept in the confinement died last year while 29 were given in adoption, 14 were let out and two had escaped. The Minister had asked the institution to furnish details on the dogs given for adoption.  The Hindu sent a questionnaire to IIT Madras on Friday asking whether the three dogs received medical attention earlier, whether there was a delay in allowing the activists to move the dogs, and whether the Minister was apprised about the sick dogs last week. The administration, however, responded saying, “IIT Madras is implementing the instructions of the National Green Tribunal(NGT)-appointed permanent committee and the Honourable High Court. The Institute is reporting periodically to the NGT and updating the HC at each hearing.”  They said that although a court order was issued in September, IIT Madras delayed permission to attend to the dogs for a month||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-dogs-in-malnourished-state-taken-out-of-iit-m-shelter/article37134546.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Painter arrested on rape charge||All Women Police, Adyar, on Friday arrested a 34-year-old man for raping a 21-year-old woman. The police said the accused had been identified as A. Manikandan, 34, a painter from Bethel Nagar in Injambakkam. The victim’s parents got separated and she was staying with her father. Manikandan knew her father who was an alcoholic. He used to visit their house. The accused took her to his house and raped her. His children reported the crime to the girl’s mother. The police took up investigation following a complaint from the mother of the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/painter-arrested-on-rape-charge/article37134520.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bus from Cancer Institute begins its awareness drive||A bus from Cancer Institute, Adyar, will travel to 98 places across the State to raise awareness on the disease. Health Minister Ma. Subrarmanian on Friday flagged off the bus. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan has issued a letter to all district officials to ensure that the Institute carried out its mission without hindrance. The officials had been urged to provide a source of power and parking facility for the vehicle. The awareness drive should be held without causing any problem to the traffic. All guidelines for the pandemic, including distance maintenance and mask wearing, should be strictly followed, the letter said. Bone donation In the same event Mr. Subramanian also inaugurated an awareness workshop on bone donation. The Minister recalled that the Chief Minister and his wife had become a role model by pledging their organs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-from-cancer-institute-begins-its-awareness-drive/article37134547.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SP gives first aid to inspector||The police officials of Chengalpattu district were taken by surprise when Superintendent of Police P. Vijaya Kumar treated inspector Rukmangathan of Madurantakam police station after the latter fell down and sprained his leg. Being a qualified medical practitioner came in handy for Dr. Vijaya Kumar to provide first aid to the inspector who was involved in security arrangements for the local bodies election held in Madurantakam panchayat union on Friday. The inspector twisted his leg when he fell down during the SP’s visit to panchayat union office for checking the security arrangements. Dr. Vijaya Kumar, on seeing the police official writhing in pain, immediately gave medical treatment. The police contingent at the place were all praise for the senior police officer. The SP said the inspector had sprained his leg and he was fit and fine now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sp-gives-first-aid-to-inspector/article37134552.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cardiologist K.A. Abraham passes away||Senior interventional cardiologist K.A. Abraham passed away in Chennai on Friday. He was 79, and is survived by his wife Baby Abraham and daughters Cibi Mammen and Ann Abraham. The Padma Shri awardee graduated from the Christian Medical College in Vellore and began his career by joining the Indian Army and serving the forces during the Indo-Pak war of 1971. He then worked for 25 years at the Southern Railway Headquarters Hospital in the city and was the chief medical director of the Southern Railways. During his tenure, the hospital developed into a referral institution and conducted over 1,000 open-heart surgeries annually. Dr. Abraham received a degree in internal medicine from the Gujarat University and a DM in cardiology from CMC Vellore. In the book Heart of the matter , which he authored and was released in 2017, he chronicles his 50 years in cardiology. He has served several reputed institutions in India and abroad and has also served as the medical officer in the Army Medical Corps, in the Indian Army, from 1967 to 1970, for which he received a letter from former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, commending his dedication to duty. Dr. Abraham has published more than 200 papers/abstracts in national and international journals. In 1986, the Ministry of Railways honoured him with the national award for professional excellence. He was made professor emeritus at the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University and awarded the Padma Shri in 1999. The medical university honoured him with the Lifetime Achievement award in 2011. A keen sportsman at school and college, he tried his hand at every sport that he could.  He served as the medical officer in the Army Medical Corps..., for which he received a letter from former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, commending his dedication to duty||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cardiologist-ka-abraham-passes-away/article37134571.ece
23 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||DVAC searches residence of ex-Minister’s PA in Chennai||Officers of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) conducted simultaneous searches at four places in connection with a probe into the alleged disproportionate assets of former Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. Sources said in connection with the case registered against the former Minister, a search warrant was obtained from the Special Judge, Pudukottai, and searches were carried out at three places in Chennai and one in Salem. From Friday morning, the DVAC conducted simultaneous searches at the house of A. Saravanan, in Chamiers Road and Chasun Developers Private Ltd., Greams Road, Thousand Lights. The house of Murugan, former personal assistant to Dr. Vijayabaskar, in Anna Nagar West, was also searched. DVAC sleuths also searched the premises of Dharan Hospital at Seelanaikenpatti junction, and the residence of Selvaraj in Selanaikenpatti. The searches continued till late evening. The DVAC, Pudukottai unit, had registered a case against Dr. Vijayabaskar and his wife Ramya under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, on information that the former Minister had enriched himself by acquiring assets in his and his dependents’ names. Searches were conducted at the houses of Dr. Vijayabaskar and his relatives in Pudukottai and other places in on Monday. The FIR said Dr. Vijayabaskar and his wife Ms. Ramya were in possession of pecuniary resources and movable and immovable properties valued at about Rs. 27.22 crore, which were disproportionate to their known sources of income. During the searches, DVAC officials seized Rs. 23.85 lakh in cash and other incriminating documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-searches-residence-of-ex-ministers-pa-in-chennai/article37134554.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM seeks more fertilizers from Centre||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday wrote to Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya, urging him to instruct officials to ensure the timely supply of urea, as per the supply plan, to benefit farmers. Mr. Stalin also requested the supply of an additional 25,000 tonnes of DAP (Di-ammonium Phosphate) fertiliser and 10,000 tonnes of MOP (Muriate of Potassium) to meet their increasing demand. In his communication to the Union Minister, Mr. Stalin said Tamil Nadu had been allocated a reduced supply plan of fertilizers for October, a lot lesser than the requirement of urea and DAP. While the requirement of urea for October was 1,66,700 lakh tonnes, the supply plan of the Union government for the month was 1,43,500 lakh tonnes, and the supply made was 61,384 lakh tonnes. As for DAP, the requirement for the month was 45,150 lakh tonnes but the supply plan of the Union government was 4,480 lakh tonnes and the supply made was only 10,601 lakh tonnes. The requirement of MOP was 31,750 lakh tonnes and the supply plan of the Centre was 8,140 lakh tonnes. The supply made during the month was 10,250 lakh tonnes, Mr. Stalin said. “I wish to inform you that samba [ rabi ] season is very important to Tamil Nadu. This year, the State government aims to achieve the production of 125 lakh tonnes of food grains, with clear strategies for increasing the area under rice, millets and pulses. Any shortfall in the supply of urea and DAP will drastically affect crop yield, and in turn, the income of the farmers,” the Chief Minister said. The southwest monsoon continues to bring rain in the State and the northeast monsoon is likely to commence from October 26, auguring the bright prospects for the samba season, he said, adding: “Hence, the demand for all fertilizers, particularly urea, has increased.” Though the Union government accorded a supply plan of 4.91 lakh tonnes of urea from April to September, fertilizer companies have so far supplied just 3.85 lakh tonnes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-seeks-more-fertilizers-from-centre/article37134557.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Status quo on internal inquiry against suspended special DGP||The Madras High Court on Friday ordered maintenance of status quo for four weeks with respect to an inquiry against suspended special Director General of Police (DGP) Rajesh Das by an internal complaints committee (ICC) constituted under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act of 2013. Justice C. Saravanan issued the interim order after Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram sought time to file a counter affidavit to a writ petition preferred by the suspended police officer, challenging the inquiry conducted by the ICC on the basis of a complaint lodged against him by a woman IPS officer this February. The judge directed the A-G to make sure that the State government’s counter affidavit is filed in two weeks and granted one more week thereafter for senior counsel A.R.L. Sundaresan, representing the writ petitioner, to file his reply to the counter. He directed the High Court Registry to list the case after four weeks for further hearing. Earlier, Mr. Sundaresan had said that the inquiry was not conducted in accordance with law. He said the statements of the witnesses had not been shared with the writ petitioner, and he was not given an opportunity to cross examine them. He also alleged that a couple of members of the ICC were biased, and insisted that an inquiry be conducted as per law. On the other hand, the A-G told the court that the government had removed Inspector General of Police A. Arun from the ICC after the writ petitioner alleged that the member had posted certain adverse messages against him on a WhatsApp group maintained by IPS officers, immediately after the complaint of sexual harassment surfaced. ‘No substance’ As far as the allegation of bias against another member — Additional Director General of Police Seema Agarwal (now promoted as Director General of Police) — was concerned, the government found that there was no susbstance in the allegation of bias, and hence, she was retained in the committee, which has already submitted a report to the government. The A-G added that the writ petitioner had taken six months to approach the court against the ICC, though the proceedings had begun as early as March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/status-quo-on-probe-against-suspended-special-dgp/article37134548.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jiwal leads tributes to dead policemen||The Greater Chennai Police is observing ‘Police Commemoration Week’ since Thursday, recalling the sacrifices of its personnel who laid down their lives in the line of duty and also those who died of COVID-19. Every year, ‘Police Commemoration Day’ is observed on October 21 to pay respects to the 10 policemen who were killed by Chinese troops in an ambush at Hot Springs area near Ladakh on October 21, 1959. Police personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty every year also are remembered across India. A 11-day programme — from October 21 to 31 — has been organised across the city on the orders of Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal to make the public, especially the youth, aware of the sacrifices made by policemen. On Friday, near the Labour statue on Marina, Mr. Jiwal, Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi, R. Jayanthi, dean of Government Medical College, Omandurar, chess grandmaster Viswanathan Anand and film-maker P. Vasu paid floral tributes to the portraits of police personnel who died of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jiwal-leads-tributes-to-dead-policemen/article37134529.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to focus on 76 unvaccinated pockets||The Greater Chennai Corporation has changed the strategy for vaccination, focussing on sending teams to 76 unvaccinated pockets, frequent phone calls to 4.11 lakh residents for second dose of vaccination and additional field workers to mobilise residents for camps early in the morning. Earlier, during mega vaccination camps, field workers used to mobilise residents during the afternoon for vaccination. On Saturday, conservancy workers and other field workers would visit homes of unvaccinated residents in the morning in each area. “Our vaccination percentage is high in the evening after 5 p.m. From the forenoon itself, man-to-man mobilisation has to be there,” said Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. The civic body will call residents to remind them of the second dose. “In Chennai, 85% of the population which is eligible, who are 18 and above, has got the first dose. We are considering 59 lakh. Nearly, 43% has got the second dose. For the second dose, Chennai’s percentage is the highest. As per our estimation, second dose is overdue for 4.11 lakh people, after 84 days. We want to cover the entire population in the mega vaccination camp this week,” said Mr. Bedi. On Friday, the Commissioner held a meeting to discuss preparations for the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-focus-on-76-unvaccinated-pockets/article37134536.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A hospital that is rooted in charity has remained a landmark for 75 years||The chaotic and congested Dr. Besant Road at Triplicane has undergone tremendous changes over the years. But The Crescent Hospital remains a popular landmark on the road, rendering free and subsidised health services to the poor for 75 years, even right through the COVID-19 pandemic. The hospital, started by a committed group of young doctors in 1946 on the land donated by the then Prince of Arcot, entered the 75th year of its service last month. The present Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, is the patron of the hospital, while Dr. Syed Khaleefathullah, a Padma Shri awardee, is the president. N.K.S. Shaik Mujibur Rahman, a doctor practising at the hospital for more than 10 years, said that when the hospital was started, it primarily offered outpatient and circumcision services. “While circumcision of male children is part of the Muslim culture, there were not many hospitals that offered the service at that time. Even if they were offering, the wait time was more as this was an elective procedure,” he said. Dr. Rahman said the 23-bed hospital now offers a variety of services to all people, irrespective of their religion, at affordable and subsidised cost. Some of the key services are dialysis, cataract surgery and maternity care because a large number of low and middle income families are in need of them. “We also treat patients with other serious illnesses by engaging external consultants. For instance, we recently removed a huge fundal fibroid, weighing five kilogram, from a woman who was fighting obesity. Since she was poor, we did it at a subsidised cost,” he said. A. Muruganandam, medical administrator of the hospital, who also handled its dialysis services, said the hospital was among the few that did not shut its door for a day for its dialysis patients at the peak of COVID-19. “We even handled a few symptomatic cases whose COVID-19 test results were awaited as they were in dire need of dialysis.” At least 15-20 patients underwent dialysis daily. M. Mohsina Banu, an administrative staff member, said she had handled several patients unable to pay even the subsidised rates charged by the hospital. “We do not turn them away. We provide them free treatment after consulting some of the trusts supporting us.” The platinum jubilee celebrations were inaugurated last month by the Prince of Arcot. The Prince of Arcot told The Hindu that he truly believed in the saying, “Service to the humanity is service to god,” and the the services offered by the hospital were the need of the hour because of the escalating healthcare expenditure. He said a lot of what the hospital had achieved today would not have been possible but for the efforts of Dr. Khaleefathullah, who was ably supported by his son Dr. Syed M.M. Ameen, and doctors, nurses and others involved in the administration of the hospital. Many celebrations and free medical services have been planned throughout the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-hospital-that-is-rooted-in-charity-has-remained-a-landmark-for-75-years/article37134561.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Golden chariot drawn inside Kapaleeswarar temple||The golden chariot of Kapaleeswarar temple in Mylapore was brought out in a procession on Friday evening. This marked the re-start of temple car processions inside temples for devotees to carry out their vows. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin permitted processions on temple premises based on requests of devotees. There are 65 golden and 49 silver chariots in temples across the State. Efforts were on to repair the chariots belonging to the Tiruttani and the Rameswaram temples, which had not been brought out for over 10 years now. Similarly, golden chariots would be made for the Kalikambal temple in Chennai and the Irukkangudi Mariamman temple, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/golden-chariot-drawn-inside-kapaleeswarar-temple/article37134530.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sexual assault on minor girl||The All Women Police, Royapuram, on Friday arrested a 23-year-old man for allegedly sexually assaulting a 13-year-old girl and torturing her siblings physically. The police identified the accused as G. Gowtham, 23, from Chinna Salem in Kallakurichi district and working as an assistant in a medical lab. The girl’s mother, 32, is a health care provider. After the demise of her husband, she was in a relationship with Gowtham. They were staying together with her children. When the woman went out for work, he sexually assaulted the girl frequently. He physically tortured the other two children to silence them and also abused them. The children reported his sexual assault and abuse to their mother recently. Based on her complaint, the All Women Police, Royapuram, arrested Gowtham after booking a case for ‘aggravated sexual assault’ under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Meanwhile, All Women Police, Madipakkam, arrested a 42-year-old man for sexually assaulting a 13-year-old girl. The police said the accused S. Gopalakrishnan, 42 of Pallikaranai, was arrested on charges of sexually assaulting the girl when she was alone at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article37134521.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Theft of water meters baffles Pammal residents||A section of residents in Pammal and Anakaputhur are facing a problem as the water meters installed in their homes are stolen regularly. In the past fortnight, several residents have complained that the water meters were stolen in spite of closed circuit television cameras installed in the locality, especially in Sankar Nagar and VOC Nagar. K. Malaichamy Pandian, president, Pammal Sri Sankara Nagar Nalavazhvu Sangam, said several water meters on four streets of Sankara Nagar, including 8th and 9th streets, were stolen. Sankar Nagar Police said a petition from the residents had been forwarded to the crime team and they were on the job to nab the offenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theft-of-water-meters-baffles-pammal-residents/article37134553.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Children should get nutritious meals irrespective of natural calamities or pandemic’||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the State government to put in place an exigency or emergency plan for uninterrupted supply of nutritious meals to eligible children of government and government aided private schools irrespective of the State being hit by a natural calamity, disaster or pandemic. In an interim order passed on a public interest litigation petition, first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu wrote: “While it is hoped that the worst is behind us, what the pandemic would have taught humanity is not to take anything for granted and be prepared for the worst.” They said the State could prepare a plan of action to deal with the issue of supply of nutritious food to needy children even if there was a natural calamity or a disaster. The judges stated that a ‘Plan B’ or ‘Plan C’ should always be ready to ensure that vulnerable children and young adults do not go without nutritious meals. The Bench adjourned further hearing on the PIL petition, filed by Citizen Consumer and Civic Action Group, a non-governmental organisation, by four weeks and directed the Social Welfare Secretary to file a status report before the court along with an exigency or emergency plan that the State could follow in times of need. Senior counsel N.L. Rajah, representing the petitioner NGO, brought it to the notice of the court that provision of hot cooked nutritious meals to needy children could not be suspended for years together especially in the light of the National Food Security Act of 2013. He said the scheme was resumed partially only after court orders. On the other hand, State Government Pleader P. Muthukumar informed the court that a decision had been taken to resume physical classes for students of all age groups from November 1 and that the government had decided to restart the Puratchi Thalaivar MGR Nutritious Meal Programme for all beneficiaries from day one itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/children-should-get-nutritious-meals-irrespective-of-natural-calamities-or-pandemic/article37134974.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin announces solatium to fisher’s kin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday condoled the death of a fisherman, R. Rajkiran, 28, whose boat got submerged when it was “chased away” by the Sri Lankan Navy. Mr. Stalin also announced a solatium of Rs. 10 lakh from the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund to the bereaved family. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said two other fishermen were in the custody of the Sri Lankan Navy. It may be recalled that the Chief Minister had earlier written to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, calling for efforts to find the missing fisherman. On October 18, three fishermen — S. Suganthan (22), A. Xavier (38) and R. Rajkiran — went fishing from Kottaipattinam in Pudukkottai district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dead-fishers-kin-to-get-solatium/article37134522.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ordinances promulgated for establishing four Corporations||Governor R.N. Ravi has promulgated ordinances to establish Municipal Corporations in Cuddalore, Kancheepuram, Karur and Sivakasi. According to the ordinances, the percentage of the urban population in Tamil Nadu stood at 53%. It was 48.45% as per the 2011 Census. It had, therefore, become essential to merge areas having urban characteristics, adjoining Corporations and Municipalities, with their respective urban local bodies, and create necessary infrastructure in such areas, the ordinances said, referring to the announcements made by the Minister for Municipal Administration on the floor of the Assembly. The municipal authorities charged with carrying out the provisions of the ordinances will be a Mayor, a council, a standing committee, a wards committee and a Commissioner. Subject to the provisions of the sub-sections in the ordinances, the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920, shall, with effect on and from the date of the commencement of the ordinances, cease to apply to the local area comprised within these cities. However, they will not affect any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against the District Municipalities Act. Special officer The government will appoint a special officer for these Municipal Corporations to exercise powers, perform duties and discharge the functions of the council, the standing committee, the Commissioner and the wards committee, until the elected councillors come into office or until a standing committee is appointed by the Corporation or until a Commissioner is appointed by the government.  According to the ordinances, the percentage of urban population in Tamil Nadu stands at 53%. It was 48.45% as per the 2011 Census||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ordinances-promulgated-for-establishing-four-corporations/article37134568.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Contaminated water renders several residents ill||For nearly a week now, many residents of Sriram Nagar in Alwarpet have been affected by water contamination that has resulted in quite a few persons suffering from diarrhoea and vomiting. L. Hariharan, 30, of Sriram Nagar said three persons in his house had taken ill with diarrhoea and vomiting owing to the water contamination. “Last week, we noticed the water turn dark and a foul smell emanated from it. Soon after this, my wife, cousin and his wife fell ill. We subsequently closed the inlet valves and have been managing with borewell water now,” he said. Before Sriram Nagar, neighbouring streets had been facing this problem and many residents could have been saved from becoming sick if they had been advised to close the valves in advance till the issue was resolved, he said. J. Narayan, 72, of the area said he and his wife had diarrhoea and vomiting last week. Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board officials said the a sewer pipeline had been damaged in one location which caused a leak and contamination of drinking water. The officials said they had begun the repair work. “We will resume supply on Saturday morning,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contaminated-water-renders-several-residents-ill/article37134525.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Czech film festival begins||The State government has been focusing on all verticals of tourism and taken steps to develop it, M. Mathiventhan, Minister of Tourism, said here on Friday. He was speaking at the inauguration of the Czech Film Festival organised by Consulate of Czech Republic in Chennai and Indo Cine Appreciation Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/czech-film-festival-begins/article37134533.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hearing aids distributed||Hearing aids were distributed free of cost to 36 persons at a function got up at Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education’s rehabilitation centre Vidya Sudha, in association with the National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hearing-aids-distributed/article37134526.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK flays police action against former Minister||The AIADMK coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday condemned the police action against former Minister and the party district secretary M.R. Vijayabhaskar in Karur. In a statement, the two leaders referred to the incident of commotion when Mr. Vijayabhaskar had protested against the district election official’s decision to postpone the poll for the post of district panchayat’s vice-president. In a separate statement, Mr. Palaniswami criticised DVAC searches on the premises belonging to R. Elangovan, the Salem (suburban) unit’s secretary for the Amma Peravai. and former chairman of the Tamil Nadu State Apex Cooperative Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-flays-police-action-against-former-minister/article37134670.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3D printing lab launched at VIT Chennai||A 3D printing lab was inaugurated at VIT Chennai by Chancellor G. Viswanathan on Friday. A press release said the lab, equipped with high-end 3D machines including Fused Deposition Modelling (FDM), Selective Laser Sintering (SLS), Stereolithography (SLA), Digital Light Processing (DLP) and co-extrusion-based composite printing, would help students meet all academic requirements. Sankar Viswanathan, Vice-President, and Kanchana Bhaaskaran, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3d-printing-lab-launched-at-vit-chennai/article37134569.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Hike DA for govt. workers, pensioners’||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Friday demanded that the State government announce a 14% hike in dearness allowance (DA) for its employees and pensioners as a Deepavali gift. He referred to the Union Government’s move to effect an increase of 3% over the existing rate of 28% of basic pay/pension to compensate for price rise, and said the difference between the DA rate for Union government employees and those of the State was 14 percentage points. He recalled that the DMK government had stated that it would increase the DA in April 2022, but had later decided to advance the period to January. This was “not acceptable”, he said. Referring to Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi’s statement that the Public Works Department would continue to maintain the statue of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on the campus of the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education, he said this was in response to his letter to Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hike-da-for-govt-workers-pensioners/article37134555.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide foot-and-mouth disease vaccine’||Dairy farmers in the State have called for vaccinating cattle against foot-and-mouth disease, which, they say, has been missed for three seasons because of COVID-19 lockdown. “The vaccines are provided once every six months by the Centre and vaccination is done in February and October,” said Tamil Nadu Milk Producers’ Association general secretary K. Mohammed Ali. After having missed the vaccination, the animals have been affected here and there and some deaths too have happened. “A total of 15 lakh families depend on milk production so we can estimate that we would have a total of 35 lakh to 40 lakh head of cattle,” he added. There are around 16.89 lakh head of cattle under the co-operative ambit, out of which, 16.45 lakh were cows and 44,000 were buffaloes. Tamil Nadu Milk Producers Welfare Association’s M.G. Rajendran said vaccination was needed to prevent death of animals since despite the lockdown, families in rural areas had managed to survive due to milk supply. “The government must ensure proper temperature of vaccines be maintained so that the doses do not lose their potency. Many veterinary dispensaries in the State do not even have proper power supply,” he said and added that now was the time to vaccinate the animals. The exercise is jointly conducted by Aavin and the Veterinary Department and once district collectors announce vaccination dates, cattle owners would take the milch animals to the vaccination centres, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-foot-and-mouth-disease-vaccine-to-cattle-govt-urged/article37134544.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Czech Republic diplomat calls on CM||Ambassador of Czech Republic to India Milan Hovorka called on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat in Chennai on Friday. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/czech-republic-diplomat-calls-on-cm/article37134535.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||E-waste camp in Manapakkam||Friends of Manapakkam, in association with the Greater Chennai Corporation, will organise an e-waste camp at the Government Middle School, Ambedkar Nagar, Manapakkam on October 23 and 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-waste-camp-in-manapakkam/article37134539.ece
23 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore will get Development Authority soon, says official||Coimbatore and Tiruppur will get Development Authorities this year, Housing and Urban Development Department Secretary Hitesh Kumar S. Makwana said here on Friday. Speaking at a stakeholders consultative meeting on the draft Master Plan for Coimbatore, he said the State government would form development authorities for Madurai, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, and Hosur this year. It would look at more cities in the coming years. The government had also taken up GIS-based master plan work for 17 towns across the State. The local planning area for Coimbatore, which was expanded from 1,288 sq.km to 1,526 sq.km, would be notified shortly. E. Saravanavelraj, Director of Town and Country Planning, said the existing Master Plan for Coimbatore was more than 25 years old. The plan was to increase the local planning area by 18.5 % and the deliverables of the revised Master Plan would be to provide equity in urban service, ensure sustainability of environment, efficient use of resources, and preservation of heritage sites. Just 7 % of liveable area in the State was planned area. It was the vision of the government to increase it to 22 % in 10 years. According to a presentation on the proposed Master Plan for Coimbatore, the officials said 13 more villages would be added to the existing 56 villages in the new local planning area. The growth centres were more in the north and east. The proposal was to increase industrial area to 7.45 %, institutional area to 4.4 %, commercial areas to 3.6 %, and residential areas to nearly 40 %, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-will-get-development-authority-soon-says-official/article37134602.ece
23 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police launch ‘SaKo’ mobile app to prevent burglaries||In an effort to prevent burglaries in locked residences, Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore district, S. Selvanagarathinam introduced ‘SaKo’ (Safe Kovai) mobile application here on Friday. The application, which was developed by Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College in collaboration with the Coimbatore District Police, was launched at the District Police Office. The SP told mediapersons that the residents of the district shall download the ‘SaKo’ application and register their addresses, upload the photographs of their houses and enter the period during which the house would remain locked. With over 20 lakh residents living within the Coimbatore District Police limits, Mr. Selvanagarathinam said the details of most of them were not available with the police. With this mobile application, the sharing of details had been made easier and the police personnel during night patrol would be provided with tablets to track these houses, he added. The public shall also approach the Coimbatore District Police for security equipment such as CCTV cameras, alarm devices and sensors to prevent break-ins as the police had tied up with a few private firms to provide the equipment to the public on a rental basis, according to Mr. Selvanagarathinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-launch-sako-mobile-app-to-prevent-burglaries/article37134606.ece
23 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||57 wards in Coimbatore Corpn. register over 90% vaccination||With the country completing 100 crore vaccinations, Coimbatore’s contribution towards this achievement is that 57 of the 100 wards in the city have seen over 90% of the eligible population getting at least the first dose of vaccine. At present, the Coimbatore Corporation is administering vaccine to those aged above 18. Data available with the Corporation showed that five wards in South Zone, 13 in North Zone, 12 in East Zone, 15 in West Zone and 12 in Central Zone had over 90% of the eligible population that had received the first dose. Of those 57 wards, six wards – Ward 96 in South Zone, Ward 26 in North Zone, Ward 37 in East Zone and Wards 23, 24 and 11 in West Zone – had over 99% population that had received one dose. While this was something that the Corporation was proud of, its focus for the Saturday’s vaccination drive would be on those areas where the percentage of people who had not received even the first dose of vaccination was high. There were eight wards where more than 20% of the eligible population had not received the first dose– Ward 87 in South Zone where 27.44% had not taken vaccine, Ward 41 in North Zone where 34.88% population had not taken vaccine, Wards 59, 66 and 60 where 25.89%, 40.40% and 21.23% of the population respectively had not taken vaccine, and Wards 45, 48 and 52 in Central Zone where 35.46%, 39.09% and 43.72% population had not taken vaccine. The sources said that on Saturday, the Corporation would deploy its fever survey volunteers to encourage people in the aforementioned wards to get vaccinated and would hold additional vaccination there. Besides, the civic body has also planned to deploy vehicles used for mobile vaccination to deliver vaccines at the doorstep of people with difficulty in reaching the vaccination camps, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/57-wards-in-coimbatore-corpn-register-over-90-vaccination/article37134597.ece
23 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP has become a strong Oppn. in T.N., says Arun Singh||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has become a strong Opposition party in the State, said the party’s national general secretary Arun Singh here on Friday. During his visits to Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode districts, he saw the party “emerging at the booth level” and that the party workers were “confident”, he told reporters. The BJP had become a ‘strong Opposition’ to the State government ‘in the interests of the Tamil people’, Mr. Singh said. Noting the various projects of the Central government for the State including the Defence Industrial Corridor, Mr. Singh said Tamil Nadu was a “focus area for the Centre” and that the State government must “work with transparency” and remain “corruption-free.” The BJP was confident of winning a second term in the upcoming Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh, he said. Regarding the cost of fuel prices, Mr. Singh said the States must reduce taxes and “come together in the GST Council” to let fuel under the GST regime. BJP State president K. Annamalai reiterated his charges of corruption against Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji and claimed that corruption was the reason for Tangedco’s Rs. 1.59 lakh crore debt. The party would continue to release more evidence on the alleged corruption in the coming days, he added. Coimbatore South MLA Vanathi Srinivasan and former MP C.P. Radhakrishnan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-has-become-a-strong-oppn-in-tn-arun-singh/article37134610.ece
23 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police launch search for woman for grandson’s murder||The Thudiyalur police are on the lookout for a woman who allegedly murdered her three-months-old grandson and attempted to murder the child’s twin sister in Kavundampalayam on Thursday. Police said on Friday that the 45-year-old woman was allegedly mentally unstable and she absconded after the incident. On Thursday, the parents of the twins went to work after leaving the children with the grandmother. Upon their return, the children were found with several injuries. The parents rushed them to a private hospital, where the boy baby was declared dead on arrival. The girl baby was receiving treatment and her health was stable, the police said. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-launch-search-for-woman-for-grandsons-murder/article37134607.ece
23 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||5 deaths, 140 fresh cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Friday reported 140 new COVID-19 cases, which took the overall tally to 2,45,647. The Health Department reported five new deaths, which took the district’s toll to 2,397. The district had 1,471 active cases and 152 patients were reported to have recovered on the day. The test positivity rate of Coimbatore district as per Thursday’s data was 1.5%. Tiruppur district reported 67 fresh COVID-19 cases and two deaths on Friday. The district’s overall tally stands at 94,737 cases. The two deaths took the toll to 974. The district had 793 active cases and 81 patients recovered on Friday. Test positivity rate of Tiruppur district based on Thursday’s data was 1.6%. Nineteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Friday. With the latest infections, the number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 33,404. A total of 315 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-deaths-140-fresh-cases-in-coimbatore/article37134608.ece
23 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to slap fine on those dumping waste in the open||The Corporation Commissioner on Thursday instructed sanitary supervisors, sanitary inspectors and zonal sanitary officers to slap fine on those dumping garbage in the open. Inspection He issued the instructions to the field staff after carrying out an inspection at the office of the sanitary inspector, Ward 72, in Central Zone, said a release from the civic body. While officials right from the rank of zonal assistant commissioners to sanitary inspectors should ensure that people handed over waste after segregation and the conservancy worker collected waste in segregated fashion, they should also slap fine on those dumping garbage in the open. This was imperative to keep the city clean, the Commissioner told the officials, the release said and added he also asked them to keep the drains free of garbage and work with residents to destroy mosquito breeding sources. ‘Wear mask’ While going about their daily routine, the workers should wear mask and they must also make use of the vaccination camps if they had not received either the first or second dose of COVID-19 vaccination, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-slap-fine-on-those-dumping-waste-in-the-open/article37134598.ece
23 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Micro units need a separate Ministry, says industries’ body||The Central and State governments should form a separate Ministry for micro enterprises, Consortium of Indian Associations (CIA) convenor K.E. Raghunathan said on Friday. The consortium conducted a survey in June, covering 81,000 self-employed micro and small businesses across the country. It was found that 73% of the units did not make any profit during 2020-2021, and 42% were unable to decide on retention of employees. The governments should adopt a three-pronged approach to revive MSME units. They should exempt them from statutory compliances and penal actions, protect them from interest burden and high prices of raw materials and support the industries with liberal loans, moratorium and interest waiver, Mr. Raghunathan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/micro-units-need-a-separate-ministry-says-industries-body/article37134593.ece
23 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CRPF Havildar found dead||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Havildar was found dead at his residence in Vellalore on Thursday. Police said that M. Alexander (51), a Havildar attached to the 131 Battalion of CRPF in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district, reached Coimbatore on September 29 and he was to return on October 24. On Thursday, the man’s daughter found him dead in his room. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the man took his life due to debt burden. The Podanur police have registered a case. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crpf-havildar-found-dead/article37134620.ece
23 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 100 kg banned plastic bags seized||Coimbatore Corporation officials have seized 120 kg plastic bags from traders in and around Anna Retail Vegetable Market and slapped Rs. 15,000 in fine. A communique from the civic body said a team of health wing officials inspected shops in the area, seized the bags and slapped fine on five shopkeepers for storing and using those banned plastic bags.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-100-kg-banned-plastic-bags-seized/article37134599.ece
23 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mega vaccination drive today||The target set for Saturday’s mega vaccination drive is two lakh vaccine doses, said a release from the district administration here on Thursday. The administration has so far vaccinated 5.51 lakh persons. To reach the two lakh target, the administration has planned to set up 1,429 camps, including 325 in the city limits by the Coimbatore Corporation. The Corporation in a release said it would set up 269 camps to improve vaccination coverage in the city. The percentage of people from among the population eligible for vaccination that had taken first dose was 85 to 90. In its estimate there were 1.73 lakh persons who were due for second dose vaccine – 25,566 for Covaxin and 1.48 lakh for Covishield. The release said the effect of COVID-19 would be minimal for those who had taken two doses and urged the people to make use of the opportunity to complete vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-vaccination-drive-today/article37134600.ece
23 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Grand World Elder Care, a geriatric clinic for patients over 60 years of age, was inaugurated at Ram Nagar here on Friday. A release said that the clinic would have a “holistic approach” in treating senior citizens, which includes consultations with geriatricians, comprehensive geriatric assessments, physiotherapy consultations, care for patients with dementia and sessions with psychologists and assisted living facility for the elderly patients.   Founder of Isha Foundation Jaggi Vasudev termed the administration of 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses in India as a “remarkable achievement for the nation.” In a Twitter post on Thursday, he expressed his “utmost gratitude” for “the ceaseless efforts of all those involved” in achieving the milestone.   Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Friday organised a special medical camp for osteoporosis and to raise awareness on bone health. A press release said that Dean A. Nirmala inaugurated the camp and issued pamphlets to the participants. Around 200 persons were screened for osteoporosis as part of the event and calcium-based medications were provided to those diagnosed with low bone density, according to the release.   A team of doctors from the GKNM Hospital recently removed a vascular tumour from the base of a patient’s skull. The surgery was performed on a 35-year-old man, a release said. The team comprised consultant ENT surgeon P. Karthikeyan, consultant surgical oncologist R. Mohan Raj and chief consultant and neuro-interventional radiologist Rasmiranjan Padhi. The patient was said to be stable following the surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37134604.ece
23 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Meeting held to review monsoon preparedness||A review meeting on the preparedness for North-East Monsoon was held here on Friday. Principal Secretary and Labour Commissioner Atul Anand, who is also the district monitoring officer, presided over the meeting to ascertain the preparedness of various line departments. Mr. Anand directed the officials to mark out vulnerable and prepare necessary safety protocols. Each department was asked to draw up an emergency response protocol to handle monsoon-related emergencies, including damage to infrastructure. The departments of revenue, local bodies, and public works were asked to coordinate and work with each other. Further, concerned departments were called to hold drills to ascertain the preparedness in disaster-related emergency response, alongside fire and rescue services. A 24-hour control room with toll free number 1077, 04342-231500, 04342-231508, 04342-230067, and 04342-231077 will be available for the public to avail information.  Staff Reporter adds from Salem: District Monitoring Officer S. Siva Shanmugharaja has advised the district administration to ensure sufficient stocks of medicines at primary health centres and government hospitals as a precautionary measure to face monsoon. Mr. Shanmugharaja along with District Collector S. Karmegham and other senior officials reviewed the monsoon preparedness. The officer advised the administration to take necessary precautionary measures at vulnerable places in the district. Officials were advised to ensure round-the-clock functioning of control room. Mr. Shanmugharaja also visited the Pallapatti lake and Thirumanimutharu river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-held-to-review-monsoon-preparedness/article37134689.ece
23 October 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Balakrishnapuram bridge work to be completed by March 2022||Balakrishnapuram bridge work would be completed by March 2022, said Collector S. Visakan here on Thursday. According to the engineers, about 80 % of Rs. 59.8 crore estimated works had been completed. “Some more works need to be done by the Tangedco and TWAD Board engineers. We have told the contractor to deploy more workers and finish it by March 2022, he said. He told reporters that the bridge, when completed, would save travel time and decongest traffic movement in the vicinity. When the bridge becomes operational, the residents in the area need not wait for the trains to cross the point as three level crossings - Dindigul-Palani, Dindigul-Karur and Dindigul-Tiruchi gates - were on the stretch. Now, the motorists had to take a long route to avoid the level crossings. He inspected the site along with Dindigul MP Velusami, District Revenue Officer V. Latha, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian, engineers from the Highways, Tangedco and TWAD Board. The bridge work witnessed several problems including land acquisition during the AIADMK regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/balakrishnapuram-bridge-work-to-be-completed-by-march-2022/article37134964.ece
23 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle movement hit on Bargur ghat road||Movement of vehicles on the Bargur ghat road was disrupted for the entire day on Friday after boulders and trees fell on the road at 10 places. The 18 km stretch of the national highway leads to Bargur and other habitations located at the east and west sides of the hill and also to Kollegal in Karnataka. The hill areas have been receiving rain in the past one month and huge boulders and trees fell on the road in the early hours of Friday. Movement of vehicles was stopped on the ghat road and officials from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), police and forest departments inspected the spot. Excavators were pressed into service and boulders were removed while trees were chopped and removed from the road. However, big boulders that fell on the road at two places could not be removed by the excavators. Two-wheelers and pickup vans were allowed to use the road from Bargur to Anthiyur while vehicles from Anthiyur were not allowed. Motorists were asked to be cautious while passing the ghat section as the soil has become loose and slippery. Bus services to the hill areas were also cancelled for the day. A.G. Venkatachalam, MLA, Anthiyur, inspected the restoration works. Officials said that traffic would resume on Saturday after the boulders were removed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle-movement-hit-on-bargur-ghat-road/article37134624.ece
23 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Credit plan envisages Rs. 15,259.50 cr. for Erode||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has estimated a potential-linked credit plan of Rs. 15,259.50 crore for the Erode district for the year 2022-23. District Collector H. Krishnanunni released the plan documents on Thursday and asked the officials to expedite the process of overall development of agriculture and allied activities by exploiting the identified potential. He further said that the bank credit is an important component for economic transformation and forms the backbone of development planning in the State. The Collector advised bankers to play a proactive role in the sanction of loans as there is a renewed interest in agriculture and allied activities among the rural youth. They need guidance on banks’ expectations with regard to loan sanctions, terms and conditions and various subsidy schemes available under the Centre and State government schemes, he said. The total credit projection for agriculture, including agriculture infrastructure and allied activities is estimated to be Rs. 8,113 crore while the credit projection for micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) sector stood at Rs. 4,449.75 crore. As per the revised guidelines on priority sector lending by the Reserve Bank of India, credit potential for agriculture infrastructure, export credit, education, housing, renewable energy, involving bank credit is estimated at Rs. 606.78 crore, Rs. 307.50 crore, Rs. 438.37 crore, Rs. 976.87 crore and Rs. 64 crore respectively. The projected estimates for the year 2022-23 is 10.91% higher than that of 2021-22. Lending by the formal sector to micro credit, including self-help groups/ joint liability groups is assessed at Rs. 847.87 crore. T. Ashok Kumar, District Development Manager, NABARD, Erode said that the assessment of potential under various sectors had been made keeping in view the growth trends, current levels of achievement, changes in unit costs, revised scales of finance and trends in credit flow to various sectors. G. Anandkumar, District Lead Manager, and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/credit-plan-envisages-rs-1525950-cr-for-erode/article37134692.ece
23 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Rain lashes Erode for second day||Many parts of the district continue to receive rain for the second consecutive day on Friday. Rain led to inundation of crops in many villages in Talavadi, Kodumudi and Gobichettipalayam while the water level at Varattupallam reservoir reached its maximum level of 33.33 ft. The district received a total rainfall of 353.10 mm. Water level at Bhavanisagar Dam stood at 102 ft against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-lashes-erode-for-second-day/article37134693.ece
23 October 2021||Hyderabad,TAMIL NADU||Rain, fests stall work at fort||One year after a portion of a mud wall of Khila Shahpur collapsed in heavy rain, the Telangana Department of Archaeology and Museums has taken up restoration work on the site. The mud fortress that sprawls over nearly 10,000 sq.m. presents a challenge as parts of it have crumbled in the absence of maintenance. “Our team is working on the part that was affected due to last year’s rain. It will take some time before we can carry out the complete work,” said a worker. The present round of restoration began in July but is now stalled due to rain and festival holidays. The total cost of the restoration work has been pegged at Rs. 1.26 crore. A granite base has been laid on the southern side where the outer portion of the wall had collapsed. From inside, the fort wall appears to be undamaged and largely intact but a closer observation reveals the extent of damage. On the northern side above the secret passageway, the old mud wall has collapsed revealing the inner granite core. The fort wall is a complex amalgam of rocks, bricks and a plaster of mud as it was built, rebuilt over a period of time during the rollicking career of Sarvayi Papadu. Khila Shahpur was the nerve centre of operations of Papadu during his career in notoriety of robbing passing royal caravans and distributing the loot after the Mughal conquest of the Golconda kingdom. According to historian Richard M. Eaton, Papadu acquired sufficient heft that he presented to Mughal ruler Bahadur Shah with a Rs. 14,00,000 cash purse besides other goodies and received a robe of honour. A part of the restoration, effort would involve rehabilitating people who lost their homes during the wall collapse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-fests-stall-work-at-fort/article37134581.ece
23 October 2021||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||Attack on Karaikudi Aavin chairman’s house||Unidentified miscreants decamped with valuables including Rs. 4 lakh and 50 grams of silver articles from the house of Asokan in Kalluvayal near here in the wee hours of Friday. Police said that Asokan, an AIADMK functionary, had unsuccessfully contested in the TN Legislative Assembly election in 2016 from Tirupathur. He was the district secretary of Jayalalithaa Peravai and Aavin chairman, Karaikudi. His wife Prema was a Kallal Panchayat Union Member in the Sivaganga district. Currently, the couple live in Devakottai and the house in Kalluvayal was locked. Preliminary inquiries revealed that some known persons may have committed the crime after having knowledge about the inmates, who lived in a different location. A SUV parked inside the premises was set on fire. After noticing it, neighbours alerted Asokan, he rushed to the spot and informed the police. DSP Vinoji, Karaikudi South Inspector (incharge) Maheswari and forensic team visited the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karaikudi-aavin-chairmans-house-burgled/article37134671.ece
23 October 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK cadre stage protest against postponement of indirect election||Fifty-seven AIADMK cadre, including former Transport Minister M. R.Vijayabhaskar, were taken into custody by the police when they staged a protest against the postponement of the indirect election to the post of vice chairperson of the District Panchayat Council scheduled for Friday afternoon. Election to the post of the vice chairperson was to be held after the recent by-election to the ward 8 of the 12-member council. The seat had fell vacant after the former vice chairman, N. Muthukumar, resigned to contest the Assembly election from Krishnarayapuram. The DMK candidate won the recent by-election held for the ward and consequently indirect election was scheduled for Friday. After the by-election, the AIADMK’s strength had come down to eight and the DMK had four members in the council. P. Manthirasalam, the Returning Officer and Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, postponed the election apparently after heated arguments between members of the two parties. Mr. Manthirasalam told The Hindu that he postponed the election after the two sides were engaged in vociferous arguments in front of him, with one side favouring conducting the election and the other opposing it. “The situation threatened to snowball into a clash. I tried to pacify them and conduct the election but could not do so. Since an extraordinary situation prevailed, I had no option but to postpone the election,” he said. The election date will announced later, he said. Meanwhile, a group of AIADMK cadre and councillors led by Mr.Vijayabhaskar, who were waiting outside, gheraoed the vehicle of Mr. Manthirasalam while he tried to exit. The police intervened and forcibly removed the agitators and took them into custody. The arrested were taken to a marriage hall in the town. As the news of Mr.Vijayabhaskar’s arrest spread, a group of AIADMK cadre staged a road blockade on Velliyanai Road and about 100 of them were also detained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-cadre-stage-protest-against-postponement-of-indirect-election/article37134672.ece
23 October 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||Man receives soap instead of iPhone, police help him get refund||When the parcel from an e-commerce platform landed at his doorstep, young Nooral Ameen could barely contain the excitement of holding his brand new Apple iPhone. But, his dream phone was missing from the neatly packed box. Instead, the box contained a soap and a Rs. 5 coin. That he was shocked would be an understatement, as he had already paid Rs. 70,900 for the product. However, Ameen took videos and pictures of unpacking the box in the presence of the delivery executive as he remembered another victim of a similar fraud doing the same. The victim from North Paravur had received well-packed newspapers instead of a laptop worth Rs. 1.50 lakh that he had ordered. He had later received a refund, thanks to the intervention of the Ernakulam Rural police. Ameen wasted no time in lodging a petition with the Rural police. That proved critical as he eventually got a complete refund of his money. The special cyber squad formed by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthick got in touch with the e-commerce platform. The original cover of the iPhone in which the fake parcel was delivered had the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number, helping the squad track down the phone. It was found that the phone was in use in Jharkhand. However, the phone which was ordered only in October was found to have been registered with Apple a month before. The investigation team also contacted the dealer distributing the phone. Even as the probe was under way, the dealer chose to refund the money as the phone was not in stock. “Notwithstanding the refund, we will continue the probe,” said Mr. Karthick.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-receives-soap-instead-of-iphone-police-help-him-get-refund/article37134588.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mangrove campaigner wins environment award||Fisherman and mangrove campaigner Murukesan T.P. from Malippuram, Vypeen, has been chosen for the 24th PV Thampy Memorial Endowment Award given to people for their extraordinary contribution to environmental protection. Mr. Murukesan has planted and nurtured over 40,000 mangrove plants in the panchayats of Vypeen, Chellanam, Vallarpadam, Cherai, Mulavukad, and Kadamakkudy over the past seven years. He has been working with the Kerala Forest department, growing mangrove plants in his own 8-cent property in Vypeen, and planting them in the areas demarcated by the department. He has created a mangrove nursery at home which can accommodate 15,000-20,000 saplings at a time. Hailing from a family of pokkali farmers, Mr. Murukesan says communities that live along the coastal stretches have always had to deal with rising sea levels and flooding. “A mangrove tree is Nature’s perfection,” he says. “While protecting our shorelines and preventing erosion, it offers a home for marine and avian life. The pearlspot ( karimeen ), for instance, nests in the roots of the tree. It sustains life like no other tree,” he says. Though coastal communities have for long understood the importance of mangroves in acting as a natural barrier, a buffer against erosion, mangroves are a threatened habitat. “We have to create awareness on the many uses of mangroves among the people in order to aid in its protection,” he says. After Kannur, Kochi has the highest mangrove cover in Kerala, followed by Alappuzha. Mr. Murukesan helps in carrying out mangrove surveys for the Forest Department. Since 2018, he has also been growing and planting casuarina trees. He has planted over 20,000 saplings in the Elamkunnapuzha panchayat in Vypeen. “Casuarina trees also help protect the coastline to a large extent and are being used in the coastal afforestation programmes,” he says. Though a fisherman by profession, he stopped going out to the sea a few years ago. He now spends most of his time on conservation activities. He is also actively involved in the conservation of Olive Ridley turtles. Last year, over 80 hatchlings were released into the sea. “By December, we expect the next batch of turtles to nest in this region’s beaches,” Mr. Murukesan says. The PV Thampy Memorial Endowment Award was instituted in memory of journalist and environmentalist PV Thampy. The award ceremony will be held in Kochi in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mangrove-campaigner-wins-environment-award/article37134582.ece
23 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Loans disbursed to bank customers at outreach event||An all-bank outreach programme was organised under the aegis of the district administration and the Lead District Bank (Indian Bank) here on Friday. Loans to the tune of Rs. 120.74 crore were disbursed to customers of various banks at the event. Speaking on the occasion, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy called upon the banks to focus on financial inclusion reaching out to inaccessible villages. Young branch managers should visit remote villages of Anchetty and Bettamugilalam as part of outreach and create bank accounts for those who are still uncovered by the banking system, the Collector said. According to Mr. Reddy, the credit disbursement during the current fiscal has been doubled from the credit outlay for the last fiscal of 2020-21. The outreach programme was part of the Ministry of Finance and the State Banks Federation’s joint plan to conduct a mega outreach campaign in all the districts. The programme witnessed dissemination of information regarding banking products and credit facilities ranging from farm credit to education loans, housing loans and other miscellaneous credit, digital transaction products etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loans-disbursed-to-bank-customers-at-outreach-event/article37134688.ece
23 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai Symposium to begin on October 25||The tenth biennial Madurai Symposium 2021 would be held from Oct. 25 to 29 with the theme: “Advancing development: Community Swaraj,” said DHAN Foundation Executive Director M.P. Vasimalai here on Friday. Addressing a press conference, he said that since the inception of Madurai Symposium in 2003, it had emerged as a unique development platform which had brought together various stakeholders, including civil societies, government, NGOs, banks, donors and the academia to share, learn from each other’s experience among others. Sharing the highlight about the theme, Mr. Vasimalai said that it has significance for both Madurai and the world of development as it marks a century of Mahatma Gandhi’s historic identification with poor. He had renounced the formal attire for the plain dhothi in Madurai. Yet another importance about 2021, he said that the year marked the silver jubilee for DHAN towards development journey with economically weaker sections across the country. He further said that in order to deepen the community swaraj, an organic interaction between the demand and supply stream was the need of the hour. The community at the grass roots was to be visualised as the owners of the respective context, who are capable of governing the resources in a better way through their collective endeavour. They should be given adequate space and knowledge to get equipped well in managing and sustaining it. The DHAN Foundation, as an enabler, had promoted more than 200 self-sustained federations at national level by grooming around 3 lakh leaders. The federations’ nurtured solidarity among their member families by integrating value based lifestyle which was an unique expression of community swaraj. The objective of the symposium was to bring everyone to showcase community experiences, best practices and collective solutions to advance community swaraj, said A Gurunathan Director, The DHAN Academy. Kalanjiam Foundation chief executive A Umarani said that the Reserve Bank of India had recognised DHAN Foundation as a major partner to streamline financial inclusion and handed over more than 500 CFLs (Centre For Literacy) project to DHAN spread across various States. M. Kalayana Sundaram, chief executive, INAFI, Ahila Devi, chief executive, People Mutuals, and V Venkatesan, chief executive, Reflection Trust, also addressed. The symposium would be held both virtually and also at the DHA Foundation in Madurai on invitation. About 50 events, including workshops and convention on various topics, would be held on the five days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-symposium-to-begin-on-october-25/article37134833.ece
23 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Contractors harass us, say roadside vendors||The Madurai District Roadside Small Vendors Association has complained of harassment by contractors who demand exorbitant floor rent for roadside weekly markets. The association, affiliated to AITUC, staged a demonstration here demanding direct collection of floor rent from traders to prevent contractors abusing the traders. "We were paying Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 per shop per day for the weekly market at Palanganatham. But, for the last two months, a big team is collecting Rs. 100 to Rs. 150 from the vendors," said the association secretary V. Ramesh. It urged the corporation to collect the nominal rent as before. "Or the contract can be given to the association so that the interests of the vendors are also taken care of," he added. Besides, the vendors complained that the Rs. 10,000 soft loan promised by the Corporation in the past has not reached a majority of the traders. "A very few vendors had got the loans. We want the Corporation to ensure that all needy vendors got the loan," he added. Similarly, they association demanded that push-carts be given to all the eligible roadside vendors. AITUC district general secretary M. Nandasingh, and association president A. Pavul took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contractors-harass-us-say-roadside-vendors/article37134835.ece
23 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for bid to cheat elderly person||The police have arrested R. Manimegalai, 23, of Theni district when she attempted to cheat an aged woman at an ATM by swapping her debit card at Usilampatti on Thursday. Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said that as the complainant, M. Lingammal of Vellamalaipatti, realized that her card had been swapped, she raised an alarm and Manimegalai was nabbed while attempting to flee. He said that the woman has been involved in similar cheating cases in various places. The accused from Andipatti used to dress herself up in different get up and wait at the ATMs for aged persons or uneducated persons. She would swap the debit cards by pretending to help them withdraw money and later withdrew the money. She duped two persons in Usilampatti Town police station limits. She withdrew Rs. 13,500 and Rs. 19,500 on two previous occasions. The police have recovered Rs. 13,500 from her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-held/article37134675.ece
23 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Country-made pistol seized, history-sheeter held||Madurai city police on Friday seized a country-made pistol, two magazines and one bullet from a history-sheeter N. Sarathkumar (30) who was arrested on a robbery charge. The police said Sarathkumar threatened A. Hariharasudhan of Old Vilangudi at the Arasaradi Vegetable Market with the pistol and robbed Rs. 1,100 on Thursday evening. Based on his complaint, the S.S. Colony police registered a case for robbery and criminal intimidation and under the provisions of Arms Act. The police are interrogating him to ascertain from where he had bought the pistol. S.S. Colony police are maintaining a history sheet against Sarathkumar, who is accused in eight criminal cases, including two murder cases, and an attempt-to-murder case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/country-made-pistol-seized/article37134652.ece
23 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bioresorbable stents are the future: cardiologist||Cardiologists at the Apollo Hospitals, Madurai, say they have successfully implanted a dissolvable stent in a 42-year-old patient who reported with high blood pressure, chest discomfort and shortness of breath. Upon examination he was diagnosed with a single blockage and blood clot in his left anterior descending artery. With consent from the patient’s family, senior Interventional Cardiologist, Vivek Bose, went ahead with the non-surgical procedure to use the Bioresorbable Stent (BRS) as opposed to the conventional metal stents. The procedure took 40 minutes and the patient was discharged within two days. Briefing mediapersons here on Friday, Dr.Bose said implanting a stent made with naturally soluble material (called PLLA) is a milestone in cardiac sciences as it sets the artery free from being trapped in a metal encasement. “It is not an evolution but a revolution,” he said, because the stent dissolves within three years and helps the artery to regain its normal state, reduces the patient’s dependency on medicines. There is less than 5% chance of clots recurring at the same place,he added. Its been only two months that Indian cardiologists have started using the self-dissolving stent commercially. According to him, about 100 such procedures have been done across the country so far and this was the first in south Tamil Nadu. Gujarat-based Meril Life Sciences is the only company manufacturing the Europe-certified 100 micron thin stent approved by the Drug Controller General of India. The stent costs Rs. 90,000 and Dr.Bose hopes as more companies start production of this safe and effective device, the price would become more competitive. Dr.Bose said BRS is going to be the future of treating heart blockages given its many advantages. But he expressed his concern over the increasing incidence of Coronary Artery Diseases. According to him, India has the highest number of deaths due to cadiovascular diseases. Dr.Bose stressed the importance of a healthy diet, active lifestyle to keep the disease at bay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bioresorbable-stents-are-the-future-cardiologist/article37134831.ece
23 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to re-establish Direct Purchase Centre||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered notice to the State in a petition that sought a direction to the authorities to re-establish a Direct Purchase Centre in Pattathikadu in Pudukkottai district. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought the response in The petition was filed by S. Shanmugam of Pudukkottai district. He said the centre in the village had ceased to operate. This caused hardship to the villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-re-establish-direct-purchase-centre/article37134659.ece
23 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Friday stood at 135.45 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 3,805 cusecs and a discharge of 1,954 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 56.92 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 2,597 cusecs and a discharge of 1,119 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,535 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37134676.ece
23 October 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Four injured in mid-sea clash among fishermen||Four fishermen of Tranquebar were reportedly injured in a mid-sea attack off Point Calimere coast by another group of fishermen belonging to Adhirampattinam in the intervening night of Thursday-Friday. The clash erupted as the fishing nets of the two boats got entangled, official sources said. The injured fishermen, allegedly beaten up with iron rods, were admitted to the Government Hospital, Nagapattinam. Earlier this week, fishing nets of 15 fibre boats belonging to fishermen of Akkaraipettai were destroyed due to entanglement caused by six mechanised boats with fishermen of Poompuhar onboard. Occupants of the fibre boats lodged a complaint with the Coastal Security Group. The fishermen of Nagapattinam-Karaikal coastal hamlets held a meeting and adopted a resolution urging the State government to take appropriate action against the fishermen of Poompuhar. Official sources said that the Nagapattinam fishermen are against permits being given to their counterparts in other districts. Since the sea is rough during the north-east monsoon along the Coromandel coast, fishermen from other districts also choose to operate from Point Calimere in view of the scope for abundant catch and this often leads to entanglement of nets, a senior official explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-injured-in-mid-sea-clash-among-fishermen/article37134661.ece
23 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puppet plays to spotlight health causes||Children at government schools will soon be showcasing their own puppet plays to highlight health causes relevant to peer communities under an initiative supported by the Department of Science and Technology. The project, led by Sri Aurobindo Society’s Svarnim Puducherry initiative, is being implemented at 10 government schools, in collaboration with the Directorate of School Education, Puducherry, with the support of the NCSTC Division of the Department of Science and Technology. “As top-down form of health communication can be monotonous for children, we thought we would replace passive learning with a participatory model that would be an entirely student-driven exercise,” said T.P. Raghunath, Svarnim Director. The initiative, launched under Svarnim’s School Health Action Research Project (SHARP), looks at tapping into the simpler tools of traditional theatre with the aim of disseminating key health-related communication for action-oriented results among schoolchildren. A one-day brainstorming session was held for nodal teachers drawn from the 10 government schools. The workshop would develop key information content. It would then be converted into live and fun-filled puppetry programmes by children themselves who will make their own puppets and create health communication skits at their schools and in neighbourhood-communities, which would result in a participatory people’s movement for better health awareness and hence preventive healthcare. The workshop was led by R. Senthilkumar, Programme Coordinator, SHARP, Sri Aurobindo Society. About 20 teachers and health professionals are participating in the workshop which will lead to people’s health initiatives as a model for preventive healthcare. “As soon as schools reopen some time in the second week of November, we are looking at the prospect of having a smaller workshop for children selected by teachers to outline the possibilities of puppet theatre. The programme is designed in such a way that teachers confine themselves to a catalyst role and leave the rest to the creativity and imagination of children. They will have the freedom to choose whether to make puppets from socks or recycled fabric, determine the storyline and cast the characters they want to convey their message through,” said Mr. Raghunath. After school performances, the plays will be staged in communities. He pointed to the need for conceived health communication in adolescent groups as an SAS health survey sometime ago had flagged key concerns that included both dimensions of malnutrition — obesity and low BMIs — and hygiene issues. The SAS expects to complete the pilot project by the year-end and get the children ready with the 15-20-minute puppet shows by the Pongal season. Based on the response, the SAS-Education Department collaboration is likely to roll out the project at more schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puppet-plays-to-spotlight-health-causes/article37134583.ece
23 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Mass vaccination on Monday||The Health Department will organise a mass vaccination programme on Monday towards achieving full coverage of the population with at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. The campaign will be rolled out on the theme ‘I am Vaccinated. Are you?’. The event follows a recent direction by Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan during a review meeting at Raj Nivas to organise mass camps to achieve 100% coverage of the population before Deepavali. It will also seek to gain impetus from the widespread celebration of the country achieving the milestone of administering a billion plus doses of vaccine. A Health Department press note said that a collective effort had helped India become the first country to vaccinate 100 crore doses. Vaccination is the only way to protect ourselves from coronavirus. So far, about 70% of the population in the Union Territory has been vaccinated, the department said. The campaign aims to encourage all non-vaccinated and vaccinated people to take the first and second doses of the vaccine and make the Union Territory corona-free. The press note sought to reassure the still vaccine-hesitant sections of the population — estimated to be about two lakh — that so far no one who has been vaccinated in the Union Territory had experienced any problems such as discomfort, allergies due to the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mass-vaccination-on-monday/article37134908.ece
23 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Model code has become infructuous, says Puducherry SEC||Puducherry State Election Commissioner Roy P. Thomas on Friday said the model code of conduct has become “infructuous.” In a press release, Mr. Thomas said the schedule for the local body polls has become uncertain after the interim order of the High Court. “According to legal opinion, schedule for local body elections in the Union Territory of Puducherry has become uncertain and consequently it is informed that the model code of conduct has become infructuous,” he said. Ever since the intervention of the Madras High Court in the local body polls on October 12, political party leaders have been demanding its withdrawal. The model code came into force on October 8 after the SEC announced the new schedule for the polls. As per the announcement, the last date of withdrawal of candidature for the polls in the first phase was October 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/model-code-has-become-infructuous-says-puducherry-sec/article37134913.ece
23 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry govt. to raise Rs. 125 cr. through securities||The government will sell by auction dated securities to raise Rs. 125 crore with a six-year tenure. The securities will be issued for a minimum nominal amount of Rs. 10,000 and in multiples of Rs. 10,000 thereafter. The auction will be conducted by Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai Office (Fort) on Tuesday. Interested persons, firms, companies, corporate bodies, institutions, Provident Fund, trusts, regional rural banks, co-op. banks, etc., may submit a single consolidated non-competitive bid on behalf of all its constituents in electronic format on the Reserve Bank of India Core Banking Solution (E-Kuber) available in the website on October 26 between 10.30 a.m. and 11 a.m. The competitive bids shall be submitted electronically between 10.30 a.m. and 11.30 a.m. on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-govt-to-raise-rs-125-cr-through-securities/article37134911.ece
23 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||German Consul General meets CM||German Consul General in Chennai Karin Christina Maria Stoll called on Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Friday in his chamber. A press release from office of the Chief Minister termed it a courtesy call and informal discussions lasted for about half-an-hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/german-consul-general-meets-cm/article37134910.ece
23 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records one death, 57 new cases||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 57 new cases on Friday. With Mahe reporting the fatality, the cumulative toll in the Union Territory was 1,853. The toll by region: Puducherry (1,449), Karaikal (250), Yanam (107) and Mahe (47). Puducherry logged 31 of the new cases, which were detected from 3,126 tests, followed by Karaikal (14) and Mahe (12). No new cases were reported from Yanam. With 56 patients recovering from the infection in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 454. The test positivity rate was 1.82%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.19%.  Meanwhile, 3,610 persons took the jab in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-one-death-57-new-cases/article37134909.ece
23 October 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Rise in price of raw material: surgical bandage cloth manufacturers continue strike||Around 2,000 powerlooms involved in manufacturing of surgical bandage cloth have gone on strike for the third consecutive day pressing for reduction in price of raw materials. The manufacturers, under the aegis of Surgical Bandage Cloth Manufacturers Association, Chatrapatti, began the four-day strike from Wednesday. The looms are located in Chatrapatti, Samsigapuram, Sankarapandiyapuram and Ayyanapuram. ‘The cotton yarn that was sold at a cost of Rs. 9,000 in September has now gone to Rs. 13,500, said the association president, N. Senthilraj. Similarly, the cost of other raw materials, including acid and firewood, has gone up sharply. The hike in price of diesel has led to 25% increase of freight rate, Mr. Senthilraj added. He complained that all State Governments have stopped procurement of surgical bandages owing to COVID-19. ‘We have lost major business and have lot of finished goods stagnant in our godowns. In the given situation, we cannot operate the looms as we will not be able to sell them, he said. The association demanded that the State and Centre took steps to bring down the price of raw materials and start procurement of their goods in the interest of the livelihood of 12,000 employees who are directly and indirectly employed in the industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-price-of-raw-material-surgical-bandage-cloth-manufacturers-continue-strike/article37134965.ece
23 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||36 places linked to Apex Cooperative Bank chief searched||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption on Friday conducted simultaneous searches at places linked to R. Ilangovan, chairman of the Tamil Nadu State Apex Cooperative Bank. The raids were conducted at 23 places in Salem, three each in Namakkal and Chennai and six places in Musiri and Tiruchi and one place in Coimbatore. The DVAC’s Salem unit on Wednesday registered a case against Mr. Ilangovan and his son E. Praveen Kumar for accumulating assets disproportionate to the known sources of their income. Mr. Ilangovan has been serving as the bank chairman since 2013, and he was re-elected to the post in 2018. He was accused of misusing his position and association with politicians to accumulate assets between April 2014 and March 2020. The DVAC has put the disproportionate assets at Rs. 3.78 crore, 131% of his total income. It also accused the father and the son of acquiring assets in the name of benamis and investing huge sums in institutions run by Swamy Ayyappan Educational Trust in Tiruchi. The searches started in the early hours. The sleuths reached Mr. Ilangovan’s residence at Puthragoundampalayam before 7 a.m, but they could not begin the searches because he and his family were not present and a biometric system was in place to regulate entry. Mr. Ilangovan came down from Chennai to Salem at 12.15 p.m. Then, the searches started at the three-storey residence, lasting till the late hours. Searches were also conducted at the homes of his relatives at Vazhapadi, Attur and a few other places here. In Namakkal, the searches were conducted on the premises of PST Constructions. Over 200 AIADMK workers staged a protest in front of Mr. Ilangovan’s residence, alleging that the action was politically motivated. Party MLAs A.P. Jayashankaran, G. Chitra, E. Balasubramanian, A. Nallathambi and R. Mani and former Minister R.B. Udhayakumar reached the place. Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the searches were politically motivated and meant to sabotage his party’s activities. According to a release, Rs. 29.77 lakh in cash, 10 luxury cars, two Volvo buses, three computer hard discs, 21.2 kg of gold jewellery, 282.38 kg of silver articles, bank deposits and property documents worth Rs. 68 lakhs were seized. Documents relating to the case were also seized. The DVAC said the search process would continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/36-places-linked-to-apex-cooperative-bank-chief-searched/article37134567.ece
23 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mettur dam inflow rises to 30,000 cusecs||The recent rain has increased the inflow into the Mettur dam to 30,000 cusecs. On Friday, the dam’s water level was at 95.10 ft against the total scale of 120 ft. The dam received an inflow of 13,477 cusecs, which rose to 30,000 cusecs by 3 p.m. The discharge into the Cauvery was maintained at 100 cusecs, and 550 cusecs was discharged through the East-West canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-dam-inflow-rises-to-30000-cusecs/article37134594.ece
23 October 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||DMK’s Thamizh Selvi is Tenkasi district panchayat council chairperson||The ruling DMK’s Thamizh Selvi has become the district panchayat council chairperson of Tenkasi district. The polling held for electing district panchayat council chairperson witnessed fiery competition between councillors Thamizh Selvi of ward 12 and Kanimozhi of ward 6. Both of them are affiliated to the DMK. While Ms. Thamizh Selvi bagged eight votes, Ms. Kanimozhi polled only five votes. One of the councillor remained neutral and did not cast his vote. In the election for district panchayat council vice-chairman Congress councillor from ward 8 Udhayakrishnan got nine votes. His rival DMK’s Chandraleela of ward 1 got only three votes as two councillors remained neutral by not voting. Unruly incidents Election for the post of vice-president of Puliyarai village panchayat has been withheld following unruly incidents. When the election was to be conducted, DMK-backed Guru Murthy and AIADMK’s Saravanan were in the fray. When some of the ward members, who are reportedly supporters of Mr. Saravanan, came to cast their votes, the DMK cadre stopped them forcibly and one of them allegedly pulled the sari of a ward member. As these unsavoury incidents triggered tension, election for the panchayat vice-president of Puliyarai village panchayat was withheld. Road roko On hearing this, the AIADMK men, led by Kadayanallur MLA Krishna Murali staged a road rook on the Tenkasi – Kollam main road. The MLA said the police should give due protection to the AIADMK-backed Mr. Saravanan and the ward members. He said that the conduct of election should be held in a fair manner after deploying police. As the demands were met, the protest was withdrawn. The election for the vice-president post will be held later as decided by the State Election Commission. Persons who have been elected as Chairpersons and deputies of panchayat unions are: Kadayam – Chellammal and Mahesh Mayavan; Keezhapaavoor – Kaveri and Muthukumar; Alangulam – Divya and Selvakodi; Kadayanallur – Subbammal and Aiventhiran; Vasudevanallur – Muthaiah Pandian and Chandramohan; Kuruvikulam – Vijayalakshmi and Murugeswari; Sankarankovil – Sankarapandian and Selvi; Shencottai – Thirumalai Selvi and Kala; Tenkasi – Shaik Abdullah and Kanagaraj Muthupandian. Want of quorum In Melaneelithanallur Madhavi was elected as chairman while election for vice-chairman has been withheld for want of quorum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmks-thamizh-selvi-is-tenkasi-district-panchayat-council-chairperson/article37134959.ece
23 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Kidnapped child rescued and reunited with parents||The Patteeswaram police have rescued a 11-month-old boy kidnapped from Ezhumanthidal near Thiruvalanchuzhi and handed him over to his parents. According to police, the Patteeswaram police received a complaint from Anand of Ezhumanthidal on October 18 stating that his son, Sulaiman, was missing from October 15. Police inquiry revealed that a few days before the child went missing from Ezhumanthidal, Michael from the same area, who had abandoned his family, returned home and picked up a quarrel with his wife Meenakshi. When he insisted that his five children be sent with him, Meenakshi refused to comply with his demand as another couple living in the same area, Anand and Nagammal, backed her decision. Later, fearing that his erstwhile husband would take the children with him and force them into begging, Meenakshi left Ezhumanthidal with her children surreptitiously. A day later, Michael also left Ezhumanthidal after which Anand and Nagammal noticed that their son was missing. Thus, a special team was formed to trace Michael and located him in Nagercoil two days ago. He was arrested along with his friend Arumugam who had helped Michael in the abduction of Anand’s son. The 11-year-old boy was rescued and handed over to his parents, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kidnapped-child-rescued-and-reunited-with-parents/article37134663.ece
23 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||300 kg of plastic waste removed||Around 300 kilograms of plastic waste was collected during ‘Swachh Bharat’ drive (Clean India Campaign) carried out by the National Service Scheme volunteers of Bharathidasan University here recently. More than 500 volunteers from Kunthavai Naacchiyaar Government Arts and Science College for Women (Autonomous), Thanjavur; Bon Secours College for Women, Thanjavur; A.Veeriya Vandayar Memorial Sri Pushpam College (Autonomous), Poondi; Marudupandiyar College (Arts &science), Thanjavur; Annai Vailankanni Arts and Science College, Thanjavur; and National Institute of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management, Thanjavur (NIFTEM-T) known as Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT), collected the plastic waste from the moat and park areas. Volunteers from Red Cross and Nehru Yuva Kendra also participated in the cleaning drive. Handed over The collected plastic waste was handed over to the Thanjavur Corporation for safe disposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/300-kg-of-plastic-waste-removed/article37134662.ece
23 October 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Chinnamannur GH saves life of a woman||A team of surgeons and anaesthetists at the Government Hospital in Chinnamannur has saved the life of a woman, who had delivered a baby but was suffering from breast cancer. The team reconstructed cosmetically acceptable breast using a myo-cutaneous flap with Latismus-dorsi muscle mobilised from the back. Chief Medical Officer and consultant breast surgeon Anbuchezian told reporters that the woman, who was in the advanced stage of pregnancy, was diagnosed with a fast growing tumour on her left breast. Meantime, she delivered a baby, but was unable to feed due to the locally aggressive tumour called cysto sarcoma phylloides, which discharged serosanguinous fluid all the time. This made the patient depressed and she turned anaemic. Removing any part of the body may not be acceptable for any human being that too losing a breast in such a young woman would lead to depression and enormous mental agony, that itself delayed her in taking treatment for this deadly disease, the doctors said and added that the biopsy proved as Cystosarcoma phylloides, a locally advancing malignant mass. Lastly, she was advised to get cure by removing the cancerous breast under the Chief Minister’s Health Insurance Scheme. The procedure was done under general anaesthesia, which took a little over three hours. The team of doctors included Odaiyappan surgical oncologist, Jaivignesh general surgeon, Senthil Prabu anaesthetist, Ishwarya, Neethimannan, Manimala and others. The doctors said that usually such supra major cancer surgery along with plastic reconstruction of cosmetically valuable body areas like breast in females would be done in super speciality hospitals in cities incurring heavy expenditure. But in Chinnamanur Government Hospital, the surgery was done under the Chief Minister’s Health insurance scheme free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chinnamannur-gh-saves-the-life-of-a-young-woman/article37134677.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||KTU to introduce minor degree in engineering||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) is gearing up to introduce ‘minor in engineering’ that will allow BTech students to earn a minor degree in a branch other than their original stream. The first batch that has been permitted to seek minor degree will graduate in 2023. According to an official release, minor in engineering begins in the third semester. Students can then receive a minor degree by completing four subjects and one project in the chosen topic during the course of the eighth semester. “For example, if a student pursuing Civil Engineering completes four additional subjects and one project from architecture, he or she will receive a degree certificate titled ‘B Tech in Civil Engineering with Minor in Architecture,’ the release stated. Besides the IITs, very few universities have currently adopted the engineering minor system. The B.Tech curriculum at KTU currently includes over 50 minor subjects. Machine learning, biomedical engineering, applied mathematics, robotics, material science, and smart manufacturing are some of the advanced technical fields that are covered in minor courses. The option is bound to increase the employment opportunities of the students and diversify their employment skills. Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree said integrated projects that involves elements of different engineering disciplines can be undertaken through the engineering minor system. They will enhance the learning, skills and work potential of the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ktu-to-introduce-minor-degree-in-engineering/article37134585.ece
23 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Kerala govt. to probe missing child case||Facing heat over a CPI(M) leader being booked on a complaint by his daughter of separating her from her newborn, the State Government has ordered an investigation into the incident even as the ruling party said it wanted the mother to get her child back. Minister for Women and Child Development Veena George on Friday entrusted Women and Child Development Secretary Rani George with the probe into a complaint by Anupama S. Chandran against her father and CPI(M) local committee member P.S. Jayachandran of taking away her child and abandoning it at the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare in the capital. The Minister said a department-level probe had been ordered and a comprehensive report sought. All proceedings from the time the child was apparently received at the council’s electronic cradle ‘Ammathottil’ would be examined. On the claim of Anupama’s father that the infant was given up with his daughter’s consent, the Minister said the child either had to have been abandoned in the Ammathottil or presented in front of the District Child Welfare Committee with the mother legally agreeing to surrender the child. In this case, the child had not been presented in front of the CWC.   Anupama has filed a complaint with the Governor. During a discussion with a prominent news channel, Anupama said she would stage a one-day fast in front of the Secretariat on Saturday to seek the return of her child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-govt-to-probe-missing-child-case/article37134400.ece
23 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Father told to issue NOC for girl’s study abroad||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed a man to issue a no-objection certificate (NOC) for further education of his daughter who was a Class VIII student of Asian School in Bahrain. Commission member Reni Antony directed Manu Varghese to issue the NOC to the child within a week of receiving its order. It was acting on a complaint from the child that Mr. Varghese, who was not legally divorced, cancelled his wife’s visa and brought both mother and child to Kerala and abandoned them, thus denying the child the right to study in the Bahrain school. Mr. Varghese was also directed to give the NOC to the mother via e-mail for visa requirements in order to accompany the child to Bahrain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/father-told-to-issue-noc-for-girls-study-abroad/article37134589.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||KU student activities under a single platform||The University of Kerala is set to operationalise its student life cycle management system to bring all student activities from admission to graduation under a single platform. The cross-functional platform will enable multiple functions including those relating to pre-examination activities, online and offline exams, student life cycle, post-examinations processes including camp management, evaluation of answer sheets, re-evaluation and result processing. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu will formally launch the system on October 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ku-student-activities-under-a-single-platform/article37134590.ece
23 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||2,431 get loans to the tune of Rs. 129. 22 crore||A total of 2,431 beneficiaries received loans to the tune of Rs. 129.22 crore in the credit outreach programme jointly organised by various banks here on Friday. Member of Parliament Kanimozhi and Ministers Anita R. Radhakrishnan and P. Geetha Jeevan handed over the loans to the beneficiaries in the presence of District Collector K. Senthil Raj and Chief General Manager of State Bank of India, Chennai, Radhakrishna Rayabharam. The loans being extended by the banks would be of great help to the traders and the business community who had been hit hard due to COVID-19-induced problems. The financial assistance would infuse fresh energy into the sagging businesses. “At the same time, the beneficiaries should repay the loan promptly so as to enable the banks to help others,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. Chief General Manager of SBI, Sivanand, Assistant General Manager Durairaj and District Manager of NABARD Suresh Ramalingam were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2431-get-loans-to-the-tune-of-rs-129-22-crore/article37134970.ece
23 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Lightning kills fisherman||A fisherman was struck dead by lightning even as he, along with his brother, was returning to the shore in the country boat on Friday morning. Police said A. Antony Jesular, 29, of 50 Houses Colony in Vellaipatti near here and his brother Satish, 25, who had ventured into the sea in a fibreglass boat for fishing on Thursday night, were returning to the shore on Friday morning. When they were three nautical miles away from Vellaipatti, lightning struck Antony Jesular and he swooned. On reaching the shore, Antony Jesular was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead. Tharuvaikulam Coastal Security Group police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lightning-kills-fisherman/article37134651.ece
23 October 2021||Thrissur,TAMIL NADU||Rain subsides but alert continues||Even though the rain has subsided in Thrissur district, three of its main dams are on red alert. The authorities have declared a red alert at the Peechi, Peringalkuthu and Sholayar dams. Water level in reservoirs is high as catchment areas of these dams are still getting heavy rain. Eleven families from Ethanoly have been evacuated following the threat of landslips and flash floods. While five families were shifted to their relatives houses, six families were shifted to the relief camp opened at the U.P. School, Vellikulangara. Ethanoly is a high range village in Mattathur panchayat under Kodakara block. It witnessed flash floods and landslips by 7 p.m. on Wednesday. Water entered the houses in the valley. Tar topping of roads were washed away in the flash floods. Currently there are 32 relief camps functioning in the district. As many as 830 people of 260 families have been rehabilitated. Even before the official declaration of the northeast monsoon, the State has already received 98.5% rain. The State used to get 491.6 mm rain in the 92 days from October 1 to December 31. But it has already received 484.3 mm rain till October 21. Thrissur district has received 91.9% rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-subsides-but-alert-continues/article37134584.ece
23 October 2021||Tiruchendur,TAMIL NADU||Reservation of post for SC triggers unrest||The village panchayat ward members of Pitchivilai village panchayat under Tiruchendur union have resigned their posts in protest against reserving the village panchayat president post to Scheduled Caste candidate. The president post of Pitchivilai village panchayat, having 827 votes, has been reserved for Scheduled Caste (Woman) while the number of Dalit voters in this village panchayat is only six. When the election was held, Dalit woman Rajeswari was elected for the village panchayat president post even as no candidate filed nomination for the village panchayat ward member posts. When election for the six ward members of Pitchivilai village panchayat was held on October 9 last, Vaikunda Selvi (ward 1), Kesavan (ward 2), Natarajan (ward 3) Sujatha (ward 4), Yacob (ward 5) and Parimala Selvi (ward 6) were elected. They, except Ms. Parimala Selvi, assumed office on last Wednesday. As the election for the post of vice-president was scheduled to be held on Friday, in which ward members should cast their votes, officials from Tiruchendur panchayat union had come to Pitchivilai. Even as they were waiting for conducting the election, ward members Ms. Vaikunda Selvi, Mr. Kesavan, Mr. Natarajan, Ms. Sujatha and Mr. Yacob came to the office and submitted their resignation letters to Block Development Officer Rani and left the spot immediately. “Of the 827 votes in Pitchivilai village panchayat, only six voters are Dalits. However, the village panchayat president post has been reserved to a Scheduled Caste member. Hence, as decided by our villagers, we have resigned our posts. If it is not accepted, we’ll submit the resignation letter to the District Collector,” they said. Ms. Parimala Selvi did not take oath as her son had passed away a few days ago. The officials said the resignations could be accepted only if it was submitted in the village panchayat meeting, which should pass a resolution on accepting the resignation. “As of now, the resignations are not accepted,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reservation-of-post-for-sc-triggers-unrest/article37134960.ece
23 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sixth mega vaccination camp today||The sixth mega vaccination camp to inoculate people against COVID-19 will be held in Tiruchi on Saturday. Two lakh vaccine doses have been allotted for the district. Speaking to media persons on Friday, Collector S. Sivarasu said that 63.3% of eligible population in the district had been inoculated. The Tiruchi Corporation alone has inoculated 71.7% of the population with at least one dose. Musiri also has good coverage of 69.6%. Of a total of 21,86,100 people in the eligible population of over 18 years, 13,87,666 have taken at least the first dose, and 5,31,182 the second. The mega vaccination camp on Saturday will be held at 427 locations in semi-urban and rural parts of Tiruchi, and at 202 places in the city limits. Officials utilised polling station lists used for the recent elections to enumerate the total eligible population. People in the list were asked to fill in their vaccination details, including when and where they had taken it. “They also went door to door and distributed tokens for those yet to take the vaccine,” Mr. Sivarasu said. Corporation Commissioner P. M. N. Mujibur Rahuman said that the civic body organised 160 static camps and 42 mobile camps. In the city, where a population of 7,14,997 people are eligible, 5,12,567 people have taken at least one dose. “The remaining two lakh people can utilise the opportunity to take the first dose,” Mr. Rahuman said. Through donations and sponsors, the Corporation has lined up attractive prizes through lucky draws. One person each at each of the four zones will be given a refrigerator, washing machine, while two people in each zone will be given a wet grinder. Forty bicycles are also up for grabs, the Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sixth-mega-vaccination-camp-today/article37134669.ece
23 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vigil up in commercial areas||Tiruchi police have stepped up vigil at the city’s main commercial centre around the Rockfort to check incidents of crime and maintain law and order during the festival season. Six watch towers have been erected on N. S. C. Bose Road; Singarathope; near Kareem Stores and Sandhu Kadai, Big Bazaar Street; Main Guard Gate and Teppakulam from where police personnel would maintain vigil using binoculars. As many as 127 closed circuit television cameras have been installed in the commercial centres and a team of police officials will maintain surveillance from two monitoring centres. Surveillance cameras installed at the entrances of commercial establishments, facing the streets, will also be linked to the police control room during the festival season. Public address systems and surveillance cameras have been installed at Central and Chathiram bus stands to maintain a vigil round-the-clock. Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan declared open a temporary police outpost on N. S. C. Bose Road on Friday. Members of the public can alert the police at the outpost about any untoward incident or suspicious persons. Teams of law and order and crime wings under the respective Deputy Commissioners of Police would be deployed to prevent crime and maintain law and order. Separate teams of traffic police would be on duty in Fort and Gandhi Market police station limits to regulate traffic. In all, 624 police personnel and 160 home guards would be on bandobust duty during the festival season, Mr. Karthikeyan said. Vehicle check posts will function at Nandhi Koil Street junction; Chinnakadai Veedhi-Babu Road junction; Big Bazaar Street-Khiledhar Street junction; and Singarathope-West Boulevard Road junction. About 100 police personnel from the crime wing would be deployed in plainclothes to maintain vigil. Bomb detection teams would be deployed at various places to carry out regular checks, he said. ‘Wear face mask’ Mr. Karthikeyan appealed to the public to maintain person distance while visiting the shopping centres and also wear face masks. Face masks were being supplied, with the support of sponsors, to those found not wearing them. Violators were also being booked, he added.  On the alert Public can alert police about suspicious incident or people at checkpost on NSC Bose Road 100 police personnel from the crime wing will be deployed in plainclothes to maintain vigil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vigil-up-in-commercial-areas/article37134656.ece
23 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Temporary parking lots to function from today||Tiruchi police have announced that temporary parking lots would function from Saturday in the Fort Police Station limits to prevent traffic congestion in the city’s main commercial areas in view of the festival season. Temporary two-wheeler parking lots would function at Corporation ground near the Holy Cross Girls Higher Secondary School and Yanaikulam Corporation ground. Four wheelers are to be parked at Old Goodshed Road and the Fort Station Road railway parking lot. Two and four wheelers can be parked on Teppakulam Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School grounds too. The parking lots would function from October 22 to November 4. Parking of vehicles have been banned between Ramakrishna Theatre and Gandhi Statue on Madurai Road, Post Office to Ibrahim Park on West Boulevard Road, College Road and Fort Station Road. Parking of vehicles would not be allowed in any other place in the locality and violators would be booked by traffic police. Cars and autorickshaws would not be allowed to ply on Big Bazaar Street, Chinnakadai Street, NSC Bose Road and Nandhikoil Street. Two-wheelers and emergency vehicles would be allowed to go via the roads. Autorickshaws can pick up and drop passengers from North Andal Street and go via Vanappattarai Mariamman Koil Street to reach College Road. On the return direction, they should go via Chathiram Bus Stand and Butterworth Road to reach North Andal Street. Autorickshaws would not be allowed to go via Chinnakadai Street and Khiledhar Street. Passengers can be dropped and picked up from Babu Road. Street and push cart vendors have been instructed to carry on their trade without encroaching upon carriage space and thus obstructing traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-parking-lots-to-function-from-today/article37134657.ece
23 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecturers defer strike plan||Guest lecturers in the 10 new government arts and science colleges that were earlier constituent units of Bharathidasan University have put on hold their earlier plan to go on indefinite strike following assurance by the Higher Education Department that their pending salaries will be settled at the earliest. Bharathidasan University has been directed by the government to settle the salary dues of the guest lecturers with an assurance that the amount will be reimbursed in future. There is a now a sense of certainty among the guest lecturers that they would be paid their salaries following a series of protests they had undertaken under the guidance of Association of University Teachers. Their latest protests of writing letters to the Chief Minister and staging protests in the campuses along with their family members had apparently made the government to realise the gravity of the situation. Technicality While a solution to the stalemate over non-payment of salaries for the guest lecturers since the start of this academic year is in sight, the Finance Department of Bharathidasan University has been bogged down by a technicality in a cash-strapped situation wherein the salaries for the university staff could be paid for October only if the government releases the block grant. There has been no official order issued in writing so far by the Higher Education Department, and the disbursal of the pending salaries amounting to Rs. 2.4 crore drawn from corpus fund or special grants could cause legal problems to the university, the teaching and non-teaching staff had reasoned out with the Syndicate that was convened to decide on the issue on Thursday. Re-engagement Also, this year, the re-engagement orders for the guest lecturers were issued by the Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education, which implies that the onus of paying salaries for the guest lecturers from the start of this academic year lies with the State government. Nevertheless, the university, sources said, has no other option but to comply with the directive of the Higher Education Department. According to reliable sources, the university has, on account of constituent colleges that were started under instructions of the government over more than a decade, spent Rs. 115 crore under ‘salary head’ alone. When the infrastructure is taken into account, the expenditure would far exceed Rs. 200 crore. The teaching and non-teaching staff of the university emphasise that the State government has to recompense for this to save the institution from a grave financial crisis. “The university is, no doubt, walking on thin ice on this issue. But there is no other option left,” a senior professor said.  There is a sense of certainty among the guest lecturers that they would be paid their salaries following a series of protests||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guest-lecturers-put-on-hold-strike-plan-after-getting-assurance-on-dues/article37134665.ece
23 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Delta region registers 182 cases||Central region reported 182 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Four deaths due to the viral infection were registered in the region. Two patients succumbed to the illness in Thanjavur, while one each died in Tiruvarur and Tiruchi. Thanjavur district continued to witness a dip in the number of COVID-19 cases. On Thursday, 51 patients tested positive. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported 46 fresh cases. The other seven districts in the region reported less than 25 fresh cases. Karur reported a slight increase with 21 patients testing positive. In Tiruvarur, 20 patients reported positive, Nagapattinam 16 and Pudukottai 15. Mayiladuthurai district registered nine cases. In Perambalur, three patients tested positive while Ariyalur district registered only one fresh case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/182-cases-in-delta/article37134667.ece
23 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Friday stood at 95.97 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 37,849 cusecs and the discharge 100 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article37134654.ece
23 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Deepavali discount sale inaugurated||Collector V. Vishnu inaugurated the Deepavali special discount sale of the products being sold by Co-optex at the Gandhimathi Showroom in Tirunelveli Junction on Friday. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating the sale, Mr. Vishnu said the Co-optex, which was helping the handloom weavers of Tamil Nadu by procuring their products and selling it through their showrooms across the country for the past 86 years, had introduced a range of new dress materials including silk saris to be sold to the public at 30% special discount on the occasion of Deepavali. The Co-optex, which had put on sale Coimbatore soft silk saris and Kancheepuram, Aarani, Thanjavur and Thirubuvanam silk saris for this festival season, had displayed cotton saris, bed-sheets, pillow covers, dhotis, lungi and towel, all in export quality, for sale. The Co-optex, having showrooms in Tirunelveli Junction, Palayamkottai, East Car Street and North Car Street in its Tirunelveli region, had sold products worth Rs. 2.91 crore during ‘Deepavali 2020’ despite COVID-19. “This year, the Tirunelveli Region of the Co-optex has been given a target of selling products worth Rs. 5.80 crore during this festival season. Of this, sales target of Gandhimathi Showroom, which recorded the sale of products worth Rs. 1.93 crore, is Rs. 3.50 crore,” Mr. Vishnu said. He informed that the Co-optex, in a bid to help the low and middle income group families, had introduced a 12 months-long ‘Dream Come True’ savings scheme in which the Co-optex would pay the 11th and the 12th instalments after the member paid the ten instalments. The member could purchase the products of Co-optex on maturity with 20% discount. Tirunelveli Regional Manager of Co-optex M. Muthukumar and Co-optex officials R. Sivasubramanian, S. Ramachandran and G. Ramasubramanian were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deepavali-discount-sale-inaugurated/article37134968.ece
23 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Tension ends as district panchayat council chairman assumes office||The tension that had prevailed here in the DMK circle over the election of district panchayat council chairman even though the party had bagged 11 of the 12 wards came to an end on Friday as the party, in the eleventh hour, named its candidates for the posts of chairman and vice-chairman. Since the DMK high command, following unpleasant developments like horse-trading by two district panchayat chairman aspirants, named party’s Radhapuram union secretary V. S. R. Jegadeesh, who got elected from ward 12, as chairman and Selvalakshmi of ward 1 as his deputy, the tension, fanned by different caste groups, got doused on Friday. They were elected unopposed and assumed office in the presence of Collector V. Vishnu. Though Mr. Jagadeesh was tipped to be DMK’s candidate for the post of district panchayat chairman even before the election, intra-party feud inducted Ms. Selvalakshmi, wife of former AMMK functionary, into the race that led to horse-trading and allegations of abduction of councillors. When 10 of the 12 councillors assumed office on October 20, frantic search was on to locate the whereabouts of remaining two councillors, but in vain. When the race for the post of district panchayat council chairman was given caste colour, both the sides started mobilising their supporters to achieve their target at any cost even as the DMK high command observed silence. After the police, sensing the trouble in store, alerted their higher-ups in Chennai, Mr. Jegadeesh was named as the party’s candidate for the district panchayat chairman post and Ms. Selvalakshmi, who had joined the DMK a few months ago was named as his deputy. Even as everyone heaved a sigh of relief, another trouble popped-up as DMK councilor Kanagaraj, a vice-chairman post aspirant who has been elected to the district panchayat council from ward 3, was denied the vice-chairman post as it was gifted to Ms. Selvalakshmi. “An upset Mr. Kanagaraj decided to resign his post However, he, a Dalit, was pacified by a senior minister who promised him a post in the party,” said DMK sources. The others who were elected as Chairpersons and deputies of panchayat unions were: Ambasamudram – Sivanu Pandian and Gnanakani; Cheranmahadevi – Poongothai Seevalamuthu and Anantha Lakshmi; Kalakkad – G. Indra and Visuvasam; Maanur – Srilekha and Nainar Mohamed; Nanguneri – Sowmya Raga and Esakki Pandi; Palayamkottai – K. S. Thangapandian and Muralidharan; Papakudi – Poongothai and Marivannamuthu; Radhapuram – J. Sowmya and Ilaiyaperumal and Valliyoor – G. Xavier Selvaraja and Venkatesh Dhanaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-ends-as-district-panchayat-council-chairman-assumes-office/article37134963.ece
23 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Elephant found dead in Boothapandi forest range||A 13-year-old male elephant was found dead near Kuththarapaanjaan waterfalls in the Western Ghats under the Bhoothapandi forest range on Friday. Sources in the Forest Department said District Forest Officer, Kanniyakumari, M. Ilaiyaraja received information about the dead elephant near Kuththarapaanjaan waterfalls, situated west of Panagudi, on Friday morning. Subsequently, a team of forest officials and a veterinarian rushed to the spot to conduct autopsy. The forest personnel, who arrived at the spot, said the elephant might have died three days ago due to some ailments. “There is no foul-play as the tusks of the animal were intact,” a forest official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-found-dead/article37134622.ece
23 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Temporary ban on entry to temple||Following heavy rain in and around Udumalpet in Tiruppur district, entry to the Amanalingeswarar temple in Thirumoorthy Hills has been banned. Revenue Department officials said on Friday that the temple premises were flooded due to heavy flow from Panchalinga Falls on Thursday, following which entry has been banned to devotees. Images and videos of the flooded temple were widely shared on social media platforms. The temple will be open to devotees once the water recedes, officials said. According to Tiruppur district administration, Thirumoorthy Dam recorded 12 mm rainfall in the 24-hour period that ended 7 a.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-ban-on-entry-to-temple/article37134621.ece
23 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Kumki elephants deployed to keep tusker inside tiger reserve||Two kumki elephants from the Theppakadu Elephant Camp have been deployed on the fringes of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) to prevent Vinayagan, a male elephant translocated from Coimbatore to the Nilgiris, from entering human habitations in Gudalur. The elephant that was translocated from Thadagam in Coimbatore in December 2018 due to problematic interactions with farmers and people, was released in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. However, the animal regularly crosses from the tiger reserve into Gudalur. Local residents complained that the elephant was aggressive and damaged houses for food and raided crops. However, no persons have been injured or killed during their interactions with the elephant. P. Ganesan, Forest Range Officer (Gudalur), said that the settlements that were damaged lie in heavily forested areas frequented by Vinayagan and other elephants. “At present, Vinayagan is inside MTR, but he crosses into Gudalur regularly, and this is when problematic interactions occur,” he said. Due to mounting public pressure to capture the tusker, the Forest Department has come up with a plan to attempt to mitigate interactions between Vinayagan and local residents. Two experienced kumki elephants from the Theppakadu Elephant Camp have been deployed in Bospara, bordering MTR and Gudalur, to drive Vinayagan back into the tiger reserve if he attempts to cross into Gudalur division. Officials said that Gudalur was used by elephants regularly to cross from MTR and Bandipur Tiger Reserve into Wayanad and Nilambur in Kerala. It was a vital elephant corridor that has become extremely disturbed due to illegal settlements. They added that steps were being taken to ensure the safety of the tusker and to allay the fears of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kumki-elephants-deployed-to-keep-tusker-inside-tiger-reserve/article37134596.ece
23 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Police constable placed under suspension||A constable attached to the Erumad Police Station has been placed under suspension by the Nilgiris District Superintendent of Police after the Kerala Forest Department’s camera traps captured him with a weapon to hunt in the Muthanga Wildlife Sanctuary in Wayanad recently. Camera trap The constable, identified as J. Siju, was seen in a camera trap placed inside the wildlife sanctuary with a weapon and a torch-light strapped to his head. He was posted in the Erumad Police Station in Pandalur, on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border. The Kerala Forest Department identified the man and alerted the Nilgiris District Police. When the police sought to question Siju about the incident, he fled from his residence, officials said. Since he did not turn up for the inquiry, and following the submission of evidence about his entry into the forest to hunt wild game, Nilgiris DSP suspended Siju from duty, officials confirmed. Sources said that Siju was previously residing in O-Valley in Gudalur, and that his father had cases of poaching registered against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-constable-placed-under-suspension/article37134611.ece
23 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Freebies drive vaccination campaign in three districts||A. Papapthi, 42, a resident of the Nellipattu tribal hamlet in the Jawadhu Hills in Tirupattur, has seldom come down to the foothills in her life. She helps her family by growing vegetables and roots on a small plot. A community television set was the lone source of entertainment not just for her but for the entire village for many years. Vaccination brought her a 32-inch LED television set as she was one of the three winners in a lucky draw that was organised by the Tirupattur district administration a fortnight ago to encourage residents, especially the tribals, to take the jab. But she gave away the new television set to her village. She enjoys watching television with neighbours and tribal elders at the government community centre. Nellipattu is part of Pudur Nadu, one of the 32 villages in Jawadhu Hills that come under Tirupattur district. “We don’t keep anything for ourselves. We share our food, essentials and also farm produce. The village is our family,” says P. Ayyanar, Papapthi’s husband and a farmer. The Tirupattur district administration will give an LED television set, mixer and grinder to the first three lucky winners at the end of the camp on Saturday. Miles away, the Vellore Corporation, which consists of four zones covering 60 wards, gives away household items to those who take the jab at mega camps. In zone two that covers the central parts such as Green Circle, Sathuvachari and Rangapuram, 200 persons were drawn by lot at the end of every mega camp for the freebies. At the fifth mega camp, the zone gave away a washing machine, a mixer and a grinder to the first three winners, while the rest got items such as stainless steel utensils. Fridge, water-heater, stainless steel bureau and other household items will be given away this Saturday. “The idea is to vaccinate the maximum number of residents. All gifts are sponsored by welfare organisations and companies that use their corporate social responsibility funds,” Vellore Corporation Commissioner N. Sankaran said. In Tiruvannamalai, cycles were given away to the first 50 persons who took the jab a week ago in Kilpennathur village. And one litre of free petrol was given to the first 150 persons who took the jab at the previous mega camp in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/freebies-drive-vaccination-campaign-in-three-districts/article37134972.ece
23 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Think tank on research needed at CMC’||A think tank with international experts to guide research programmes is needed at the Christian Medical College in Vellore, said Chandran Gnanamuthu, retired Professor of Neurology, CMC. Delivering his special oration at the valedictory function of the 11th Annual Research Day, which was organised by the Office of Research, CMC, on Friday, Prof. Gnanamuthu said the CMC was ranked as the third best medical institution in the country in 2018. The institution is also one of the pioneers in research in the country. However, he said, the college should identify people with potential, especially young students, to pursue research on their choice of interest in medicine. More importantly, the British era institution, especially its senior faculty members, should guide young researchers. “There should be hand-holding mentorship by senior and middle-level researchers to motivate young medical students to take up research,” Prof. Gnanamuthu, who was awarded with a citation and medal for his service, said. The two-day programme showcased research activities done by the faculty and students. As a separate category, a paper on COVID-19 related research was also highlighted. A total of 224 poster presentations and 245 podium presentations were made during the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/think-tank-on-research-needed-at-cmc/article37134912.ece
23 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,TAMIL NADU||Training in cyber security for govt. employees||The increase in data breaches, accidental leak of sensitive information and use of private emails for official communication across public and private sector institutions is a cause of worry, said Special Chief Secretary, Revenue Department, Rajat Bhargava. Speaking after launching a cyber security foundation course for the employees of the Andhra Pradesh State Beverages Corporation Limited (APSBCL), Mr. Bhargava said such breaches not only would result in heavy financial loss but also have adverse impact on the services extended by the government to the public. The government decided to initiate this training programme on a massive scale to help the departments, public sector units and government undertakings in securing themselves from these lurking cyber threats, he said, informing that Andhra Pradesh was the first State in the country to initiate the training on such massive scale for safe computing. Managing Director of the corporation Vasudev Reddy explained in detail the cyber threats surrounding the IT landscape. “Governments, military, corporations, hospitals, financial institutions and other business processes store a great deal of confidential information on computers and transmit that data across networks to other computers. With the growing volume and sophistication of cyber attacks, attention is required to protect sensitive business and personal information, as well as to safeguard national security,” he said, informing that data breach recovery costs were substantial across all industries. He said the government and large enterprises need to gear up to counter these threats and improve security. “Also, trained manpower is needed to counter the attacks.” Regional Director of Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL) P.V. Sreekanth said it had collaborated with the Forensic Intelligence Surveillance and Security Technologies (FISST), a Chennai-based company, in specialising on cyber and physical security solutions, including training and certification programmes, in association with IIT Madras. Chief Mission Integrator and Innovator, FISST, C. Mohan Ram, threw light on the basic functions of a security set-up with over 30 tools and settings for prevention of attacks on computer and networks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-in-cyber-security-for-govt-employees/article37134586.ece
23 October 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||DMK sweeps polls in Villupuram, Kallakurichi||The ruling DMK made a clean sweep in the indirect elections to rural local bodies in Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts on Friday. Besides winning the chairman’s post of the District Panchayat Council, the party also bagged the chairperson post in all 13 panchayat unions. With a comfortable majority of 26 wards councillors in the 28-member council, DMK candidate Jayachandiran was declared elected unopposed as chairman. The Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi’s (VCK), Sheela Devi Cheran, was elected unopposed as vice-chairperson. The DMK secured the lion’s share of seats in the panchayat unions, winning 197 out of 293 seats, helping it to win the chairperson posts in all 12 panchayat unions. Election at one panchayat union — Marakkanam — was deferred as required number of panchayat union ward members did not turn up for voting. The following were elected chairpersons of panchayat unions in the district: Yogeshwari - Mailam; Usha - Vanur; Vijayakumar - Gingee; Satchinandam - Koliyanur; Dhanalakshmi - Mugaiyur; Sangeetharasi - Vikravandi; Kalaiselvi - Kaanai; Amutha - Vallam; Chokkalingam - Olakkur; Om Sivasakthi Vel - Tiruvennainallur; Vasan - Kandamangalam; Kannan - Melamalaiyanur. District chairman post The DMK also won the district chairman’s post of Kallakurichi district panchayat with Bhuvaneswari Perumal being elected unopposed. The party also won the chairperson post in nine panchayat unions in the district.  The DMK secured the lion’s share of seats in the panchayat unions, winning 197 out of 293 seats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-sweeps-polls-in-villupuram-kallakurichi/article37134550.ece
23 October 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Career centre set up to impart skill training||HR-services firm, Ma Foi, has set up Career centre that would impart skill training for comprehensive skill development for youths to make them employable. Former Minister and founder of Ma Foi Group, K. Pandia Rajan, said that his organisation was the knowledge partner for 22 skill development schemes of the Centre. ‘We will set up 16 Career centres across the State in the next two months and train at least 15,000 youths in the next one year,’ he said. Different courses would be offered to youths with educational qualification of 8th class to graduation. The courses ranging from 3 months to 6 months would be offered as full-time and part-time. COVID-19 pandemic led to thousands of people losing jobs due to economic standstill which has necessitated upscaling of skills. ‘We will equip job aspirants in rural areas with in-demand skills based on our best understanding of prevalent corporate demands,’ he added. The new facility will provide placements for the trained candidate, provide support for academic institutions for enhancing productivity and good placements. Ma Foi founder, Latha Rajan, industrialist, V.R. Muthu, S. Maheswaran, G. Jawahar and correspondent of RV College of Engineering, Brinda Raghavan, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/career-centre-to-impart-skill-training/article37134664.ece
23 October 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Insure paddy crop on or before December 15||The last date for payment of premium for samba paddy II crop insurance under Revamped Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme is December 15. In a press release, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that farmers need to submit land records, sowing report, copy for the bank passbook first page, Aadhar along with the insurance proposal. The payment can be done at the e-service centres, primary agricultural cooperative societies and nationalised banks. While the premium for the insurance scheme is Rs. 24,850 an acre, the farmers need to pay only 1.5% or Rs. 373 an acre, the Collector said. Mr. Meghanath appealed to the farmers to make use of the insurance scheme factoring in losses due to unexpected natural disasters and pest attack. Joint Director of Agriculture, Virudhunagar district, S. Uthandaraman, said that the district has a target of 20,000 hectare coverage of Samba paddy. “Sowing has started in rain-fed areas like Narikudi, Kariyapatti and M. Reddiyapatti areas. Farmers in Rajapalayam, Srivilliputtur and Watrap areas are getting ready for sowing expecting water release from the dams,” he added. Crop insurance scheme will be implemented in all the 39 firkas in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insure-paddy-crop-on-or-before-december-15/article37134679.ece
23 October 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Plan to administer 1 lakh doses today||The district administration has made an elaborate arrangement for sixth mega COVID-19 vaccination camp to be held across the district on Saturday. Vaccination of all eligible persons above 18 years will be done at 1,102 locations with an aim to administer the vaccine to 1 lakh persons, said Collector J. Meghanath Reddy. While the district has 15.60 lakh eligible persons for COVID-19 vaccination, so far 10.48 lakh persons have taken the first shot and 4.12 lakh persons have taken their second jab too. The district administration has taken every effort to achieve 100% vaccination and the camps would be held between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. People can get themselves vaccinated for the first and second dose at the camps to be held in every panchayat, town panchayat, municipality, anganwadi centres, sub health centres, primary health centres and Government hospitals, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-administer-1-lakh-doses-today/article37134680.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM Stalin opens portals to monitor infra projects||“Companies can access all IT policies, GOs and tenders issued by the IT Department. They will also be able to give feedback on the latest policies or flag issues which they are facing and need to be addressed. The Department shall address these feedbacks/concerns and help to resolve them,” an official release said. The exports from the IT/ITES sector in the State has been growing at 10% year-on-year, and there is a great potential to increase it further. Mr. Stalin released two Tamil computing software with advanced features, which had been developed by the Tamil Virtual Academy. The Keezhadi-Tamizhinaiya keyboard will function with three types of keyboards: Tamil’99 keyboard; Phonetic keyboard; and Old Typewriter keyboard. The Tamizhi-Tamizhinaiya Unicode Converter will convert the text, file and folder, typed in Vanavil and other fonts, into the doc, docx, rtf, xls, xlsx, ods ppt and pptx formats. These can be downloaded free from www.tamilvu.org. Information Technology Minister T. Mano Thangaraj; Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu; Planning Secretary Vikram Kapoor; IT Secretary Neeraj Mittal; Director of e-Governance and TNeGA Chief Executive Officer K. Vijayendra Pandian; Tamil Virtual Academy Director V.P. Jeyaseelan; TNeGA Joint CEO A.K. Kamal Kishore; and Adviser to TNeGA P.W.C Davidar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-opens-portal-to-review-infra-projects/article37134619.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mega vaccination camp begins in Erode||The two-day sixth mega vaccination camp that aimed at vaccinating 1.5 lakh people began in Erode district on Friday. Camps were held across the district from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. at urban primary health centres, primary health centres, government hospitals and selected schools in each taluk. Persons who have received their first shot of Covishield were vaccinated after 84 days while those who received Covaxin were vaccinated after 28 days. In corporation limits, 40 mobile vehicles were deployed to vaccinate residents at their doorsteps. Salem Thirteen wards in Salem Corporation have achieved 100% vaccination of first dose, Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj has said. The mega drive has been planned at 205 places in the Corporation limits on Saturday. The Corporation is targeting to administer 42,000 doses of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-vaccination-camp-begins-in-erode/article37134695.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||83 positive cases in Erode||Erode district reported 83 new COVID-19 cases on Friday taking the total number of cases to 1,03,696. While 76 persons were discharged, 881 continue to be under treatment. A total of 57 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 52 cases were indigenous and 15 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 65 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. One death each was reported in Salem and Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/83-positive-cases-in-erode/article37134691.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine didn’t cause Vivekh’s death: panel||The actor suffered a heart attack a day after he received his first dose of Covaxin at the Tamil Nadu Government Multi-Super-Speciality Hospital at the Omandurar Government Estate in Chennai. The committee emphasised that the “benefits of vaccination are overwhelmingly greater than the small risk of harm”. At a media interaction, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said the controversy over the actor’s death had led to a dip in the vaccination drive then. “It is important to take the truth to people. The State Government had confirmed that his death was not due to inoculation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-didnt-cause-vivekhs-death-panel/article37134563.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Joys of childhood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/joys-of-childhood/article37134587.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Celebrating a queen||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/celebrating-a-queen/article37134406.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Sankara College of Science and Commerce: MoU signing ceremony, 10 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Session on ‘Leadership for the New Millennium Organisations’, 10 a.m.; Workshop on ‘Construction and Analysis of Evolutionary Imprints of Microbiome’, 11 a.m.  D.J. Academy for Managerial Excellence: Workshop on ‘Business Plan Writing’, 11 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Alumni interaction programme, 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37134603.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Delta engagements||PERAMBALUR  Roever Engineering College: Webinar on ‘Design fundamentals and career opportunities in VLSI designing,’ talk by A. Aravindhan, Associate Professor, K. K. Deemed to be University, Vaddeswaram, Andhra Pradesh; K. Varadharaajen, Founder and Chairman, Roever Group of Institutions, Perambalur, presides, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-engagements/article37134660.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||Bharathidasan University: BDU Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Career Hub, inauguration of naitonal-level seminar on ‘National convention on knowledge centres for youth,’ A. Sankara Subramanian, Chairman, Indian Society for Technical Education, inaugurates; M. Selvam, Vice-Chancellor, presides, 9.30 a.m.  Hindu Mission Hospital, Dr. K. Shantha Breast Cancer Foundation and Rotary Club of Tiruchi Midtown: Mammogram screening for women aged above 35 years, Tennur, 9.00 a.m. to 4 p.m.  C.A.R.E. College of Arts and Science: Inauguration of CARE Centre for Career Development by S. Srinidhi, Senior Analyst, Talent and Acquisition Team, Capegemini, 11 a.m.  K. Ramakrishnan College of Technology: Inauguration of MASTRO CSE 21, Association of Department of Computer Science and Engineering by P. J. A. Alphonse, Head, Department of Computer Applications, National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi, 10 a.m.  Santhanam Vidyalaya: Motivational session, A. Kaliyamurthy, former Superintendent of Police, speaks, 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article37134989.ece
23 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Christians submit memorandum against move to conduct survey of churches||Members of the All Karnataka United Christian Forum for Human Rights submitted a memorandum to the State Government against the government move to conduct a survey of churches in Karnataka and the proposed anti-conversion law. Leaders of all denominations of Christian organisations met Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath and submitted their objections to these two developments. “We have noticed that the Backward and Minority Welfare Department of Karnataka wishes to make a survey of the Christian missionaries and their places of worship. This exercise is futile and unnecessary as no good will come out of it. Such surveys are dangerous in view of the conversion bogey and anti-religious feelings being whipped up resulting in targeting of our places of worship, priests, pastors, and sisters. Such sporadic incidents are being reported from north India and in Karnataka. This seems to be a planned strategy,” the memorandum stated. They also termed the proposed anti-conversion Bill futile and unnecessary. “Some fringe elements seem to be putting pressure on enlightened leaders in the government to bring in a tough anti-conversion law. We request the government to study the situation in educational institutions and health centres run by the Christian missionaries to see if there has been any instance of conversion. They will realise that allegations of conversion against Christians are false as the percentage of Christian population is dwindling compared to other communities,” Bishop Derek Fernandes said in the memorandum. “We are against forceful, fraudulent or incentivised conversions. We emphasise that we are lawfully abiding by the prescriptions of the Constitution of India. However, the Constitution in Article 25 (also 26, 29 & 30) ensures freedom of citizen to profess, practice and propagate his/her religion without fear orforce. Then do we need any anti-conversion laws as there are enough safeguards enshrined in the Constitution based on which the guilty can be punished, ,” the Bishop said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/christians-submit-memorandum-against-move-to-conduct-survey-of-churches/article37134709.ece
23 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||205 booked for Ranakunde group clash over temple construction||The police have booked 205 people on charges of involvement in the group clash at Ranakunde village that left at least four persons injured. The cases were booked on Thursday. The incident occurred on Wednesday. They include five persons originally booked in the case. The Belagavi Rural police had registered a case under IPC provisions relating to injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class, attempt to murder, rioting, and other sections. Similar provisions have been applied against the 200 others, the police said. On Friday, some villagers urged the police to withdraw the cases registered against them, but their effort went in vain. After consultation with senior officers, the district administration allowed villagers to reconstruct the demolished temple. Wednesday’s group clash was the result of an altercation between members of a Belagavi-based family that tried to stop the construction of a place of worship in the village, claiming it was being built on their family property. The villagers, however, argued that the land belonged to the Huda temple trust and that the Inamdar family from Belagavi had not only obstructed the construction, but also hurt their religious sentiments. Villagers maintained that prayers had been offered at the place for several years. A crowd began a street fight that led to some persons getting injured. They were treated at the district hospital. They were all declared to be out of danger. Police officers rushed to the spot and dispersed the crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/205-booked-for-ranakunde-group-clash/article37134712.ece
23 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||M.C. Manguli’s sons betrayed JD(S): Prajwal||JD(S) leaders held a rally in Sindgi on Friday to campaign for the party nominee for the byelection, Najiya Angadi. Prajwal Revanna, MP, accused Ashok Manguli, Congress candidate, and his brother Shantaveer Manguli of betraying the party. “The JD(S) gave late M.C. Manguli, former MLA, every possible position of power. But his sons deserted us and joined the Congress,” he lamented at a rally. He asked voters to support Ms. Angadi. Later, speaking to journalists, Mr. Prajwal Revanna recalled that M.C. Manguli was given the party ticket seven times and he won twice. He was also made a Minister. This was despite opposition from some local party workers. The party senior leadership stood by him even during challenging times. But the former legislator’s sons forgot all that, he said. The Hassan MP claimed that H.D. Kumaraswamy, as Chief Minister, had sanctioned projects worth Rs. 920 crore to Sindagi constituency alone. “M.C. Manguli served as a Cabinet Minister. We were willing to nominate one of his sons. But they fled to the Congress,” he said. He denied Mr. Shantaveer Manguli’s allegation that the JD(S) had ill-treated his father||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mc-mangulis-sons-betrayed-jds-prajwal/article37134704.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nearly 46% of auto tippers that collect garbage are not tracked||Though door-to-door garbage collection was introduced by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), many neighbourhoods in the city have yet to benefit from it. One of the reasons for the civic body’s failure to achieve 100% collection is the lack of tracking devices on the fleet of auto tippers and compactors. By the BBMP’s own submission, nearly 46% of auto tippers that are involved in door-to-door collection of waste and 29% of compactors that are secondary transportation vehicles are not being tracked. GPS tracking systems are yet to be installed in these vehicles or the systems are malfunctioning. As per the division-wise GPS report early this month, of the 5,279 auto tippers, only 2,827 had GPS, while of the 534 compactors, 379 have GPS. The report stated that a whopping 2,452 auto tippers and 155 compactors are shown as ‘not reporting’. Chamarajpete and Shanthinagar divisions have the maximum ‘not reporting’ auto-tippers with 78% of the fleet yet to be fitted with GPS. Similarly, 80% of the compactors in the Kengeri division are shown as ‘not reporting’ in the report. Of the 198 wards, the routes for garbage collection have been marked for 184 wards. It is pending for 14 wards, of which three each are in Vijaynagar and Gandhinagar divisions, two each in Chamarajpet and Shivajinagar divisions, and one each in Rajajinagar, Chikpet, Pulikeshinagar, and K.R. Puram divisions. The report also stated that Chamarajpet, Kengeri, Shanthinagar, Rajarajeshwarinagar, and K.R. Puram have the lowest record of route coverage with percentage covered ranging from 9% to just 1%. Malleswaram division is stated to have the best route coverage with 70%. The route coverage in the remaining 21 divisions ranges from 47% to 11%. BBMP officials in the Solid Waste Management Cell admit to the fact that a large number of vehicles are not fitted with GPS tracking systems. However, they maintained that this did not mean that those vehicles were not on ground. Sarfaraz Khan, BBMP’s Joint Commissioner (SWM), told The Hindu that there were three levels of monitoring, following which the bills of the contractors/service providers are cleared for payment. “While the GPS tracking system is first, we also monitor RFID and daily reports by the marshals who are posted in all wards,” he said. He added that bills until July 2021 had been paid after a 5% deduction for vehicles that did not have GPS trackers. “However, the payment was cleared only after verifying with the RFID and marshal reports that were certified by the jurisdictional assistant executive engineer,” he claimed and added that the bills of vehicles without GPS would not be cleared from August 1. Reasons for lack of GPS were varied, from expiry of SIM cards to technical malfunctions. “Most of the issues are being sorted out,” he maintained. However, waste management experts are not convinced with the BBMP’s justification. “Bengaluru is known as the IT capital. It is unbelievable that the city corporation is still struggling with such minor issues that will bring in much more transparency in waste management. There seems to be a lack of interest in addressing these issues, as garbage is a ‘cash cow’ for civic officials, who are hand-in-glove with the contractors,” said an expert, who wished to remain anonymous. Ramaprasad V., waste management expert, said a team of experts was now working with the BBMP to resolve these issues, apart from working out different parameters for payment of bills that will align with the norms of Swachh Survekshan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nearly-46-of-auto-tippers-that-collect-garbage-are-not-tracked/article37134482.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Study links Net usage with mental health||A recent study by doctors from NIMHANS has found that ‘Problematic Internet Use’ (PIU) is rapidly emerging to be an ever-growing and significant mental health condition among adolescent students. The study, aimed at examining Internet usage behaviours, problematic Internet use (PIU) and its association with psychological stress among adolescents, has been published in the Indian Journal of Social Psychiatry early this month. 15-18 years A team of doctors led by Manoj Kumar Sharma from the Department of Clinical Psychology, who heads the Service for Healthy Use of Technology (SHUT) Clinic at NIMHANS, studied patterns of net usage among 682 adolescents including 495 female students aged between 15 and 18 years. The online-based study was conducted from July 2020 to December 2020 among participants in high school and senior secondary levels from institutes in South India. “Inappropriate and excessive use of the Internet involves compulsive Internet use, PIU, pathological Internet use, and Internet addiction. In this study, the term PIU, can be understood as use of the Internet that creates psychological, social, school, and work difficulties in an individual’s life,” Dr Sharma told The Hindu.  “We collected patterns of Internet usage and socio-demographic data through online and socio-demographic methods. Along with this, the Internet Addiction Test (IAT) was employed to assess PIU, and symptoms of psychological distress were evaluated with the Kessler Psychological Distress Scale (K10),” he said. Results Among the 682 adolescents, 36.6% (248) met the criterion on IAT for mild Internet addiction/PIU, 31.96% (218) for moderate Internet addiction/PIU, and 2.93% (20) for severe Internet addiction/PIU. PIU was higher among adolescents who accessed the net several times a day and had experienced psychological stress, the study found. The primary use of the net by adolescents was to access social networking sites (344 participants showed this behaviour), social media applications (by 401 participants), and online gaming (by 129 participants). Gender was not found to be significantly associated with addictive use. In addition, stepwise regression analysis indicated that adolescents experiencing psychological stress were at higher risk for PIU, and stress also predicted engagement in PIU. Dr. Sharma said PIU was present among a substantial proportion of adolescents, which might hinder their academic performance and progress over some time, and can impact their psychological health adversely. “These adolescents are likely to benefit from the early identification of PIU, which can facilitate the timely implementation of psychotherapeutic intervention strategies for PIU in school settings,” he said.  Evidence-based studies have shown that unfavourable developmental outcomes such as depression, social isolation, and unproductive use of time are caused by PIU among children and adolescents. Although there are substantial studies on PIU, there is no established understanding of the various pathways leading to PIU among adolescents. This emergent problem among adolescents acquires a crucial status, as establishing the determinants of PIU is the first step toward planning prevention and intervention programs, the study stated.  “Adolescents must hence be screened in school settings or mental health settings for PIU and psychological stress as there is a significant possibility that they coexist and can intensify each other. Programmes for early intervention can be offered to adolescents if health care efforts are directed towards early identification and suitable referrals of psychological care in specialized centres,” the doctor said. “Our findings can be of value to a broad group of health professionals, including psychiatrists, psychologists, psychosocial counsellors, and mental health professionals in school and primary health settings, to comprehend the existence of this emerging phenomenon and the reciprocal relationship between stress and PIU,” Dr. Sharma asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/problematic-net-use-a-growing-mental-health-condition-study/article37134468.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Families tighten budget as prices of essential commodities go up||The festive season is a time for celebration, but most households are instead tightening their purse strings. The rising cost of fuel as well as unexpected heavy rain in October have driven the price of essential commodities northwards. Onions for instance were retailing at Rs. 60 per kg while a kg of beans was Rs. 85 on Friday. With the academic year restarting and people travelling to work more often, payment of school fees and expenditure on commuting are compounding the problem. Narayanaswamy, an autorickshaw driver, said his family was forced to cut down their consumption of milk from one litre a day to half a litre and edible oil by half, from four litres to two a month. “We observed all recent festivals in a very low-key manner, and did not even buy new clothes for the children. But still we are finding it tough to make ends meet,” he said. He’s hoping that the government will revise autorickshaw fares which haven’t been hiked since 2013. Mallamma, who works as a domestic help, said it has been two weeks since she bought any vegetables apart from onions at home. “We get rice from the ration shop and buy some pulses. Over the last few weeks vegetables prices have become unaffordable,” she said.  Many households have also cut down on their meat consumption. “For nearly two months, we had not cooked meat in our house. There was a time when we cooked meat every Sunday. But today, a kg of mutton now costs over Rs. 650 and is unaffordable,” said Mamata R., who works in a private firm. Pratibha, of the Garment and Textile Workers’ Union, said a recent survey of garment workers they conducted after the second wave of the pandemic showed several families had cut down on meals and were having only two meals a day. “The situation has definitely improved since then. But with prices of essentials skyrocketing other forms of rationing have kicked in. People are reducing the consumption of edible oil, milk, vegetables, eggs and meat,” she said. Middle-class households have cut down on fruits. “Fruits are always considered somewhat as a luxury in households. It has been more than a month since we brought home any fruits or flowers, except for festivals,” said Prasanna L., who works as a lab technician at a private firm in the city.  Public Health expert and nutritionist Sylvia Karpagam said the nutritional situation has been bad in the State ever since the pandemic. The government had not woken up to it despite several cautions by the civil society, she alleged. “The ICT and PDS programmes were not being satisfactorily implemented in the state. By introducing a ban on cattle slaughter, the government has deceived people of a cheap source of protein. This will have a devastating long-term nutritional impact in the State. Instead of a survey of churches, the government would do good to carry out a nutritional survey to identify gaps and address them before it’s too late,” she said.  (This is the first of a two-part series on how families are coping with the rise in prices of fuel and essential commodities.)   Fruits are always considered somewhat as a luxury in households. It has been more than a month since we brought home any fruits or flowers, except for festivals. Prasanna L. lab technician||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/families-tighten-budget-as-prices-of-essential-commodities-go-up/article37134456.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Inquiry finds no fault in police firing during anti-CAA protests: Govt. to HC||The magisterial inquiry into police firing to quell violent mob during an anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protest in Mangaluru on December 19, 2019, found no fault in police action, the State Government informed the High Court of Karnataka on Friday. The submissions in this regard was made before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum during the hearing on a PIL petition seeking court’s direction to the government to hold a judicial inquiry and entrust the investigation into police firing to an independent agency. Two persons had died in the firing. The report of the magisterial inquiry, conducted by then Deputy Commissioner of Udupi district, was submitted to the High Court in a sealed cover in July this year, and the government has now accepted the inquiry report, Additional Advocate-General Dhyan Chinnappa told the Bench. The report says nothing was wrong with the action taken by the police, and no one was found guilty in the magisterial inquiry, and the Criminal Investigation Department had conducted separate probe based on the FIRs registered in connection with the violence, the police firing and other cases connected to the violence that occurred during the protest, the AAG clarified to the Bench. However, counsel for the petitioners claimed that the government had not taken action as per the law on several complaints lodged against the firing while pointing out that the petitioners were not provided with details of the outcome of either the magisterial inquiry report or other information. The Bench adjourned further hearing till November 30 while directing the government to file detailed statement on actions taken based on the complaints lodged against the police and other directions given by the court earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inquiry-finds-no-fault-in-police-firing-during-anti-caa-protests-govt-to-hc/article37134506.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Proposed Wildlife Act amendments surprise environmentalists||Amidst opposition to a slew of amendments proposed to crucial laws pertaining to the environment and forests, another addition to this list has taken citizens by surprise. Environmentalists are stumped by the sudden appearance of proposed amendments to the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. They said neither was this in the public domain nor was enough time given for anyone to file objections to them. According to the document of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, the ministry has proposed amendments to the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, and has asked State Governments/Union Territories to submit their views/ comments by October 23. In a letter to the Government, conservationist Giridhar Kulkarni, expressed his unhappiness with the lack of publicity on the part of the Government and failure to publish the proposed amendments in local languages. “It appears that the proposed amendments are not published in the public domain by inviting the comments/ objections and also not published in vernacular languages... When the Ministry had published the Draft EIA Notification, 2020, even then the Ministry had not given wide publicity initially and this move was challenged by United Conservation Movement Charitable and Welfare Trust through a Public Interest Litigation in in the High Court of Karnataka, Bengaluru,” he stated the letter. “It appears that the proposed amendments to Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, too are likely to have impact on wildlife, hence it is important that the Ministry invites objections/ comments from public by publishing the proposed amendments in the public domain and also mainly in vernacular languages of States/ Union Territories. It is also important that the Ministry gives sufficient time by extending the last date to submit objections/ comments,” he added. Amendments The Wildlife (Protection) Amendment Act, 2021, among other things, proposes reducing the number of schedules and establishing a Standing Committee of State Board for Wildlife. “The Standing Committee shall consist of the Vice-Chairperson, the Member-Secretary, and not more than ten members, to be nominated by the Vice-Chairperson, from amongst the members of the State Board for Wildlife,” the draft says. There is also the insertion of a new section 42A about surrender of wild animals and products. “Any article or animal surrendered under this Section shall become property of the State Government and the provisions of Section 39 shall be applicable to it,” the explanation says. “First, it has not been open for public comments and only States and UTs. It has been kept very confidential. Though there are not many destructive amendments, there are attempts to weaken the state wildlife board by introducing a Standing Committee. If all decisions are taken by this committee, there will be rubber stamp selected members on it,” said environmentalist Akhilesh Chipli. He also asked what the logic behind reducing the number of schedules was. “There seems to be no clear objective behind these amendments. Why are they reorganising schedules?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proposed-wildlife-act-amendments-surprise-environmentalists/article37134474.ece
23 October 2021||BengaLuru,KARNATAKA||BBMP set to make pet dog registration and licence must||After beating a hasty retreat a year ago in the face of intense opposition from pet owners, the civic body is all set to reboot its proposal for a pet dog licencing system. The draft rules will likely be published soon and opened for public consultation, sources said. This time around, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has held multiple stakeholder meetings with pet dog owners, rescuers, and animal welfare organisations and redrafted the rules. We hope to turn it into a reality this time around, senior civic officials said. “This time, the rules are more practical and are firmly oriented towards civic responsibility and welfare of the dogs,” said Priya Chetty Rajagopal, a pet dog owner who was at the forefront of opposition to the licencing rules in its last version and part of the consultation process during the second round. One of the most controversial clauses that faced stiff opposition was limiting the number of pet dogs per house - one per flat in group housing and three per independent house - and its retrospective implementation, raising the spectre of separation of pets from their owners. “The limit remains the same. But we will licence all existing pet dogs and implement the norm only prospectively,” said S.M. Manjunath Shinde, joint director, Animal Husbandry, BBMP. “The limit should not be implemented with only a penal perspective. There are many rescuers who foster dogs. This is much needed as there is a lack of care home infrastructure in the city,” said Sneha Nandihal, pet owner. Special provisions are being made to relax the limit for genuine rescuers, sources said. Each pet dog that will be licensed will have a microchip with the owner’s details as well as vaccination records, which will help assign responsibility and hold pet owners who abandon them accountable, said Dr. Shinde. Given that a significant number of dog bite cases are from pets, ensuring vaccination is the key, he said. “We have recommended all female pet dogs be neutered and if not, pet owners have to take a breeder’s licence that has to be renewed every year,” he said. Parviz Ahmed Piran, CEO, Vet Society for Animal Welfare and Rural Development, and former joint director, Animal Husbandry, BBMP, said a pet dog licencing system was the need of the hour. “It was first proposed in 2014 before I left BBMP and it is sad that the city is yet to implement such a policy. Such a system is key to prevent hoarding of dogs in bad living conditions and their exploitation. But the cost of the microchip needs to be borne by the pet owner and the licencing fee for indie breeds has to be a third of that of pedigree dogs,” Mr. Piran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-set-to-make-pet-dog-registration-and-licence-must/article37134478.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 8 lakh doses administered on Lasika Utsav day||Continuing the weekly ‘Lasika Utsav’ drive, Karnataka administered 8,17,649 doses till 9 p.m. on Friday. The drive, which is held every Wednesday, was postponed to Friday this week on account of a general holiday. With this, Karnataka has administered a total of 6,29,87,790 doses so far of which 2,12,30,861 are second doses. Of the total doses, 1.05 crore doses were administered during various vaccination drives and weekly ‘Lasika Utsavs.’ Although the State had set a target of administering 25 lakh doses on Friday, not even half the target could be met. Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, admitted it is a challenge to motivate and vaccinate the remaining population. “Although our vaccinators are going door-to-door to identify unvaccinated people and those who are due for second dose, they are finding it difficult to convince people to come to the vaccination centres,” she said. She said efforts will be made to sustain the momentum and continue daily vaccination at the same pace not just on ‘Lasika Utsav’ days but also on other days. “There is no dearth of vaccine stocks and as of Friday we have over 42 lakh doses available,” she said. According to data from the Co-WIN portal, the highest number of doses (78,106) were administered in BBMP limits. Mysuru and Tumakuru followed with 49,698 and 48,331 doses respectively on Friday. The lowest achievement for the day was recorded in Kodagu, Bengaluru Rural and Chikkamagaluru where 5,307 doses, 8,520 doses and 10,210 doses were administered respectively. Men have outnumbered women in overall vaccinations with 3,17,19,866 of the total 6,29,87,790 doses administered so far being given to men. More than half (3,47,63,494) of the total doses administered in the State are in the 18-44 years age group. As many as 1,71,86,969 persons in the 45-60 years age group and 1,10,37,327 persons aged above 60 have been jabbed so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-8-lakh-doses-administered-on-lasika-utsav-day/article37134461.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Exhibition to mark birth centenary of R.K. Laxman||To commemorate the birth centenary of the legendary cartoonist R.K. Laxman, the Indian Institute of Cartoonists (IIC) is organising a special exhibition titled ‘R.K. Laxman@100’ from Saturday. According to an IIC release, the exhibition will display different facets of his work and some rare photographs for all cartoon lovers. The works include his political cartoons, You Said It, Caricatures, unpublished doodles, Illustrated Weekly covers, Koravanji cartoons, crows, management cartoons and 50 special photos. The exhibition will be held between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. on weekdays (Monday to Saturday) at No. 1 Midford House, Midford Garden, off M.G. Road, Bengaluru. till November 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exhibition-to-mark-birth-centenary-of-rk-laxman/article37134455.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three mobile learning centres flagged off||For the benefit of children of migrant families and students who had to drop out of school because of the pandemic, the State Government along with the non-government organisation, Save the Children, launched three mobile learning centres on Friday. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh flagged off three buses that will function as learning centres at Vidhana Soudha. They have been stocked with books and educational tools. They will visit 30 areas in Bengaluru, including slum pockets. The Minister said in the wake of the State Government resuming mid-day meals, attendance of students will increase in the coming days. Students in Grades I-V will return to the classroom on October 25. “From the first week of November, mid-day meal would be provided to students of all the classes. Meanwhile, the department will strive to bring students who dropped out back to schools,” said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-mobile-learning-centres-flagged-off/article37134466.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KASSIA red flags spike in container prices||An unprecedented spike in container costs by seven times, from around Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs. 11 lakh, is threatening to put a spanner in the works just as global trade is gathering steam. The government has to act immediately before this spike in tariff begins to hurt the economy, according to Karnataka Small Scale Industries’ Association (KASSIA). In a statement issued in Bengaluru on Friday, the trade body shared the concerns of MSME exporters of Karnataka. Question of survival “The government should consider providing a freight subsidy to exporters and importers too as the latter are unable to pass on the extra cost to their suppliers,” according to KASSIA. “No business can survive when prices rise nearly 10 times. And to add to this sorry state, businesses are also hit by a severe container shortage due to the closure of Chinese ports, or operating at subdued levels. If the government does not intervene, a large number of MSME exporters may be compelled to shut down.” Pointing out that some countries like the United States of America were responding to the evolving situation by encouraging ports to operate 24x7 to keep businesses afloat, KASSIA has asked the government to respond to the serious concerns which threaten to derail India’s exports ahead of the crucial holiday season orders from the West.  The trade body has sought subsidy to enable exporters to cater to crucial holiday season orders from the West.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kassia-red-flags-spike-in-container-prices/article37134507.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. pensioners demand hikes at shorter duration||Citing increase in the cost of living leaving many senior citizens vulnerable, pensioners have sought introduction of additional slabs for enhancement of pension. While the current enhancement slabs starts after a pensioner turns 80, pensioners have sought enhancement after 70. The demand has come in the light of several states launching pension enhancement from the age of 70. In Karnataka, additional two pension enhancement slabs of 10% and 15% have been sought after pensioners attain 70 years and 75 years, respectively. The Karnataka State Government Pensioners' Association has petitioned the government drawing parallels with existing slabs in Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Kerala that offer an enhancement of 10% at the age of 70. In Tamil Nadu, a 15% enhancement slab has been introduced for those attaining 75 years. “A large number of government pensioners are suffering as the cost of living and expenses have gone up. For those without medical insurance, health issues, and medical expenses have brought financial misery,” association president L. Bhyrappa said. Currently, the enhancement slabs for pensioners start at 80 years with a 20% enhancement, followed by 30% enhancement at 85 years, 40% after 90 years, 50% for those above 95, and 100% for those attaining 100 years, all of which have been fixed by the pay commission. Mr. Bhyrappa said that early introduction of enhancement would benefit pensioners as fewer people benefit from pension enhancement post 80 years. Karnataka has about 4.2 lakh pensioners and 1.5 lakh family pensioners. The association has also urged the State Government to implement enhancement soon after a pensioner completes 79 years citing orders of the Supreme Court, Delhi High Court, and Guwahati High Court. Currently, it begins on completion of 80 years.  While the current enhancement slabs starts after a pensioner turns 80, pensioners have sought enhancement after 70.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-pensioners-demand-hikes-at-shorter-duration/article37134508.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees 378 new cases||Karnataka on Friday reported 378 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,85,227. Bengaluru Urban reported 195 cases and seven deaths. With 11 deaths, the toll rose to 37,995. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 464 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 29,38,312. The State now has 8,891 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.36%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.91%. As many as 1,03,121 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 75,896 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 4,99,10,988.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-378-new-cases/article37134463.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. school redeveloped||The State Government will soon fill the 5,000 vacant teachers’ posts across Karnataka, said B.C. Nagesh, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education. He was speaking after inaugurating the newly-developed government high school in Sarakki on Friday. The four-storey building, which boasts of state-of-the-art facilities, was redeveloped under the ‘Marali Shaalege Baa’ (Come back to school) scheme with Rs. 2.25 crore funds under Corporate Social Responsibility by V.N. Reddy, an alumnus and MD, British Biologicals. “The government is coming out with a new scheme – Namma Shaale Namma Koduge (Our School, Our Contribution) – to help schools with funds. The pandemic has severely hit the education sector and funding” said Mr. Nagesh. He added the government has proposed to develop an app to keep track of donors too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-school-redeveloped/article37134464.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman dies||A 36-year-old woman suddenly collapsed near her residence on Friday morning while returning after vaccination in Kamakshipalya. The Rajagopalnagar police, who have taken up a case of unnatural death, said she had received a COVID-19 vaccine shot at a government hospital at 11.20 a.m. “While returning, she collapsed. She was taken to a hospital where she was declared brought dead. We are awaiting the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of death,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-dies/article37134459.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on October 23 and October 30 from 10 a.m to 5 p.m. in the areas serviced from Jayanagar subdivisions on account of maintenance works. According to a press release from Jayanagar Division, Banashankari II Stage, the areas to be affected are as follws. On October 23: 66/11KV ISRO Layout: ISRO Layout, ISRO Layout Industrial Area, Kumaraswamy Layout, Vittal Nagara, Vikram Nagar, Yelachenahalli and surrounding areas. On October 30: 66/11kV Arehalli: Arehalli, Ittamadu, AGS Layout, Chikallsandra, T.G. Layout, Bhuvaneshwari Nagar and areas surrounding the substation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article37134472.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two held for sourcing drugs on darknet||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) uncovered an online drug peddling racket and arrested two people for allegedly sourcing drugs from the darknet and selling them to customers using delivery services. The drugs were concealed in gift parcels, said a police officer. Acting on a tip-off, a police team raided a paying guest accommodation in Bellandur and arrested the accused. The police seized 300 MDMA pills, 100 LSD strips, 350 gram of charas, and 1.5 kg of Hydro ganja worth Rs. 60 lakh. “The duo purchased synthetic drugs on the darknet using bitcoins. The prime accused hails from New Delhi but is currently residing in Bengaluru,” said the senior police officer. The accused would conceal the drugs as birthday gifts in soaps, photo frames, books and perfume bottles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-for-sourcing-drugs-on-darknet/article37134479.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for selling pangolin scales||The Annapoorneshwari Nagar police on Friday caught two persons allegedly selling 8.2 kg of pangolin scales. The accused, identified as Ibrahim and Mariswamy, hail from Sandur, and were arrested by a police team while waiting for their clients. The investigation so far has revealed that the duo are part of a gang of poachers. They have been booked under various sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-selling-pangolin-scales/article37134475.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Applications invited from girl students||Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC), Dehradun (Uttarakhand), has invited applications from girl candidates of Karnataka for admission to class VIII for July 2022. The entrance exam will be held on December 18 in Bengaluru. According to a release, candidates should not be less than eleven-and-a-half years old and should not have attained the age of 13 as on July 1, 2022. Forms, in duplicate, should reach Director, Department of Sainik Welfare and Resettlement, Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa Bhavan, 58, Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa Road, Bengaluru-560 025 on or before November 15, 2021. For more details, call 080-25589459 or your nearest District Sainik Welfare and Resettlement offices. Details can also be obtained fromwww.rimc.gov.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited-from-girl-students/article37134504.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two murdered||A financier and his friend were found murdered at an isolated place in Ballur in Attibele on the outskirts of the city on Thursday. The victims have been identified as Deepak, 45, and his friend Bhaskar, 28, a vegetable vendor. According to the police, Deepak had gone to recover money from a client and had taken Bhaskar along. “The unidentified assailant overpowered them and crushed their heads with a boulder killing them on the spot,” said a police officer. Teams have been formed to track down the perpetrators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-murdered/article37134469.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||International conference on innovation in agriculture held||Indian Institute of Plantation Management (IIPM) Bengaluru, in association with Royal Agricultural University, Cirencester, UK, Universiti Teknologi MARA, Malaysia and Faculty of Management Sciences, Suratthani Rajabhat University, Thailand, had organised a one-day International Conference on Challenges, Opportunities and Innovations in Agriculture, Plantations and Allied domanis posed by the Pandemic on Thursday According to a IIPM release, delivering the inaugural address, Prof. V.G. Dhanakumar, director, IIPMB, emphasised on the ned to develop a research culture to address issues posed by the pandemic. He also encouraged delegates to strive for publishing in peer-reviewed and internationally indexed journals of ABDC, ABS and FT 50 series. David Bozward, Professor and Dean, School of Entrepreneurship, Royal Agricultural University, presented a paper on ‘A Strategic Model for Opportunity Recognition and Entrepreneurship within Rural and Agricultural Regions’. He discussed different entrepreneurship models, applications and their impact on rural development. The event also provided an opportunity to share research papers from registered faculty members and scholars across the globe. The conference had 18 shortlisted paper presentations focusing on different aspects of multicultural issues of the agri-plantation sector. Paper presenters appreciated the institute’s efforts in organizing research conferences and also for valuable inputs in improving their work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/international-conference-on-innovation-in-agriculture-held/article37134471.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,KARNATAKA||Only Hindu staff can be appointed in HR&CE’s institutions, argues A-G||Advocate-General (A-G) R. Shunmugasundaram on Friday argued before the Madras High Court that only Hindus could be appointed to teaching as well as non-teaching posts in educational institutions fully funded by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department. Appearing before Justice C. Saravanan, the A-G said Section 10 of the HR&CE Act of 1959 mandated every officer or servant, appointed to carry out the purpose of the Act, to be a person professing the Hindu religion, and stated that they would cease to hold office if they ceased to profess Hinduism. Arulmigu Kapaleeswarar Arts and Science College in Kolathur, Chennai, was fully funded by the department. Hence, applications had been invited only from Hindus for the posts of assistant professor, physical director, librarian, assistant, junior assistant, office assistant, watchman, cleaner and sweeper, he said. The A-G said walk-in interviews for the vacancies had already been held on October 18, and therefore, the present writ petition, filed by A. Suhail of Chennai, to permit people professing other faiths too to participate in the selection process, had become infructuous. But petitioner’s counsel S. Doraisamy said the case could not be filed before the interview, since the High Court was on Dussehra holidays. The judge directed the HR&CE Department to file a detailed counter affidavit in two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-hindu-staff-can-be-appointed-in-hrces-institutions-argues-a-g/article37134483.ece
23 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||21 fresh cases in Hassan dist.||Hassan district reported 21 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Among them, 10 were in Hassan taluk, three in Channarayapatna taluk, two each in Arkalgud, Arsikere, and Holenarasipur, and one each in Alur and Belur taluks. With that, the total number of cases in the district increased to 1,11,548. Shivamogga reported 11 cases including seven were in Shivamogga taluk, and one each in Tirthahalli, Shikaripura, Sagar and Sorab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/21-fresh-cases-in-hassan-dist/article37134858.ece
23 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Bridge collapses||A bridge across a drain near the KSOU regional office in Chikkamagaluru collapsed during heavy rains on Thursday, leaving many students in distress. Around 40 students were writing the exams inside the centre when the bridge collapsed. The Fire and Emergency Services were called in. They helped the students cross the stretch and reach home. However, those who had parked their vehicles inside the campus faced difficulty. Vinod, an autorickshaw driver from Belur, had brought one of his relatives to write the exam. But, he could not take his tri-wheeler out of the campus. He hired a crane on Friday to get his vehicle on the road. Several parts of Shivamogga, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru received heavy rains on Thursday evening. The State’s highest rainfall of 119.5 mm in 24 hours before 8.30 a.m. on Friday was recorded at Thadagani in Shikaripur taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bridge-collapses/article37134857.ece
23 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bommai and former CMs slog it out in Hangal constituency||With less than a week left for the byelections to Hangal and Sindgi, the campaign pitch rose particularly in Hangal where two former Chief Ministers, the present Chief Minister, and the state president of Congress sharpening their attacks, on Friday. Hangal witnessed KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah sharing the dais in one venue. At another, former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai shared the stage. Winning the Hangal bypoll is certainly crucial for Mr. Bommai, who represents Shiggaon Assembly segment in the same (Haveri) district. The Chief Minister wants to send a strong message to his detractors within the party by winning the bypolls and is not leaving any stone unturned. Although the bypoll result will not affect the present government in any way, they have larger implications on the future of Mr. Bommai’s leadership and the next general Assembly election. The Congress too is throwing its might behind its candidates, resulting in escalating poll fever. On Friday, Mr. Bommai, Mr. Siddaramaiah, Mr. Shivakumar, and Mr. Yediyurappa were seen trading charges against each other, and countering their statements throughout the day in different villages. Interestingly, the leaders were seen challenging the others to produce “proof” of their contribution to the region.  Meanwhile, Mr. Shivakumar said the Congress would complain to the Election Commission on use of money power to woo voters. “We have proof of money being brought in for distribution to voters. The BJP are operating from the neighbouring constituency. We have received video clips of the same. We will bring it to the notice of the Election Commission,” he told reporters during the campaign in Hangal. Responding to it at a poll meeting at Bammanahalli in Hangal taluk, Mr. Yediyurappa said it was the Congress which had “sowed seeds of casteism and use of money power” for winning elections. Meanwhile, in Sindgi too, the campaign gained further momentum with various leaders of parties and several Ministers of the present government making appeals at different places in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-and-former-cms-slog-it-out-in-hangal-constituency/article37134513.ece
23 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Series of programmes planned for Rajyotsava||With the number of COVID-19 cases in Dharwad district coming down drastically, the district administration, in association with the Department of Kannada and Culture, has chalked out a series of programmes to mark Kannada Rajyotsava. Arrangements have already been put in place and on Friday, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil held a review meeting. Various programmes are being held from October 24 to November 1. Mr. Patil asked the officials to ensure that all the programmes were held systematically and meaningfully to uphold the spirit of Kannada Rajyotsava. To begin with, cultural programmes from various troupes would be held at all the taluk centres from October 24. Simultaneous rendition of the ‘Naada Geethe’ (State anthem) penned by ‘Rashtrakavi’ Kuvempu will be held at 11 a.m. on October 28 across the State. It will be followed by the rendition of ‘Jogada Siri Belakinalli’, a song penned by K.S. Nisar Ahmed, and ‘Huttidare Kannada Nadalli Huttabeku’ of Hamsalekha. As part of the celebration, various cultural events would be held at Mallikarjun Mansur Kalabhavan, Rangayana, and at other cultural venues in Dharwad and other places. Procession of tableaux of various departments highlighting government schemes would also be taken out, he said. The Deputy Commissioner said that as part of the celebration, a special vaccination drive would also be organised and staff of gram panchayats and HDMC wards which have registered 100% vaccination would be honoured. Mr. Patil emphasised the use of Kannada in official communications and while sending messages via WhatsApp. He said prominent government and heritage buildings and junctions would be illuminated. He said various competitions, including delivering speech for more than five minutes in Kannada without using any word from other languages, would be conducted. The main Rajyotsava event will be held on November 1 at R.N. Shetty Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/series-of-programmes-planned-for-rajyotsava/article37134878.ece
23 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Sudhakar: Health infrastructure augmented, recruitment done||Health Minister K. Sudhakar on Friday said that apart from focussing on vaccination, the State Government had taken steps to strengthen health infrastructure in Karnataka through additional recruitments. Dr. Sudhakar told presspersons in Hubballi on Friday that during the first and second waves of COVID-19 pandemic, ventilators and other equipment were provided to tertiary healthcare centres and technical staff too were hired on contract. “Along with infrastructure augmentation, required staff was appointed on temporary basis. Subsequently, we appointed around 4,000 doctors. Now we have doctors in 90% of the primary health centres (PHCs),” he said. The Health Minister clarified that the treatment of non-COVID-19 patients had been neglected by the State Government because of the pandemic. “Along with taking steps for COVID-19 management, measures had been initiated to ensure that vaccines required for other epidemics were in good stock. There is no scarcity of any other vaccine in the State,” he said. Stir by ‘104’ staff Regarding the ongoing agitation by the staff of ‘104’ ambulance service over non-payment of salary, Dr. Sudhakar said there were several technical issues pertaining to the old tender which had caused various problems. In the new tenders floated for the ambulance service, the earlier flaws in conditions had been corrected so that the State Government had full control over the contract, he said. He said that in the earlier tender, certain aspects had not been included, which had resulted in the government not having authority to act in cases of breach of contract. All that had been rectified now and whatever problems were being faced by the existing staff would also be rectified soon, he said. Regarding the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s comment on him that “power had gone to his head”, Dr. Sudhakar sought to clarify that he had not done anything to evoke such a response. “All I have done is to initiate an inquiry. In fact, when Mr. Siddaramaiah was the Chief Minister, the former Union Minister K.H. Muniyappa along with me had petitioned to him several times seeking an inquiry into the alleged misappropriation in the Kolar DCC Bank. He should have at least ordered for an inquiry, which he didn’t. It is for Mr. Siddaramaiah to clarify whether he supported corruption in a bid to justify actions of his supporters,” he sought to know. Dr. Sudhakar also said that if anyone had done any corruption irrespective of the party he or she would go to jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sudhakar-health-infrastructure-augmented-recruitment-done/article37134705.ece
23 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Students seek bus service, scholarship||Seeking various facilities, a large number of students led by office-bearers of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) took out a protest march and staged demonstrations in Hubballi and Dharwad on Friday. In Dharwad, the students staged a demonstration in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner and demanded that the State Government take immediate steps to fulfil their demands in the wake of reopening of colleges. They said, after almost 20 months, offline classes for students of class VI and above had begun. However, as classes were held at different timings for different batches, students, particularly those coming from rural areas, did not have proper bus facilities. These bus services were suspended during lockdown and had not been restored till date, they said. Considering the different timings, the state bus transport corporation should run buses for the benefit of students, they demanded. They also urged the government to expedite the process of disbursement of scholarship under ‘Vidyasiri’ scheme and sought a hike in scholarship. A similar agitation was held in Hubballi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-seek-bus-service-scholarship/article37134706.ece
23 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Real-time info on cases: workshop held||“With the introduction of Telegram channel, now it is possible to get real-time delivery of e-court services relating cause lists, case status, daily notifications, display board of the High Court and other,” High Court judge Suraj Govindraj said here on Friday. He was speaking at a workshop on Telegram chatbot — HCKChatBot — and enrolment in advocates’ directory held at High Court Advocates’ Chamber in Dharwad. He said that to facilitate real-time delivery of information on cases to advocates and judiciary staff, the Supreme Court had launched official Telegram channels for the High Court and 30 districts courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/real-time-info-on-cases-workshop-held/article37134707.ece
23 October 2021||Hubballi/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Time to be proud, not complacent’||India, having crossed the target of administering 100 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccine, has no time for complacency considering that still 17% have not received their first dose and 62% of people are yet to receive their second dose, said Health Minister K. Sudhakar. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Friday, he said Karnataka had performed well because of meticulous planning. The State has a stock of 60 lakh doses at present, he said. ‘Historic achievement’ Referring to the global data on COVID-19 deaths, the percentage of infection per one lakh persons and rate of vaccination, he said that although India had begun late, it had increased the pace of vaccination to reach 100 crore doses, which was a “historic achievement.” And this had been possible despite political parties casting aspersions over efficacy of the vaccine itself during the initial phase. “Because of the misinformation campaign by Congress, many developed vaccine hesitancy,” he alleged. At another event in Hubballi, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai too said that achievement of the vaccination milestone meant it was, “Time to be proud, but not to be complacent.” He said that COVID-19 had had shown us the inadequacies in our health infrastructure and helped us overcome them by plugging the loopholes. “Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi we have learnt that a calamity can be turned into an opportunity,” he said. He added that in one year, the number of hospital beds in Karnataka had gone up by 1.25 lakh and there are now oxygenated beds in taluk hosptials too. Meanwhile, opposition Congress leaders highlighted the ‘failure’ of the ruling party in containing the spread of COVID-19 and how it had resulted in death and misery to lakhs. Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said that administering 100 lakh doses in 10 months cannot be celebrated as a unparalleled achievement. He pointed out that China has so far administered 225 crore doses. “Countries like China and America are getting ready to administer booster doses,” he said. ‘Ineffective handling’ Congress leader B.K. Hariprasad had earlier said that the Union Government led by Narendra Modi, instead of rejoicing over 100 crore vaccination doses in the country, should tender an apology to the people for ineffective handling of COVID-19 that has led to the death of about 4 million people in the country. “Both the Government and we have failed to address people’s problem. It is natural that people depend on the government in these tough times. Reaching 100 crore vaccination doses is not a thing that needs to be celebrated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/time-to-be-proud-not-complacent/article37134460.ece
23 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||BITM gets autonomous status||Ballari Institute of Technology and Management (BITM), which is affiliated to the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), Belagavi, has been granted autonomous status by the University Grants Commission from the academic year 2021–22. At a press conference, Deputy Director of the BITM Y.J. Prithviraj Bhopal said that more than 3,500 students had studied at the BITM in the last 25 years. The institution offers six degree courses and one postgraduate course. Mr. Bhopal said that the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) had presented the certificate of accreditation specifying ‘A+’ grade to the BITM. In 2020–21, as many as 478 students from the BITM had got selected during campus recruitment, and this year 116 students were recruited by a single company. The autonomous status would help the institution to form its syllabus based on the National Education Policy–2020 and introduce new courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bitm-gets-autonomous-status/article37134875.ece
23 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Man killed in accident||A 32-year-old man died after the car he was travelling in rammed into an electricity pole near Sumbad village in Yaddrami taluk of Kalaburagi district late on Thursday night. The deceased has been identified as Mallikarjun Erranna Bijapur. The accident occurred when he was visiting his in-laws at Sumbad. The incident came to notice on Friday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-killed-in-accident/article37134876.ece
23 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bar council suspends enrolment of advocate||The Karnataka State Bar Council has taken suo motu cognisance of allegations of sexual harassment and other charges against advocate K.S.N. Rajesh of Mangaluru and ordered keeping his enrolment under suspension. In a resolution dated October 21, KSBC chairman L. Srinivasa Babu said the matter had been referred to the disciplinary committee to hold an inquiry for professional misconduct under Section 35 of the Advocates Act. A second year law student has accused Rajesh, Special Public Prosecutor of the Lokayukta, of sexual assault in his chamber on September 25. The victim’s friend filed a complaint accusing the advocate and his friend, a woman activist, of forcing her in a city police station to sign a document denying sexual harassment of her friend. These two complaints were registered at the Women’s Police Station on October 18. In the minutes of the virtual meeting, the KSBC members noted that conduct of Rajesh has undermined dignity and reputation of the profession. The council has immediately intervened to stop Rajesh from misusing his position and also to assure safety and security to the victim and witnesses in the two cases, the members opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bar-council-suspends-enrolment-of-advocate/article37134842.ece
23 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Over 88% of eligible residents of DK given first dose: Angara||Minister in charge of COVID-19 control in Dakshina Kannada S. Angara on Friday said over 88% of eligible residents of the district had been administered the first dose of the vaccine while 45% had been given the second dose too. He told reporters here that vaccine coverage was possible because of the cooperation of district-level officials, health workers, voluntary organisations, and people’s representatives in the district. The Minister said the administration had the target of inoculating 17.15 lakh residents in the district. Of them, 15,07,136 were given the first dose while 8,05,349 were given the second dose too. Celebrations in Udupi Meanwhile, in Udupi district 100 balloons were released on the district health office premises by the district administration to mark administering of 100 crore vaccine doses in the country. Speaking on the occasion, zilla panchayat CEO Y. Naveen Bhat congratulated all personnel concerned who had worked to provide 100 crore doses. He said over 14 lakh doses of vaccines were administered in the district. Of these, 9.15 lakh people had received the first dose while 4.9 lakh people had received both the doses. It is now time for all those who have got the first dose to get the second dose, Dr. Bhat said. With complete vaccination, the possible third wave of the pandemic could be thwarted, he said. Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu, DHO Nagabhushana Udupa, Vaccination Officer M.G. Rama, District Surveillance Officer Nagarathna and others were present.  A day earlier, Mr. Angara handed over utility vehicles to health officers at the taluk and district levels, sponsored by the Nirmithi Kendra for the effective COVID-19 management. The Nirmithi Kendra, while undertaking the branding exercise of 64 primary health centres in the district under the Ayushman Bharath programme of the Central Government, had saved around Rs. 20 lakh. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, who is also the head of the kendra, pooled in amounts saved on administrative expenses of the kendra to provide vehicles to health officers, said an official release. Taluk health officers of Mangaluru – Sujay Kumar, Bantwal – Deepa Prabhu, Puttur – Deepak Rai, Belthangady – Kalamadhu, and Sullia – Nanda Kumar were handed over the keys of Mahindra Bolero utility vehicles while district health officer M. Kishore Kumar was handed over a Mahindra Scorpio utility vehicle. On the occasion, Mr. Angara said providing healthcare services in rural areas was a challenge and the gesture by the Nirmithi Kendra would go a long way in strengthening the healthcare sector. Dr. Rajendra, zilla panchayat CEO Kumara, and kendra executive director Rajendra Kalbavi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-88-of-eligible-residents-of-dk-given-first-dose-angara/article37134844.ece
23 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Boycotting LS bypolls can’t be treated as Naxal activity: Court||Letters written by journalist Vittal Malekudiya about him and other tribal people from Kutloor village of Belthangady taluk in Kudremukh National Park area to boycott Lok Sabha bypolls cannot be construed as “Maoist activity”, said a city session court in its judgment on Thursday, while acquitting him and his father Lingappa. In the 23-page judgment, third Additional District and Sessions judge B.B. Jakati said Mr. Malekudiya, being a student of journalism, wrote the letters because “leaders had not fulfilled long-standing demands of the tribals of Kuthloor village”. The letter did not suggest that Mr. Malekudiya and his father were engaged in Naxal activities or were concealing or harbouring absconding Maoist activists Vikram Gowda, Pradeepa, John, Prabha, and Sundari, the judge said. In March 2012, a team of Anti-Naxal Force personnel raided the house of Mr. Malekudiya, a first-year PG journalism student, in Kuthloor, and his hostel in Mangaluru, to seize, among other things, letters, household articles, a pair of binoculars, a book on Bhagat Singh, newspaper article clippings, and three mobile phones. Mr. Malekudiya and his father were charged under Sections 120 B, 124 A of IPC and under Sections 19 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. On possession of the book of Bhagat Singh and newspaper cuttings, the judge observed that it was not barred under law. He added that reading newspapers was not barred under law and the articles were not published either by Mr. Malekudiya or his father. “Mere possession of paper cuttings does not amount to offence,” the judge said. The prosecution, the judge said, has not produced any incriminating data from the three mobile phones to show Mr. Malekudiya and his father had links with Maoist activities. No villager, the judge said, had spoken about Mr. Malekudiya and his father’s association with the Maoists. None of the witnesses have stated that the two have committed sedition, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boycotting-ls-bypolls-cant-be-treated-as-naxal-activity-court/article37134510.ece
23 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Parish priest Fr. Mathew Vas passes away||Rev. Fr. Mathew Vas, parish priest of Immaculate Conception Church, Kinnigoli, and producer of ‘Bhuvana Jyothi’, the first musical film in Kannada on the life of Jesus Christ, passed away following a cardiac arrest here on Friday. He was 62. Funeral mass The mortal remains of Fr. Vas will be brought to Kinnigoli Church for public viewing between 8.30 a.m. and 9.30 a.m. on Saturday and the funeral mass and burial rites will take place at 10 a.m. at the church. Hailing from Siddakatte in Bantwal taluk, Fr. Vas was born to John Vas and Lucy Rodrigues on July 8, 1960. He was ordained to priesthood on April 30, 1987. After serving as the assistant parish priest in Kinnigoli and Kulshekara churches, he trained himself in mass communication in Patna. He also underwent a shortcourse on film production in Taiwan. As the director of Canara Communication Centre (CCC), he ventured into film production. ‘Bhuvana Jyothi’ (Jesus, the light of the world), directed by Udupi Vasudeva Bhat of ‘Nadavaibhavam’ production, was his first film. Fr. Vas served as parish priest in Bela (1998),Udupi (2004), Angelore (2011), and Kinnigoli (since 2018). The diocese of Mangalore with Most Rev. Peter Paul Saldanha, priests, and nuns mourned the death of Fr. Vas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parish-priest-fr-mathew-vas-passes-away/article37134839.ece
23 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sudhir Ghate, Magnum founder, dead||Sudhir P. Ghate, founder, chairman and managing director of Magnum Intergrafiks Pvt. Ltd., passed away here on Friday. He was 64. He leaves behind his wife, a son, and a daughter. He is the son of Sharada Ghate and former Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh general secretary late Prabhakar Ghate. Beginning his career as a partner with Ganesh & Sudhir Chartered Accountants in 1982, Mr. Ghate established Magnum in 1994 and made a name for himself in the advertisement business. Magnum went on to become a nationally known institution in public relations and advertisement. With about 20 branches across India, over 500 executives and designers on its rolls, the company became a training ground for many youngsters. In politics He was active in politics and had served as general secretary of the BJP Yuva Morcha in 1995. He was closely associated with senior BJP leaders, including late A.B. Vajpayee, late Sushma Swaraj, and Murli Manohar Joshi. His demise has been condoled by RSS leaders Dattatreya Hosabale, Mukund and Prabhakar Bhat, MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari, MLAs Y. Bharath Shetty, Vedavyasa Kamath, Sanjeev Matandoor, Rajesh Naik and Umanath Kotian, and MLC Prathapsimha Nayak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sudhir-ghate-magnum-founder-dead/article37134841.ece
23 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two arrested in assault case||The city police have arrested two persons in connection with the grievous assault of a youth in Kavoor police station limits on October 13. The arrested persons are Jainul Abeed, 24, and Sahul Hameed Safwan, 26, of Panjimogaru. A few persons waylaid Rajesh Shetty, who was returning home, and stabbed him six times, including three times near his vital organs. The assailants ran away after seeing a vehicle approaching the spot on October 13. Shetty has been undergoing treatment in a private hospital. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters that Abeed, who is an accused in an assault case of 2019, wanted to take revenge over a clash between two groups on October 9 in which his relative was injured. Abeed and Safwan grievously assaulted Shetty on October 13 after closely watching the latter’s movement for several days. Safwan is accused in a case of attacking a government official and two other cases of assault. Desecration The Panambur police have arrested Lohitashwa of Kulai for allegedly desecrating idols and other articles at Karkera Moolastana, near Baikampady Industrial Area, on October 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-in-assault-case/article37134848.ece
23 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||38 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 24 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday. With 41 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 286. Test positivity rate was put at 0.35%. Udupi district reported 14 new cases of which six are from Udupi taluk, three from Kundapur taluk, four from Karkala taluk, and one from outside the district. There are 62 active cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/38-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article37134849.ece
23 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Five arrested for plotting to attack murder case witnesses||Acting on an audio clip about impending attacks on witnesses in a murder case, the Surathkal police arrested five persons, including ‘Pinky’ Nawaz, the prime accused in the 2018 murder of Bharatiya Janata Party activist Deepak Rao. Apart from Nawaz, who was on bail, the police arrested Mohammed Faizal, 21, Mohammed Safwan, 23, Mohammed Niyaz, 20, and Mohammed Mustafa. Audio clip Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters that a few days ago a bus stop in memory of Deepak was inaugurated in Surathkal area. The city police’s social media monitoring cell noticed in a WhatsApp group an audio conversation of Nawaz with his alleged associates expressing his intention to murder those who attended the bus stop inauguration. Life threats were issued to witnesses in Deepak murder case, which included a local councillor, during the conversation. Investigation, Mr. Kumar said, revealed about Nawaz trying to regroup his gang and carry out activities to disturb peace. Nawaz was grievously injured eight months ago. The Surathkal police were questioning the arrested persons. Search was on for other alleged associates, Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-arrested-for-plotting-to-attack-murder-case-witnesses/article37134850.ece
23 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||briefly||Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers Bhagwanth Khuba will inaugurate a district-level credit information-cum- Central Government schemes awareness programme being jointly organised by banks, NABARD, and other government agencies at Bantara Bhavana, Bantwal, at 10 a.m. on October 30. Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, had recently directed banks in the public, private and cooperative sectors to organise customer meet to provide credit information as per the Central Government policy. Besides Mr. Kateel, Ministers S. Angara and Kota Srinivas Poojari, people’s representatives from the district and others would attend the daylong programme, said an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37134847.ece
23 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Double murder rocks Mysuru||A 56-year-old man and a 48-year-old woman were allegedly hacked to death by the man’s son at Dadadahalli in Srinagar on the outskirts of Mysuru on Thursday night. Police said the accused, Sagar, who is in his late twenties, stormed into the house of the woman, Latha, and assaulted his father Shivaprakash, 56, and Latha with a machete. Latha’s son Nagarjuna, who was also assaulted when he tried to save his mother, has been admitted to a hospital with injuries on his hand. Sagar is absconding and the Mysuru South police, which has registered a FIR based on Nagarjuna’s complaint, has constituted two special teams to track him down. Friends Police said Shivaprakash and Latha’s husband Nagaraj had been long-time friends. Even after Nagaraj had died a couple of years ago, the friendship between the two families had continued. While both her daughters were married off, Latha was staying with her son. Reason not known Shivaprakash stays with his family at K.G. Koppal in Mysuru. The reason for the attack is still under investigation. “We are investigating if it was financial or otherwise”, said a senior police official. Bodies shifted The incident has sent shockwaves in the quiet neighbourhood, which witnessed a flurry of police activity since Thursday night. The police, who rushed to the spot, shifted the bodies to the mortuary. Superintendent of Mysuru district police R. Chethan and Additional Superintendent of Police Shivakumar R. visited the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/double-murder-rocks-mysuru/article37134854.ece
23 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Industrial adalat to be held in November||More than 10 years after the last industrial adalat was held in Mysuru, the stakeholders are bracing for the next event slated to be held in the city on November 12 to expedite resolving long-pending grievances. The last “Kaigarike Adalat” was conducted in 2011 and since then either new issues have cropped up or they remain unresolved and are pending since years and await a special hearing for their resolution. For the stakeholders in the region comprising Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru districts, land is emerging as a major issue and bulk of the grievance pertain to allotment or lack of it. In the 10 years since the last adalat was held industrial activity in the region has picked up but more could be done to expedite and ensure growth and investment beyond Bengaluru, said Suresh Kumar Jain of Mysore Industries Association. Underlining the significance of the adalat he said there have been cases pertaining to land allotment unresolved since 2013. Many investors were issued allotment letter in 2013 and it transpired that either the land was not suitable or the actual allotment was yet to be completed though the allottee has paid the money, said Mr. Jain. There are also issues related to the imperatives of evolving a single window mechanism to handle all taxation-related issues pertaining to industries. At present the plan submitted by the investors is cleared by the KIADB but the industrialists have to approach the local bodies for seeking building licence. “Instead of a single window system there are multiple barriers at every step which is detrimental to the growth of the industry,” said Mr. Jain. Lopsided Other stakeholders pointed out that in the committee for land allotment there was not a single representative from the industrial association and it only comprised officials drawn from the bureaucratic machinery. As a result land is allotted at places not suitable for industry. There were nearly 10 to 15 cases where land was allotted close to the Wildlife Rehabilitation and Rescue Centre outside the city and permission is being denied to start industry because of its impact on the rescued animals. The local industrialists also want the Industrial Township Authority to be notified in Mysuru as the new entity will take care of all the needs of the industries in the region including taxation, civic amenities and infrastructure development. A motivation camp will also be held on November 11 to encourage the youth to take up entrepreneurship and venture into their own businesses ahead of the industrial adalat. Helpline To submit grievances and highlight pending issues, the stakeholders may visit https://msmemysuru.com/kaigarika-adalat or call MSME Council on 9986444654.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/industrial-adalat-to-be-held-in-november/article37134860.ece
23 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Lower penalty sought for unauthorised tobacco cultivation||Mysuru MP Pratap Simha has sought a reduction in penalty imposed on unauthorised cultivation of tobacco. As a regulated crop, tobacco cultivation is controlled by the Tobacco Board, which imposes penalty not only on tobacco cultivated by unregistered growers, but also the tobacco grown in excess of the quota sanctioned to individual registered growers. Mr. Simha, in a recent letter to Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal, Commerce Secretary B.V.R. Subrahmanyam and Tobacco Board Chairman has sought a reduction in penalty from the existing 10 per cent to 5 per cent on excess tobacco cultivated by both registered and unregistered growers in Karnataka. He has sought necessary directions for implementing the “new penalty policy” of flat Rs. 1 per kg and 5 per cent on the value of sale of unauthorised tobacco by registered and unregistered growers. After expressing his gratitude for reducing the penalty from 15 per cent to 10 per cent last year, Mr. Simha pointed out that the tobacco farmers in Mysuru, most of whom were small and marginal, cultivated tobacco in rainfed areas and were solely dependent on the tobacco crop for their livelihood and survival. In India, if any farmer is being penalised for cultivating crops, it is none other than growers of Flue Cured Variety (FCV) of tobacco, he said. Problems The farmers cultivating tobacco on Karnataka Light Soil (KSL) in Mysuru region were unable to grow even the authorised crop fixed by the Tobacco Board due to bad weather conditions and labour issues. While ideal weather conditions coupled with good agricultural practices followed by growers result in improved productivity, the tobacco farmers adopting good agricultural practices are unable to reap market benefits and end up paying penalty, he regretted. Also, he said there were thousands of unregistered tobacco growers, cultivating FCV tobacco since several years despite the heavy penalty due to lack of a viable alternative crop. Meanwhile, President of Federation of Flue Cured Variety (FCV) Tobacco Growers Associations of Karnataka Javare Gowda said the Tobacco Board had already given concession in penalty on unauthorised tobacco in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. “We are also looking forward to concessions from the Tobacco Board this year.”. Objection However, convenor of Anti-Tobacco Forum (ATF) Vasanthkumar Mysoremath has taken exception to Mr. Pratap Simha’s appeal to the Centre to reduce the penalty on unauthorised tobacco. “MPs must stop interfering in tobacco control policies”, said Mr. Mysoremath, who also heads the Cancer Patients Aid Association (CPAA), Mysuru. “Tobacco is impacting the world’s 1.3 billion smokers and low and middle-income countries, whose health systems are plagued by tobacco-related diseases”, he said while citing World Health Organisation (WHO) to claim that people with cardio-vascular diseases, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease and cancer were more likely to face serious illness or death from COVID-19. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development also commits countries to strengthen their implementation of WHO’s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, he said. “While these serious issues are being tackled at global level, Member of Parliament's letter for concessional levy of fines is paradoxical, conflicting and is not in consonance with the oath of office the MP has taken to honour all national and international protocol commitments for good governance. This kind of internal political interference is against FCTC protocol. Therefore, it would be in the best interest of health of the people to utilise the golden opportunity provided by COVID-19 to ban tobacco cultivation”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lower-penalty-sought-for-unauthorised-tobacco-cultivation/article37134863.ece
23 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||29 postgraduates among women police trainees||The third batch of 168 women police trainees, who passed out of the Police Training School in Mysuru on Friday, comprised 29 postgraduates and 135 graduates. While the postgraduates had obtained Masters’ degrees in Science, Commerce, Arts, Business Administration and Social Work, six of the graduates had completed their BE. A total of 51 trainees had a BA, 48 had obtained BCom and 17 BSc. Four out of the 168 trainees had PUC qualification. The eight-month-long Foundation Training Programme began on February 25, 2021 for the trainees, who hail from 17 different districts of the State. The batch has been provided training in a variety of subjects including forensic studies, cyber crime, bomb detection and disposal, traffic rules, police manual, Indian Penal Code (IPC), Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), firing of weapons, wireless messaging, intelligence gathering, scanning and identification of finger prints. Additional Director General of Police (Training) P. Harishekaran, City Police Commissioner Chandragupta, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DAR) Shivaraj, Karnataka Police Academy (KPA) Director Vipul Kumar, Superintendent of Mysuru district police R. Chethan, Additional Superintendent of Mysuru district police Shivakumar R. and KSRP Commandant Nagaraj were also present during the passing-out parade held on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/29-postgraduates-among-women-police-trainees/article37134856.ece
23 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Track inspection today||The Commissioner of Railway Safety will conduct the statutory inspection of electrification work in the Chitradurga-Chikjajur section in Mysuru Railway Division on Saturday. As part of the statutory inspection, a speed trial by special train will be conducted in the section during which trains will run at a speed in excess of 100 kmph. Hence, members of the public should be cautiousand not tresspass on the railway line, a release said. Sources said electrification of the route would expedite the bulk transportation of iron ore from Chitradurga and Hosapete region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/track-inspection-today/article37134713.ece
23 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Activists want expert committee to monitor NEP 2020 implementation||City-based social activists have urged the Chief Minister to establish a high-level committee of experts drawn from both private and government sectors to monitor the implementation of the National Education Policy 2020 and shore up the quality of education. An online petition has also been started to garner support for their demand and Ashvini Ranjan, who has been involved in the endeavour, said it was inevitable if the country was to develop and progress economically and socially. The petition said a basic level of education and awareness in its people is a prerequisite for the country’s progress but 74 years after independence had not seen any upliftment in the education system. More than 60 per cent of the students in the country were exposed to poor and pitiful schools and 40 per cent of the children in class 5 could not read or do math of grade 2 while 30 per cent of class 8 students had similar disability. The pandemic has worsened the situation, said the petition. It was pointed out that in Karnataka, there were 44,716 government primary schools out of which 4,767 schools had only single teachers. The petition also called for ensuring that teachers are not given other assignments which disturbs or takes away their focus from teaching and in this context it was pointed out that a government school teacher spends only 19 per cent of teaching time in the classroom. The rest of the time is spent on other government related work and when the teacher is on government-related extraneous works, no teaching takes place in the classroom. Bhamy V Shenoy, social activist, said that the learning process has deteriorated in the State due to the pandemic as per the 2021 survey. The petition also questioned the practice of transferring teachers which disrupts the teaching and learning process and wanted it disbanded. Students’ evaluation with emphasis on examination that encouraged rote learning came under flak and the petition called for a continuous evaluation. It wanted the GDP spending on education increased from 3.5 per cent to 6 per cent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-want-expert-committee-to-monitor-nep-2020-implementation/article37134861.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rally begins||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rally-begins/article37134458.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rain fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-fury/article37134718.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Recognition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recognition/article37134711.ece
23 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||A canal in the works for seven decades||In the early 1950s, the then Travancore Government had drawn up a detailed plan for the development of the Kuttanad region with three major components — construction of a spillway at Thottappally, building a saltwater barrage at Thanneermukkom, and a road-cum-canal connecting Alappuzha and Changanassery. The first two components and the first part of the third element, the 24-km Alappuzha- Changanassery (AC) road, materialised over a period of time. But, the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) canal, parallel to the AC road, meant to drain excess water from the Manimala and Pampa rivers to Vembanad Lake has remained incomplete for almost seven decades after it was first mooted. Three stretches With heavy downpours and recurring floods tormenting the rice bowl of Kerala of late, many feel the completion of the canal would help alleviate flooding in Kuttanad to some extent. The canal consists of three stretches and only the reach between Manakkachira and Onnamkara has been completed. Although the government has announced plans for the deepening and opening of the canal from Onnamkara to Nedumudi, and from Nedumudi to Pallathuruthy, the project remains on paper. “The opening of the canal will definitely reduce floods. The aim of the AC canal is to divert water from the Manimala river. Although the canal starts from Manakkachira, the water from Manimala enters the channel at Kidangara. Once it is opened fully, it would prevent floodwaters from spreading in areas like Veliyanad, Kavalam, Ramankary, Neelamperoor and so on. There is no need to acquire land for the opening of the second and third reaches. The government needs to remove encroachments, land fillings and blockages,” says a resident of Kuttanad who is also the regional representative of a not-for-profit organisation working in agricultural and rural development. Houses, shops take shape Various reports, including the ones prepared by the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation in 2007 and Kerala State Planning Board (KSPB) in 2019, called for the urgent completion of the AC canal. “The completion of the AC Canal is essential for the efficient drainage of floodwater. A potential constraint is encroachments into the area. A considerable extent of this space is occupied by households, shops and other establishments along the AC Road. These encroachments need to be vacated and work on the AC canal completed at the original width of 40 m,” reads the report titled ‘A special package for post-flood Kuttanad’ by the KSPB. Officials, meanwhile, said the government was considering extending the canal to Nedumudi and then to Pallathuruthy. The government had entrusted the IIT, Madras, to conduct a hydrodynamic study. Jayan Champakulam, district secretary, Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad, called for proper study before opening the second and third reaches as there remained a chance of water intruding to the canal from the Pampa river at Nedumudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-canal-in-the-works-for-seven-decades/article37134817.ece
23 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Warship set to complete its road trip||After some delay, the decommissioned Fast Attack Craft (IN FAC) T-81, which the Indian Navy has allotted to the Port Museum under the Alappuzha Heritage Project, will reach Alappuzha beach early Saturday. The vessel was brought to Kommady in Alappuzha from Thanneermukkom on a 106-wheel multi-axle trailer earlier this month. Its forward journey was delayed following concerns over transporting the heavy load through the elevated portion of the Alappuzha bypass. Blocking train traffic After authorities denied permission for the journey through the bypass road, it was decided to take the vessel through Alappuzha town. On Friday morning, the trailer travelled through Kalapura, Arattupuzha, and Shavakottapalam before reaching railway level cross 64 (Cullen level cross) before evening. Railways would block train traffic for a few hours at night for the trailer to cross. P.M. Noushad, managing director, Muziris Spice Route Heritage Project, said the vessel would reach its final destination in front of the Port museum before Saturday morning. The FAC T-81 was commissioned into the Indian Navy in June 1999. The 25-metre-long ship has a displacement of 60 tonnes and could attain a maximum speed of 45 knots (85 kmph). It could cover a range of 600 nautical miles. Fitted with OERLIKON 20 mm gun with Typhoon system, its hydrodynamic design and state-of-the-art machinery gave the vessel optimum utilisation of power and suitability for shallow water operations. The ship, attached to Western Naval Command, had performed a many roles including surveillance, reconnaissance, search and rescue operations and high-speed interception of small craft. After decommissioning, it was towed to Kochi in May 2021. The Port Museum, being set up by renovating godowns close to the old port office, near the Alappuzha beach, will have a dedicated section for the Navy. The museum will showcase the State’s rich maritime history, especially the story of the Alappuzha port, including its growth as a commercial hub of the erstwhile State of Travancore, and the decline towards the fag end of the 20th century.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/warship-set-to-complete-its-road-trip/article37134823.ece
23 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki dam’s two shutters closed||Two shutters of the Cheruthoni dam of the Idukki reservoir were closed on Friday following a decline in the inflow of water and rainfall. The third shutter, however, was raised from 35 cm to 40 cm, releasing 40 cumecs (cubic metre per second) of water. Orange alert level The water level fell to the orange alert level on Friday after the Central Water Commission (CWC) revised the rule curve level for the dam on Thursday morning. As per the data available at 6 p.m., the water level was 2,398.20 ft. The red alert level is 2,398.31 ft. There was a storage of 94.37 %. The three shutters of the Cheruthoni dam were raised to 35 cm on October 19 after the water crossed the red alert level and 100 cumecs of water per second was released. The high-power rule committee of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) decided to close shutters 2 and 4 after analysing the weather forecast and inflow into the reservoir. The upper rule curve is 2,399.31 ft. The water level on the same day last year was 2,394 ft (89.66%) . The power generation at the Moolamattom power house remained at a high of 14.81 million units. At Mullaperiyar Meanwhile, the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam slowly rose to reach 135.5 ft at 6 p.m. on Friday. The maximum storage level is 142 ft. While Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 2,050 cfs (cubic feet per second), there was an inflow of 2,342 cfs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-dams-two-shutters-closed/article37134789.ece
23 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Illegal constructions to be demolished||A council meeting has decided to remove all illegal constructions in the municipal area, according to Thodupuzha municipal chairman Saneesh George. He said that the Public Works Department would help the municipality remove the illegal structures which posed hurdles to movement of the public. The works on removing the structures would begin soon, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illegal-constructions-to-be-demolished/article37134812.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Corporation council meeting witnesses acrimonious scenes||The Kochi Corporation Council meeting on Friday witnessed acrimonious scenes as the ruling and Opposition councillors almost came to blows during a discussion on the new corporation office complex being constructed at Marine Drive. The Opposition went on overdrive claiming that the Mayor’s view that Rs. 40 crore would be required for the completion of the project, when the sanction was only for Rs. 24.71 crore, was not justified. The situation turned worse when Mayor M. Anilkumar got enraged after UDF councillor Manu Jacob thumped his dais as the Mayor asked Opposition councillors not to talk with pointed fingers, even as LDF councillors lined up in his support. The situation lightened after the Mayor explained that none of the 72 councillors had taken bribe from the construction firm, and that he had full faith in the public works standing committee chairperson from the UDF. Opposition Leader Antony Kureethara alleged that each work at the complex was estimated below Rs. 2 crore and made into files accordingly to secure administrative sanction from the government. Clarity sought Mr. Kureethara sought clarity and transparency in the work. Similar demands were raised by other UDF councillors. Public works standing committee chairperson Sunitha Dixon also sought postponement of the agenda. Mr. Anilkumar said the corporation would go ahead with the project, and that the changes sought by UDF councillors had already been effected. In the ensuing voting, as demanded by the UDF, all agendas were passed by 36 votes against 24. Later, Mr. Anilkumar said the new complex was the need of the hour, and that the work would be completed in time. In keeping with the UDF’s demand, centralised air conditioning will be done away with in the new building. The construction firm has been asked not to raise the cost. The work has been split to speed up the process, he said. View of the Indian Institute of Architects was sought before making alterations in the building, Mr. Anilkumar  Opposition contests Mayor’s view that Rs. 40 crore is required for completion of the new office complex project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-council-meeting-witnesses-acrimonious-scenes/article37134776.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bank stir near-total, says union||Most bank employees in the State observed a strike on Friday in solidarity with the ongoing agitation of employees of the CSB Bank, formerly Catholic Syrian Bank, who have been demanding fair wages and protection of employment. An office-bearer of the Catholic Syrian Bank Staff Federation called the strike a “huge success”. On the warpath Most employees and officers of the CSB Bank have been on the warpath demanding implementation of the 11th industry-level bipartite wage settlement effective from November, 2017, withdrawal of vindictive action against union office bearers and for regularisation of the over 3,500 contract and casual employees hired on meagre wages. An office bearer of the Bank Employees Federation of India (BEFI) said the CSB Staff Federation would conduct a campaign against the policies of the new foreign investor and hold another strike on December 30, 31 and January 1, 2022. If that did not work, there would be indefinite strike from March, he said.  CITU State president Anathalavattom Anandan said in Thiruvananthapuram that a united struggle by all sections of society was necessary to thwart the onslaught of the private sector. He was inaugurating a public meeting in front of CSB Bank Zonal Office in Thiruvananthapuram. Pointing out that Central Government was handing over banking, insurance, railways, coal and almost all the public sector undertakings to the private sector, he said India’s freedom would be in danger if foreign capital was allowed to control the country’s finance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-strike-near-total-says-employees-union/article37134763.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Watersports get impetus post floods||Frequent floods, landslips, and other disasters that have been rocking Kerala of late and the State’s increasing vulnerability to them have made youths and others enrol for training in swimming and adventure sports, lest they should be caught napping. Watersport enthusiasts, clubs, and academies that impart training in swimming, paddling, kayaking, and other activities have been kept busy, especially after what was termed as the ‘deluge of the century’ of 2018. “The floods were an eye-opener, since realisation dawned that most deaths due to drowning could have been prevented, had the victims known swimming,” said Wg. Cdr (retd.) Unnikrishnan Palat, a 72-year-old Indian Air Force veteran who is also a skydiving enthusiast-cum-trainer. He trained an emergency response team at Erattupetta following last week’s floods. A similar training session at Bharananganam is set to follow suit as part of the State Government’s efforts to raise Emergency Response Teams in various panchayats. “Apart from its health benefits, swimming, which can be learned in a day’s time, is a must-know for the people of Kerala which is surrounded by sea. I train hundreds of people, including IT professionals, every year in swimming and water-based adventure sports. Most rivers and beaches in the State have immense potential for watersports. It is sad that youths are unaware of it,” he said. According to Mr. Unnikrishnan, the Kerala Tourism has failed to sustain the initial momentum of adventure tourism activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/watersports-get-impetus-post-floods/article37134952.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CB probing Monson’s likely links with gangster||The Crime Branch (CB) probing the financial fraud cases against Monson Mavunkal, the self-styled antique collector, is investigating his potential connections with a gangster named Omprakash. This was after the gangster, accused in numerous cases, was found to have had maintained contact with Monson. Following that, the gangster’s statement was recorded on Thursday. The CB is also probing whether Monson had surreptitiously caught the visitors to his mansion at Kaloor on cameras. Though over a dozen cameras were installed at his house, investigators are yet to find any hidden cameras. It is also probing a child abuse case against Monson based on his maid’s complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-probing-monsons-likely-links-with-gangster/article37134778.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kadavumbhagom synagogue to be renovated: Minister||Ahmed Devarcovil, Minister for Ports, Museums, Archaeology and Archives, said on Friday that steps would be taken to renovate Kadavumbhagom Synagogue at Mattancherry. He was speaking after visiting the synagogue on Friday. Talks would be held with experts in this regard, he said, after inspecting the synagogue’s temporary roof which was installed to protect the monument from the elements. Responding to a demand from K.J. Maxi, MLA, he said power connection would be provided to the building, while security and cleaning personnel would be deployed. Later, Mr. Devarkovil visited Bastion Bungalow in Fort Kochi, which is a district-level history museum, where he said the entry fee in such museums would be decided shortly. He also visited the regional office of the Archaeology department and went through, among other exhibits, rare manuscripts kept at the office. He also visited Kanjiramattom mosque and Shaikh Fhareedudheen maqubrha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kadavumbhagom-synagogue-to-be-renovated-minister/article37134774.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Shreshttam to promote talents of differently abled||When India put up one of its finest performances in the Paralympics held in Tokyo earlier this year, there was not a single person from Kerala among its contingent of 54 athletes. Whether that led to an introspection or not, the Social Justice Department is all set to roll out Shreshttam, a project to promote the artistic and sporting talents of the differently abled. Though their promotion by recognised institutions had found mention in the policy address of the State Government for 2019-20, it did not take off. The project, for which Rs. 14 lakh has been sanctioned for the current fiscal, resonates with Section 16 (1) of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, which calls for ensuring equal opportunities for the differently abled in arts and sports. “To begin with 10 persons, five each from arts and sports fields, already undergoing training on their own will be given a financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 each. Later on, the project envisages identifying talents at a young age and grooming them in association with reputed institutions. The idea is to encourage the talents of the differently abled and bring them into the mainstream of society,” said K.K. Subair, Social Justice Officer, Ernakulam. The assistance will be released on December 3 coinciding with World Disability Day. There were not many programmes to encourage the artistic and sporting abilities of the differently abled in the State except for Empower, a project run by magician Gopinath Muthukad’s Magic Academy in association with the Social Justice Department four years ago. Six of the 23 participants chosen under the programme were absorbed by the Academy, and they have since then staged over 3,000 magic shows across the country and aboard. “Their intelligence and emotional quotients were found to have improved in a study conducted by two government agencies. It highlighted the need for similar projects to flush out the artistic abilities of the differently and intellectually disabled,” said Mr. Muthukad. He had since then launched Different Art Centre and admitted 100 candidates for the holistic development of their various artistic talents through the use of magic. Income limit The annual family income of the applicants under Shreshttam should not be more than Rs. 1 lakh. Applications should entail copies of merit certificates, admission documents at training institutes, disability certificates, and medical board certificates. In the event of more than 10 applicants, priority will be determined based on income and the extent of disability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shreshttam-to-promote-talents-of-differently-abled/article37134953.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. offered undue benefits to consulate staff: Customs||The Customs has blamed the State Government of extending undue benefits to the UAE Consul General and diplomats in violation of protocols, which they misused to cover up their illegal activities. The State Government had provided Consul General Jamal Hussein Alzaabi X Category protection though he faced no evident threats. He misused the facility to cover up all his illegal activities, including smuggling. The Government issued diplomatic identity cards to persons who were not holding diplomatic status, which they misused at airports and other places, submitted the Customs in the final complaint filed before the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, on Friday. The statements of the officials of the State Protocol Department revealed that Ministers and senior Government officials had bypassed the department regarding the relations maintained by them with the UAE Consulate. Protocol officials were kept in the dark about such relations, the agency noted. Ministers’ dealings The investigation unearthed certain illegal dealings by Ministers with the UAE Consulate regarding the illegal export of foreign currency, it noted. On the role of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, in the gold smuggling, the agency said he was knowingly concerned about the misdeclaration and fraudulent evasion of Customs duty. He offered them an undue platform to misuse diplomatic immunity and divulged an intelligence report on the smuggling activities to unscrupulous elements. Close ties He maintained a close proximity with Swapna Suresh, second accused, and the Consul General. His contention that he was not aware of the gold smuggling did not appear to be correct and believable, it said. Sivasankar deposed that Swapna had accompanied him during his official trips inside the country and abroad, which included his official trips to the UAE and Oman. He used to pay for Swapna’s trips as her trips were not official ones, the agency noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-offered-undue-benefits-to-consulate-staff-customs/article37134790.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Satheesan flays govt. for delayed disaster response||Responding to CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan’s allegation that Opposition Leader V.D. Satheesan was attacking the Chief Minister personally, Mr. Satheesan on Friday said if the rescue efforts had been launched right after the landslip happened at Koottickal, several people in the low-lying areas of Meenachil river basin could have been saved. “When you ask for a more responsive and quicker disaster response system, how can that be construed as criticism?” he asked. He also told Mr. Vijayaraghavan that he was able to reach the area even before the ministers reached the spot. KPCC list Mr. Satheesan said there was no complaint from any Congress leader on the list of KPCC office-bearers announced the other day. “The list was prepared after thorough homework. From a few hundreds, it could be brought down to 51. It is not flawless, as some deserving people could not be incorporated. They will also be given a chance and facilities to work,” he said, adding that discussions had been also held with K. Muraleedharan, MP. He was unaware of the context in which Mr. Muraleedharan expressed dissatisfaction over the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/satheesan-flays-govt-for-delayed-disaster-response/article37134772.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three office-bearers of Press Club replaced||An emergency district committee meeting of the Ernakulam Press Club held on Friday removed three of its office bearers in the wake of the controversy over the receipt of sponsorship from the alleged fraudster Monson Mavunkal for the organisation’s annual gathering last year. Press Club president Philipose Mathew, secretary P. Sasikanth, and treasurer Sijo Painadath were removed from their positions following a majority opinion to that effect at the meeting over the serious error of judgment in accepting the dubious sponsorship. They were replaced temporarily by Jipson Shikhera, C.N. Regi, and Beena Rani respectively. The meeting decided to remove the district executive member Sahin Antony from the position after preliminary inquiry findings that he had misled the district executive committee and indulged in large scale misappropriation of funds. It was also decided to recommend to the State committee to remove Sahin from the primary membership of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists in view of the ongoing probe over his alleged associations with Monson. The district committee also asked the State committee to probe the allegations being raised against the Ernakulam Press Club in connection with Monson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-office-bearers-of-press-club-replaced/article37134779.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL to offer bikes for free for metro connectivity||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has decided to offer bicycles free of cost to individuals and institutions, in a bid to improve first- and last-mile connectivity to metro stations. Users may call toll-free number 1800-4250355 for details and registration. Under the initiative, 10 bicycles each were given to two institutions near Kaloor and CUSAT metro stations. Although given free of cost, the responsibility of regular maintenance of the bicycles will vest with the party concerned. The plan is to give 400 cycles to such people who are regular commuters of the Kochi metro, the metro agency informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-to-offer-bikes-for-free-for-metro-connectivity/article37134771.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Set up detention centre: HC||The Kerala High Court has asked the State Government to set up a temporary detention centre to house El Salvador native Johny Alexander, who was acquitted in a drug seizure case. Alexander shall be provided with facilities available for an A-Class prisoner and permitted to communicate with his relatives, ordered Justice P.V. Kunjikrishnan. Alexander was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) with cocaine worth Rs. 10 crore from the Nedumbassery airport on May 18, 2018. The Ernakulam First Additional Sessions Court had acquitted him in June this year. He was detained in jail, as the NCB submitted that it was planning to appeal against the decision of the trial court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/set-up-detention-centre-hc/article37134777.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||3 arrested for pawning fake gold||The Binanipuram police arrested three persons on the charge of pawning fake gold ornaments at the Kadungalloor Cooperative Bank. Cheated of Rs. 82,000 Isaac Muthu, 51, of Kadungalloor, his wife Sajitha, 45, and Anikuttan, 47, of Kadayppalli are accused of cheating the bank of Rs. 82,000 by pawning a fake gold chain weighing 27.80 grams on October 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-arrested-for-pawning-fake-gold/article37134780.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NCP donates relief materials||The State committee of the Nationalist Congress Party donated relief materials worth Rs. 30 lakh to 600 flood- and landslip-affected families in Kottayam and Idukki districts.Minister V.S. Vasavan received the relief materials that were handed over at Mundakayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ncp-donates-relief-materials/article37134781.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC: consider plea against medicine||The Kerala High Court has asked the State Health Department to consider a representation against its directive to administer homoeopathic immunity booster Arsenicum Album 30CH to schoolchildren. A Division Bench of the court comprising Chief Justice S. Mani Kumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly issued the order on Friday in a public interest litigation filed by Cyriac Abby Philips. The petitioner submitted that Arsenicum Album was declared as a prophylactic against the COVID-19 infection by the AYUSH Ministry even before the first case of the virus infection was confirmed in India. He also contended that no scientific evidence was adduced to show the efficacy or safety of the medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-consider-plea-against-medicine/article37134791.ece
23 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Ambulance drivers clash, one killed||Rahul, a 26-year-old Kunnikode resident who was stabbed in a clash between two gangs of ambulance drivers at Kottarakara, succumbed to his injuries on Friday. He was being treated at a private hospital in Kollam while two others who sustained serious injuries in the incident were taken to Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. According to officials, the violent showdown started around Wednesday midnight near a private hospital in Kottarakara when two gangs of ambulance drivers attacked each other. Three persons, including siblings Vishnu and Vineeth, residents of Vilakudy, were stabbed. Reportedly, they had earlier manhandled two other ambulance drivers and the incident is said to be in retaliation. The police have arrested four persons including Akhil, Vijayakumar, Lijin, and Sajayakumar and seized their vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ambulance-drivers-clash-one-killed/article37134813.ece
23 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Non-bailable charge against SFI leaders||A clash that broke out between activists of the Students Federation of India (SFI) and the All India Students Federation (AISF) during an election of a students representative to the Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) Senate the other day appears to be snowballing into a major crisis with the police slapping non-bailable charges against 10 SFI activists. Acting on a complaint by a woman activist of the AISF to the Kottayam District Police Chief, cases have been booked against the SFI workers under provisions, including outraging the modesty of woman and sections under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Those arraigned as accused include Amal Sohan and Arsho, State vice president and Ernakulam district committee president respectively of the SFI. Sexual-assault threat As per the complaint, the accused allegedly raised a threat of sexual assault on the woman and groped her during the clash. The complainant named Arun, a State committee member of the SFI who now serves as a personal staff of Higher Education Minister R. Bindu, among the assailants. Speaking to the media in Kottayam, AISF State president A. Kabir accused the SFI of unleashing a violent assault without any provocation. “From the time of filing nominations, the AISF district committee had been in consultation with the SFI for contesting as a united front to the Senate. In the absence of a positive response from the SFI, we decided to contest on our own,” he said. As per reports, the woman was attacked while attempting to save a fellow activist during the clash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/non-bailable-charge-against-sfi-leaders/article37134792.ece
23 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode may reintroduce ban on single-use plastics||The Kozhikode Corporation may reintroduce the ban on single-use plastics in the city with the easing of COVID-19 restrictions and with the civic body’s hygiene protocol in place. Corporation Health Secretary Shajil Kumar P. said a decision would be taken in the next council meeting, especially in the wake of the new regulations issued by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, and the Pollution Control Board. The State had banned the use of single-use plastics in January 2020. The Kozhikode Corporation had implemented it well and managed to create awareness among traders and the public to a great extent. However, with the outbreak of the pandemic two months later, the efforts turned out to be fruitless. With health workers fully engaged in fighting COVID-19, there was hardly any follow-up on implementing the ban for the last one-and-a-half years. The number of people getting takeaways from restaurants increased during the period, and, as a result, the use of single-use plastics, such as disposable containers and cups, went up. “We have found that people are dumping a lot of garbage in the public, especially outside restaurants. So far, restaurants have used the excuse of COVID-19 for using disposable containers. Now, it is time we put a leash on it,” said Mr. Kumar, adding that matters would become easier with restaurants reopening for dine-in. He was, however, all praise for other shops switching to paper bags and paper containers to package most of their stuff. “Textile shops and supermarkets are complying with the ban to a large extent. It is the smaller shops that often default,” he said, adding that the higher price of paper bags and eco-friendly packing material may be one reason for the lapse. Before COVID-19 struck, the Corporation had launched a full-fledged campaign to eliminate the use of single-use plastics. It had distributed cloth bags in every household through the Kudumbashree Mission and had started a rent shop for reusable utensils.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-may-reintroduce-ban-on-single-use-plastics/article37134764.ece
23 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||All-women ghazal band set to take centre stage||Many a dulcet female voice has graced a mehfil of ghazal across the sub-continent and beyond, for decades. Singers like Farida Khanum, Begum Akhtar, Chitra Singh, Iqbal Bano and Nayyara Noor have made their voices heard in a world dominated by their male counterparts such as Jagjit Singh, Mehdi Hassan, Ghulam Ali and Pankaj Udhas. The ghazal singers are always accompanied on the stage by male musicians. One would rarely come across a female musician at a concert of ghazals. That tradition is about to change, though. Breaking a glass ceiling A newly formed ghazal band has women playing all the instruments. Singer Gayatri Asokan’s band is all set to make its debut, breaking a glass ceiling that has stood firm for long. It was after a discussion with her manager that Gayatri, a State-Award-winning playback singer who is making rapid strides in ghazal too, decided to form an all-female band. “After the breakout of the coronavirus pandemic, there have been no live concerts on a stage for me, like other performers, and I thought I should attempt something new when the world comes out of the lockdown,” Gayatri tells The Hindu over phone from Mumbai. “I thought it would be great if I could get female musicians and try to form a band, the first of its kind in India.” She knew she was attempting something that nobody had tried in the past. “In my two decades of performing ghazals on stage, I never have been accompanied by a female musician; neither have I seen women playing the instruments in any ghazal concert,” she says. “I know this is a break from the tradition, but I hope music lovers will encourage our band.” The band has Mukta Raste on the tabla, Megha Rawoot on the sitar, Nastya, a Russian living in India, on the violin and the flute, and Kaushiki Joglekar on the keyboard. “They are all very talented and we have been practising here in Mumbai,” she says. “We are all looking forward to our first performance.” Because of the pandemic situation, the band will make its debut with an online show, to be streamed on livdemy.com on November 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-women-ghazal-band-set-to-take-centre-stage/article37134761.ece
23 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Reconstitution alters group equations in Congress||The reconstitution of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) has apparently redefined the group equations in the Congress. Those who had earlier owed allegiance to the ‘I’ and ‘A’ factions, led by former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy respectively, are now reportedly shifting their loyalties to the new dispensation. Predictably, the appointment of new District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents in August laid the contours for realpolitik. The trio led by KPCC president K. Sudhakaran, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan and All India Congress Committee general secretary K.C. Venugopal had then already set the agenda for the reorganisation even as they stoutly faced the emerging factional politics for overlooking the group lieutenants. Realist approach Thus, the new leadership is beginning to understand that power politics is swiftly making a sea change with the realist and firm approach of the Central leadership. The successors of the earlier triumvirate of Mr. Chandy, Mr. Chennithala and former KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran have toppled the existing factional equilibrium. Incidentally, former KPCC president V.M. Sudheeran, who resigned from the AICC and political affairs committee (PAC) of the KPCC, has been completely overlooked when the new team was chosen. The delay in releasing the list of the 56-member KPCC after marathon discussions revealed that the central leadership had at least given a thought to the Chandy-Chennithala binary, although it had failed to take off in the Assembly polls. At the same time, several leaders on the list are close to Mr. Venugopal. Of the 23 new general secretaries, sources said the majority often wore their heart for group politics on their sleeves. But now they would have to think twice before claiming that they were endorsed for their group fidelity. Consequently, the KPCC is moving to a fresh alternative from the era of two deeply divided factions that supported Karunakaran and A.K. Antony and later carried on as the Chennithala and Chandy groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reconstitution-alters-group-equations-in-congress/article37134787.ece
23 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Poor surveillance at Janakikkad a concern||Even after several incidents of drug abuse and sexual assault were reported, the Janakikkad ecotourism destination near Perambra in the district is yet to have a flawless surveillance system in place to keep an eye on criminal elements. Since the opening of the tourism spot in 2008 by the Forest Department, the low-elevation evergreen forest has remained largely unprotected due to inadequate surveillance measures and security. No effective closed circuit television camera network is available in the interior area to monitor the movement of miscreants. A political activist from the area said the tourism authorities and the Forest Department officials were cold-shouldering the safety fortification needs even during renovation and beautification works. After a fresh sexual assault case involving a minor girl was reported, a number of socio-cultural organisations and local residents’ forums have called for immediate action on the part of the district administration to address the safety issues. They have sought better vigil by the Forest Department to monitor the entry of suspected persons. Meanwhile, Forest Department officials said they had put in place basic surveillance measures. Safety measures would be adopted in vulnerable stretches in consultation with higher-ups, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poor-surveillance-at-janakikkad-a-concern/article37134765.ece
23 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Hash oil seized; 4 held||The Medical College police on Thursday arrested four persons, including a woman, with 24 grams of hash oil. The suspects, Hari Krishna, Akash Dineshan, P.R. Rahul, and Bijilas Shafi, were nabbed by a police team led by assistant sub inspector A.P. Prveenkumar. Two scooters were also impounded from the spot where the four were allegedly exchanging the drug.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hash-oil-seized-4-held/article37134766.ece
23 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Youth run over by train||Sarfas Zakeer Hussein, 22, of Vellayil was run over by a train near the sixth railway gate in the city on Friday. He reportedly met with the accident while crossing the railway track. The Nadakkavu police conducted an inquest and shifted the body to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-run-over-by-train/article37134767.ece
23 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Bridge across Chaliyar at Munderi soon||The district administration has set the ball rolling for reconstruction of one of the bridges across the river Chaliyar at Munderi near Nilambur connecting five tribal hamlets with the outside world. The hamlets of Iruttukuthi, Vaniyampuzha, Thandankallu, Tharippapotti, and Kumbalappara have been marooned since the floods of 2019 washed away the three bridges to reach them. A team of government officials led by District Collector V.R. Premkumar visited Vaniyampuzha and held a meeting with the tribespeople on Thursday. Mr. Premkumar asked the Public Works Department (PWD) engineers to conduct a speedy inspection and to prepare an estimate for a three-metre-wide bridge across the river. “We have asked the PWD to process it quickly, considering the urgency of the matter,” Mr. Premkumar told The Hindu . The pathetic condition of the tribal families living in a jungle cut off from the mainland was featured several times in these columns. “We will try to address the issue as best as we can. We will push it as much as we can,” said Mr. Premkumar. Although the process for construction of a bridge within the forest limits will be long, the Collector said that it would be expedited. The PWD will have to do an investigation, including soil testing, before preparing a design and an estimate. Then, the government will have to sanction the funds. “We will make it fast, especially after the Forest department gave its consent for a three-metre bridge,” he said. Apart from the Collector and Sub Collector, Nilambur North Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) K.J. Martin Lowel, Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP) senior officials, engineers of the PWD and KSEB were present at the meeting. KSEB engineers promised the district administration that re-installation of the power lines would be completed within a month. The roads and the power lines along the Munderi side of the river had been destroyed in the floods that devastated the region in August 2019. The tribespeople were depending on bamboo rafts to reach the mainland since the floods washed away all the three bridges connecting the hamlets with Munderi. A hanging bridge constructed with the funds raised by former District Collector Jaffar Malik and his colleagues at the collectorate in 2019 did not last beyond the next monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bridge-across-chaliyar-at-munderi-soon/article37134769.ece
23 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||My stand vindicated: Gopinath||Former District Congress Committee president A.V. Gopinath said here on Friday that the recent appointment of Congress office-bearers in the State vindicated his decision to quit the party. Mr. Gopinath had resigned from the Congress membership and was hopeful of a recall to the party with the offer of a plumb post. He said he did not regret his resignation from the party. “I am not a party member any longer. But I am unhappy at the way the Congress leadership dealt with the State office-bearer selection,” he said. However, Congress district leaders, requesting anonymity, said that Mr. Gopinath had already quit the party and that he had no business with the internal matters of the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/my-stand-vindicated-gopinath/article37134955.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||High drama during Corpn. council meet||Dramatic scenes played out yet again in the city Corporation council hall on Friday with the councillors of the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who had been on an indefinite protest over a fund misappropriation issue, attempting to block the Mayor and the councillors of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) from reaching the hall. Despite this, the meeting went ahead under police protection, and the agenda items were passed within a few minutes. Before the council meeting began in the afternoon, the BJP councillors, who had been staying inside the hall for the past several days as part of the protest, laid down along the entry points in an attempt to block the ruling party councillors from entering the hall. However, Mayor Arya Rajendran and the councillors managed to enter, with some of them even forced to jump over the councillors lying on the ground. Sloganeering With police personnel posted on either side, the Mayor read out an obituary reference on actor Nedumudi Venu. The agenda items were also passed quickly with a few amendments proposed by the standing committee chairpersons, even as the councillors of the BJP and the United Democratic Front (UDF) continued their sloganeering from inside the well demanding the arrest of all the accused in the fund misappropriation issue. Welfare standing committee chairperson S. Salim moved a resolution condemning the attempt to disrupt the council proceedings, while Works standing committee chairperson D.R. Anil said a complaint would be filed against the BJP councillors for the unruly behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-drama-during-corpn-council-meet/article37134984.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU obtains UGC nod for distance education||The University of Kerala (KU) has obtained approval from the University Grants Commission (UGC) to continue its open and distance learning (ODL) programmes for the new academic year. UGC’s Distance Education Bureau (DEB) recently completed the scrutiny of the application submitted by the university to grant its School of Distance Education (SDE) recognition for 10 undergraduate and postgraduate courses each. R. Vasanthagopal, director of the SDE, the apex body, has currently permitted UG and PG courses in English, Malayalam, Hindi, Sociology, Political Sciences, History, Economics, Commerce and Library Science in addition to BBA and a Master’s degree in Public Administration. While the admission process for these courses will commence on November 1, approval is awaited for five more courses – BSc programmes in Mathematics and Computer Science, MSc programmes in Mathematics and Computer Science and BCA. The university hopes to commence the programmes by January 15. Relief for aspirants Kerala University and Calicut University have currently obtained permission for their distance education programmes. The approvals have brought immense relief for higher education aspirants who raised concerns over the inability of Sree Narayana Guru Open University (SNGOU) in obtaining approval for its ODL courses. Nonetheless, the adverse circumstances that prevented the SDE from seeking approval for its popular MBA programmes have come as a blow for many aspirants. The programme had attracted nearly 500 students last year. AICTE nod required According to Dr. Vasanthagopal, recent regulations mandated approval by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) in addition to the requisite one by DEB for offering MBA as a ODL programme. “Given the small window that was available for obtaining the approvals after the Government had permitted universities other than SNGOU to offer ODL courses this year, it appeared unfeasible to commence the programme in time for the next academic year,” he said. Further details regarding the courses and application are available onwww.ideku.net.  Recognition for 10 undergraduate and postgraduate courses Approval awaited for five more courses Approval not sought for popular MBA programmes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-obtains-ugc-nod-for-distance-courses/article37134824.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cinemas in Kerala to reopen on Monday||Cinemas in the State are set to reopen on Monday, with film bodies expressing satisfaction after a meeting with Minister for Culture Saji Cherian on Friday. In addition to their earlier demands, they have now put forward three more demands including 100% occupancy to enable them decent returns after reopening. According to K. Vijayakumar, president, Film Exhibitors United Organisation of Kerala (FEUOK), Mr. Cherian said most of the demands being raised by the film bodies were justified in the current circumstances. He would present their demands to the Chief Minister and also consult other Ministers before taking a final decision. “We are satisfied with the meeting outcome,” said Mr.Vijayakumar.  The first among the three new demands is related to the relaxation of vaccination norms. At present, only those who have got two doses of vaccines will be allowed into theatres. They want this to be reduced to a single dose as only around 30% people have got both doses. They also want the current limit of occupancy at 50% to be increased to 100% as producers of big releases would be reluctant to release with 50% occupancy.  The third is for the levying of Rs. 5 service charge on each of the tickets sold, to enable the exhibitors to cover the expenses of running theatres as per the COVID-19 protocol. “We need to ensure that each seat is sanitised and cleaned after each show, for which more staff have to be deployed, which will lead to an increase in expenses,” Mr. Vijayakumar said. The organisations repeated their earlier demands, including the withdrawal of the entertainment tax, which was announced by the Government to compensate local bodies for the losses incurred after the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax. They also asked the Government for a complete waiver of fixed electricity charges from March 2020 to December 2021. Representatives of the FEUOK, Kerala Film Chamber, Producer's Association, Distributor's Association and other film bodies participated. In for release The films lined up for release next week include No Time to Die , the latest one in the James Bond series, Venom 2, and Tamil film Doctor . Exhibitors are looking forward to the release of Rajinikanth film Annaatthe on November 4. The first big Malayalam release will be Dulquer Salman's Kurup on November 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cinemas-in-kerala-to-reopen-on-monday/article37134785.ece
23 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong., BJP to weaponise ‘lost child’ issue against CPI(M)||At least two recent controversies seem to put to test in some measure the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s [CPI(M)] political credentials as a pro-woman party. A Students’ Federation of India (SFI) woman leader hailing from a “party family” has accused the CPI(M) leadership of conspiring with her parents to force her to give up her child born out of wedlock for adoption. An All India Students Federation (AISF) Dalit woman leader in Mahatma Gandhi University has accused SFI activists of assaulting her, disparaging her caste and threatening rape. The woman and the child’s father, now married to her, have accused the Child Welfare Council, Kerala Women’s Commission and the police of stonewalling their efforts to trace the child since 2019. They alleged that some “powerful persons” had falsified the child’s birth certificate to conceal its true identity. The couple demanded a forensic DNA analysis to help prove the parentage if the State traced their “lost child.” The tale of a young mother’s desperate attempt to learn the fate of her “lost child” seemed to have captured the public’s imagination. It had generated compelling news content and resonated strongly in social media. The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have seized on the issue to turn the tables on the CPI(M). The CPI(M) has long sought to hold the moral high ground on the politically sensitive subject of gender equality. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the administration had conspired to deny a helpless mother her child. The CPI(M) has played the second fiddle to the travesty of justice and the Government owed the people an explanation for its abuse of power, he added. The United Democratic Front (UDF) is likely to highlight the “ingrained” misogyny in the CPI(M) in the Assembly. It hopes to counter the CPI(M) campaign that the Indian Union Muslim League is misogynistic after Muslim Students Federation (MSF) women activists raised a similar charge against the leadership and rebelled. ‘Trace the child’ BJP president K. Surendran said the police should trace the child and prosecute those who facilitated the “illegal adoption.” Women and Child Welfare Minister Veena George said the Government was with the mother. The CPI(M) also struck a similar tack somewhat belatedly, and Ms. George said a departmental inquiry was under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-bjp-to-weaponise-lost-child-issue-against-cpim/article37134796.ece
23 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Missing deaths being added to official toll list of the State||Kerala logged 9,361 new cases of COVID-19 when 80,393 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s active case pool shrunk to 80,892 patients on Friday with 9,401 persons recovering from the disease on the day. Only 9.8% of the active cases are in treatment centres. The official cumulative case fatality now stands at 27,765 with the State adding 563 deaths to the official list. These include 99 deaths which occurred in the past few days, 292 undeclared deaths of the period before June 2021 and 172 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. Following appeals Health Minister Veena George had declared in the Assembly that 7,000 “missing” deaths would be added so. These deaths have now been added to the official toll after appeals filed by the families. Health officials said deaths would now be added in three categories to the official list — those that are routinely reported, pending deaths before June 2021 and deaths declared as due to COVID following the new Central guidelines. All deaths are being verified at the State-level before these find a place on the official list to avoid duplications. Meanwhile, ICU occupancy of COVID-19 patients declined to 1,310 on Friday. The number of patients requiring ventilator support came down to 509. On Friday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals shot up to 825. The persons admitted with moderate or severe COVID in hospitals declined to 8,874. Among districts, Ernakulam has the highest number of new cases at 1,552 followed by Thiruvananthapuram 1,214, Kollam 1,013, Thrissur 910, Kottayam 731, Kozhikode 712, Idukki 537, Malappuram 517, Pathanamthitta 500, Kannur 467, Alappuzha 390, Palakkad 337, Wayanad 310 and Kasaragod 171 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/missing-deaths-being-added-to-official-toll-list-of-the-state/article37134794.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rain forecast: funds to be disbursed to village officers||The State Government on Friday issued orders for disbursing Rs. 25,000 each to village officers for undertaking disaster management-related activities in view of the rainfall forecast for Kerala. The funds, to be issued as advance by district collectors, will be used to make immediate arrangements for relief camps, remove uprooted trees and undertake other works of similar nature and to provide refreshments to emergency workers, an order issued by the Disaster Management Department said. The decision was taken on account of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast that a cyclonic circulation persisting over coastal southern Tamil Nadu is likely to bring widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall across the State over the next few days.  Funds can be used to make immediate arrangements for relief camps||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/funds-to-be-disbursed-to-village-officers/article37134786.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Scientist bags award for printed electronic devices||Achu Chandran, a scientist at the CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) here, received this year's Young Scientist Award instituted by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) for developing printed electronic materials and devices for strategic and commercial applications. Dr. Chandran and his team at NIIST's Materials Science and Technology Division has developed a low-power consuming, self-sterilising printed fabric heater using a conductive silver ink, which too was developed in-house. Applying on face mask In simple terms, printed flexible heaters are heating elements screen-printed on to materials such as fabrics. They warm up when electricity is applied. Following the COVID-19 outbreak, they applied the technology in a face mask and demonstrated its capability of annihilating pathogens at 120 degree Celsius by resistive heating using a 5-Volt power supply. His team has now filed for a patent on this technology, the NIIST said in a statement. “Printed fabric heater technology is effective against all types of pathogens, including SARS-Cov-2, as the device achieves standard sterilisation temperature (120 degree Celsius) in a few seconds. A face mask integrated with the fabric heater can be reused after sterilisation of the same by connecting to a mobile phone charger or a 5-V power bank,” said Dr. Chandran. The technology has potential in smart textiles. For instance, normal, light-weight clothing equipped with printed fabric heaters can replace bulky jackets used for warmth in cold locales. They can also be incorporated in, say, gloves and socks for providing warmth. Dr. Chandran, who hails from Chemmakkad, Kollam, joined the NIIST in 2019 after a three-year stint with the Central Electronics Engineering Research Institute (CEERI).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scientist-bags-award-for-printed-electronic-devices/article37134827.ece
23 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A target to eradicate extreme poverty||Local bodies should rise to the challenge of eradicating extreme poverty in the next five years, Minister for Local Self-government M.V. Govindan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating a meeting of chairpersons of local bodies, people’s representatives, and officials to explain the steps to be taken as part of the extreme poverty eradication mission on Thursday. The Minister explained the government guidelines on eradicating extreme poverty. The mission aimed at identifying those in extreme poverty and preparing microplans to help them come out of such a condition. Distinguishing poverty and extreme poverty, identifying extremely poor individuals and families, and equipping them to overcome their situation was society’s responsibility, the Minister said. The preliminary study for identification of the extremely poor is under way in Anchuthengu panchayat in the district, Thirunelly in Wayanad, and Wadakkancherry in Thrissur. The preparation of list of the extremely poor was in the last phase in those places. It was being drawn with extreme care to ensure no ineligible person found place on it, and every single eligible person was included, Mr. Govindan said. Onus on local bodies Guidelines for functioning of State, district, and panchayat-level committees had been issued by the government. Local bodies were fully responsible for the process of identification of the extremely poor and should be completed in a time-bound manner. Mission State nodal officer V.S. Santhosh Kumar and Kerala Institute of Local Administration director general Joy Elamon participated in the online meet.  Microplans will be prepared to help those living in extreme poverty come out of the condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-target-to-eradicate-extreme-poverty/article37134819.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Funds allocated for local body buildings||Funds have been allocated for the construction of eight grama panchayat offices and renovation of 50 panchayat offices in the State, Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan has said. An amount of Rs. 20 lakh each has been sanctioned for the construction of the office buildings of Niranam, Kottanad grama panchayats in Pathanamthitta, Thiruvanvandoor grama panchayat in Alappuzha, Vathikudy grama panchayat in Idukki, Athirappilly grama panchayat in Thrissur, Thooneri grama panchayat in Kozhikode, Malappattam grama panchayat in Kannur and Valiyaparamba grama panchayat in Kasaragod, the Minister’s office said. An amount of Rs. 4 lakh each has been sanctioned for the renovation of the office buildings of 50 grama panchayats. The financial assistance would be provided to Pullampara, Uzhamalackal, Perumkadavila panchayats in Thiruvananthapuram, Munroethuruthu, Elamadu panchayats in Kollam, Thottapuzhassery, Omalloor panchayats in Pathanamthitta, Perumpalam, Cheruthana Veliyanad, Thakazhi panchayats in Alappuzha, Koruthodu, Poonjar Thekkekara, Vechoor, Akalakunnam panchayats in Kottayam, Alakode, Edavetty, Peerumade, Chakkupallam panchayats in Idukki, Chendamangalam, Ayyampuzha, Vazhakulam panchayats in Ernakulam, Porkulam, Nenmanikkara, Puthenchira, Anthikad panchayats in Thrissur, Chalavara, Kumaramputhur, Kappur, Alanallur panchayats in Palakkad, Elamkulam, Irimbiliyam, Perumanna Klari, Edayur panchayats in Malappuram, Thurayur, Meppayur, Maniyur, Chekkiad panchayats in Kozhikode, Thariode, Thirunelly, Meenangadi panchayats in Wayanad, Kottayam, Karivellur, Padiyoor-Kalliad, Ezhome, Kurumathur panchayats in Kannur, Valiyaparamba, Balal, Bellur, West Eleri panchayats in Kasaragod, said a press release from the Minister’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/funds-allocated-for-local-body-buildings/article37134783.ece
23 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trains to be regulated||Train 07230 Secunderabad Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central Daily (Sabari) special train leaving Secunderabad Junction on October 26 and November 9 will be regulated for 45 minutes at Kottayam on October 27 and November 10 to facilitate construction of limited use subway (LUS) in the Kottayam-Chingavanam section. Train 02511 Kochuveli-Gorakhpur Junction triweekly special will be upgraded with LHB coaches from October 31. The train will be temporarily augmented with two sleeper class coaches from October 31 to November 28, according to a realease. The pairing train (02512) from Gorakhpur Junction to Kochuveli will be upgraded with LHB coaches from November 3. It will be temporarily augmented with two sleeper class coaches from November 3 to December 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trains-to-be-regulated/article37134815.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three KTU students bag placements in U.S. firm||Three students of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) have bagged lucrative offers in an international placement drive. The placement, organised for the 2022 BTech batch, was the second such drive by U.S.-headquartered information technology company Virtusa. The firm had last year recruited students in KTU’s first-ever international recruitment programme. Ria Fily Mathew of the Muthoot Institute of Technology and Science, Swati Suresh Nair of the TKM College of Engineering and Emil George of the Amal Jyothi College of Engineering have been selected this time. They will work from home for the first nine months during which they will be offered a CTC (cost to company) of Rs. 5 lakh a year. They are expected to relocate to the U.S. when their salary will hike to $45,000 (approximately Rs. 33 lakh) per annum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-ktu-students-bag-placements-in-us-firm/article37134825.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Above-normal rain forecast for two weeks||Indications are that more rainy days lie ahead for Kerala. Cumulatively, Kerala and Mahe are likely to receive above-normal rainfall over the next two weeks, according to an India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast for the period till November 4. The Lakshadweep islands can expect normal rainfall during October 22-October 28 and below normal rainfall in the week from October 29 to November 4, according to the forecast here on Friday. Northeast monsoon The IMD had already warned that Kerala is likely to receive widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls over the next few days. And more rainy days could be in the offing with the northeast monsoon rainfall expected to commence by October 26. According to the latest data, the Kerala and Mahe region received 124% excess rainfall during the seven-day period from October 14 to October 20. Against the normal 72.1 mm rainfall for the period, the region received 161.2 mm. Lakshadweep received 15% excess rainfall. From October 1 to October 22, Kerala recorded 121% excess rainfall, with all districts except Alappuzha recording above 70% excess rainfall. Alappuzha recorded 52% excess for the period. As per a five-day forecast issued by the Met centre, several districts can expect isolated heavy rainfall till Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/above-normal-rain-forecast-for-two-weeks/article37134799.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister promises speedy relief for flood-affected||Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil on Friday visited the relief camps opened for families displaced by flooding in Meenankal, near Aryanad, a day ago. He took stock of the facilities provided at the camp in Meenankal Government Tribal High School. During his visit, he promised the families of steps to expedite the disbursal of compensation for those who lost property in the flood. He also visited the Vithura Government School where several families were relocated from ‘layams’ (line houses) in Ponmudi. Evacuations More than a 100 families were evacuated to safer locations in the capital district over the past few days on account of natural calamities triggered by heavy rainfall. According to the district administration, 327 individuals from 110 families are currently accommodated in seven relief camps in various parts of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-promises-speedy-relief-for-flood-affected/article37134981.ece
23 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TU leader calls for united struggle by bank unions||CITU State president Anathalavattom Anandan said here on Friday that a united struggle by all sections of society was necessary to thwart the onslaught of finance capital. He was inaugurating a public meeting in front of the CSB Bank Zonal Office here as part of a three-day strike. ‘Freedom in danger’ Pointing out that the Centre was handing over banking, insurance, railway, coal and almost all public sector undertakings to the private sector, he said the country’s freedom would be in danger if foreign capital was allowed to control the its finance. He urged the workers to organise joint struggles to save their livelihood and future. The united forum of CSB Bank unions has announced a three-day strike on December 30 and 31 and January 1. The unions would also launch an indefinite strike in March next year, according to a press note issued by the Bank Employees Federation of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tu-leader-calls-for-united-struggle-by-bank-unions/article37134982.ece
23 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||T.M. Jacob memorial awards||Mahesh Gupthan, chief reporter, Malayala Manorama , and K. Arun Kumar, chief reporter, Asianet, have been selected for the T.M. Jacob memorial award for excellence in journalism in print and electronic media respectively. The awards are instituted by the T.M. Jacob Memorial Trust in memory of former Minister T.M. Jacob. The selection was made by a committee headed by senior journalist Sunnykutty Abraham. The awards will be presented at a function at Thiruvananthapuram Press Club on October 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tm-jacob-memorial-awards/article37134954.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Moratorium on loans till December 31||The State Government on Friday issued orders declaring a moratorium on the recovery of loans availed of by farmers, fishers and small traders till December 31 this year. The moratorium will be applicable to all loans, including agricultural and education loans, availed of from various financial institutions, government agencies such as the Kerala State Housing Board, Kerala State Cooperative Housing Federation, Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam and the Kerala State Backward Classes Development Corporation, cooperative banks and institutions notified under Section 71 of the Revenue Recovery Act, 1968. The decision was taken in view of the hardships caused to farmers, small traders and fishers by rain havoc, coastal erosion and the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/moratorium-on-loans-till-december-31/article37134800.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Extended||The validity of the approved building permits have been extended to December 31 in view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation, Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan has said. The department had earlier extended the validity of permits, issued as per the Kerala Municipality, Panchayat Buildings Rules, that were set to end on March 10, 2021, till September 30, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/validity-extended/article37134821.ece
23 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New date for PSC exam||The Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) examination for the Assistant Engineer (Civil) post, earlier scheduled on October 21, will be held at 2.30 p.m. on October 28. The revised dates for the graduate-level preliminary examination scheduled on October 23 will be announced later. There is no change in the preliminary examination scheduled on October 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-date-for-psc-exam/article37134798.ece
23 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One exam on Tuesday||The Plus One higher secondary examinations on October 18 that were postponed in the wake of rain fury will be held on Tuesday. There will be no change in the examination timings, a statement here on Friday said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-exam-on-tuesday/article37134797.ece
23 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Capital district logs 1,214 new COVID cases||The district recorded 1,214 COVID-19 new cases and 1,309 recoveries on Friday even as the active caseload stood at 10,192. The TPR stood at 12.5%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-district-logs-1214-new-covid-cases/article37134985.ece
23 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||DMK Trust contributes to flood relief||The DMK Trust under the party’s Tamil Nadu unit has donated Rs. 1 crore to the flood relief fund of the Government of Kerala. MPs Anthiyur Selvaraj and T.K.S. Elangovan handed over a draft for the amount to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Friday. Kerala State secretary K.R. Murukesan and Thiruvananthapuram district secretary Joseph Pious were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dmk-trust-contributes-to-flood-relief/article37134814.ece
23 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Compensation won’t be delayed, says Rajan||People need not worry about getting compensation for their loss in the recent rain-related calamities, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. Speaking after visiting various relief camps in Thrissur district on Friday, he said: “Steps to distribute compensation will be fast-tracked. The District Collector has been asked to initiate the steps immediately. The Government will release money for the compensation,” he said. The authorities are looking into the steps for providing compensation for those who do not have documents too. Revenue officials are taking stock of the damage due to rain. Relief fund The Cabinet will discuss sourcing money from the State Disaster Response Fund and Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund, the Minister said. . The bed-ridden patients rehabilitated in relief camps will be given money from CM’s fund for their treatment, the Minister said. Those above the age of 60 and who are suffering from lifestyle diseases too will get support for treatment. Sanitisation work As most of the inmates of the camps left their homes due to flooding, authorities were asked to take steps to clean and chlorinate their houses. People should go back to their homes only after sanitisation, the Revenue Minister said. He asked the health workers to distribute medicines to avoid spread of leptospirosis. The Minister inspected various camps in the district and their facilities, including the kitchen. He asked the officials to submit a project to build a wall to protect the banks of Manali Puzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/compensation-wont-be-delayed-says-rajan/article37134906.ece
23 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Oppn. protests for solving garbage issue in Thrissur||Opposition UDF councillors in the Thrissur city Corporation staged a sit-in in the well of the council hall on Friday demanding that urgent steps be taken to remove the rotting garbage mounds at Sakthan Nagar. “The Corporation is not taking any steps to remove the stinking garbage heaps. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) is a total failure in handling the garbage issue,” said Opposition leader Rajan K. Pallan. “The waste management plants and biogas units, started at the time of the United Democratic Front (UDF), have been left useless without proper maintenance,” said the Opposition leader. For vigilance probe The Opposition demanded a vigilance investigation into the alleged corruption by the LDF in the past five years in the name of waste management. The Opposition alleged corruption in the tender procedures for the comfort station in Sakthan Nagar. However, Mayor M.K. Varghese rejected the demand of the Opposition for re-tendering. The Opposition councillors started a sit-in in protest against the disruption in drinking water distribution and the pathetic condition of the city roads. The Opposition councillors carried banners with photos of pothole-ridden roads. The pathetic condition of the roads has been leading to many accidents, said the Opposition councillors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oppn-protests-for-solving-garbage-issue-in-thrissur/article37134957.ece
23 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Father ‘abducts’ infant daughter from hospital||A two-month-old girl reportedly went missing from a government hospital at Kalyanadurgam in Anantapur district on Friday. According to information, a couple — Mallikarjuna and Chettamma — working as daily wagers and hailing from Idukallu village of Setturu mandal, reached the hospital for treatment of their ailing daughter on Thursday night. After a while, Mallikarjuna left the hospital with his daughter, telling his wife that he was going to buy some snacks for the girl. However, Ms. Chettamma grew worried after her husband and daughter failed to return till midnight. She then approached the area police at Kalyanadurgam. Police launched a search operation for the girl on Friday morning in and around the hospital and along the road leading to Idukallu. The clothes that the child was wearing at the time of her disappearance were found close to a village tank, along with a blade, sparking concerns for her safety among police and family members. Case registered A case was registered and a search is on for the missing child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/baby-goes-missing-from-hospital/article37134883.ece
23 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Varavara Rao to challenge non-bailable warrant||A local court in Karnataka issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) on Thursday to poet-activist Varavara Rao in connection with a Naxal attack in the State in 2005. It issued the warrant for non-appearance before the court. The additional sessions court in Madhugiri did not consider the condition imposed by the Mumbai High Court that Mr. Rao, who is on bail in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon case, cannot leave the city. “Hence, we will move the High Court seeking cancellation of the warrant,” said Nagi Reddy, Mr. Rao’s lawyer. Attack on police In February 2005, Mr. Rao was chargesheeted as accused number 12 in the Naxal attack case in which seven persons, including six Karnataka Special Reserve Police personnel, were killed at Venkatammanahalli in Tumkur district’s Pavagada taluk. Mr. Rao was arrested by the Pune police in 2018 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence case, filed following a mob attack on Dalit and Bahujan communities in January that year. He is presently on a six-month bail granted on medical grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varavara-rao-to-move-hc-on-non-bailable-warrant/article37134396.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccine did not cause Vivekh’s death: panel||The death of actor Vivekh, two days after inoculation against COVID-19 earlier this year, was not due to the vaccine, the National Adverse Events Following Immunisation Committee has said. The report of the committee provided the causality assessment results in respect of 92 serious adverse events. Vivekh’s death, the report said, was a coincidental event, for which a clear cause other than vaccination was found on investigation. He had suffered “acute myocardial infarction with cardiogenic shock with ventricular fibrillation in a known case of hypertension”, it said. The actor suffered a heart attack a day after he received his first dose of Covaxin at the Tamil Nadu Government Multi-Super-Speciality Hospital at the Omandurar Government Estate in Chennai. He was brought to SIMS Hospital at Vadapalani in an unconscious state. He was shifted to the catheterization laboratory. An emergency coronary angiography indicated 100% block in the left anterior descending artery. He underwent angioplasty, and was put on ECMO support. The committee emphasised that the “benefits of vaccination are overwhelmingly greater than the small risk of harm”. “As a measure of utmost precaution, all emerging signals of harm are being constantly tracked and reviewed periodically.” At a media interaction, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said the controversy over the actor’s death had led to a dip in the vaccination drive then. “It is important to take the truth to people. The State Government had confirmed that his death was not due to inoculation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccine-didnt-cause-vivekhs-death-panel/article37134514.ece
23 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed in accident||Two youth were killed on the spot when the motorcycle they were riding was knocked down by an APSRTC bus at Vaddipalle village of Pulicharla mandal, 70 km from here, on Friday. According to the police, Noorulla and Bavaji were on their way to Pulicharla from a nearby village when the accident occurred. The area police shifted the bodies to Government Hospital at Piler and registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-in-accident/article37134882.ece
23 October 2021||Chittoor,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP cadre clash with police||Tension prevailed for a while in Kuppam when the YSRCP cadre clashed with the police at the M.R. Reddy Circle on Friday. According to information reaching here, the TDP workers were on their way to the Kuppam Urban police station to lodge a complaint against YSRCP leader and RESCO chairman Senthil Kumar, whose purported video threatening to attack TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu with a bomb had gone viral on Thursday. In order to prevent the TDP activists from reaching the police station, the YSRCP cadre participating in the ‘Janaagraha deeksha’ too headed to the police station. The police, in a bid to avoid untoward incidents, tried to stop the YSRCP cadre from going towards the police station. In the melee, Shantipuram mandal YSRCP convener Kodanda Reddy allegedly pushed Circle-Inspector A. Sadiq Ali, forcing the police personnel to shove the YSRCP cadre away. The situation was later brought under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-cadre-clash-with-police-in-kuppam/article37134443.ece
23 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adopt best practices in waste disposal: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday asked the officials to accord top priority to cleanliness in villages, towns and cities. During the review meeting on Clean Andhra Pradesh (CLAP), Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to adopt best practices in disposal of wastes harmful to the environment and people, and use latest technologies towards this end. “I want the officers to ensure that there are no issues relating to hygiene and pollution in the urban local bodies and villages. The garbage should be removed regularly, and there should be no bad smell in the surroundings,” he said. The officials informed the Chief Minister that a power plant that would generate electricity from waste was ready in Guntur. The Chief Minister instructed the officials to focus on setting up such plants in the proposed areas. The Chief Minister also directed the officials to focus on maintenance of toilets and distribute dustbins to those who did not have them in the villages. “Conduct tests for water and air pollution at the village clinics and get reports on sanitation in the villages, and take necessary measures,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. Asking the officials to ensure that the drinking water tanks are cleaned regularly, the Chief Minister directed that efficient measures be taken to prevent the spread of diseases. He also instructed the officials to set up sewage treatment plants wherever at required. Sewage water should not get stagnated in residential locations, he said. The Chief Minister further directed the officials to appoint efficient persons in the command control room to oversee the implementation of the CLAP programmes. “They should respond to the complaints regularly and take appropriate measures,” he added. Minister for Municipal and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana, Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma, and a host of other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adopt-best-practices-in-waste-disposal-cm/article37134898.ece
23 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contract farming in FCV tobacco on the cards||The Union government is actively considering introducing contract farming to add buoyancy in trading of Flue Cured Virginia Tobacco. The proposal to introduce contract farming has begun to gain traction after the high-level meeting held at the Tobacco Board recently, in which Secretary of Commerce B.V.R. Subrahmanyam and Joint Secretary Divakar Nath Mishra were present. Contract farming is also one of the features of the new Farm Laws. “Contract farming will end the monopoly of a single largest player and ensure a level playing field. Foreign Direct Investment in tobacco trade in India will certainly open up the market,” said a senior official. Another issue which came up during the meeting was dismal exports of FCV Tobacco. Mr. Subrahmanyam, a senior officer belonging to the 1987 batch, reportedly minced no words in pointing out that dismal exports of unmanufactured FCV Tobacco and Non-FCV Tobacco in the year 2021 (April-August) fetching a mere $386.05 million, which is about one-third of the target of $1.1 billion, had been discouraging. The trend in exports continues to cause concern and reflects the uncertainties in the global market. Tobacco exports hit the $1-billion mark in 2013-14, after notching a high of $924.14 million in 2012, but since the year 2015, the trend is clearly on the decline. The year 2015-16 witnessed a steep decline in exports with 2.09 lakh metric tonnes marketed fetching $661.59 million. Since then, the trend of declining exports earnings continued with $633.23 million in 2016-17, $600.43 million (2017-18), $563.20 million (2018-19), $538.93 million (2019-20), $519.71 million (2020-21). The current fiscal witnessed a further slump with the earnings just over $386.05 million (till August 2021), a notch higher than the same corresponding period in the year 2020. The factors leading to a fall in exports include gradual reduction of FCV tobacco production. With India being a signatory to Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, the constraints on tobacco production remain. But this is going to change, with the Centre giving a clear hint on increasing the production of tobacco to about 227 million kg, a 15 to 20 per cent increase from the existing crop size. Trade diplomacy with European countries such as Germany and Russia to reduce import duties is also being considered and talks are on with BAT, JPI and other players to boost exports. “The government is also mulling to encourage small and medium buyers in export of tobacco and these measures will certainly open doors to many players in India and ultimately create a level playing field,” said the official. The Tobacco Board has taken measures to boost exports and is conducting virtual meetings with Indian unmanufactured exporters to discuss strategies for increasing exports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/contract-farming-in-fcv-tobacco-on-the-cards/article37134447.ece
23 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MPs will seek TDP’s disqualification, says Sajjala||Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that the Members of Parliament belonging to the YSRCP will seek the disqualification of the TDP by the Election Commission of India. “Our MPs will seek the TDP’s disqualification as the party is trying to drive a wedge between communities, foster religious disharmony and incite communal feelings, besides spreading disaffection against the government. This apart, the TDP president is leading the pack in using derogatory language against constitutional heads and those holding highest office in the State,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said on Friday. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy was addressing the ‘Janaagraha deeksha’ organised at the Market Centre here. MLC Lella Appireddy, Adviser Challa Madhusudana Reddy, and Mayor Kavati Manohar Naidu extended their support to the fasting leaders, who were protesting against the derogatory remarks made against the Chief Minister. “Has anyone used such derogatory language in the recent past? Can our families bear such words? Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has made it clear that party members should use the language spoken in their families and treat women with equal respect,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. He said the TDP had lost its relevance as it failed to take up causes relating to the people, and instead began targeting those holding constitutional offices. “Mr. Naidu still has a chance to redeem himself by asking his leaders to tender an unconditional apology to the Chief Minister. He has done a grave mistake by provoking his leaders to speak nonsense,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mps-will-seek-tdps-disqualification-says-sajjala/article37134900.ece
23 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu ‘deeksha’ a drama to mislead people: Sajjala||Senior TDP leaders should try to make their national president N. Chandrababu Naidu see sense, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Adviser (Public Affairs), has said. Addressing the media at the party central office here on Friday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy slammed Mr. Naidu for backing the “swear words” used by TDP spokesperson K. Pattabhiram. “The TDP does not deserve to be a political party,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said, and added that the YSRCP followers had attacked the party office because Mr. Pattabhiram had spoken ill of the Chief Minister there. Mr. Naidu should apologise for the abusive remarks of his party leader, he said. Referring to the ‘deeksha’ observed by Mr. Naidu, the YSRCP leader wondered how a diabetic patient was on a fast all day with just half-a-litre of water, and said it was a drama to mislead the people. “The elections are still three years away, but Mr. Naidu is asking for President’s Rule by misinterpreting law and order issues,” he said. Slamming Mr. Naidu for spreading lies on ganja cultivation in the State, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said the menace was more prevalent during the TDP term. “The leaders at the national level should not fall for the false propaganda of the TDP,” he said, and asserted that the YSRCP would strongly counter it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-deeksha-a-drama-to-mislead-people-sajjala/article37134996.ece
23 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Walk with me to understand people’s plight: Sharmila||President of YSR Telangana Party, Y.S. Sharmila has challenged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to walk with him to realise the plight of people in Telangana and why people want Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy’s kind of rule in the State. Ms. Sharmila, who is on a padayatra in Telangana, alleged that KCR had cheated all sections and not a single promise he made to people had been fulfilled. She asked if Dalita Bandhu was not introduced for Huzurabad bypoll why it was not introduced across the state and why it didn’t start in a SC constituency. Appealing to people in the old Ranga Reddy district where she is presently on a padaytra, she asked people to question the TRS that was harrassing them using GO 111 and the ‘inefficient’ Dharani portal that had increased the grievances of people than solving them. She said both KCR and his son K.T. Rama Rao were good at misleading people with impressive statements but not fulfilling their duties as administrators. Women, Dalits and even small children were also not safe in Telangana, she alleged. Double bedroom houses scheme was a mirage, she said and reminded that YSR government constructed more than 40 lakh houses. And he did not impose any additional taxes in his entire tenure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/walk-with-me-to-see-peoples-plight-sharmila/article37134750.ece
23 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP trying to buy votes in bypoll: TRS||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has lodged a complaint with the Election Commission (Chief Electoral Officer of Telangana) alleging that BJP candidate for Huzurabad byelection and his men were opening new bank accounts and parking illegal money on a large-scale for distributing it to voters. A delegation of TRS comprising party’s general secretary M. Sreenivas Reddy, secretary Gattu Ramachandra Rao and MLA Ch. Kranti Kiran met CEO Shashank Goel and lodged the complaint on behalf of the party. They stated in the complaint that TRS had reliable information that BJP candidate Eatala Rajender and his supporters, were opening bank accounts all over Huzurabad constituency in various banks in different names and depositing money into them for utilising it for distribution to voters. Stating that the activity was a grave offence and corrupt election practice besides being contravention of model code of poll conduct, the TRS delegation requested the CEO to get a thorough investigation done into the issue to find the number of such accounts opened so far. “The pattern in which the amounts are being put into the accounts clearly establish that BJP and its candidate are resorting to corrupt practices to buy votes in order to win the election illegally”, they explained. Although the party (TRS) had been bringing several illegalities of BJP and its candidate no action was taken by the election authorities in spite of providing evidence in support of the irregularities committed by Mr. Rajender and his party, it was said in the complaint.  If no meaningful action was taken on its (TRS) complaint, it would cause immense damage to the democratic process and fair play in the election and also cause irreparable loss to TRS’ legitimate prospects in Huzurabad, the party said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-trying-to-buy-votes-in-byelection-says-trs/article37134394.ece
23 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||NHRC officials threatened me, ACP tells SC panel||The then Assistant Commissioner of Police (Shadnagar Division) Vasam Surender told the Supreme Court-appointed commission inquiring the alleged encounter of the four accused in the rape and murder of Disha on December 6, 2019, that he was threatened by officials of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) while taking his deposition. Referring to the 15-page signed statements of Mr. Surender recorded by the NHRC, which was later submitted to the panel, the commission’s advocate Virupaksha Dattatreya Gouda asked, “Is this your statement before NHRC?” “The signatures on all the pages are mine. I do not know what statement they have written. It was late in the night and they threatened me to a report against me saying that I would be suspended,” the officer said. He also said that the NHRC officials did not record what he had stated and picked up an argument with him. “I stated something else and they wrote something else,” he said. Responding to his answers, the commission members asked whether Mr. Surender or his department and the NHRC had any enmity. “I have no acquittance with them to know whether they have any enmity,” he replied. The officer also said that details in his affidavit had some ‘gaps’ compared to his case diaries. How is that, you have to explain that categorical statement made by you to the extent of disowning them whether in the statement recorded by the NHRC and signed by you and your own affidavit affirmed by you or the case diaries written by you? the panel members asked. Mr. Surender responded that he did not make any mistakes in the case diaries and that was his interpretation in making those entries. “Insofar as the affidavit is concerned, the mistakes occurred because of the gaps between my instructions and the preparation of affidavit by the advocate. Insofar, the NHRC statement is concerned, it is not what I had stated, it was written by them on their own,” the officer said. The officer went on to say that his statement recorded by the investigating officer and Rachakonda DCP (SOT) J Surender Reddy were ‘incorrect’. “He is disowning all his previous statements,” the commission members commented. Further, when he was asked which part was recorded ‘incorrectly’, the officer said he was not able to recall and he would answer as and when he remembers it. “Probably, after we submit the report,” commission’s chairman Justice V.S. Sirpurkar commented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nhrc-officials-threatened-me-acp-tells-sc-panel/article37134397.ece
23 October 2021||KAKIANDA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP assures support to kin of police martyrs||East Godavari SP M. Ravindranath Babu on Friday launched an initiative of meeting the family members of the police personnel who have died of COVID-19 and other reasons while in the line of duty. The initiative aims at knowing the status of the bereved family members. On Friday, Mr. Ravindranath Babu met the family members of Armed Reserve Constables Ch. Devaki Rao and Mr. Durga Rao. He assured them of support from the department. Devaki Rao died of COVID-19 infection while Durga Rao died in a blast. The SP enquired with the family members of the martyrs about the benefits and compensation guaranteed by the government. He said that the visit to the family members would help understand the lives of the martyrs’ families and extend support from the department. All the DSPs also met the family members of the martyrs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-assures-support-to-kin-of-police-martyrs/article37134926.ece
23 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinta bats for a Kapu as Chief Minister candidate||Special invitee to the Congress Working Committee (CWC) Chinta Mohan on Friday said that search was on to identify a credible leader from the Kapu community, who would be projected as the Chief Ministerial candidate in the State in the next general election. “I will convince the party high command to encourage a Kapu leader to be the Chief Ministerrial candidate. Only two communities have been in the power in the State. It is time the Kapus got a chance. Being a special invitee to the CWC, I have been in touch with many Kapu leaders in the State as part of the search,” Mr. Chinta Mohan told the media here. Referring to the attack on the TDP offices, Mr. Chinta Mihan said the ‘irresponsible behaviour’ of the YSRCP and the TDP leaders was tarnishing the image of State. “Such a tense political environment is harmful to the interests of the State,” he said. ‘Release scholarship’ Mr. Chinta Mohan also set a deadline for the State government to release the scholarships for above 80 lakh students belonging to ST, ST and OBCs that had been pending for two years by Diwali (November 4). “The State government has not released the scholarships for the last two years even as 75% of the scholarship amount is borne by the Centre. Where has the money gone?” asked Mr. Chinta Mohan and urged the State government to run the SC and ST Finance Corporations actively to reach out to the needy. Potshots at Centre Taking potshots at the Centre, Mr. Chinta Mohan the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant reeked of capitalist policy. Public assets such as VSP, Indian Railways, and Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) will go into the hands of the capitalists. The BJP-led Centre is selling away whatever was built by the Congress,” he said "The hunger index rate, which slips below Pakistan's rate, speaks country's state of development during the past seven years", said Mr. Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chinta-bats-for-a-kapu-as-chief-minister-candidate/article37134920.ece
23 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 17 crore allotted for renovation of libraries||The East Godavari Zilla Grandhalaya Samstha (ZGS) on Friday allocated Rs. 17 crore for various works including digitisation of books and renovation of library buildings across the district during the 2021-22 financial year. ZGS Chairperson Doolam Padma and members have proposed and accepted the expenditure during the general body meeting held at the District Central Library. ZGS Secretary M. Sekharbabu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-17-crore-allotted-for-renovation-of-libraries/article37134921.ece
23 October 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||LED lights help farmers keep wild animals at bay||Pulsating panels of LED lights are often found on party floors to set a dramatic mood, but the farmers at Allavayal in Noolpuzha grama panchayat have erected them in their paddy fields to keep wild animals, especially elephants and wild boars, at bay. The experimental project was launched by the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation here with financial assistance by NABARD and technical assistance by RuKart Technologies, a Mumbai-based firm, after it was found that the project was a success in Govindpur village in Yavatmal district of Maharashtra. The farmers of Allavayal have cultivated paddy on 10 acres land under the Vadakkanad Padashekhara Samiti bordering the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary. First phase During the first phase of the project, 28 solar powered LED panels, each one consisting 48 LEDs, have been put up along 1 km on the fringes of the forest in an attempt to protect the paddy field from crop raiding animals. The area is known for crop raids by wild animals, including herds of elephants, gaur, spotted deer, wild boar, and bonnet macaque as the land is encircled by forest. “Usually, we make treetop huts and spend sleepless nights on them to guard our crop from wildlife. But after the installation of the pulsating LED unit called ‘pik-sanrakshak yantra’, raids by wild animals have declined considerably”, K.T. Kuriakose, president, Vadakkanad watershed project, said. Though a herd of elephants crossed the forest boundary a few weeks ago, it returned to the forest after seeing the pulsating LED lights on the farm. Ten days ago, 42 human-shaped dummies were also put up on the farm to impart the feel of human presence on the farm. Three days ago, a herd of elephants passed through the forest fringes without trying to enter the farm, Mr. Kuriakose said. “As the animals will become accustomed to the mechanism in a short while, we are planning to use acoustics by reproducing the sounds made by predators such as tigers and leopards in the third phase of the project to deter wildlife,” Mr. Kuriakose said. They have spent Rs. 1.17 lakh on the project so far. The Forest department has sanctioned Rs. 5.8 crore to construct 11 km of steel wired fencing in Vadakkanad and Thottamoola areas to prevent the intrusion of wildlife and the construction work would commence soon, wildlife warden S. Narendra Babu told The Hindu . Proposals had also been submitted to mitigate man-animal conflicts in other parts of the sanctuary, Mr. Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/led-lights-keep-wild-animals-at-bay/article37134404.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Customs Dept. cites breach of security||State Ministers, senior officials and politicians were directly called to the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram and to the residence of Consul General Jamal Hussein Alzaabi, bypassing the State Protocol Department and violating the protocol laid down by the Union Ministry of External Affairs, which “must be considered as a grave breach of national security,” according to the Cochin Customs. The Customs made these observations in its final complaint in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case that was filed before the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, on Friday. The agency named P.S. Sarith and Swapna Suresh as first and second accused and M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, as 29th accused. Role of Consul General The agency noted that the Consul General, through Swapna and Mr. Sivasankar, had arranged numerous meetings at his residence with the Chief Minister and also at the residence of the Chief Minister, bypassing the Protocol Department and breaching the protocol laid down by the Ministry of External Affairs. Mr. Sivasankar had deposed that he used to arrange meetings for the Consul General with the Chief Minister when informed by Swapna. He also stated that he and Swapna were always present during the meetings, the Customs noted. Eager to make money According to the Customs, the statements of Swapna, Sarith and Mr. Sivasankar revealed that the Consul General, Admin Attaché Rashed and finance head of the consulate Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry were eager to make money through illegal means. The voluntary statements of Sarith revealed that the Consul General wanted Sarith to make friendly relations with Ministers, which could support his crave to make money through some illegal means, it said. The Consul General and other diplomats ensured that they maintained a cordial relation with State Ministers, for which they would invite them to the Consulate citing various reasons, the agency submitted. Swapna, Sarith, Sandeep and K.T. Ramees played a pivotal role in masterminding and carrying out the smuggling operations, enticing into their smuggling network the other co-accused, it said.  The agency notes that the Consul General, through Swapna and Sivasankar, had arranged numerous meetings at his residence with the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/customs-dept-cites-breach-of-security/article37134399.ece
23 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students witness police work from close range||A group of schoolchildren were thrilled to witness police work from up close, at an Open House organised by the Prakasam police department on Friday. Several children got an opportunity to pose with unloaded firearms, with Superintendent of Police Malika Garg giving a detailed presentation on the various types of guns and weapons that form part of the police armoury. Ms. Garg also spoke about the significance of Police Martyrs’ Week — of which the event was a part of — being organised at the District Police Convention Hall. The SP said that the Open House was organised to make the public aware of the challenging conditions in which police personnel discharge their duties. The event was organised as a tribute to police personnel who have laid down their lives in the line of duty since 1959, when 10 police personnel were killed while attempting to stop an incursion by Chinese forces in Ladakh. Bulletproof vans, and vehicles outfitted with advanced communication equipment, 207 Vajra vehicles, Disha vans, firearms and spare parts, metal detectors, bomb disposal equipment, police control room equipment and other hi-tech gadgets such as night-vision goggles enthralled the students. The Fingerprint Identification Network System (FINS) was also on display along with VHF communication sets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/witnessing-police-work-from-close-range/article37134885.ece
23 October 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AKNU to offer psychological counselling services to needy||Adikavi Nannaya University (AKNU), Rajamahendravaram Vice-Chancellor M. Jagannadha Rao on Friday inaugurated the Centre for Psychological Assessment and Counselling (CPAC) on the university campus in East Godavari district. The university has set up the facility after the online counselling services being offered by the Department of Psychology received an overwhelming response during the lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus. The Centre has a team of psychologists including Consulting Psychologists Dr. Ch. N.K. Bhavani and Dr. N.V.V.S. Narayana. It will provide counselling services to the needy for all kinds of problems. The doctors will offer counselling services for those who are addicted to liquor and drugs too. Speaking on the occasion, Prof. Jagannadhara Rao said that services would be offered to couples with disputes, people with family problems and students with academic and career issues. “The Centre will be helpful for scholars and students of the Department of Psychology for their academic research, apart from getting opportunity to observe the cases. Psychological assessment of the students will also be done at the facility,” he said. P. Rajasekhar is the in-charge of the centre. AKNU Registrar T. Ashok and other teaching staff were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aknu-to-offer-psychological-counselling-services-to-needy/article37134925.ece
23 October 2021||RAMACHANDRAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI):,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Verbal attack on CM tarnished image of State’||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna has said that the Telugu Desam Party launched the verbal attack with unparliamentary language on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in a bid to tarnish the image of the State. Participating in the ‘Janaagraha Deeksha’ launched by the women wing of the YSRCP in Ramachandrapuram in East Godavari district on Friday, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna appealed to the TDP leaders not to instigate the YSRCP supporters with baseless allegations on various issues. “TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu is creating hurdles for the smooth governance in the State by encouraging his supporters to spread flasehood against the government. The verbal attack by TDP spokesperson K. Pattabhi Ram on the Chief Minister triggered tension in the State,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna. He warned of a strong retaliation if the TDP leaders continued to create disturbances or spread falsehood against the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/verbal-attack-on-cm-tarnished-image-of-state/article37134923.ece
23 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Energy-efficient houses focus of meet||Energy-efficient housing was the focus of a high-level meeting conducted jointly by the Indo-Swiss Building Energy Efficiency Project (BEEP) and A.P. State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) here on Friday. Special Chief Secretary (Housing) Ajay Jain, who participated in the meeting via video-conference, emphasised on the need to create awareness on ‘Energy Conservation Building Code - Residential Buildings’ or Eco-Niwas Samhitha (ENS), even as the State government was preparing to implement global energy efficiency practices in 28.3 lakh houses on a voluntary basis. Mr. Jain said that there was a pertinent need for this intervention with residential buildings becoming the largest end-user of electricity accounting for 38% of the country’s total consumption and 28% in the State. Indo-Swiss BEEP would offer technical support to reduce temperature inside the houses at Jagananna Colonies, thus reducing energy consumption and carbon emissions. Action plan soon MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha announced the implementation of energy efficiency measures and hinted at an action plan being drafted by taking future requirements into account. “We will make Tirupati the most energy-efficient corporation in the country by exploring world-class technologies,” he said. Joint Collector (Housing) S. Venkateswar said that ENS was an option for stakeholders and not mandatory. AP Southern Discom Chairman and Managing Director H. Haranath Rao said that Discoms would be keen on going for clean energy, given the declining prices in the installation of a solar plant over that of a thermal plant. Dwelling on the massive training programme mooted for the 13,000 engineers of village/ward secretariats on energy efficiency measures, Sameer Maithel, head of project management and technical unit at Indo-Swiss BEEP, said that Andhra Pradesh was next only to Gujarat and Rajasthan in implementing ENS. SECM Chief Executive Officer A. Chandrasekhar Reddy took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/energy-efficient-houses-focus-of-high-level-meet/article37134887.ece
23 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cadets prove their mettle in firing||NCC cadets from across Andhra Pradesh and Telangana wielded the rifle and proved their mettle in firing at the Inter Group Competitions conducted for selecting participants for the Republic Day Celebrations in New Delhi. With the AP&T Directorate at Secunderabad choosing Tirupati as the venue for the first time ever, 360 cadets are slogging it out in the various competitions for the last four days. As many as 54 best-performing cadets, drawn at the rate of six from each of the nine groups, attended the range firing competition, where the shooting distance was set at 75 feet on the target of 1x1 dimension. The cadets used 0.22 inch calibre rifle for the competition. Colonel Prem Kumar, officer in-charge, found the zeal of the participating cadets as unprecedented. “The entire Tirupati group is excited to see how the cadets from this group will perform”, he said. A team of officers from the directorate led by Col. Vivek Sheel is here to evaluate the performance of the cadets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ncc-cadets-prove-their-mettle-in-firing/article37134886.ece
23 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIT-T ties up with IT firm||Exafluence, a Tirupati-based IT firm, has tied up with Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati (IIT-T) for taking up modernisation on the theme ‘Towards comprehending COBOL programs through knowledge graphs’. “The young team is building platforms and solutions led by the global innovations team”, announced Exafluence chief executive officer Ravikiran Dharmavaram at a programme held here on Friday to formalise the pact. IIT Tirupati Director K.N. Satyanarayana said he was looking forward to signing more such pacts. Sridhar Chimalakonda from IIT-T and S. Karthikeyan from Exafluence will jointly execute the project, which involves handling a problem statement and developing solutions by pursuing data-driven research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iit-t-ties-up-with-it-firm/article37134880.ece
23 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low-income groups to get energy-efficient houses||Special Chief Secretary (Housing) Ajay Jain on Friday said the government wanted to ensure use of world-class energy efficiency technologies in the houses being built for the low-income groups. Addressing a webinar on Eco-Niwas Samhitha (ENS) (Energy Conservation Building Code for Residential Buildings), jointly organised by the Building Energy Efficiency Project (BEEP) and the Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM), Mr. Jain said there was a need to create awareness on the ENS, as the State was gearing up to implement global energy efficiency practices in 28.3 lakh houses with the support of the Indo-Swiss Building Energy Efficiency Project. He said residential buildings would become the largest end-users of electricity in the country, accounting for 38 % of the total consumption. Of the total annual demand of 60943 MU for the 2021-22 financial year, the domestic sector alone consumed around 17,514 MU (28 %) per annum. Low carbon emission Mr. Jain said energy codes for new buildings were important and that the technical support of the ‘Indo-Swiss BEEP’ in implementation of the ENS in the Jagananna Colonies would help reduce the temperature inside the house, when compared to that of conventional houses and enhance thermal comfort (cooling) and substantially reduce energy consumption, besides reducing carbon emissions. Head of the technical unit, Indo-Swiss BEEP, Sameer Maithel said training was being imparted to 13,000 engineers in village and ward secretariats and that this was the first time in the country that such a massive training programme was being organised. APSPDCL Chairman and Managing Director H. Harnatha Rao, Tirupati Municipal Commissioner P.S. Girisha and others participated in the webinar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-income-groups-to-get-energy-efficient-houses/article37134998.ece
23 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State eager to secure CBSE affiliation to all government schools, says Education Minister||The Andhra Pradesh government has embarked on an ambitious task of securing the affiliation of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for all its 45,000-odd schools. As the process requires documentation of various aspects of a school, the government is wary of the challenges. Authorities sceptical As the total number of schools affiliated to the CBSE across the country does not exceed 25,000, the Central authorities are sceptical about aligning 45,000-odd schools of the State in one go. “They want us to maintain certain standards such as good school infrastructure, efficient teachers, and stipulated teacher-pupil ratio. We have promised them that we will fulfil all the criteria,” says Education Minister A. Suresh. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, at a recent review meeting, had directed officials of the Department of School Education to identify and address any shortfalls. ICSE another option If the schools are unable to comply with the long list of requirements of the CBSE, the government has an alternative. “We will opt for affiliation of the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE),” says Mr. Suresh, who is scheduled to meet Union Minister for Human Resource Development Dharmendra Pradhan in New Delhi next week. With a view to seeking the Centre’s approval for implementation of the CBSE syllabus in the State schools, Mr. Suresh will explain to the Union Minister the pre-primary education set-up in the State, introduction of English as the medium of instruction in every school and imparting training to teachers through bridge courses. “The government is determined to ensure that our students write the CBSE examinations in the academic year 2023-24,” says Mr. Suresh. Reforms initiated Claiming that the reforms ushered in the education sector have started taking shape, he points to the establishment of foundation schools, introduction of English medium, printing of bi-lingual textbooks, training to teachers, proposal to set up a university exclusively for teacher training, and conversion of all District Institutes for Education and Training (DIET) into teacher training institutions. To promote sports activities, the government plans to supply shoes and separate sports uniform to the students from next academic year, he says. “The Chief Minister is eager to put in place a reformed education system to suit the needs of the students who come from the sections that are below the poverty line,” he asserts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-keen-on-cbse-affiliation-for-all-government-schools/article37134401.ece
23 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3,062 KLU students land jobs||As many as 3,062 students of the Koneru Lakshmaiah Deemed University landed jobs in various multi-national companies in the campus recruitment drive, Vice-Chancellor Saradhi Varma has said. Speaking to the media on Friday, Dr. Varma said that about 90 companies took part in the campus selections for 52 days on the KLU campus at Vaddeswaram in Guntur district. Students of all streams took part in the placement drive. As many as 3,062 students received the offer letters, said Dean (Placements) N.B.V. Prasad. Director (Admissions) J. Srinivas Rao said that the university was committed to providing 100 % placements to its students, and training was being imparted to the students to make them ready for the job industry. The Vice-Chancellor said that the university was encouraging the students for launching startups with innovative ideas, and more than 1,000 students were doing internship in various firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3062-klu-students-land-jobs/article37134995.ece
23 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Finger of blame being pointed at A.P.: Lokesh||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has dared Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang to issue notices to the top police officials of other States for saying that Andhra Pradesh is the source of ganja. In a statement on Friday, Mr. Lokesh said, “The police and vigilance wings of many States have seized ganja that has its roots in Andhra Pradesh. The finger of blame is being pointed at Andhra Pradesh.” “Will the Chief Minister or the DGP take action against these police officers as well?” Mr. Lokesh questioned. Referring to the purported video clippings of the press conferences addressed by these police officials, the TDP leader said the investigating officers of Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh had made it clear that the ganja they seized was from Andhra Pradesh. “They (investigating officers) have provided proof of how ganja grown in Visakhapatnam and other areas is being smuggled into their cities and towns,” Mr. Lokesh said. “The Chief Minister and the DGP owe an explanation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/finger-of-blame-being-pointed-at-ap-lokesh/article37134901.ece
23 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Maha padayatra’ to mark second anniversary of Amaravati agitation||Leaders of the Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi and the Amaravati Joint Action Committee (JAC) propose to embark on a ‘maha padayatra’ on November 1, in support of their demand that the YSRCP government drops its plan to shift the capital out of Amaravati, to Visakhapatnam, and allow Amaravati to continue as “the single and only capital of the State.” The 45-day padayatra will culminate in a public meeting on December 17 in Tirupati, marking the completion of two years of the Amaravati agitation. To mobilise people in the villages located in the ‘core capital’ region of Amaravati, the JAC has been conducting ‘praja chaitanya yatra’ for the last five days, explaining to the residents the significance of the issue and the need to take active part in the proposed protest. JSP support sought On Friday, the leaders met Jana Sena Party’s Political Affairs Committee chairman Nadendla Manohar seeking the support of party president Pawan Kalyan to the proposed agitation. The team, comprising samithi convener A. Siva Reddy, general secretary Tirupati Rao, JAC secretary B. Ramesh and members K. Satish and Sridhar, explained to Mr. Manohar that the yatra would start at Thulluru and reach Tirumala, where the public meeting would be organised. Mr. Manohar wished the leaders ll success in their endeavour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-protesters-set-for-long-march/article37134402.ece
23 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DPS chairman passes away||Chairman of Delhi Public School, Vijayawada, Parimi Hanumantha Rao died on Friday at his residence in Nidamanuru. He was 80 and is survived by sons Narendra Babu and Koteswara Rao and daughter Usha Rani. Born on March 15 in 1942, he served people in various capacities. He was the former sarpanch of Nidamanuru and later worked as the chairman of Gollapudi market yard. As chairman of DPS, Vijayawada, he made a distinguished effort to provide quality education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dps-chairman-passes-away/article37134997.ece
23 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC to conduct CPT from Oct. 28||The APPSC will conduct the Computer Proficiency Test (CPT) from October 28 to 30 for certain employees of village/ward secretariat, i.e. Panchayat Secretary Grade-V in Panchayat Raj Department, VRO Grade-II and VRO Grade-I in Revenue Department, and employees appointed on compassionate grounds in all HoDs/Directorates/AP Secretariat after May 12, 2014, and Compassionate VROs / in service VRA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appsc-to-conduct-cpt-from-oct-28/article37134448.ece
23 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awareness drive on drugs to be held at colleges soon||The Krishna district police, in association with Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), will conduct anti-drug awareness drive in educational institutions, said Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal. Speaking at the district comprehensive performance review meeting with the Deputy Superintendents of Police and Station House Officers (SHOs) here on Friday, he directed them to focus on checking ganja smuggling, cyber crime, women safety and on petitions filed in Spandana programmes. Stating that security had been tightened along the National Highway to check ganja smuggling, Mr. Kaushal instructed the DSPs to step up vigil and keep a tab on the movements of ganja peddlers and consumers. Later, speaking to newsmen, the SP said that security at border check posts had been tightened to check smuggling of Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) from Telangana. Steps had been taken to control organised smuggling rackets in the district, he said. 1,086 petitions Of the 1,086 petitions received during Spandana programme, 870 were solved and most of the petitions were related to family, land and financial disputes, he said. Issues related to working conditions of the police personnel, challenges and petitions received during internal Spandana were also reviewed, Mr. Kaushal said.Officers of IT core team, Disha women police and other wings participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/awareness-drive-on-drugs-to-be-held-at-colleges-soon/article37134881.ece
23 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two, including bank manager, arrested in FDR scam||The Central Crime Station (CCS) police arrested two persons, including a bank manager, in Fixed Deposit Receipt (FDR) scam in two banks. The arrested were identified as G. Sandeep Kumar, former manager of Indian Overseas Bank (IOB), Bhavanipuram branch, and P. Yohan Raju, resident of Chittinagar, Vijayawada. Disclosing this to the newsmen here on Friday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) V. Harshanvardhan Raju said following complaints by AP State Warehousing Corporation and AP Cooperative Oil Seed Growers Federation Limited about alleged swindling of FDRs, valued about Rs. 14.6 crore, Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu directed the CCS police to investigate the scam. During investigation, it was found that the Telugu Academy scam, in which Rs. 64 crore was swindled, was allegedly having links to the FDR scam, and special teams were constituted to trace and nab the accused, said CCS Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) K. Srinivas. Links with Telugu Academy scam “We identified that eight more accused involved in Telugu Academy scam were involved in the cases booked in Vijayawada,” the DCP said. Police recovered Rs. .11.60 lakh from the two accused and Rs. 77.74 lakh was freezon in the bank accounts, Mr. Raju added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-including-bank-manager-arrested-in-fdr-scam/article37134993.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ready to quit Minister post if Naidu proves his allegations, says Muttamsetti||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Friday threw an open challenge to Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N Chandrababu Naidu that he would quit his Minister post and leave politics, if the TDP proves the allegations of ganja and other drug trade by the YSR Congress Party in the State. Mr. Srinivasa Rao questioned if Mr. Naidu would leave politics if he failed to prove so. The Minister was addressing ‘Janaagraha Deeksha’ on the second day in Bheemili constituency here. The protests were being organised at all areas against the TDP, over the derogatory comments made by party spokesperson K. Pattabhiram against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He alleged that Mr. Naidu is trying create unrest in the State as his party was losing existence. The Minister alleged that he was provoking the TDP leaders to make derogatory remarks against the Chief Minister. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that if Mr. Naidu continued with such behaviour the TDP would not get even three seats in the next Assembly elections. Women and Child Welfare Minister T. Vanitha said that the TDP is not able to digest the welfare schemes being implemented by the YSRCP government and is trying to create unrest in the State. She demanded an apology from Mr. Naidu to Chief Minister over the comments made by Mr. Pattabhiram. Activists of the YSR Congress Party continued ‘Janaagraha Deeksha’ on the second day at various places here in Visakhapatnam district on Friday. Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana and Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ready-to-quit-if-naidu-proves-his-allegations-says-muttamsetti/article37135002.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tamil Nadu man on a mission to promote cycling||‘Take a cycle... make a tour’ is the message that this cyclist from Salem, Tamil Nadu, has been spreading, ever since he has been criss-crossing the country since 2001. Rase Rajan, who holds a diploma in mechanical engineering, is a native of Salem and in 2001, he took the decision to do something to better the environment. “After working for a few years as teacher and media consultant, I quit the job and took up cycling. I have covered all States and have cycled to Ladakh from Salem, three times so far,” he said. Though he has lost count of how many kilometre he would have cycled, he says that it could be around three lakhs. “Since 2020 to till date, I have cycled around 42,000 km, covering the States in southern and central India,” he said. His idea is simple and wants to promote the use of cycle. “By using cycle one can not only stay healthy but also bring down the use of fossil fuel and reduce the carbon footprints. Cycling is also economic,” he says. “As I pass through the cities, towns and villages, I visit schools, colleges, associations and even try to address the people at village squares, and try to promote the use of cycles,” he says. To schoolchildren, I tell them to ask their parents to use cycles for small tours and picnics, so that it could be the beginning. My motto is simple, use cycles, save petrol and save nature,” he says. On Friday, he was in Visakhapatnam and was cycling from the steel city to Salem. According to him, he has travelled across many States since he began his cycling expedition in 2001. But every time he visits a State, he takes a different route. “By doing so, I can reach more number of people,” he says. “Many people with whom I come in contact with, keep in touch. And my goal is achieved when they say that they have taken up cycling to do most of their work,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tamil-nadu-man-on-a-mission-to-promote-cycling/article37134931.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Velagapudi and Ayyanna are into drug trade: Vijaya Sai||YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has alleged that senior TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu and TDP legislator representing Visakhapatnam East Assembly constituency Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu have earned huge amounts of money by transporting drugs worth nearly Rs. 500 crore to cities such as Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Mumbai. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy was speaking at the ‘Janaagraha deeksha’ organised by the YSRCP at the Gurudwara junction here on Friday. Alleging the involvement of Koya Praveen, former Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam Rural, in the drugs trade, the YSRCP leader said, “The police officer had helped the TDP leaders in the smuggling activity.” “If the three of them are taken into custody and interrogated, many facts will come to light,” he said. Lashing out at TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, he said, “Mr. Naidu has sent proposals to the BJP leadership expressing his willingness to merge the TDP with the saffron party if the situation worsens in the State.” The TDP leaders were fomenting unrest in the State as they had lost all the elections after the YSRCP came to power in 2019, he said. Speaking about Mr. Naidu’s scheduled visit to New Delhi on Saturday, Mr Vijaya Sai Reddy said that it was the TDP president who had spoken bad about Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP after coming out of the alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/velagapudi-and-ayyanna-are-into-drug-trade-vijaya-sai/article37134904.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 kg of hashish oil, 1,720 kg ganja seized||The district police arrested two persons while they were allegedly transporting 1,720 kg dry ganja at Gabbada area under Narsipatnam (Rural) police station limits on Thursday night. The accused were identified as Rajendra and Ravi, from Duppalapadu panchayat in G.K Veedhi mandal. Police said that the smugglers were heading towards Tuni in East Godavari from the Agency areas, from where the ganja was likely to be shifted to some other place. In another case, about 10 kg of hashish oil also known as liquid ganja, was seized while being transported by three persons at Golugonda in Visakhapatnam district on Friday. The seized hash oil is estimated to be worth Rs. 10 lakh. The accused were identified as P. Siva (31), K. Koteswara Rao (19) and G. Mahesh (19), all hailing from Chintapalle mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-kg-of-hashish-oil-1720-kg-ganja-seized/article37135007.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP stages candlelight protest||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) leaders staged a candlelight demonstration at the party district office here on Friday to extend solidarity with the 36-hour-long fast undertaken by their party president Nara Chandrababu Naidu protesting against the alleged attack on the party central offices across the State by the YSRCP supporters. Speaking on the occasion, TDP Parliamentary constituency urban president Palla Srinivasa Rao alleged that the DGP was not taking action against the perpetrators and was acting like a member of the YSRCP. He demanded action against the YSRCP leaders for attacking the party office. TDP floor leader in GVMC council Peela Srinivasa Rao said the police should take action against MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana for using unparliamentary language against the TDP leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-stages-candlelight-protest/article37135008.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rail users’ committee seeks construction of additional platforms||Members of the Divisional Rail Users’ Consultative Committee (DRUCC) of Waltair Divison of East Coast Railway (E Co R) have sought among other things improvement of amenities and construction of additional platforms at the Visakhapatnam Railway Station to prevent detention of trains at the outer signal, at the DRUCC meeting held here on Friday. Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy, who is also chairman of DRUCC, welcomed the participants. A total of 20 DRUCC members, ADRM (infra) Sudhir Kumar Gupta, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi, who is also DRUCC secretary, and Divisional Branch officers attended the meeting. Consumer Rights activist Kandregula Venkata Ramana, who attended the meeting, said that the railway officials had said that the proposal for construction of additional platforms was pending and the DRM appeared convinced on the demand. The DRUCC members also opposed the collection of additional fares after regular trains were converted into ‘specials’ during the pandemic. They should be made regular trains as the incidence of COVID-19 has declined. The railway officials said that a decision on it had to be taken at the Railway Board level. He insisted that a proposal, based on the demand of the committee be made and sent to the Railway Board for its consideration. The DRM assured the members that necessary action would be taken as per the provisions and limitations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rail-users-committee-seeks-construction-of-additional-platforms/article37135013.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Broad consensus reached at NJCS meet||A Memorandum of Agreement was arrived at between representatives of Workers and Management in the National Joint Committee for the Steel Industry (NJCS) meeting in New Delhi on Friday. A broad consensus has been arrived by both parties though the detailed Memorandum of Agreement would be worked out and signed subsequently, according to a statement issued here on Friday. The M o U shall cover all the regular workers on the rolls of SAIL and RINL as on December 31, 2016, and continued to be on the rolls as on January 1, 2017. The agreement would be valid for 10 years with effect from January 1, 2017. A Fitment benefit @ 13% pf basic + DA would be extended to the workers covered by the M o U. 100% DA neutralisation would be linked to AICPI 277.33 as on January 1, 2017 (Base 2000 = 100). Other provisions of DA would remain unchanged. The concept of variable perks and allowances would be adopted with effect from date of approval of government and would be 26.5% of Basic Pay subject to certain conditions. The amount of arrears shall be paid in a single instalment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/broad-consensus-reached-at-njcs-meet/article37135014.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blood donation camp held||A mega ‘Blood donation camp’ was conducted by the Eastern Fleet onboard INS Shakti on Friday as part of the upcoming Navy Week 2021 celebrations. The blood donation camp, conducted in collaboration with NTR Trust Blood Bank, Visakhapatnam, and INHS Kalyani, was inaugurated by Cmde Manav Sehgal, Fleet Operations Officer. In all, 260 armed forces personnel, Defence Civilians and family members, donated blood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blood-donation-camp-held/article37135009.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo to hold competition on recycling tomorrow||On the occasion of International Day of Climate Action 2021 on October 24, the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) is going to organise a competition on recycling ‘Regard before you discard – Best out of Waste’ at Bioscope on the zoo premises, from 10 a.m.. Zoo Curator Nandani Salaria said that there is a need to have an innovative approach to get rid of wastes. Recycling and reusing waste material can result in development of fantastic products, she said. Students will be divided into three categories — Class I to V, VI to X, Intermediate and above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-to-hold-competition-on-recycling-tomorrow/article37134918.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vendor interface meet held at VSP||A vendor interface meeting was conducted by the RINL-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant at at the plant premises on Friday for direct interaction with all the ferro alloys suppliers and to understand the market scenario and the constraints being faced by them. Presiding over the meeting, D.K. Mohanty, Director (Commercial), impressed upon all the ferro alloys manufacturers to participate in all upcoming tenders. He also informed all the manufacturers about the necessity to enlist in the GeM portal as RINL-VSP procurement of ferro alloys was being done through the portal only. The suppliers shared their view and some of the MSE suppliers also showed interest in the supply of ferro alloys. Material Management (MM) Department officials explained to MSEs about the various benefits being extended by the RINL-VSP and guided them to participate in the future tenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vendor-interface-meet-held-at-vsp/article37135011.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City hospital completes 52 BMTs||The parents of a number of children, who were successfully treated through Bone Marrow Transplantation (BMT) for childhood cancers like lymphoma and leukaemia, and blood disorders like aplastic anaemia, were all smiles . They were all invited by the Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital and Research Institute (MGCHRI) to its BMT unit at Health City, Arilova, on Friday to participate in the ‘celebration of life.’ Rambabu, a private company employee, and his wife, lost hope on their daughter when she was diagnosed with leukaemia. Tashvika (2) had stopped eating and on approaching a paediatrician, he referred her to MGCHRI. “Our daughter is healthy after the BMT procedure and eight chemotherapy cycles. She was discharged a week ago after being under treatment for 25 days,” says Rambabu. Rakesh Reddy, Chief Medical Oncologist of the hospital, said 52 BMTs were performed after the unit was started three years ago. BMT was a curative treatment for blood cancers. He said there were several myths among the general public on stem cell transplantation. It was only a medical procedure and not a surgical one. The stem cells would be drawn from the donor’s blood with a syringe. “It is a very safe procedure, he said. Oncologists Chandrasekhar and Veni Prasanna also spoke. Murali KrishnaVoonna, MD of MGCHRI, thanked the government for including BMT under Aarogyasri. The hospital was also providing support through charity organisations and stakeholders like Shreya Cancer Foundation and crowd funding organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-hospital-completes-52-bone-marrow-transplantations/article37134934.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Reliability Engineering’ course conducted||The Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL) on Friday conducted a short-term course on ‘Reliability Engineering’ in association with the Institution of Quality and Reliability (IQR), Pune. ‘NSTL Quality Policy’ was also released by Samir V Kamat, Distinguished Scientist and Director General (Naval Systems & Materials), in the presence of Rear Admiral Ranjit Singh, Director, Directorate Quality, Reliability & Safety (DQRS) DRDO. Y. Sreenivas Rao Outstanding Scientist & Director NSTL, and Hemant Urdhwareshe, Principal Consultant and Director IQR, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reliability-engineering-course-conducted/article37135012.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Welfare Day observed||Deputy Inspector General (DIG – Visakha Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao received representations from families as well as police personnel as part of Police Welfare Day at his camp office here on Friday. He received 11 representations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-welfare-day-observed/article37135015.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||20 COVID-19 cases in district||Forty-three persons recovered from the coronavirus in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning. Twenty new COVID-19 cases were recorded in the same period taking the cumulative tally of cases to 1,57,942. No COVID-19 death was reported from the district and the death toll stands unchanged at 1,094. The number of recoveries rose to 1,56,079 and active cases stand at 769.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/20-covid-19-cases-in-district/article37135006.ece
23 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP: PM saved nation from first, second wave of COVID||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Parliamentary district president Raveendra Medapati has said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has saved the nation from the first and second wave of COVID-19 and placed India on par with developed nations by ensuring vaccination of 100 crore people till Thursday. He said that the target of the Union government was to vaccinate one crore people a day, hereafter, to complete coverage of the remaining population. He thanked the Prime Minister, doctors and medical and health workers as India completed the vaccination of 100 crore people. He also called upon the people to voluntarily get themselves vaccinated. Oxygen plants have been set up in all the districts, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-pm-saved-nation-from-first-second-wave-of-covid/article37135010.ece
23 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA demands apology from Naidu||Srungavarapukota MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao on Friday said that the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu should tender an apology for ‘allowing his party leaders to make derogatory remarks against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Participating in the ‘Janaagraha Deeksha’ organised in Kothavalasa of Vizianagaram district, he said that it was the responsibility for every individual to respect the post of Chief Minister irrespective of the political ideology. “Instead of tendering an apology, Mr. Naidu is diverting the people’s attention with his protest,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-demands-apology-from-naidu/article37134927.ece
23 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leaders take out rally against attack on party offices||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders staged protests and took out rallies in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts on Friday, expressing solidarity to the party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu who is on a 36-hour protest in Amaravati. Former MLC Dwarapu Reddi Jagadish, former director of North Andhra TDP Training Programme and leader Kalisetti Appala Naidu and others met Mr. Naidu in Amaravati on Friday. Mr. Appala Naidu handed over a cheque for Rs. 50,000 for the renovation of TDP headquarters which was damaged in the attack a days ago. Srikakulam former MLA Gunda Lakshmi Devi took part in a protest at the TDP district office. She said that such attacks on the political party office had never been witnessed in the State. She sought decency in politics and recalled the contribution of the TDP in the development of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leaders-take-out-rally-against-attack-on-party-offices/article37134929.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another tourist pull||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-tourist-pull/article37134933.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bumper catch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bumper-catch/article37135001.ece
23 October 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Coal miners petition Chief Minister||The INTUC-affiliated Singareni Coal Mines Labour Union urged Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to prevail upon the Central government to remove the four coal blocks in the State from the list of commercial coal mine auction and allow the State-owned Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) to excavate coal from these coal blocks. In a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister, INTUC secretary general B Janak Prasad said the Central government has put up Kothagudem Block-3, Sattupalli Block-3, Kalyani Khani Block-6 and Sravanapalli Block in the auction list on October 14 this year. These four coal blocks were earlier allowed to be operated by the SCCL, he said, adding that the Centre’s move is detrimental to the very existence of the more than 130-year-old public sector coal mining company. “If this trend of the Central government, which is trying to privatise the SCCL is allowed to be continued, it will surely be a big blow not only to the SCCL but to thousands of unemployed youths of Telangana and also the growth of the State,” he said. It will further lead to frustration among unemployed youth and will drive them to take the path of agitations and anti-social activities with serious consequences, he added. Referring to the history of the SCCL, he said the company is making rapid strides in coal production, transportation and various other allied spheres. The State government has 51% of share capital in the SCCL, he noted, recalling the reported statement made by the Chief Minister during his visit to coal belt areas in the past that he will not allow privatisation of the SCCL and, if necessary, pay the share capital value to the Central government to enable the State government takeover the company. Mr Janak Prasad further urged the Chief Minister to convene a meeting with all the five national trade unions, TBGKS, Coal Mines Officers Association of the SCCL and the management of the company to take up the matter with the Central government to ensure removal of the four coal blocks from the auction list and allow the SCCL to undertake coal mining activities in the four coal blocks. He noted that the SCCL has already spent crores of rupees on these four coal blocks to take up coal mining operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/coal-miners-petition-chief-minister/article37134946.ece
23 October 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||POCSO case booked||The Kothagudem one-town police have booked a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against M Krishna Reddy, a retired employee, for allegedly subjecting 19-year-old twin sisters, his relatives, to sexual abuse. The police registered a “Zero” FIR and then transferred the case to the Palvancha police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pocso-case-booked/article37134755.ece
23 October 2021||HUZURABAD (Karimnagar district),TELANGANA||Huzurabad bypoll campaign reaches peak||Campaign for Huzurabad bypoll reached peak on Friday with star campaigners of main political parties making whirlwind tours of different villages in five mandals of the constituency. With only five days left to draw curtains on the campaign, candidates convened roadshows from Huzurabad town to remote parts of the constituency. Congress nominee Balmoor Venkat Narsing Rao began his campaign at 7 a.m. by meeting youngsters working out in a gym at Jammikunta. “Youth is my religion, wiping out unemployment is my goal, give me an opportunity,” he appealed to people at a roadshow in Sriramulapally of Ellandakunta mandal. Later, Nalgonda MP Uttam Kumar Reddy canvassed door-to-door in Bhoojunuru, Rachapalli, Mallannapalli and Vanthadupula villages. Congress leaders V. Hanumantha Rao and MLC T. Jeevan Reddy also held roadshow in other parts of the constituency. For BJP also, it was a day of star campaigners. Along with Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G. Kishen Reddy, who participated in the bypoll campaign for the first time, Nizmabad MP Dharmapuri Aravind, Dubbaka MLA Raghunandan Rao, BJP national vice-president D.K. Aruna and BJP State president Bandi Sanjay convened roadshow at several villages. Ministers T. Harish Rao and Gangula Kamalakar, former MP Vinod Rao and TRS leader P. Kaushik Reddy went around the constituency, exhorting people to vote for TRS candidate Gellu Srinivas Yadav. Both BJP and TRS leaders made allegations and counter-chages against each other. BJP leaders and their candidate Eatala Rajender reiterated that the contest waas between KCR’s arrogance and the pride of Huzurabad voters. “Rajender is for the poor and the needy while KCR is protecting interests of the powerful and the rich. Whom should we poor people support other than Rajender?”. At every meeting, the BJP leaders and Mr. Rajender repeatedly tried to drive the point home that majority of the funds claimed to have been spent by the State government were actually released by the Central government. Ministers Harish Rao and Kamalakar said that Rajender quit TRS, having enjoyed the fruits of his association with the party. “Rajender could not ensure proper roads were laid in Huzurabad and is seeking votes despite his poor performance,” they said at a roadshow in the evening at Huzurabad town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/huzurabad-bypoll-campaign-reaches-peak/article37134744.ece
23 October 2021||HUZURABAD (Karimnagar district),TELANGANA||‘I will serve as doctor even after election’||A medico, 28-year-old Balmoor Venkat Narsing Rao is Congress candidate for Huzurabad by-poll. Born and brought up in Hyderabad, Venkat lost his father when he was in seventh standard. His mother, a housewife, looked after him. He pursued MBBS in Chalimeda Anand Rao medical college in Karimnagar and is presently on internship. His parents hailed from Tharupally of Kaalvasrirampur in Peddapalli district, adjacent to Huzurabad. His elder brother is into business. For this doctor in the making who would be attending on patients soon, agitating for people’s rights is another way of serving society. Describing himself as a ‘core Congressman’, Mr. Venkat says as student leader he strove to protect interests of youth and students. He got elected as present of the National Students Union of India (NSUI), Congress party’s student wing. After serving as its national secretary, he is elected for the second term as its State president and continues to head it.   Both TRS and BJP combined is my opponent because they are one and the same though they project themselves to be rivals. Ruling TRS party launches Dalit Bandhu. BJP which is in power at Centre and has indirect control over Election Commission got Dalit Bandhu stopped. And both cry foul of each other. If Dalit Bandhu is stopped, why Rytu Bandhu should not be stopped. This is all political drama played by them with an internal understanding. Together, they want to confuse voters. Please note that TRS is supporting BJP on farmers’ bill issue which is opposed by Congress outright.   First, Kaushik is not core Congressman. Changing parties is common for him. He joined Congress from YSRCP. Kaushik joined Congress for ticket and left for a bait from TRS. Even after Kaushik was given ticket last time, I did not complain and remained loyal to him. In 2023 also, I will be Congress candidate from here.   Being MP of Karimnagar (under which Huzurabad assembly segment falls, how many funds did Bandi Sanjay get for Huzurabad? What issues related to Huzurabad did he raise in Parliament. When an MP cannot get funds, how can a MLA belonging to an opposition party secure more funds for constituency.   TRS nominee claims he fought for people. He is facing two cases which were registered before the State was formed. I am facing 23 cases all of which were registered after 2015 (after formation of Telangana State). It establishes how I am better when it comes to fighting for rights of people. Eatala Rajender resigned on ‘self-respect ground’ but not for double bed-room houses for people. It was for his selfish reasons. I am a people’s man. Soon after my internship completion, I will keep serving people as doctor irrespective my political career developments. I will open clinics in every mandal and extend free medical service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/i-will-serve-as-doctor-even-after-election/article37134747.ece
23 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGO’s Muski cheruvu bund plantation move opposed||In a classic case of the left hand not knowing what the right hand is doing, the Rangareddy district administration had issued permission to plant on a lake bund, a little ahead of the Irrigation department removing trees from another bund terming them harmful. Responding to a request by ‘Dhruvansh’, an NGO, Additional Collector, Rangareddy district Prateek Jain had, in August, issued permission for plantation of a total of 10,000 saplings on the bund of Muski cheruvu as part of the Haritha Haram programme. While the permission letter clearly stipulates that the plantation should be done in consultation with the Manikonda Municipal Commissioner and Irrigation authorities, the latter have had no clue about the plantation until alerted by Lubna Sarwat, from Save Our Urban Lakes (SOUL), who called the plantation unscientific. In her letters to the Special Chief Secretary, Irrigation, and the Chairman of the Lake Protection Committee, Ms. Sarwat raised several questions about the plantation, seeking to know if the existing encroachments have been removed from the lake, and if the water holding capacity of the lake has been restored. The letter questioned if the inflow and outflow channels of the lake have been restored to their carrying capacity, and if the plantation is scientifically approved as necessary to the lake. In the light of the NGO not following due procedure of consultation with Irrigation officials, and in the light of the FTL and buffer zones not demarcated on the ground, Ms. Sarwat urged the authorities to stop the plantation activity and proceed against Dhruvansh. Inquiries with the Irrigation officials revealed that there is no sanction of plantation on the lank bund. “We do not allow trees on the lake bund, as it will weaken the structure. Turfing, small plants and shrubs are allowed only on the outer slope of the bund, which has been done by Dhruvansh for Neknampur Lake,” shared an official pleading anonymity. It may be remembered that a fortnight ago, Irrigation department officials felled down several trees from the bund of Bam-Rukn-Ud-Daula lake in Rajendranagar, terming them dangerous to the bund stability. When sought her version, Madhulika Chowdary from Dhruvansh said they planted medicinal plants on the outer slope of the bund and were set to take up tree varieties on the bund starting Saturday. “Usually where the bund height does not exceed 1.5 metres, plantation is not advisable. But here, the maximum height of the bund is 10 metres, where plantation of tree varieties is not hazardous,” Ms. Choudary said, and claimed that she was in consultation with Irrigation department. Irrigation officials, however, said they will proceed against the plantation scheduled for Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ngos-muski-cheruvu-bund-plantation-move-opposed/article37134736.ece
23 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TRS, BJP have made the contest costliest’||TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud has alleged that both TRS and BJP have turned Huzurabad bypoll into the costliest election in the country’s history, pouring tonnes of money. Speaking to reporters here, he said such a costly election would not be seen even in the future and both BJP and the TRS would have to take responsibility for it. When TRS accuses Mr. Rajender of corruption it forgets that it happened when he was a Minister and wondered how they could escape from the responsibility. He said people should ask both parties why they should vote for them given the unfulfilled promises and rising prices. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had not fulfilled the promises he made to Dalits and other segments of society while the rising fuel prices had literally made life miserable for the common man. “Why should they get votes.” He said Congress candidate Venkat Balmuri was young and sincere in his fight against the anti-people policies of both governments and he had been the brand Ambassador of the unemployed youth with relentless fight on behalf of them. He deserved a chance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-bjp-have-made-the-contest-costliest/article37134749.ece
23 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nayini remembered||Rich tributes were paid to labour leader and former minister Nayini Narsimha Reddy, the first Home Minister of Telangana, on his first death anniversary on Friday. A commemorative meeting was organised at the Pingali Venktram Reddy hall in the Lower Tank Bund area here. Legislative Council pro-tem Chairman V. Bhupal Reddy, Ministers G. Jagadish Reddy (Energy), A. Indrakaran Reddy (Forests and Endowments) and V. Prashanth Reddy (Roads and Buildings), legislators R. Ravindra Naik (Devarakonda), M.S. Prabhakar Rao (Whip-Council), Legislature Secretary V. Narasimha Acharyulu and others participated in the commemorative meet and paid tributes to the late leader. Speaking at the commemorative meeting, Mr. Jagadish Reddy said Nayini had left his indelible mark on Hyderabad.  He waged a relentless fight for the rights of the labour community and also worked for the uplift of the poor in the city, the minister said adding that Nayini had led several struggles for the rights of labour community even before being elected to the Assembly. Mr. Prashanth Reddy said although Nayini was not present physically, his memories, were still fresh in the memory of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nayini-remembered/article37134754.ece
23 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IT industry encouraged to use public transport||A senior official of Telangana government on Friday urged IT/ITeS industry to collaborate with the government to promote use of public transport as reducing dependence on private vehicles is the way forward. While the government remains focused on infrastructure development and during the lockdown, had expedited many projects, especially new roads, increasing share of public transport was significant for Hyderabad and its ecosystem in the backdrop of rapid growth, said Special Chief Secretary to the Municipal Administration & Urban Development Department Arvind Kumar. Noting that one of the yardsticks to determine how developed a city is, is percentage of people using public transport, Mr. Kumar, who was speaking at the Infrastructure Summit 2021, organised by the Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA), said that in some European cities, it is 75%. In Mumbai, it is around 66%, Delhi 50% and Hyderabad 33%. Reducing dependence on private vehicles and driving gradual shift to public transport is an area of work on which industry can collaborate with the government. In doing so, the focus ought to be also on measures to improve the last mile connectivity and increasing share of electric vehicles, especially e-buses. On its part, the State government had unveiled a policy to encourage development of integrated townships, beyond Outer Ring Road, through a scheme of incentives on land parcels of over 100 acres. All encompassing, the townships are aimed at encouraging the walk-to-work concept. Two developers have since evinced interest in promoting such townships, including one on 480 acres. Kokapet, on the outskirts, was one of the locations for a greenfield township and in future “we expect about a million people will operate from there.” Special Chief Secretary to the Energy Department Sunil Sharma told the HYSEA Summit, which was focused on smart mobility, energy and workplace, that the State is comfortably placed on the energy front and untouched by the energy crisis triggered by a coal shortage recently. The government is committed to encourage renewable energy generation, specially solar power. Share of renewable energy at 4,445 MW in the 17,250 MW installed power capacity in Telangana is one of the highest in the country. CEO of Mahindra Electric Mobility Suman Mishra called upon the IT industry to augment capabilities around embedded system design and power electronics as that would help build better electric vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/it-industry-encouraged-to-use-public-transport/article37134732.ece
23 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NIT-W starts 3 M.Sc programmes||National Institute of Technology Warangal (NIT-W) is starting three new M.Sc. Programmes - Integrated M.Sc, Mathematics, Integrated M.Sc, Physics and Integrated M.Sc, Chemistry from the academic year 2021-2022 onwards, as part of the National Education Policy. Prof. D. Dinakar of the Department of Physics at NIT-W said that these are 5-year programmes and an M.Sc degree will be awarded in the concerned branch after five years. However, students have an option to exit after three years with a B.Sc degree based on the request subjected to passing all the courses in first three years and meeting the eligibility requirements. Students also have an option to exit with a B.Sc.(Honours) at the end of the fourth year if they meet the eligibility requirements. These programmes are unique in that they include engineering science core subjects, mandatory non-credit courses, Humanities and Social Science courses and term project in the 6th semester in addition to professional core courses and professional electives. Students will be trained in research and teaching. Admission to these programmes are through JOSAA based on JEE-2021 rank. The number of seats in each programme are 20 and out of these, 50% seats are reserved for Telangana State. Tuition fee is Rs. 10,000 per semester, Prof. Dinakar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nit-w-starts-3-msc-programmes/article37134740.ece
23 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB scientist on panel on ethical norms for DNA research||Chief scientist from the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and director of the DBT-Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics Dr. K. Thangaraj has joined a diverse set of 64 scholars from 31 countries actively involved in ‘ancient DNA’ research to come out with a set of ethical guidelines in an effort to circumvent differences across the world. These are: Abide by all regulations in places where they work and from which the human remains originate (since there cannot be one set of regulations for all), prepare a detailed plan prior to beginning any study, minimise damage to human remains, ensure data are made available following publication to allow critical re-examination of scientific findings, and engage with other (non-scientist) stakeholders and ensure respect and sensitivity to stakeholder perspectives. The guidelines have been published in the science journal ‘Nature’ (https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-021-04008-x). Other Indian co-authors of the paper are SPR Prasad of DBT-DNAFD, Arati Deshpande-Mukherjee and Veena Mushrif-Tripathy, Deccan College in Pune and Ganeshan Kumaresan at Madurai Kamaraj University in Tamil Nadu. Earlier, scholars had suggested that indigenous communities or local groups, who are descendants and stewards of the ancient remains, should decide whether and how research should go forward on these remains. This was because most writings on ancient DNA ethics came from scholars conscious of colonial exploitation of native American tribes by people of European descent, explained Dr. Thangaraj. But, this can be relevant for Africa with a legacy of ancient remains collected in unethical ways by colonisers and often sent abroad for research. “Here except for regions like the Andaman Islands, it is meaningless to discuss the concept of indigeneity as most populations have inter-bred with each other thousands of years back. Similarly, across the world, local communities do not relate or represent the ancient populations due to migrations, socio-political conflicts and other reasons,” said Dr. Thangaraj. The noted scientist observed that focus on ‘indigeneity’ can lead to divisiveness and conflict as it had happened in Europe, where scholars had worked for decades to deconstruct narratives that claim ownership of heritage by specific groups. This eventually found way to justify claims to territory in the Nazi period, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmb-scientist-on-panel-on-ethical-norms-for-dna-research/article37134729.ece
23 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Action plan for sewerage issues in peripheral municipalities of GHMC||A special action plan will be prepared towards resolution of sewerage related issues in the peripheral municipalities of GHMC in the coming three months, MD of HMWS&SB M. Dana Kishore said. During a review meeting with CGMs, GMs and other higher officials on Friday, Mr. Dana Kishore said that a total 729 hotspots have been identified in the said areas, where sewage overflows are frequent. He directed them for preparation of separate study reports for each hotspot so that targeted interventions may be planned. Efforts will be made to resolve maximum issues within the coming three months, he said. Where the sewerage lines are of insufficient diameter, proposals need to be prepared for bigger lines, he said. The water board has taken over the responsibility of sewerage maintenance in the peripheral municipalities starting from October 1. The Board has received a total of 6,684 complaints through various channels, of which 85% have been resolved, a press statement informed. Mr. Dana Kishore directed the officials to take measures to increase the rate of resolution to 95% in the coming month. Additionally, 91 workers, and 75 hydraulic silt grabber vehicles will be allotted for the municipalities, he assured on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/action-plan-for-sewerage-issues-in-peripheral-municipalities/article37134737.ece
23 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Modi taking credit for 100-crore vaccination’||Senior Congress leader and former Minister Ponnala Lakshmaiah has said that if the scientific community had followed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s direction to clap and display lights to fight corona, the country would not have achieved vaccination of 100 crore people. At a press conference here, he said unfortunately it was Mr. Modi taking the credit individually for the achievement of our scientists, pharma companies and health workers. He said during the Congress regime India achieved polio vaccination to all eligible people but the then Prime Ministers never claimed personal credit. He said on March 27, 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO ) declared India a polio free country and since then no cases of polio had been reported. In 1995, following the Global Polio Eradication Initiative of the World Health Organization, India launched the Universal Immunization Programme (UIP) to cover all the districts of the country. The UIP became a part of ongoing child survival and safe motherhood programme in 1992. This was during the Congress government. Manmohan Singh, during his Prime Ministership, didn't put posters of himself when a record 17 crore polio doses were given, he reminded and said Congress governments worked for people and not for self-promotion. He said 679 crore corona vaccines had been given across the world so far and 106 countries had vaccinated their entire population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/modi-taking-credit-for-100-crore-vaccination/article37134948.ece
23 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Techie found dead||A 48-year-old techie was found dead outside his apartment complex at PBEL City in the wee hours of Thursday. The victim, George Pradeep Joseph, worked as a manager at Hitachi Global, Gachibowli. Narsingi police said that he was in depression and was suspected to have jumped from his flat on the 16th floor of the residential complex. A case was registered and the body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy.  There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 in case of any emotional break down at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/techie-found-dead/article37134738.ece
23 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||193 test COVID positive in State, one dies||A total of 193 COVID cases and one death were reported in the State during the 24-hour period till 5.30 p.m. on Friday taking their cumulative total to 6,69,932 and 3,944, respectively. According to the Health bulletin, 196 patients were declared recovered on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 6,62,025. The active cases in the State were at 3,963, including 1,681 undergoing treatment in various government and private hospitals and another 2,282 staying in home and institutional isolation. GHMC records 64 cases GHMC continues to be the maximum contributor to the virus spread, as 64 positive cases were reported during the day followed by Karimnagar 20, Khammam and Rangareddy 14 each, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Jagityal, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Nalgonda and Hanmakonda nine each and Mancherial eight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/193-test-covid-positive-in-state-one-dies/article37134731.ece
23 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bathukamma at Burj Khalifa||State flower festival Bathukamma will feast the people of Dubai with the world’s largest screen on Burj Khalifa, showcasing it to the world on October 23. Telangana Jagruthi, led by MLC Kalvakuntla Kavitha, has made arrangements to play the Bathukamma documentary on the big screen for invited delegates and separately for local people. Ms. Kavitha, who will personally be present, said that Bathukamma has gone global, and this will be another effort to introduce the great culture of TS to the world. The documentary with A.R. Rahman’s recently-composed song will be shown on screen at 9.40 p.m. and 10.40 p.m. It will be telecast live from 9.30 p.m. across the world through various platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bathukamma-at-burj-khalifa/article37134734.ece
23 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC Judge sworn in||Justice Ujjal Bhuyan, who was recently transferred from the Bombay High Court, was sworn in as judge of Telangana High Court on Friday. Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma of the Telangana High Court administered the oath of office to Justice Ujjal Bhuyan at the First Court hall of the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-judge-sworn-in/article37134745.ece
23 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Committed to fulfilling ideals of Komaram Bheem’||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asserted that his Government is committed to fulfilling the ideals cherished by freedom fighter Komaram Bheem and has realized his dream of “my hamlet, my rule”. KCR recalled the services of Komaram Bheem on the occasion of his birth anniversary on Friday. The State Government had implemented several schemes for the welfare and development of tribals. The memorial that was dedicated to Komaram Bheem that was built at Jodeghat had been beautified, a tribal museum set up and his birth anniversary was being celebrated as a State function. In addition, the government had taken up construction of atma Gaurav (self-respect) Bhavan for tribals in the city of Hyderabad and construction of the building was nearing completion in all respects. Komaram Bheem’s slogan Jal, Jangal and Zameen (water, forest and land) was an integral part of statehood movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/committed-to-ideals-of-komaram-bheem/article37134748.ece
23 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea on filling key posts in anti-graft agencies||The Forum for Good Governance has urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to direct the State government to take steps to fill some of the key posts to check corruption that are lying vacant in the government. The FGG lamented that common people continue to suffer because of corruption as for any work, which was normally provided by law, they had to pay bribe because of corruption in administration. The Anti-Corruption Bureau registers case now and then but when the cases come to Secretariat, there would be manipulations that reduce the gravity of the case. FGG secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy, in a letter addressed to the Governor, reminded that there were key agencies like ACB, Vigilance and Enforcement director general, Tribunal for Disciplinary Proceedings and Vigilance Commission. But most of these organisations had no heads. The post of Director General of Vigilance and Enforcement had been handed over as additional charge while there was no tribunal for disciplinary proceedings since the formation of the State as a result of which hundreds of cases were gathering dust. The FGG said the existence of the Vigilance Commission had become irrelevant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-on-filling-key-posts-in-anti-graft-agencies/article37134947.ece
23 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||100% scholarship for poor girl students at Dhruva||Dhruva College of Management will provide 100% scholarship to girls and boys coming from economically and socially poor backgrounds. Details can be had on 040-30162000 or on www.dhruva.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/100-scholarship-for-poor-girl-students-at-dhruva/article37134728.ece
23 October 2021||khammam,TELANGANA||CT-VIEU systems at Khammam market yard||The Khammam Agricultural Market Committee (AMC) is all set to harness the sophisticated Conveyorized Vision Inspection (CT-VIEU) system developed by the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) for quality assaying of dry red chilli. The government has sanctioned three CT-VIEU systems, each costing around Rs. 15 lakh, to the Khammam AMC, housing the State’s second largest chilli market yard, for the benefit of chilli farmers. The three systems have been installed at the Rythu Rest House on the market yard premises and are expected to become operational soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ct-vieu-systems-at-khammam-market-yard/article37134950.ece
23 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Delay in procurement of paddy decried||Leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Friday criticised the State government for delaying paddy procurement process for the season. Although it was declared that procurement through IKP centres would begin from Monday, officials have remained silent as instructions from the top are yet to be signalled, they said. According to former legislator Julakanti Ranga Reddy, “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao loves temples, but not farmers. The farmers have been waiting with their heaps of produce out in the open almost for three weeks now.” Earlier, meeting farmers at the designated IKP centre at Arjalabavi on the town outskirts, Mr. Ranga Reddy said each farmer, for delay in procurement by the government, was incurring Rs. 800 labour charges towards maintenance of per acre of produce per day. At least 50% of farmers, who had grown paddy near agricultural wells and wet areas in the district, have been waiting with their produce, he said. District secretary M. Sudhakar Reddy pointed that the district administration had run close to 180 paddy procurement centres last year and said the same must be repeated now. The leaders demanded the State government to direct district administrations for immediate commencement of procurement, failing which the CPI (M) cadres would stage protests and demonstrations at the collectorates starting Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/delay-in-procurement-of-paddy-decried/article37134941.ece
23 October 2021||ZAHEERABAD (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Overhauling of plant begins at Trident Sugars||K. Mallikarjun is a farmer from Mamidigi in Nyalakal mandal. His family has some 20 acres out of which four acres was under sugarcane. Till last year not only Mallikarjun but several farmers like him were a worried lot as they were forced to transport their entire sugarcane to other places like Ganapati Sugars at Sangareddy and Gayatri Sugars at Kamareddy for crushing. Despite all odds the farmers here opt for cultivating sugarcane as they have been habituated to that for the past several decades apart from having the sugar mill at a reachable distance. Sugarcane is cultivated in some 20,000 acres here with an estimated output of about seven lakh metric tonnes of sugarcane. The cane farmers are in a happy mood as the Trident Sugars, located at Kottur on the outskirts of Zaheerabad, has restarted activity after several rounds of discussions with the officials. Even sugarcane farmers in this area had staged protests at least on two occasions in the recent past demanding that the government take steps to reopen the factory, which was under lay off for about 14 months. Under normal circumstances the overhauling of a sugar factory to resume crushing takes about four months. But this time it is expected to be ready to take up crushing by November 25 and for that all arrangements are being put in place. As many as 85 employees were called to rejoin duties and some more ‘seasonal employees’ were expected to join duties by next week. Once functional, the factory is expected to crush about 4 lakh metric tonnes of sugarcane. The remaining would be transported to Ganapati Sugars at Sangareddy and Gayatri Sugars at Madgi and Kamareddy. “The overhauling process of factory has already started and we are expecting it to be complete by November 25. There will be not much problem even if it is delayed by another one or two weeks. Farmers to the extent of 4 lakh metric tonnes will be relieved from transporting their produce,” Assistant Cane Commissioner K. Rajasekhar told The Hindu.  The fair and remunerative price (FRP) offered at Ganapati Sugars stands at Rs. 3,092 per metric tonne followed by Rs. 3,117 at Gayatri (Madgi) and Rs. 3,227 at Gayatri Sugars in Kamareddy and farmers are expected to deliver sugarcane at the doorstep of the factory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/overhauling-of-plant-begins-at-trident-sugars/article37134945.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Natyam movie review: The dance is good, but the film needed a better script||A film that revolves around classical dance, produced by and starring a Kuchipudi dancer, attempts to draw a parallel between a contemporary story and a fictional tale dating back to pre-Independent India. A premise like that is unusual in contemporary Telugu cinema. Debut director Revanth Korukonda and dancer Sandhya Raju deserve appreciation for venturing into a territory not many would dare to. Sandhya leads from the front, accompanied by several actor-dancers, in this film that begins well but loses steam midway. The story unfolds in a fictional dance village called Natyam, which serves as a hat tip to the Kuchipudi village in Andhra Pradesh as well as dance-centric schools such as Kalakshetra that are mini universes unto themselves. Sithara (Sandhya Raju) grows up learning dance and is eager to prove herself to be worthy of a rangapravesam in the presence of her guru (Adithya Menon). She believes she is the chosen one to narrate the story of Kadambari, which her guru shared with her when she was a little girl. But she realises that its very presentation might challenge superstitious beliefs and hence invite trouble. The politics, drama and conflict points emerge gradually. The story of the dance village and its happenings are sometimes over-explained, but it’s possible to overlook it for a while thanks to the aesthetic temple village (filmed in Lepakshi and Hampi among other places) and the choreography of the opening ‘Nama Shivaya’ dance number. The synchronised moves by Sitara and Hari Babu (Kamal Kamaraju as the guru’s son) to Shravan Bharadwaj’s music set the stage for a narrative centred on dance. The outsider versus purist conflict emerges with the entry of Rohit (Rohit Behal), an urban-bred western dancer who comes to the village looking for a concept that he could use for an international dance contest. Considerable time is devoted to highlight Sithara’s scorn for Rohit, coupled with her naivete to not notice the true nature of Hari Babu. A few hooligans with political muscle are also thrown into this scene, and stand out like sore thumbs in an aesthetic setting. The plot has ample scope to explore the politics in this dance village, but the writing is not adequate to explore it well. A dreamy Radha-Krishna dance sequence, with adequate visual effects, changes Sitara’s life once and for all and the drama shifts to Hyderabad. Thereafter, the film loses steam. The opening up of Sitara’s world outside her village happens on expected lines, but the emerging romance between her and Rohit is barely explored.  Natyam is a brave attempt, but required a better script to make it the compelling drama.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)   Natyam  Cast: Sandhya Raju, Kamal Kamaraju  Direction: Revanth Korukonda  Music: Shravan Bharadwaj||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/natyam-movie-review-the-dance-is-good-but-the-film-needed-a-better-script/article37134742.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||For a sparkling festival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-a-sparkling-festival/article37134944.ece
23 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab Deputy CM, Amarinder in Twitter spat||Punjab’s Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Friday ordered an investigation to trace Aroosa Alam, a Pakistani journalist and friend of former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, and her links with the ISI. Soon after Mr. Randhawa’s announcement, Capt. Amarinder hit out, saying “So now you’re resorting to personal attacks @Sukhjinder_INC. One month after taking over this is all you have to show to the people. What happened to your tall promises on Bargari & drugs cases? Punjab is still waiting for your promised action.” “You were a minister in my cabinet @Sukhjinder_INC. Never heard you complain about Aroosa Alam. And she’d been coming for 16 years with due GoI clearances. Or are you alleging that both NDA and @INCIndia led UPA govts in this period connived with Pak ISI?” he added. The former Chief Minister said Punjab police has been put on a baseless probe at the cost of State’s safety. “What I’m worried about @Sukhjinder_INC is that instead of focusing on maintaining law & order at a time when terror threat is high and festivals are around the corner, you’ve put @DGPPunjabPolice on a baseless investigation at the cost of Punjab’s safety,” he said. Mr. Randhawa retorted on Twitter, saying Capt. Amarinder should not worry about law and order situation as the current government has not outsourced the Punjab govt to ‘anyone’. “By the way, sir @capt_amarinder why are you so perturbed over probe on Aroosa and ISI links? Who sponsored her visa and everything concerning her will be thoroughly probed. I do hope everyone concerned will co-operate with police in probe,” he said. Mr. Randhawa was one among Congress leaders, who had revolted against Capt. Amarinder, expressing “lack of faith in the leadership of the former Chief Minister in fulfilling the party’s 2017 Assembly election promises.” Counter reacting, Capt. Amarinder on Twitter, said “Perturbed? Have you ever seen me perturbed on any issue in all these years @Sukhjinder_INC ? In fact, you seem to be perturbed and confused, if your flip flops are any indication. Why don’t you make up your mind on this so-called probe against Aroosa Alam? As for who sponsored Aroosa’s visa, of course I did, for 16 years. And for your information, @Sukhjinder_INC , requests for such visas are sent by Indian HC to @MEAIndia , which gets them cleared by RAW & IB before approving. And that’s what happened in this case every time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/randhawa-amarinder-in-twitter-squabble/article37134635.ece
23 October 2021||Gurugram,||Protest against namaz spreads in Gurugram||The protests against offering of namaz in the open, which started at Gurugram’s Sector 47 a few weeks ago, spread to Sector 12A on Friday with a group of locals staging a demonstration against offering of Jumma Namaz . ‘Not designated place’ Led by advocate Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, the residents said the place where the namaz was being offered was not on the list of 30-odd designated places decided by the administration in 2018. They claimed that the vacant plot was a private property and the owner, staying outside Gurugram, was not aware of the use of his land for offering namaz . “Just as Hindus offer prayers in temples, Muslims too should offer Friday prayers in mosques and not in the open. Even the identity of these people offering namaz is not known and we fear that Rohingyas could infiltrate the area,” said Mr. Bhardwaj, spearheading the protests. ‘Not on regular basis’ He also alleged that the places designated by the administration were meant for offering namaz only once and not on regular basis. Mr. Bhardwaj, along with others, later gave a formal complaint to the police in this connection. Altaf Ahmad, representing the Muslim community in talks with the administration, said after weeks of disruption at Sector 47, a group of people led by Kulbhushan Bhardwaj disrupted Jumma Namaz at Sector 12A. He alleged that it was being done in a “planned and orchestrated manner” for the past several weeks. Similar disruptions were witnessed in March and April this year in few other localities of Gurugram, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/protest-against-namaz-spreads-in-gurugram/article37134649.ece
23 October 2021||Jaipur,||2nd phase of rural polls today||The second phase of polling for the Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti members in Alwar and Dholpur districts of Rajasthan will be held on Saturday, officials said. The polling will take place from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. State Election Commissioner P.S. Mehra said on Friday that 9.73 lakh voters would exercise their franchise in both the districts in the second phase. A total of 1,312 polling stations have been set up, he said. The elections are being conducted in three phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2nd-phase-of-rural-polls-today/article37134870.ece
23 October 2021||Mumbai,||Ananya Pandey quizzed for four hours by NCB||Bollywood actor Ananya Pandey appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau here for the second straight day on Friday and was questioned for nearly four hours in connection with her alleged WhatsApp chats with Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, arrested in a drugs case, NCB sources said. Called again on Monday Ananya Pandey has been again called by the NCB on Monday, a senior official of the central agency said. Her actor-father Chunky Pandey accompanied her to the NCB office as he had done on Thursday when she was questioned for the first time over chats linked to the case which relates to alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast early this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ananya-pandey-quizzed-for-four-hours-by-ncb/article37134869.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Threat of relocation looms large over Pak. Hindu refugees||A day after the Centre in an affidavit informed the Delhi High Court that the 200 Pakistani Hindu migrant families living in North Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar at the Delhi Jal Board Maidan are encroaching upon Defence land, the residents of the refugee camp are a worried lot. There is a palpable fear of being relocated, in addition to lack of basic amenities becoming a cause of concern. The migrants, all of whom have settled here from Hyderabad in Pakistan’s Sindh province, since the camp was set up in 2013, lament that they have been denied Indian citizenship till date.Now they fear that they will have nowhere to go unless the authorities assist them. ‘Alternative place’ “I didn’t know about the High Court order but if we are shifted out, I hope the authorities make an alternative arrangement for us...we also haven’t been given Indian citizenships. Had we got it, we would have been able to buy a flat somewhere and live independently...we are denied ration cards and have to pay for it,,” said Ramji, who migrated four years ago with his family of nine. The 53-year-old, who works as a construction worker, pointed towards the small bulb attached to a bamboo stick hanging from his thatched house and said: “There has been no power supply here since the camp was set up...some families who can afford have attached solar panels to their huts.” Ramji added the residents, through the village pradhan, have sent several requests to the authorities to provide electricity, but all in vain. “We have lived here for several years now, this is our home. We will feel sad if we are asked to leave,” he added. Fifty-five-year-old Ram Chandra, who settled here with his family of 22 eight years ago, said they somehow survive the harsh summer and winter months, but still consider the camp as their home and the residents as neighbours. “It’s in the hands of the authorities to resettle us... if they do not give another place, then it would be better to return to Pakistan,” Mr. Chandra said. For 34-year-old Ganga Das, who migrated four years ago, getting an Indian citizenship was an afterthought. “Out of the vast land in the Capital, can’t we be allowed to live here?” asked Das, who sells mobile covers for a living. Resting on a charpoy outside his hut, Dhanraj (45), who came here eight years ago, said the authorities should be responsible for giving them an alternative shelter. “We are somehow surviving...if the authorities start looking the other way and take away our homes, we will have no option but to kill ourselves here,” he said. ‘No civic amenities’ His wife, 45-year-old Meera, said the authorities can’t just say that the land is encroached upon and hence they should be deprived of basic amenities. “Several requests for electricity supply have fallen on deaf ears...can you imagine it’s been eight years since the camp was set up?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/threat-of-relocation-looms-large-over-pak-hindu-refugees/article37134873.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||It’s our home, where will we go, ask Pak. Hindu families staying in camp||As many as 200 Pakistani Hindu migrant families living in north Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar at the Delhi Jal Board Maidan are a worried lot. Living without basic amenities for over eight years, they are now facing a threat of displacement as the Centre, in an affidavit, has told the Delhi High Court that they are encroaching upon defence land. The migrants, all of whom moved here from Hyderabad in Pakistan’s Sindh province after the camp was set up in 2013, fear they will have nowhere to go unless the authorities assist them. “I didn’t know about the High Court order but if we are shifted out, I hope the authorities make an alternative arrangement for us. We haven’t been able to get our Indian citizenship; if we had, we would have been able to buy a flat somewhere and live independently,” said Ramji, who migrated four years ago along with his family of nine. Pointing towards a small bulb hanging from his thatched roof, the 55-year-old construction worker said: “There has been no supply of electricity here ever since the camp was set up... Some families who can afford the cost have attached solar panels to their huts to operate their electrical appliances.” Ramji added that the residents, through the village pradhan, have sent several requests to the authorities to facilitate electricity supply but all in vain. “We have lived here for several years now, this is our home... We will feel bad leaving it if we are told to. But I hope we are given a shelter,” he said. The Centre, while opposing the plea in the High Court seeking electricity supply to the camp, had specified that it had been consistently following up the “removal of unauthorised occupation/encroachment on defence land” with the district administration and the police. Hope of resettlement Living in the camp with his family of 22 members for eight years, 55-year-old Ram Chandra said despite the lack of amenities the camp has been his home and the residents are his neighbours. “It’s in the hands of the authorities to resettle us. I hope they will look at our plight and give us a better place to live. If not, then it would be a better option to return to Pakistan where we are already ostracised,” Chandra said. Sonari, 30, said the authorities cannot simply ask them to leave this place. “We have set up our livelihood here after fleeing discrimination we faced in Pakistan... We know no place other than this,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/its-our-home-where-will-we-go-ask-pak-hindu-families-staying-in-camp/article37134631.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI books Punjab-based company for bank fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked Pure Foods Limited and seven others, including a chartered accountant, for allegedly cheating the State Bank of India of Rs. 65.15 crore. Among the accused are six directors of the Punjab-based company, which is into the manufacturing of refined oils and hydrogenation of edible oils. According to the bank, the company was being provided credit facilities since 1995. However, the loan account later became irregular and was declared a non-performing asset in September 2009. As it turned out, the accused persons had disposed of three of the nine mortgaged properties during the currency of the credit facilities, without the bank’s knowledge. It is alleged that the company submitted forged documents to show inflated sales figures. Accounts were opened with other banks to siphon off sale proceeds. Over 50% of the proceeds was routed through one such account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cbi-books-punjab-based-company-for-bank-fraud/article37134646.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Capital records one COVID death||The Capital reported one death due to COVID-19 complications over 24 hours, pushing the toll to 25,091, according to a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Friday. Thirty-eight new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,39,526. A total of 55,909 tests were done in the day and the test positivity rate was 0.07%. There are 340 active cases in the city at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-records-one-covid-death/article37134632.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Mobile shop owner held, 11.15 quintals of firecrackers recovered||A 44-year-old man has been arrested from Rohini’s Sector 24 and 11.15 quintals of firecrackershave been seized from his possession, the police said on Friday. DCP (Rohini) Pranav Tayal identified the accused as Amit Mittal, a resident of Narela who runs a mobile shop. The police said they got a tip-off on Thursday regarding a stock of firecrackers and conducted a raid at Rohini Sector 24. “Mittal was in the process of unloading the firecrackers at his rented warehouse,” Mr. Tayal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mobile-shop-owner-held-1115-quintals-of-firecrackers-recovered/article37134633.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||58,406 seats out of 70K filled in DU||On the last day for Delhi University colleges to complete approvals under the third cut-off list the university said it had received 1,70,186 applications of which 58,406 applicants had secured their admission by paying the fees. A further 9,614 applications had been approved by the college principals and candidates had till October 23 to complete the fee payment process. According to the admission schedule, the fourth admission cut-off list will be declared on October 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/58406-seats-out-of-70k-filled-in-du/article37134648.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Ginger’s fullness rediscovered||The pandemic has been the reason for numerous delays, including for the launch of Hermès’s third women’s fragrance in their Twilly line. While the rest of the world has already gotten a whiff of its floral, spicy and woody notes, in India, the scent came in earlier this month. At the brand’s Mumbai store, a sensory experience awaited those who attended the launch. A magician, a painter, and some practical silk accessories (a Twilly neck scarf made into a face mask holder) awaited those in attendance, but the centerpiece, quite literally, was an expertly-wrapped giant bottle of perfume. ‘Not scent that makes the gender’ “Creating a fragrance from scratch or continuing an existing story is not the same exercise, but both are exciting," says Christine Nagel, Hermès’s in-house perfumer, about the newest scent. Paradoxically, it is perhaps a little more difficult to create a fragrance within an existing family because it involves respecting its spirit, structure and imaginary world while “adding your own signature”. In this case that meant using ginger — with its crispness and bite — to layer with peony and cedar. The perfume is aimed at women, but Nagel draws on history to explain why it fits in neatly with the current push towards genderless fashion. She explains, “I consider fragrances to be works of art, and as such they are aimed at all humanity. In Eastern and Indian cultures, rose or patchouli can be worn by men. It’s not the scent that makes the gender because a scent becomes masculine on a man’s skin and feminine on a woman’s skin. We just have to know how to dare, be bold, trust ourselves and try things out.” With freedom comes creativity And if asked to look ahead? “Looking to the future… if I had a dream, it would be to ban consumer tests and panels that have standardised and confined the world of fragrance,” is Nagel’s response. “If I had a dream, it would be to give all perfumers the freedom that Hermès gives me. It allows me to be bold, to take risks, to go where no one else can go.” She goes deeper and cites changes that are “also technological because new methods for extracting materials, new molecules and tools for understanding and analysing materials have also shaken up the way fragrance is designed”. As for the new fragrance, Nagel explains why she’s working with ginger, found in the original and first Twilly formulation, but now amped up and used for its unique candied scent. “I had not finished with [ginger] and wanted to reinvent it in a different style, because when I work on a material, I like to take it to its limits... I retained its burning heat while softening the texture to make it convey something different. I could compare this exercise to the work on the Brides de Gala scarf, the emblematic Hermès design that has been artistically reinterpreted ever since 1957,” she says. Priced at Rs. 11,500, Twilly Eau Ginger is available at the Hermès stores in Mumbai and New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gingers-fullness-rediscovered/article37134874.ece
23 October 2021||Baltimore,||‘U.S. will defend Taiwan against China’||The United States will defend Taiwan if China attacks it, President Joe Biden said, prompting a warning from Beijing on Friday that its determination to take back the democratic island should not be underestimated. China regards self-ruled Taiwan as its own territory and has vowed to one day seize the island, by force if needed. Beijing’s sabre-rattling has ramped up in recent years, exacerbating fears the island of 23 million people could become a major global flashpoint. At a CNN town hall, Mr. Biden was asked whether the U.S. would come to Taiwan’s defence if China invaded. “Yes,” he responded. “We have a commitment to that.” Mr. Biden’s statement was at odds with the long-held U.S. policy known as “strategic ambiguity”, where Washington helps build Taiwan’s defences but does not explicitly promise to come to the island’s help in the event of war. The policy is designed to deter a Chinese invasion and also discourage Taiwan from formally declaring independence — something Beijing regards as a red line. Mr. Biden’s comments were welcomed on Friday by Taiwan, which has pushed to bolster international alliances to protect itself from Beijing. “The U.S. government has demonstrated, through actual actions, their rock solid support for Taiwan,” Presidential Office spokesperson Xavier Chang said in a statement. But Beijing warned that Mr. Biden’s comments risked “damaging Sino-U.S. relations,” warning Washington on Friday to “act and speak cautiously on the Taiwan issue”. “China has no room for compromise on issues involving its core interests,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said at a regular press briefing. Later on Friday, The White House clarified that it was still guided by the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act, in which Congress required the United States to provide weaponry to “enable Taiwan to maintain sufficient self-defense capabilities”. No change of policy “The President was not announcing any change in our policy, and there is no change in our policy,” a White House spokesperson said. “We will uphold our commitment under the act to support Taiwan’s self-defence, and we will continue to oppose any unilateral changes in the status quo,” the spokesperson said. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, on a visit to NATO headquarters in Brussels, declined to discuss “hypotheticals” but said the United States “will continue to help Taiwan with the sorts of capabilities that it needs to defend itself”. Mr. Biden made a similar pledge in August during an interview with ABC , insisting that the U.S. would always defend key allies, including Taiwan, despite the withdrawal from Afghanistan in the face of the victorious Taliban. Mr. Biden said the U.S. made a “sacred commitment” to defend NATO allies in Canada and Europe and it’s the “same with Japan, same with South Korea, same with Taiwan.” The White House subsequently told reporters on both occasions that U.S. policy on Taiwan “has not changed.” China has ramped up economic, diplomatic and military pressure on Taiwan since the 2016 election of President Tsai Ing-wen, who views Taiwan as already sovereign and not part of “one China.” Military pressure has escalated in the last year with China sending waves of fighter jets and nuclear-capable bombers into Taiwan’s air defense zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-will-defend-taiwan-against-china/article37134003.ece
23 October 2021||Kabul,||Pakistan advises Taliban on gaining validation||Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi gave Afghanistan’s new Taliban rulers advise on Thursday on how to gain international recognition, during a visit to the neighbouring capital. The high-level talks came as the Taliban were confronted with a new crisis just over nine weeks into their rule, as an explosion brought down electric lines and cut off power to the capital Kabul, home to 4.6 million. The Taliban overthrew Afghanistan’s former U.S.-backed government in August and have since been trying to win backing and financial support for their Islamist regime. But there has also been friction between the neighbours in the first months of the new Afghan government, notably over air links and control of freight crossing the border. Meeting ministers “As a neighbour and as a well wisher and friend, I conveyed to them what sort of steps they could take to enhance their international acceptability,” Mr. Qureshi said after returning to Islamabad. Mr. Qureshi, who was joined by Pakistan's intelligence chief, said he met with the Taliban’s acting Prime Minister Hasan Akhund and most Cabinet members during his brief visit to Kabul on Thursday. They discussed forming a broader based government, respecting women’s rights and girls’ need for education and clamping down on international terrorist organisations. Taliban Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi called Mr. Qureshi’s visit a “very good interaction” during which trade and reopening of the borders was discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-advises-taliban-on-gaining-validation/article37134005.ece
23 October 2021||Washington DC,||U.S. House votes to hold Steve Bannon in contempt||The U.S. House of Representatives voted on Thursday to hold far-right Trump ally and adviser Steve Bannon in contempt for failing to comply with a subpoena requesting his deposition and documents in connection with the January 6 mob attack on the U.S. Capitol. The vote comes after a Democrat-led Select Committee looking into the attack unanimously approved the charges be placed before the House for consideration. The vote, which was split 229-202, largely along party lines, has become a litmus test for Republicans, separating the vast majority of them — who have stuck former President Donald Trump — and the few, who have said the January 6 attack on the Capitol , which sought to disrupt the election certification process, undermined democracy and transcended party politics. Nine Republicans voted to hold Mr. Bannon in contempt, including Liz Cheney of Wyoming, daughter of former Vice-President Dick Cheney and a critic of Mr. Trump . Addressing Republicans on Monday, Ms. Cheney, who is the Vice Chair of the Committee, said they knew in “their hearts” that what happened on January 6 was “profoundly wrong”. Next step The Department of Justice will now decide whether to bring the matter before a Grand Jury which will determine whether or not to bring criminal charges against Mr. Bannon. Penalties for defying a subpoena include a fine of up to $100,000 and imprisonment of up to one year. Biden’s position Attorney-General Merrick Garland said his Department would “make a decision consistent with the principles of prosecution”, the Associated Press reported. President Joe Biden has signalled his support for the prosecution of Mr. Bannon. Mr. Bannon, who hosts a podcast called War Room, told his listeners during a January 5 episode that “all hell” was going to break lose on January 6. The Democrat-led Select Committee had said Mr. Bannon spoke with Mr. Trump on December 30 and suggested he focus his efforts (to overturn the results of the election which Mr. Biden won) on January 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-house-votes-to-hold-steve-bannon-in-contempt/article37134009.ece
23 October 2021||United Nations,||43 countries call on China at UN to respect Uighur rights||Forty-three countries have called on China to “ensure full respect for the rule of law” for the Muslim Uighur community in Xinjiang, in a statement read at the United Nations on Thursday that sparked outrage from Beijing. The declaration, signed by the United States as well as several European and Asian member states and others, accused China of a litany of human rights violations against the Uighurs, including torture, forced sterilisation and forced disappearances. “We call on China to allow immediate, meaningful and unfettered access to Xinjiang for independent observers, including the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and her office,” the countries said in a joint statement, read at the United Nations by France. “We are particularly concerned about the situation in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region,” the statement continued, citing “credible” reports that “indicate the existence of a large network of ‘political reeducation’ camps where over a million people have been arbitrarily detained.” ‘Emancipating people’ Beijing has long denied accusations of ethnic cleansing against Uighurs and other Muslim Turkic people in Xinjiang, where experts have estimated that more than one million people are incarcerated in camps. Its ambassador to the United Nations Zhang Jun furiously denounced on Thursday what he termed the “lies” and “a plot to hurt China”. “Xinjiang enjoys development and the people are emancipating themselves every day and are proud of the progress made,” he said. Up for a friendly visit And while Mr. Zhang told media that China was willing to host a “friendly” visit to the region, he did not agree to an inquiry by the UN human rights commissioner. He accused Washington, Paris and London of having a “terrible human rights record.” Beijing accused the U.S. for “ethnic cleansing” against Native Americans and accused France of committing “crimes against humanity” in its former colonies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/43-countries-call-on-china-at-un-to-respect-uighur-rights/article37134000.ece
23 October 2021||Santa Fe,||Baldwin fires prop gun, kills woman on set||Alec Baldwin fired a prop gun on the set of a Western and killed the cinematographer in what the actor on Friday called a “tragic accident”. The director of the movie was wounded, and authorities were investigating. Halyna Hutchins, the cinematographer on Rust, and director Joel Souza were shot on Thursday in the desert on the outskirts of Santa Fe. No immediate charges were filed. “There are no words to convey my shock and sadness,” Mr. Baldwin wrote on Twitter. Hutchins, 42, was airlifted to a hospital, where she was pronounced dead. Souza, 48, who was wounded in the collarbone area, was taken by ambulance to a medical center.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/baldwin-fires-prop-gun-kills-woman-on-set/article37134428.ece
23 October 2021||Miami,||Barbados elects its first President||Barbados has elected its first President, a key step in preparations to become a republic and remove Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II as head of state of the Caribbean island. Sandra Mason, the current governor-general, is set to be sworn in as President on November 30, the country's 55th anniversary of independence from Britain. In September 2020, Ms. Mason, 72, announced the break with Britain, saying “the time has come to fully leave our colonial past behind.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/barbados-elects-its-first-president/article37134001.ece
23 October 2021||Los Angeles,||Baldwin fires prop gun, kills woman on set||U.S. actor Alec Baldwin fired a prop gun that killed a cinematographer and wounded the director on a film set in New Mexico, U.S. law enforcement said Friday. The incident took place on the set of Rust , where Mr. Baldwin is playing the lead in a 19th century western about an accidental killing. Ms. Hutchins, 42, was transported to hospital by helicopter but died of her wounds, while Mr. Souza, 48, was taken by ambulance and was receiving treatment. He was later released from hospital. “Mr. Baldwin was interviewed by detectives,” Santa Fe sheriff spokesman said. “He provided statements. He came in voluntarily. No charges have been filed .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/baldwin-fires-prop-gun-kills-woman-on-set/article37134006.ece
23 October 2021||Balukhali,||Seven killed in Rohingya camp attack||Gunmen killed seven persons and wounded at least 20 on Friday in a Rohingya refugee camp in Bangladesh, police and a medic said, an attack that heightens tensions after the recent shooting of a prominent community leader. The attackers shot and stabbed people attending an Islamic school in the camp, a regional police chief said. Four persons died instantly. Three others died at a hospital in one of the camps in the Balukhali refugee complex, part of a bigger network of squalid settlements. A police official said “Rohingya miscreants” entered the Darul Ulum Nadwatul Ulama al Islamia madrassa before dawn and “randomly hacked and shot people inside”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/seven-killed-in-rohingya-camp-attack/article37134007.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Fault lines grow deeper in Bangladesh||It was early morning on October 13. A young man dialled 999 (Bangladesh’s emergency service number) to inform the police about the alleged desecration of the Holy Quran at a Durga Puja venue at Nanua Dighir Par in Cumilla city under Chattogram division. A photograph showing the Quran placed on the knee of a Hindu deity had gone viral on social media. Within a few minutes, the officer in charge of the Kotwali police station reached the spot in plain clothes. According to different accounts, the officer was alone at that time. Unknown to the police officer, a man named Foyez Ahmed had gone live on Facebook from the same spot sometime between 7 a.m. and 7.30 a.m., and can be heard saying, “Muslims, wake up.” Soon after the Facebook live chat, young men started congregating at the venue, their numbers increasing by the hour. Sensing trouble, a team of police officers arrived at the spot around 10 a.m. There were efforts to calm down the angry mob, but a few young men demanded that the puja celebrations be stopped immediately. Some of them started hurling stones at the venue around 11 a.m. and by 11.30 a.m., the mandap was vandalised. The man who dialled 999 seeking police support was identified as Ekram Hossain, who lived less than 2 km away from the spot. Foyez was an expatriate who came home from Saudi Arabia a year ago. Both of them were arrested. But this act quickly spiralled out of control, courtesy social media platforms, and reportedly resulted in several major attacks on Hindu temples and houses belonging to the minority community. It triggered a sense of fear and helplessness among the thousands of Hindus living in Bangladesh. Since October 13, Bangladesh has witnessed a series of targeted attacks on the Hindu communities residing in a number of districts. Several religious sites, including Hindu temples, puja venues, and over 100 shops and houses, were reportedly attacked since the Cumilla incident. Kurigram, Chandpur, Moulvibazar, Gazipur, Munshiganj, Feni, Noakhali, Lakshmipur, Chattogram, Bandarban and Cox’s Bazar were among the affected areas apart from Cumilla — districts all outside Dhaka and having a mixed population. Puja amidst despair As the Durga Puja celebrations kicked off this time around among the Hindus in Bangladesh, an annual event in the country whose Constitution designates Islam as the state religion but upholds the principles of secularism in practice, there emerged reports of attacks on Hindu religious sites and idols in different parts of the country. They were quickly dubbed as a “massive attack” on the spirit of the country’s communal harmony and secular values. Bangladesh has a population of over 160 million. According to the 2013 Census, Sunni Muslims constitute 89% of the population and Hindus 10%. The remaining population is predominantly Christian, mostly Roman Catholic, and Theravada-Hinayana Buddhist. The country also has a small number of Shia Muslims, Ahmadiyya Muslims and Biharis. A week later, police identified a person named Iqbal Hossain, son of Nur Ahmed Alam, after analysing the CCTV footage available to them. Iqbal, 30, allegedly placed the Quran at the puja venue in Cumilla city. On October 21, police arrested Iqbal, an unemployed youth from Cox’s Bazar beach, and sent him to Cumilla for further verification. In the evening, more video clips collected from the CCTV cameras in various locations emerged, capturing the full picture of Iqbal’s movements and how he reportedly collected the Quran and placed it at the venue. He was also seen sitting with two others at a nearby shrine. Little is known about Iqbal. Who motivated him to place the Quran in a religious place? What is his political identity, if any? And, who stands to gain by creating instability and destroying religious harmony? Bangladesh Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan said it seemed that Iqbal placed the Quran there after being instigated by somebody else. “We will be able to know everything after Iqbal is detained,” he had said before Iqbal’s arrest. Rana Dasgupta, general secretary of the Bangladesh Hindu Bouddha Christian Oikya Parishad, expressed displeasure and said whenever anyone was arrested in such cases, they were either branded a “vagrant” or declared “mad”. “It is a pre-planned incident. There are others behind it. It is the responsibility of the Government to find them. We want to live happily and with harmony in place,” he told reporters in Chattogram after a meeting with Deputy Minister for Education Mohibul Hasan Chowdhury Nowfel. Data shared by the Ain o Salish Kendra (ASK), a local human rights body, give a clearer picture of what has been happening in the country for years now. According to the ASK, as many as 3,710 attacks on the Hindu community took place between January 2013 and September 2021. Vandalism and arson involving the homes, shops and businesses of Hindu families were some of the incidents documented by the ASK. Attacks on Hindu temples and the grabbing of land and properties of those belonging to the minority community were also reported during the same period, according to the ASK report, which is based on news reports published in nine print and online newspapers and its own research. The recent attacks on the Hindu community have not been included in the report. Minorities frustrated Minorities rely on the Government to ensure their safety. The recent attacks had left them frustrated. Moreover, the post-election violence in 2014 was still fresh in the minds of the Hindu community. The 10th parliamentary elections in Bangladesh were held on January 5, 2014, which saw the Awami League returning to power and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina becoming the country’s head for the third term. Violence during this period reportedly left many dead in the country, including many from the Hindu community. Human Rights Watch (HRW) said the Bangladesh authorities should exercise caution and restraint in containing the deadliest spate of sectarian violence in Bangladesh in years. Authorities should take immediate steps to protect the Hindu minorities and prosecute those responsible, including members of law enforcement agencies, for unlawful violence, it added. “Bangladesh authorities are dealing with an extremely stressful situation that could easily escalate into even more bloodshed, unless law enforcement acts with caution and restraint,” said Brad Adams, Asia director, Human Rights Watch. “The authorities need to be de-escalating violence, not shooting live ammunition into a crowd.” Past violence On September 29 and 30, 2012, an unruly mob reportedly unleashed violence on the Buddhist community in Ramu by spreading a rumour. They set fire to Buddhist temples and houses, vandalising and looting more than 50 houses in Ramu. They also attacked the Mushurikhola crematorium at Khurushkul village in Sadar upazila, Cox’s Bazar, and tried to attack the houses of the Hindus in Kharulia village. On October 30, 2016, a mob reportedly vandalised around 10 temples and ransacked over 100 houses belonging to the Hindu community in the area over an alleged defamatory Facebook post by a Hindu youth, Rasraj Das, in Nasirnagar upazila at Brahmanbaria. “The authorities failed to take action against many who were involved in the violence in the past. Look at Ramu and Nasirnagar. History is being repeated,” said a physician from the Hindu community in Cumilla, who wished to remain unnamed. He said he grew up with many friends who were Muslims. They had gone to school together, played together, attended cultural events together. “We were friends. Religious differences were never an issue. They never even crossed our minds. The Bangladesh we are seeing now is so unfamiliar to me. Where is the security? Where is the administration? Will God accept the oppression and violence unleashed on so many innocent lives?” The Prime Minister had assured that the perpetrators would be brought to justice. She urged the public to exercise restraint under any provocation and to refrain from spreading or acting on unfounded rumours. Hasina also called upon the public to maintain communal harmony at any cost. Government leaders had also visited a number of the affected sites and assured the Hindu community of adequate protection and compensation for the damages incurred. Over 70 cases were filed and over 400 people detained in connection with these incidents. The Government said it had taken serious note of the reactions from within and outside the Hindu community. As an immediate measure, Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) forces were deployed in 22 districts in the country to aid the civilian administration after the attacks in Cumilla. Hasina had also asked Awami League leaders and activists across the country to remain watchful and maintain communal harmony. She said Islam did not allow the disgracing of other religions and one had to respect other religions alongside respecting their own. In a message for New Delhi, she said Bangladesh’s “big” neighbour must be sensitive to the situation. Alluding to the violence against minorities living in India, she said, “They must make sure that nothing is done there [in India] which affects our country and hurts our Hindu community.” ‘Vested quarters’ The Government remained concerned that certain “vested quarters” were carrying out these pre-meditated attacks to gain dubious political mileage, said the Bangladesh Ministry of Foreign Affairs. “It is regrettable that the local elements that had opposed Bangladesh’s Independence 50 year ago are still propagating their toxic narratives to instigate violence, hatred and bigotry. They are trying to undermine Bangladesh’s secular, non-communal and pluralistic credentials in the international context by deliberately targeting one of the biggest religious festivals of the country,” the Ministry said in a statement. The Government reiterated that communal harmony and peaceful co-existence were the cornerstones of their democratic polity. For centuries, the Ministry said, people from different faiths, ethnicities and religions had been living in this land in peace and harmony. While the supreme law of the land guaranteed the protection of all its citizens from any kind of discrimination and intolerance, the democratic governance of the country ensured the enjoyment of the fundamental rights of its citizens, irrespective of their religions, beliefs and ethnicity, it said. The Ministry said the Government of Bangladesh, under the guidance of the Prime Minister, had set an example by advocating the motto, “Each unto his or her religion, festivals are for all.” Bangladesh was the only country where the major festivals of all religions were observed as public holidays. This year, on the occasion of Durga Puja, the Prime Minister had donated 30 million takas to the Hindu Kalyan Trust for the smooth observance of the festival, the Ministry said. The Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), a centre-right nationalist party that had forged an alliance with the Jamaat-e-Islami, which was opposed to the liberation of Bangladesh in 1971 and ruled the country giving war criminals a place in the Begum Khaleda Zia-led Cabinet in the past, denied its role amidst allegations that BNP-Jamaat men were behind the recent violence on the Hindu community to create instability in the country. BNP secretary general Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir, while talking to reporters, said the incidents were part of the Awami League’s “evil design” to gain and overcome the challenges of the next election. “We want to make it clear that the BNP always believes in the freedom of all religions and the party has already proved that,” he added. Worldwide condemnation Many, including political parties, cultural organisations, university teachers, youth, civil society members, cultural activists, sports personalities and singers, have condemned the attacks. The United Nations, the U.S. and India have also condemned the incidents of violence against the Hindu community in the country. What was particularly worrying was that the attacks that had left at least six dead and dozens injured, had followed, according to the Government, fake news reports shared over social media. Social media also saw an outpouring of faith and assertion in the ideals of secularism amidst the violence. Sharing a photograph of the burning houses on his verified Facebook account, Bangladeshi cricketer and politician Mashrafe Bin Mortaza on October 18 wrote, “I saw two defeats today. One is the Bangladesh cricket team, in which I got hurt. And another one is for the whole Bangladesh which has broken the heart. We didn’t want this red and green... May Allah guide us!” UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh Mia Seppo said the recent attacks on Hindus, “fuelled by hate speech” on social media, were against the values of the Constitution and needed to stop. “We call upon the Government to ensure protection of minorities and an impartial probe,” she said on Monday in a tweet, calling upon all to join hands to strengthen inclusive tolerance in Bangladesh. The U.S. Embassy in Dhaka also sent their condolences to the families of the victims in the violence. “Freedom of religion is sacrosanct. Everyone must remain steadfast in opposing targeted violence and orchestrated hate, and work to ensure all are able to attend a religious service or celebration without fear of violence because of their faith,” said the Embassy in a statement. U.S. Ambassador to Bangladesh Earl R. Miller also tweeted, stating that the U.S. stood with Bangladeshis of all beliefs, further calling on all to preserve diversity, unity and mutual respect. India also acknowledged the “prompt” steps taken by the Government of Bangladesh with the additional deployment of security forces following the vandalism of Hindu temples and Durga Puja venues. “We note that the Government of Bangladesh has reacted promptly to ensure control of the situation, including the deployment of law enforcement machinery,” India’s Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told reporters in New Delhi while commenting on the “disturbing reports of untoward incidents” involving the attacks on religious gatherings in Bangladesh. State Minister for Information Murad Hassan said Bangladesh was a secular nation and would return to its 1972 Constitution offered by Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the ‘Father of the Nation’. Military dictators had tried to undermine Bangladesh’s core ideal of secularism by declaring Islam to be the state religion, he said. “We will return to the 1972 Constitution. We will get that Bill passed in Parliament under the leadership of the Prime Minister,” he said, adding, “I don’t think there is anyone in Parliament to oppose it.” “I am a Hindu, but this is not my identity. I am a citizen of this country. That is my identity. It is the state’s responsibility to ensure safety and security,” said a Hindu devotee who had come to the Dhakeshwari temple during the Durga Puja celebrations. With tears rolling down her face, she said, “When I am called an Indian dalal [broker], it questions my patriotism. I belong to this country. We did not leave this land in 1947, 1966, 1971 and 2001. Should we be forced to see the situation today?” Her question is a difficult one to answer as it is also an indictment of the Government’s inability to uphold religious harmony in Bangladesh. The unease that exists now will be put to rest only after law enforcement agencies ensure that exemplary punishment is meted out to those behind the attacks on the secular fabric of the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fault-lines-grow-deeper-in-bangladesh/article37133999.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Development that is mindful of nature||Environmental disaster has struck Kerala once again. Unusually heavy rains have caused landslides in Kottayam and Idukki. By October 21, 42 deaths were recorded, and the monsoon is not yet in recess. Such a high loss of life must lead to a serious review of the land-use pattern in Kerala. With a population density of 860 persons/sq. km against an all-India average of 368 persons/sq. km (Census 2011), Kerala experiences very high pressure on the land. Land-use change Historically, most of the settlements were concentrated in the coastal plain, the adjoining lowlands and parts of the midlands. However, this scenario has altered now, with significant land-use change across topographic boundaries. Population growth, agricultural expansion, economic growth, infrastructure development — particularly road construction — and intra-State migration have all led to settlement of the highlands. Kerala is experiencing high growth of residential buildings. The Census records that during the decade between 2001 and 2011, the population grew by 5% whereas the number of houses grew by 19.9%. Such a pace of construction has serious implications for the geo-environment. Not only the locations for siting settlements but also the demand for construction materials, with the attendant quarrying and excavations, is altering the landscape through terracing, slope modification, rock quarrying, and the construction of roads. The basin characteristics of all rivers have been altered. This has resulted in gross disturbance of the character of the terrain evolved through weathering and formation of soil under natural vegetation cover. Consequently, the water-absorbing capacity of the river catchment is lost, contributing to increasing surface run-off and reduction in ground water recharge. Road construction in hilly areas, even when cutting across the toe of the slope, is destabilising and creates conditions conducive to landslides. Construction on hill slopes prone to disintegration during heavy rain is a threat not only to those who choose to live in the buildings but also to those who are in the path of the debris that gets dislodged in a landslide. It is clear by now that in parts of the State the hills have been overbuilt, posing a danger to life. Interestingly, the extremely complicated rules for registration of purchase and sale of property in Kerala are not matched by a due diligence of building plans. It is not even clear that the authorities responsible for the oversight of construction are sufficiently aware of the nature of the problem. While the idea of a construction-free Coastal Regulation Zone, instituted by the Government of India and applicable to the entire country, is fairly well recognised in the State, the Government of Kerala has been timid in enforcing similar regulation in its own backyard. The hesitancy towards the implementation of the recommendations by the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel, commonly known as the Gadgil Committee, on protection of the Western Ghats is the best example of this. We can now see how prescient they were. Review of two projects While evolving a land-use protocol to be observed in all cases without exception cannot be delayed any further, it is understandable that it may take time. However, the most recent landslide in Kerala should lead the government to immediately review two major projects with a potential to lower ecological security. The first of these is the Silver Line project, a light railway connecting the two extremities of the State. Its potential to usurp agricultural land and cause ecological disturbance is well known. The claim that it is vital to the development of the State, reportedly made by the government in the Legislature, is debatable. After all, a railway line exists across the entire length of the State already, and how much a saving of a few hours’ travel time can contribute to the gross domestic product is not clear at all. While infrastructure for growth is necessary, Kerala’s deficit is less with respect to transportation than what it is to power generation, urban infrastructure and a well-trained workforce. As the Kochi Metro network was being expanded, a prominent entrepreneur of the city rightly observed that it needs a sewage disposal system more than it needs a rapid transit network. While the Silver Line project has been in the news, what has not been is the widening of the highway currently taking place in parts of the State. Entirely under the authority of the Government of India, this has involved mass felling of trees and the removal of habitation on both sides of the road. Overnight, tree-lined roads have been converted to bare tarmac exposed to the sun. The loss of vegetation and tree cover is sure to have an impact on local climate and water retention, impacting its availability. The question that comes to mind is whether the Government of India has consulted the people affected or just used the principle of eminent domain to have them evicted. No one wants to lose their home even if they are compensated at the market rate. Can we be sure that the social gains exceed the losses? Technical expertise needed Kerala’s longitudinal topographic grain combined with its east-west-running rivers gives rise to an alternating ridge-valley land form. Given this feature, construction of roads or any structure with a north-south alignment involves cutting across the valleys and lowlands, impacting natural drainage and overall landscape ecology. Therefore, development interventions should be cautious and ecologically sensitive to avoid unwarranted consequences and to be sustainable. We would ask if the governments concerned have conducted anything like a cost-benefit analysis in the two cases we have highlighted. Of course, evaluating ecosystem services lost in a developmental overdrive is a difficult exercise, but that it is so flags what we are pointing to. We often don’t even know the economic consequences of our actions towards nature. Rather than acknowledging this, all signs are that we proceed with disdain in the name of development. Technical expertise is needed when re-engineering the earth, with the teams including earth scientists, independent public policy experts, elected representatives and citizens from the affected areas. There is no hurry in proceeding with the light railway or of adopting a ‘one nation, one highway specification’ in densely populated and ecologically vulnerable regions of the country. Rushing through these projects in the face of intimations from nature, such as landslides, that we are vulnerable would really be a case of fools rushing in where the wise refuse to tread. New railway lines and highway widening should be undertaken only after public hearings open to citizens. Kerala’s achievements in human development are legion. However, it can no longer rest on its laurels in this area, ignoring the relentless assault on its natural assets. It is by now clear that the destruction has elicited neither an intelligent public policy response nor a citizen’s movement of sufficient strength to contain the gathering ecological insecurity. In some ways Kerala led States in showing that development is not synonymous with economic growth. But now it seems to be trapped in a mindless consumerism that is threatening its future. Course correction is inevitable. Even the United Nations Development Programme, which had pioneered the human development approach, has proposed a Planetary-Pressures Adjusted Human Development Index that weighs a country’s human development for its ecological footprint. Living in the Anthropocene, we need to guard against any further damage to the natural world. Pulapre Balakrishnan is an economist and Srikumar Chattopadhyay is a geographer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/development-that-is-mindful-of-nature/article37133991.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A clean energy transition plan for India||Energy security warrants the uninterrupted supply of energy at affordable prices. India faces the twin challenges of meeting the aspirations of its 1.3 billion population even as it safeguards its energy security and contributes to global efforts to mitigate climate change. Thanks to the Electricity Act of 2003, the installed coal-fired thermal power plant (TPP) generation capacity in India more than doubled from 94 GW to 192 GW between March 2011 and 2017. This sharp increase in the installed capacity has enabled the government to increase per capita electricity consumption by 37% while reducing peak demand deficit from 9.8% (2010-11) to 1.6% (2016-17). However, India has a long way to go in providing electricity security to its people since its per capita electricity consumption is still only a third of the global average. Thermal plants are the core Coal is the only fuel that India has in abundance and the geopolitics of India’s neighborhood do not permit ready access to piped natural gas. TPPs contributed 71% of the 1,382 billion units (BU) of electricity generated by utilities in India during FY 2020-21 though they accounted for only 55% of the total installed generation capacity of 382 GW (as of March 2021). Coal, therefore, plays a vital role in India’s ongoing efforts to achieve Sustainable Development Goal 7, which is “to ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all”. Renewable energy While variable renewable energy (VRE) sources (primarily, wind and solar) account for 24.7% of the total installed generation capacity, as of March 2021, they contributed 10.7% of the electricity generated by utilities during FY 2020-21. However, the ramp-up of VRE generation capacity without commensurate growth in electricity demand has resulted in lower utilisation of TPPs whose fixed costs must be paid by the distribution companies (DISCOMs) and passed through to the final consumer. The rapid growth of VRE sources in India has been largely aided by policy measures as well as financial incentives whose cost is borne by the consumer. The current level of VRE in the national power grid is increasing the cost of power procurement for DISCOMs, leading to tariff increases for electricity consumers. Specifically, the Forum of Regulators has estimated the total additional burden of grid integration of VRE sources includes Rs. 1.11 of balancing cost and Rs. 1.02 of stranded capacity cost, totalling Rs. 2.13 per unit. Therefore, India must implement a plan to increase energy efficiency and reduce the emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) and airborne pollutants from TPPs without making power unaffordable to industries that need low-cost 24x7 power to compete in the global market. Contours of a plan We have developed a time-bound transition plan for India’s power sector involving the progressive retirement of 36 GW of installed generation capacity in 211 TPPs(unit size 210 MW and below) based on key performance parameters such as efficiency, specific coal consumption, technological obsolescence, and age. The resulting shortfall in baseload electricity generation can be made up by increasing the utilisation of existing High-Efficiency-Low-Emission (HELE) TPPs that are currently under-utilised to accommodate VRE and commissioning the 47 government-owned TPPs (total capacity of 31.6 GW) that are at an advanced stage of construction in which Rs. 1,77,742 crore have already been invested by government utilities. These TPPs have already signed power purchase agreements with the respective DISCOMs; and thanks to the two-part tariff policy, their fixed costs must be borne by power consumers irrespective of their usage. In addition, the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) is also constructing 11 nuclear power plants with a total generation capacity of 8,700 MW that will supply 24x7 power without any CO2 emissions. Capacity increase With the implementation of our transition plan, the total installed capacity of TPPs operated by utilities will increase from the current level of 209 GW (as of September 2021) to 220 GW by FY 2029-30 even after retiring 211 inefficient and obsolete TPPs that are more than 25 years old and need major sustenance capital expenditures (Capex) for life extension, modernisation, and retrofit of flue gas desulphurisation plants (FGDs). The combined thermal (220 GW) and nuclear (15 GW) capacity of 235 GW can meet the baseload requirement (80% of peak demand) during the evening peak in FY 2029-30 without expensive battery storage, while the optimal utilisation of existing and under-construction HELE TPPs with faster-ramping capabilities and lower technical minimums also facilitates VRE integration. As per our transition plan, India’s power generation from TPPs is expected to reduce from the FY 2020-21 level of 71% to 57% of the total electrical energy (2,172 BU) projected to be generated by utilities during FY 2029-30. Further, the share of HELE TPPs in the total TPP generation capacity will increase from the FY 2018-19 level of 25% to 44% in FY 2029-30. More importantly, the share of inefficient TPPs with obsolete technology in the total TPP generation capacity will reduce from the FY 2018-19 level of 46% to 4%. Consequently, total CO2 emissions from the power sector will go down by 57 Mt even as coal-fired electricity generation is projected to increase by 21% to 1,234 BU in 2029-30. Estimated benefits Since HELE TPPs minimise emissions of particulate matter (PM), SO2, and NO2, our transition plan offers operational, economic, and environmental benefits including avoidance of sustenance Capex and FGD costs in the 211 obsolete TPPs to be retired besides savings in specific coal consumption and water requirement leading to reductions in electricity tariffs and PM pollution. This plan prioritises the installation of high-efficiency electrostatic precipitators that can remove 99.97% of the PM pollution without extensive shutdowns or hiking tariffs unlike expensive, imported FGDs. The implementation of this plan will enable India to safeguard its energy security and ensure efficient grid operations with lower water consumption, PM pollution, and CO2 emissions. Ultimately, this plan demonstrates India’s commitment to climate change mitigation by optimising the use of our land, coal, water, and financial resources with indigenous technology. A.V. Krishnan and R. Srikanth are Visiting Professor and Professor, respectively, at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-clean-energy-transition-plan-for-india/article37133986.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The fading patriarch||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has announced plans to launch a new political outfit and explore an arrangement with the BJP, ahead of next year’s Assembly election in the State. The BJP is warming up to the idea. The proposed new party and its partnership with the BJP is an act of expediency and opportunism of high order by both sides. The Congress had forced Mr. Singh to quit as the Chief Minister in September, bringing an abrupt end to his role at the helm of party affairs in the State. The reasons for his removal were not just, but his decision to quit the party that he has been associated with for four decades says something unflattering about Mr. Singh. That he could think of joining hands with the BJP without batting an eyelid also shows that there is little more than a sense of entitlement in his politics. The Captain has been a central character in Congress politics, particularly in the years following the rise of the BJP in 2014. He led the party to victory in Punjab in 2017, and in 2019, the Congress’s performance in the Lok Sabha polls in the State was outstanding. After all that, Mr. Singh has chosen to cap his long political career by sleeping with the enemy. The BJP is a marginal player in Punjab, and the ongoing controversy over three farm laws has further alienated it from the entrenched farming communities in the State. The debate on the merits of the farm laws apart, the BJP also questioned the patriotism of the protestors. The party is now hoping for an outreach to the Sikh farmers through a partnership with the Captain. Whether it can offer any compromise that the farmers might find palatable remains to be seen. The Congress high command cannot absolve itself of the mess in the State. It decided to unsettle its own government for no apparent reason, and elevated a turncoat to lead its State unit. The party appointed a Dalit Sikh as Chief Minister in place of Mr. Singh, which is a bold experiment that is fraught with fresh problems. If it can mobilise public opinion in favour of its social justice politics, the Congress can remain in the reckoning. The Akali Dal, having parted with its long-term ally, the BJP, is now hoping to gain from the confusion arising out of the crisis in the Congress. The Congress has set in motion a series of events that it is no longer in control of. It also appears incapable of recalibrating its strategy for the State. With an untested Chief Minister and a conceited party chief in command, the party finds itself in an unenviable position in Punjab. The desertion by Mr. Singh makes its prospects considerably worse. While it might be too late to keep the former Chief Minister in the fold, the least the Congress high command can do is to strengthen the hands of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and not give the impression that he is keeping the seat warm for the maverick Punjab unit chief of the party, Navjot Singh Sidhu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-fading-patriarch/article37133992.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Shorter and shorter||The Twenty20 format seems to be cricket’s overwhelming flavour at present. Close on the heels of the Indian Premier League, the ICC T20 World Cup commenced last Sunday. Both championships dropped anchor in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Originally, they were scheduled to be held in India but the COVID-19 pandemic forced a change in venue. The Board of Control for Cricket in India shifted the franchise-based league and the multi-nation event to the UAE and many players have seamlessly moved on from club to country. Nearly a week has lapsed since the latest T20 World Cup made its initial steps under the West Asian skies during which lesser placed teams tried to qualify for the Super 12 segment that formally starts today. This, in fact, is the real deal. And nothing can get bigger than the Super 12 Group 2 match that pits India against Pakistan in Dubai on Sunday. In ICC events, India holds the edge over its neighbour beyond the Radcliffe Line but for a vast generation of fans, cricketing skirmishes involving the two in the UAE often draw in a difficult memory. Not many can forget Javed Miandad clouting a last-ball six off Chetan Sharma and winning for Pakistan the Austral-Asia Cup in 1986. From then on, India was on the ascendant. This trend was especially evident when M.S. Dhoni’s men won the inaugural ICC World T20, as the shortest format’s World Cup was then called, in South Africa in 2007. The vanquished opposition was Pakistan and those shards of history will lend an edge to the latest bout. But after winning the title in 2007, India has subsequently flattered to deceive. Meanwhile, Virat Kohli gets another chance to lay his hands on ICC silverware, which remains a missing link in his captaincy resume. That he is also giving up his T20 captaincy after the championship should push him further towards this goal. Dhoni’s presence in the dressing room as a mentor, while the coaching staff led by Ravi Shastri prepare to bow out after a few weeks, is indicative of the imminent leadership transition within the Indian ranks. With its players having featured in the previous IPL and the added confidence gleaned from the warm-up victories over England and Australia, India is in a good space. Defending champion West Indies, Australia, South Africa, England and New Zealand may fancy their chances but this tournament isn’t entirely about the established units. It is also about Scotland pushing its way in or Afghanistan turning up despite the turmoil back home. Hope floats and India yearns to finish on the winning side when the championship ends on November 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/shorter-and-shorter/article37133995.ece
23 October 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Energy transition poses inflation risks’||The ongoing worldwide transition to green energy poses a significant risk of triggering energy price shocks similar to the 1970s, which would accelerate inflation, said Jayanth Varma, the sole member of the RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) to vote against continuing with the central bank’s ‘accommodative’ policy stance. “This means that the upside risks to long term inflation and to inflation expectations are now more aggravated,” Mr. Varma said at the last MPC meeting, the minutes of which were released on Friday. “My second recent concern is about the tail risk to global growth posed by emerging financial sector fragility in China reminiscent of Japan of the late 1980s,” he said. “Both of these risks... are well beyond the control of the MPC, but they warrant a heightened degree of flexibility and agility,” Mr. Varma stressed. ‘Slow motion’ “A pattern of policy making in slow motion that is guided by an excessive desire to avoid surprises is no longer appropriate,” he asserted, adding that he was in favour of raising the reverse repo rate from the current 3.35% towards 4% so as to ‘demonstrate the MPC’s commitment to the inflation target, help anchor expectations and enhance macroeconomic stability’. Reiterating his reservations from August, Mr. Varma said his central argument was that the COVID-19 pandemic had mutated into a human tragedy rather than an economic crisis, and monetary policy would be far less effective than fiscal measures in providing targeted relief to the worst hit segments of the economy. Also, inflationary pressures were showing signs of greater persistence than anticipated earlier, he added. Other members who voted to hold interest rates and retain the ‘accommodative’ stance too flagged concerns about the outlook for inflation as the MPC observed that core inflation, inflation excluding food and fuel, remained elevated and sticky at 5.8% in July-August 2021. “Core inflation is affected by the prices of transport fuels and transport services that are directly affected by the crude oil price shocks,” noted Shashanka Bhide, adding that ‘reduction in indirect taxes would play an important role in easing shocks on transport costs and overall inflation’. A view echoed by Ashima Goyal, who too urged tax cuts on fuels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/energy-transition-poses-inflation-risks/article37133966.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||JCB to begin operations at Vadodara unit in Q1 of 2022||Despite challenges posed by the pandemic, construction equipment maker JCB is ‘confident’ of starting operations at its export-focused manufacturing plant in Vadodara, Gujarat, in the first quarter of 2022, CEO and MD Deepak Shetty said. The firm, for which India is one of the largest markets, is seeing increased demand for construction equipment world over as economies are recovering from the pandemic, he pointed out. “JCB operates in more than 155 countries around the world and India is one of the largest markets for JCB globally… this is a unique year. Following actions taken by governments of various countries, almost all economies are recovering well. So, we are seeing a great opportunity everywhere, but India continues to remain one of the largest and the biggest markets for JCB,” he said. On the Vadodara unit, he said, the facility “is the next step in the direction of ‘Make in India’ for the world. This particular facility will be manufacturing components for our facilities in the U.K., Brazil, and the U.S., and we will be exporting them.” ‘Exports rose threefold’ He added that with economies around the world recovering, JCB India had seen a threefold growth in export numbers. While he did not share exact numbers, he said currently 18% of products made in India were being exported to more than 110 countries. In the first phase, the company has invested Rs. 650 crore in the Vadodara plant, the total investment for which is expected to be more than Rs. 1,000 crore. The company plans to have women accounting for 50% of the workforce at the plant. When fully operational, the plant is estimated to employ 1,200 workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jcb-to-begin-operations-at-vadodara-unit-in-q1-of-2022/article37133970.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India will act against unfair trade practices’||Taking on countries curbing exports from India, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Friday that India will take reciprocal action wherever it faces an unfair or unjust treatment in trade matters. Reiterating India’s call to bring down non-tariff barriers in international trade, he said global trade should operate within a rule-based multilateral trading system with ‘honesty and transparency as core values.’ “We are engaging with like-minded nations like the EU, U.K., Canada, Australia and UAE for early conclusion of free trade agreements,” he said, addressing an IIFT convocation event. He urged Indian universities to tie up with eminent global institutions to enhance Indian students’ exposure to the ‘best of technology, law, economics and international trade.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-will-act-against-unfair-trade-practices/article37133968.ece
23 October 2021||new delhi,||IOC eyes full refinery run as fuel demand rebounds||Indian Oil Corp. (IOC), the nation’s largest oil firm, expects refinery run to reach 100% within a quarter as fuel demand returns, its chairman S.M. Vaidya said. Speaking at India Energy Forum by CERAWeek, he said petrol and cooking-gas LPG demand was already above pe-COVID levels and diesel — the most consumed fuel in the country — was inching back to normalcy. “Energy demand is rebounding in India with the revival of economic activity” after a devastating pandemic, he said. India’s energy demand had halved after a nationwide lockdown was imposed in March last year. But with gradual easing of restrictions, economic activity has rebounded. Mr. Vaidya said the robust energy demand in India is only set to grow in the future. “LPG and petrol have already exceeded pre-COVID levels, and we expect refinery capacity to reach 100% by the next quarter,” he said. IOC’s refineries operated at 82% of capacity in September and are operating above 90% this month. He said IOC is strengthening its core business of refining and is looking to enhance its refining capacity to 105 million tonnes per annum from the current 80.5 million tonne at the cost of $13.5 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ioc-eyes-full-refinery-run-as-fuel-demand-rebounds/article37133974.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Protection of customer interest is non-negotiable’||RBI Deputy Governor M. Rajeshwar Rao on Friday urged non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) to give utmost importance to protection of customers as this aspect is “non-negotiable”. Recalling incidents of coercive recovery practice by some players, Mr. Rao said such developments spurred by purely commercial considerations had dented the credibility of the whole system that flourishes and thrives on trust. “We should not compromise on the ethos of finance for... ephemeral gains. These gains would anyway accrue to the institutions over the long term if and when it is built on an edifice of trust and mutual benefit,” he said at the NBFC Summit organised by CII. Observing that RBI was inundated with complaints of harsh recovery practices, breach of data privacy, increasing fraudulent transactions, cybercrime, excessive interest rates and harassment, he said, protection of customers was non-negotiable.  RBI is inundated with complaints of harsh recovery practices, rising fraud, cybercrime and harassment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/protection-of-customer-interest-is-non-negotiable/article37133977.ece
23 October 2021||Mumbai,||CDC invests $70 million in climate fund||The CDC Group, Britain’s official development finance institution and impact investor, has invested $70 million in the Green Growth Equity Fund (GGEF), India’s first dedicated climate change fund. The fund is managed by EverSource Capital, a JV between Everstone Group and Lightsource BP. The GGEF already has strong climate credentials and within its portfolio has many investments, the CDC Group saidy. With this investment, the green fund will finance the development of 6-8 green infrastructure companies here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cdc-invests-70-million-in-climate-fund/article37134572.ece
23 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Mercedes to directly sell cars to clients||German luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz on Friday implemented its customer-centric ‘Retail of the Future’ (ROTF) ‘direct-to- customers’ business model. In this new format, Mercedes-Benz India will retain the ownership of the entire stock of cars and retail them via appointed ‘franchise partners’ (dealers), by invoicing them directly to the customers. The company will also be responsible for processing and fulfilling the customer orders. With ROTF, there will be one nationally set price by the company, which will be uniform across the country, it said. “ROTF caters to the evolving trends of our customers, while empowering our franchise partners,” said Martin Schwenk, MD and CEO of the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mercedes-to-directly-sell-cars-to-clients/article37133964.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||RIL deal: SIAC rejects Future plea to lift stay||The Singapore-based arbitrator, SIAC, has rejected Future Retail’s plea to lift the interim stay on its Rs. 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail, giving a major relief to Amazon that is contesting the transaction. The development comes a day after the Singapore International Arbitration Centre held that Future Retail is a party to the ongoing arbitration between Amazon and Future group in the dispute over the sale of its assets to Reliance Retail. In a regulatory filing on Friday, Future Retail Ltd. (FRL) said it has received SIAC’s decision dated October 21 on its plea to vacate the Interim Award of the Emergency Arbitrator dated October 25, 2020. “The Tribunal is satisfied that the orders set out in… the EA Award were correctly granted, and have not been vitiated by any subsequent events or proceedings,” FRL cited the order, adding it would decide its future action based on legal advice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-deal-siac-rejects-future-plea-to-lift-stay/article37133972.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘SEBI approves Rs. 16,600-cr. IPO of Paytm’||Digital financial services firm Paytm has received market regulator SEBI’s approval for its Rs. 16,600 crore initial public offer, a source involved in the process said on Friday. The company expects to hit the bourses by the end of this month and is planning to skip the pre-IPO share sale rounds to fast-track listing. Paytm’s plan of shelving the pre-IPO fund raising is not related to any valuation differences, the source said on condition of anonymity. Paytm is said to be looking at a valuation of Rs. 1.47-1.78 lakh crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-approves-rs-16600-cr-ipo-of-paytm/article37133976.ece
23 October 2021||Mumbai,||Yes Bank net rises 74% on lower slippage||Yes Bank on Friday reported a profit after tax of Rs. 225 crore for the quarter ended September, an increase of 74.3% from a year earlier, mainly due to lower provisioning requirements.  Yes Bank’s MD and CEO Prashant Kumar attributed the rise in profit to better business growth and lower provisioning. “With lower slippages and better recoveries and upgrades, our provisioning requirement has come down,” he told reporters. Net Interest Income declined 23.4% to Rs. 1,512 crore. Net interest margin dipped to 2.2% from 3.1%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/yes-bank-net-rises-74-on-lower-slippage/article37133980.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Reliance Industries quarterly profit jumps 74 pc to Rs 13,680 cr||Reliance Industries on Friday reported a 74% jump in net profit for the quarter ended September, as all its businesses witnessed robust performance. Net profit in the second quarter of the current fiscal at Rs. 13,680 crore compared with the Rs. 9,567 crore seen a year earlier, the company said in a stock exchange filing. Revenue rose to Rs. 1,78,328 crore from Rs. 1,20,444 crore a year earlier.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-industries-quarterly-profit-jumps-74-pc-to-rs-13680-cr/article37134574.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Federal Bank Q2 consolidated net profit jumps 55 pc to Rs 488 cr||Private sector lender Federal Bank on Friday reported an almost 55% jump in consolidated net profit to Rs. 488 crore for the second quarter of this fiscal ended September 30. The bank had posted a net profit of Rs. 315.70 crore in the year-earlier period. Total income (consolidated) during the July-September period of 2021-22, however, was down at Rs. 4,013.46 crore, as against Rs. 4,071.35 crore in the same period of 2020-21, Federal Bank said in a filing.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/federal-bank-q2-consolidated-net-profit-jumps-55-pc-to-rs-488-cr/article37133971.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||NTPC floats coal import tender||State-run power giant NTPC has floated a tender to procure 1 million tonnes of imported coal after a gap of more than two years amid the ongoing shortage of dry fuel at electricity generating projects across the country. The company had last floated a tender to procure imported coal in August 2019, a senior official said. According to the tender document, the coal procured under this tender would be used by various plants of the company.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ntpc-floats-coal-import-tender/article37133975.ece
23 October 2021||new Delhi,||Sebi proposes capping ISINs for corporate bonds to enhance liquidity||With an aim to boost liquidity in the corporate bond market, SEBI suggested further capping the number of ISINs for such bonds issued on a private placement basis. ISINs (International Securities Identification Numbers) code, is used for uniquely identifying securities like stocks and bonds.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-proposes-capping-isins-for-corporate-bonds-to-enhance-liquidity/article37133979.ece
23 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Suhana scripts astounding comebacks||Fifteen-year-old Suhana Saini scripted three astonishing comeback victories to win her maiden girls’ (under-19) title before Payas Jain expectedly took the boys’ title in style as curtains came down on the UTT National ranking table tennis championship on Friday. World No. 4 in the under-15 section and third seeded local favourite Suhana rallied from 7-10 in the decider to nail Yashaswini Ghorpade 5-11, 11-9, 11-8, 6-11, 11-9, 13-11 at Panchkula’s Devi Lal Stadium. For the boys’ title, top seed Payas showed his growing class in the age-group competitions with a 11-4, 11-7, 11-8, 11-9 defeat of practice-partner Yashansh Malik, seeded three. Earlier in the day, Suhana displayed her fighting skills, in contrasting ways, to win seven-set battles against second seed Diya Chitale in the semifinals and Taneesha Kotecha in the quarterfinals. Against Diya, Suhana lost the first three sets before snatching the next four games for a place in the final. A few hours earlier, Suhana struggled for the better part of her match against Taneesha. After Taneesha rallied to take a 3-2 lead, Suhana forced the decider, where she trailed 2-6 and 7-10 before winning the final five points. Turning it around In the boys’ semifinals, Yashansh lost the first three sets to stare at defeat against Deepit Patil, seeded two. But thereafter, Yashansh turned the match on its head with the help of some fiercely attacking display and won the last four sets.  The results: Boys: Final: Payas Jain bt Yashansh Malik 11-4, 11-7, 11-8, 11-9. Semifinals: Payas bt Jeho Himnakulhpuigheta 11-4, 11-6, 11-6, 7-11, 11-8; Yashansh bt Deepit Patil 7-11, 3-11, 9-11, 11-4, 11-9, 11-5, 11-7. Quarterfinals: Payas bt Jash Modi 11-8, 11-7, 11-7, 11-6; Jeho bt Aadarsh Chhetri 11-5, 11-5, 11-8, 12-10; Yashansh bt Varun Balasuri 13-11, 11-7, 11-2, 11-6; Deepit bt Ansh Goyal 11-6, 11-5, 11-9, 11-4.   Girls: Final: Suhana Saini bt Yashaswini Ghorpade 5-11, 11-9, 11-8, 6-11, 11-9, 13-11. Semifinals: Yashaswini bt Vanshika Bhargava 11-5, 11-7, 11-8, 11-6; Suhana bt Diya Chitale 10-12, 7-11, 8-11, 11-6, 11-8, 11-8, 11-9. Quarterfinals: Vanshika bt Swastika Ghosh 14-12, 2-3 (conceded); Yashaswini bt Radhapriya Goel 11-8, 11-6, 11-4, 12-10; Suhana bt Taneesha Kotecha 13-11, 7-11, 11-7, 10-12, 7-11, 11-5, 12-10; Diya bt Lakshita Narang 11-8, 11-5, 11-5, 11-9 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suhana-scripts-astounding-comebacks/article37134490.ece
23 October 2021||Liverpool,||Klopp wary despite United’s patchy form||Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp denied he was “rubbing his hands together” at the prospect of unleashing his in-form attackers against Manchester United’s leaky defence in Sunday’s blockbuster Premier League clash at Old Trafford. Liverpool’s gifted front three of Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino are all scoring freely for the unbeaten Reds, who are just one point behind leader Chelsea. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men are struggling in the league and they have failed to keep a clean sheet in 12 consecutive home games in all competitions, their longest such run since 1964. Former United midfielder Paul Scholes, now a TV pundit, said Klopp would be “rubbing his hands together” at the prospect of facing sixth-placed United, which is missing Raphael Varane from its defence. But Klopp said Friday that playing United at Old Trafford would be a tough proposition, despite their recent wobbles. “There was not one second when I was rubbing my hands, I can say that,” the Liverpool manager told a news conference. “There was no reason for it. If you watched the game then you obviously could see that Atalanta caused United in the first half some problems. But even in that half I think United had three clear-cut chances. Pure power “The second half was a pure power presentation of United,” he added. “They went for it and with the quality they have, they can cause any team problems, especially when you stop playing football and obviously Atalanta did a little bit.” Klopp said United v Liverpool, which pits England’s two most successful clubs against each other, was a “massive game”. “I think Man United is not overly happy with the results they’ve got so far, but we all know that they are able to do incredible stuff,” he said. “We saw it already.” Fitness worries Solskjaer told reporters at his own press conference that midfielder Bruno Fernandes was a fitness doubt for the match at Old Trafford. Fred and Marcus Rashford also suffered injuries against Atalanta. While Wednesday’s win put United top of its Champions League group, Solskjaer’s men have taken only one point from their past nine in the Premier League. “Liverpool are in a great run of form and we have to have a strong mindset,” he said. “We have to focus on Liverpool’s front three for 95 minutes to keep a clean sheet “If we give Liverpool chances, they will score two, we cannot give them anything.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/klopp-wary-despite-uniteds-patchy-form/article37134420.ece
23 October 2021||DUBAI,||Can Kohli’s cavaliers repeat the crowning glory of Dhoni’s daredevils?||As if Ravi Shastri and two of his trusted lieutenants in the coaching staff bidding farewell at the end of the T20 World Cup wasn’t a big enough deal, Virat Kohli announced his decision to step down as the T20I captain after the tournament. Add to that Mahendra Singh Dhoni being roped in as mentor and it means that Indian fans will be expecting no less than a repeat of India’s glory in the tournament’s inaugural edition in 2007. For Kohli’s cavaliers to repeat the feat of Dhoni’s daredevils would be a challenge as tough as running a marathon on the shifting sand dunes of the Empty Quarter at mid-day. Host, but not at home Despite being the host — the BCCI was forced to conduct the tournament in the UAE due to the pandemic — India will have to deal with the challenges of playing in neutral territory. It didn’t come as a surprise to see India opting for an optional practice session two days ahead of its opener at the ICC Academy on Friday afternoon. With all of India’s squad members having featured in the Indian Premier League’s second stage in similar conditions, adapting to slower surfaces and searing heat won’t be too much of a problem. It will, however, be a huge ask for India to get the ideal combination on the park for its tournament-opener versus Pakistan on Sunday. With Hardik Pandya unlikely to bowl during the tournament, it will be interesting to see how India ensures a sixth bowling option. Shardul Thakur’s late inclusion hints at him being considered a handy option as a pacer with a golden arm and with the willow lower down the order. But it would make Bhuvneshwar Kumar’s place in the team far from certain. Striking the balance Even in the batting department, striking the right balance of right-left combinations and ensuring India doesn’t waste the middle overs will be a difficult task. Rohit Sharma, K.L. Rahul, Virat Kohli and Suryakumar Yadav making up the top-four and Ravindra Jadeja as the primary all-rounder at No. 7, India will have to pick two out of Rishabh Pant, Ishan Kishan and Hardik in the middle-order. Stretched for ideas If India can solve the combination conundrum come Sunday, it can hope for an encore of 2007. And with the complexities involved, the likes of Shastri and Dhoni will be stretched for ideas over the next three weeks.  Rohit, Rahul, Kohli and Suryakumar are likely to make up the top-four in the batting order Hardik is unlikely to bowl and it will be interesting to see who will be India’s sixth bowling option Shardul’s inclusion shows that he is being considered as an allrounder||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/can-kohlis-cavaliers-repeat-the-crowning-glory-of-dhonis-daredevils/article37134412.ece
23 October 2021||Pune:,||It’s Iron Age vs. Smashing Blue in feature||Iron Age and Smashing Blue should fight out the finish of the Akkasaheb Maharaj Trophy, the feature event of Saturday’s (Oct. 23) races. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  ATMOSPHERE PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30, 1.00 p.m.: 1. Memorable Moments (4) S. Zervan 60.5, 2. She Is On Fire (7) Neeraj 58, 3. Trinket (2) Bhawani 58, 4. Marlboro Man (11) T.S. Jodha 57.5, 5. Tough Cop (5) Ayyar 57, 6. Irish Eyes (10) Nazil 56.5, 7. Grey Falcon (3) Aniket 54.5, 8. Adonijah (6) P.S. Chouhan 53.5, 9. Walk The Talk (8) Raghuveer 53.5, 10. Shadows (9) A. Prakash 52 and 11. Principessa (1) Dashrath 49.5.  1. MEMORABLE MOMENTS, 2. SHE IS ON FIRE, 3. IRISH EYES   ISHPINGO PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 1.30: 1. Doc Martin (6) Nazil 56, 2. Empower (14) T.S. Jodha 56, 3. Lex Luthor (12) Nirmal 56, 4. Lord Vader (11) Bhawani 56, 5. Monarchy (5) Mosin 56, 6. Royal Alamdaar (8) J. Chinoy 56, 7. Scottish Scholar (2) Peter 56, 8. Unclaimed Treasure (9) Yash Narredu 56, 9. Zarak (10) Neeraj 56, 10. Divine Soul (3) Ayyar 54.5, 11. Kinnara (7) P.S. Chouhan 54.5, 12. Levitate (1) Zeeshan 54.5, 13. Lit (13) Sandesh 54.5 and 14. Princess Of Naples (4) Shelar 54.5.  1. LIT, 2. DOC MARTIN, 3. KINNARA   ROSMINI PLATE (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 2.00: 1. Bold Legend (11) P.S. Chouhan 60, 2. Queen O’ War (4) Sandesh 59, 3. Arabian Phoenix (2) Zervan 58.5, 4. Circle Of Love (3) Neeraj 56.5, 5. Winter (8) P. Shinde 56, 6. Treasure Gold (5) T.S. Jodha 54.5, 7. Johannesburg (10) Mosin 54, 8. Air Power (1) Yash Narredu 53.5, 9. Demetrius (7) Peter 53, 10. Sky Storm (6) Shelar 53, 11. Aah Bella (9) Akshay Kumar 52 and 12. Beastia (12) Nazil 50.  1. QUEEN O’ WAR, 2. BOLD LEGEND, 3. WINTER   PORTRUSH PLATE (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 2.30: 1. Bakhtawar (6) V. Bunde 60.5, 2. Giant Star (1) Yash Narredu 60, 3. Arcadia (2) Kirtish 57, 4. Tigrio (4) P.S. Chouhan 56.5, 5. Thunderclap (3) T.S. Jodha 53.5, 6. Successor (8) Sandesh 53, 7. Exotique (7) Neeraj 52 and 8. Vincenzo (5) P. Dhebe 50.  1. GIANT STAR, 2. SUCCESSOR, 3. TIGRIO   F.S. REPORTER TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30, 3.00: 1. On Va Danser (13) J. Chinoy 61.5, 2. Pride’s Angel (6) Sandesh 61.5, 3. Timeless Deeds (8) Dashrath 61, 4. Grand Architect (9) P. Shinde 60.5, 5. Tristar (5) Yash Narredu 59, 6. Istanbul (10) Rupesh 58, 7. Lambretta (4) Bhawani 57, 8. Phoenix Spirit (12) Raghuveer 54.5, 9. Supreme Being (14) Shelar 53.5, 10. Arabian Storm (11) Aniket 53, 11. Honourable Eyes (7) V. Bunde 53, 12. Whispering Queen (3) Peter 52, 13. Gandalf (2) Zeeshan 50.5 and 14. Thea’s Pet (1) Nazil 50.  1. GRAND ARCHITECT, 2. ON VA DANSER, 3. TRISTAR   ATMOSPHERE PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30, 3.30: 1 Immeasurable (10) P.S. Chouhan 62, 2. Lightningonmyfeet (3) Mansoor 62, 3. Seminole (5) T.S. Jodha 62, 4. Allied Attack (2) Santosh 60.5, 5. Numero Uno (7) Neeraj 60.5, 6. Multistarrer (9) Sandesh 60, 7. Hot To Trot (4) Peter 59, 8. Dalasan (11) Ayyar 58.5, 9. Farahnoush (1) Yash Narredu 58.5, 10. Royal Castle (8) J. Chinoy 58.5 and 11. Flower Power (6) Aniket 57.  1. IMMEASURABLE, 2. SEMINOLE, 3. MULTISTARRER   AKKASAHEB MAHARAJ TROPHY (Gr. 3) (1,200m) (Terms), 4-y-o & over, 4.00: 1. Iron Age (4) Sandesh 59, 2. Augustus Caesar (1) Neeraj 57.5, 3. Flying Visit (5) Zervan 57.5, 4. Smashing Blue (3) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 5. Hidden Gold (6) P.S. Chouhan 56 and 6. Silver Flames (2) Yash Narredu 56.  1. IRON AGE, 2. SMASHING BLUE   ISHPINGO PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 4.30: 1. Agostino Carracci (2) Zervan 56, 2. Darwin (9) Bhawani 56, 3. Fidato (4) Dashrath 56, 4. Pure (5) P. Dhebe 56, 5. Raffaello (14) Yash Narredu 56, 6. Winstar (13) T.S. Jodha 56 56, 7. Bloomsbury (8) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 8. Emerald (3) Neeraj 54.5, 9. Fete Accompli (12) Nazil 54.5, 10. Galloping Glory (10) Baria 54.5, 11. Indian Crown (1) Ayyar 54.5, 12. Magical Rays (11) S. Joseph 54.5, 13. Song Song Blue (7) Peter 54.5 and 14. Teispes (6) Santosh 54.5.  1. AGOSTINO CARRACCI, 2. BLOOMSBURY, 3. GALLOPING GLORY   LAGO MEDIO PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 5.00: 1. Enigma (14) Kirtish 61.5, 2. Wayin (3) Shahrukh 61.5, 3. Desert Fire (10) J. Chinoy 59.5, 4. El Capitan (9) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 5. Sergio (8) Zervan 58, 6. Perfect Perfecto (11) V. Bunde 57, 7. Walshy (4) Zeeshan 55.5, 8. Gilt Edge (7) Nazil 54.5, 9. Waverunner (2) Ayyar 54.5, 10. Anointed (6) T.S. Jodha 53.5, 11. Flash Force (1) A. Prakash 53.5, 12. Silent Knight (13) Shelar 53.5, 13. Hellbent (5) Sandesh 53 and 14. Cristo Boss (12) Raghuveer 49.  1. ENIGMA, 2. EL CAPITAN, 3. DESERT FIRE  Day’s best: IMMEASURABLE||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-iron-age-vs-smashing-blue-in-feature/article37134978.ece
23 October 2021||SHARJAH,||Namibia bests Ireland, books a berth in Super 12s||Namibia reached the Twenty20 World Cup second round for the first time, after defeating Ireland by eight wickets, here on Friday. Namibia, the lowest-ranked team in the tournament, chased down a modest target of 126 with skipper Gerhard Erasmus making an unbeaten 53 (49, 3x4, 1x6) and David Wiese, who played for South Africa at the 2016 World Cup, scoring 28 not out (14b, 1x4, 2x6). The two put on 53 for the third wicket. The win not only put Namibia in the same Super 12 section as India, Pakistan, New Zealand, Afghanistan and Scotland but also guaranteed it a spot in the 2022 tournament in Australia. “We are a small country, a small number of people play cricket. We should be proud of ourselves,” said Erasmus. Ireland skipper Andy Balbirnie was distraught by the loss. “It hurts a lot. We really wanted to win but we just didn’t get enough runs,” he said. Earlier, Ireland, opting to bat, had appeared well set at 71 for two at the midway point of their innings but the runs dried up as Namibia’s bowlers turned the screws, restricting their opponents to 125 for eight. Openers Paul Stirling (38, 24b, 5x4, 1x6) and Kevin O’Brien (25, 24b, 2x4) put on 67 for the first wicket. Skipper Balbirnie contributed 21 as ony 54 runs came off the last 10 overs. Namibian pacer Jan Frylinck finished with three for 21. In another match, Sri Lanka thrashed Netherlands by eight wickets as the spin duo of Wanindu Hasaranga and Maheesh Theekshana bamboozled the opposition batters. The inconsequential match ended inside two hours, as the Lankans bundled out the Dutch for 44, the sixth lowest total in T20 history, and reached the target in just 7.1 overs. The chase was a walk in the park as opener Kusal Perera blazed his way to an unbeaten 33 off 24 balls.  The scores: Ireland 125/8 in 20 overs (Paul Stirling 38, Jan Frylinck 3/21, David Wiese 2/22) lost to Namibia 126/2 in 18.3 overs (Gerhard Erasmus 53 n.o., Curtis Campher 2/14).   Namibia won by eight wickets with nine balls to spare.   The Netherlands 44 in 10 overs (Maheesh Theekshana 2/3, Lahiru Kumara 3/7, Wanindu Hasaranga 3/9) lost to Sri Lanka 45/2 in 7.1 overs (Kusal Perera 33 n.o.).   Lanka won by eight wickets with 12.5 overs to spare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/namibia-bests-ireland-books-a-berth-in-super-12s/article37134416.ece
23 October 2021||Dubai,||It will be a battle of power-hitters||Five-and-a-half years after Carlos Brathwaite hit four successive sixes off Ben Stokes’ bowling to win the World Twenty20 final for the West Indies in 2016, the defending champion will renew its T20 World Cup rivalry with England on Saturday. However, both men involved in that epoch-defining over at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata are missing here. Stokes continues to take an indefinite break while Brathwaite wasn’t included in the squad. There are more notable absentees in Jofra Archer and Sunil Narine. It is against this backdrop of missing names that a wide palette of power-hitters from both sides will try to outmuscle each other. Eoin Morgan’s captaincy has been impressive but England will need him to contribute with the bat too. How Moeen Ali is used could be crucial. He can bat at No. 3 in place of Dawid Malan, whose form in the warm-ups wasn’t great. In Mark Wood and Tymal Mills, England’s attack has extra pace that could provide an edge. But it has just one frontline spinner in Adil Rashid. For West Indies, the spin attack is obviously weaker in Narine’s absence. It has three good quicks in Obed McCoy, Dwayne Bravo and Ravi Rampaul. Its batting has depth, with Kieron Pollard, Andre Russell and Chris Gayle — his lean patch is a worry — headlining it. Nicholas Pooran, Evin Lewis and Bravo add more heft. It’s a battle between a side tailor-made for the shortest format and one that has revolutionised white-ball cricket. Whoever adapts better and faster will win on Saturday.  The teams (from):   West Indies: Kieron Pollard (Capt.), Nicholas Pooran, Fabian Allen, Dwayne Bravo, Roston Chase, Andre Fletcher, Chris Gayle, Shimron Hetmyer, Evin Lewis, Obed McCoy, Lendl Simmons, Ravi Rampaul, Andre Russell, Oshane Thomas, and Hayden Walsh Jr.   England: Eoin Morgan (Capt.), Moeen Ali, Jonny Bairstow, Sam Billings, Jos Buttler, Tom Curran, Chris Jordan, Liam Livingstone, Dawid Malan, Tymal Mills, Adil Rashid, Jason Roy, David Willey, Chris Woakes, and Mark Wood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-will-be-a-battle-of-power-hitters/article37134418.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vishnu Vardhan, Siddharth to go through qualifying||Former champions Vishnu Vardhan and Siddharth Vishwakarma will go through the qualifying event in a draw of 64 to make the main draw of the Fenesta National tennis championship beginning at the DLTA Complex from Saturday. With the All India Tennis Association (AITA) having done away with the wild card system for the main event, the players have no option but to endure the qualifying event, which in a way will help them tune their game better. The newly crowned national junior champion, Karan Singh will also negotiate the qualifying event, in his bid to make a mark in the men’s field with his big game. Madhwin Kamath, Faisal Qamar, Ajay Malik, Lakshit Sood are some of the other prominent players in the qualifying draw. In the women’s section, Sharmada Balu is a prominent player in the qualifying event, along with other good players like Shruti Ahlawat, Anjali Rathi, and Farhat Aleen Qamar. The successful players will have to complete two rounds on Saturday, which could be a test of their physical strength as much as the quality of their game. The leading women players have a first round bye in the qualifying event, which should make it that much easier for them to get into the main event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vishnu-vardhan-siddharth-to-go-through-qualifying/article37134494.ece
23 October 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Australia takes on in-form South Africa||Australia will hope its top-order will fire when it opens its campaign against South Africa here on Saturday. Australia, searching for a maiden T20 title, enters the tournament on the back of a horrific run — losing bilateral series to Bangladesh, the West Indies, New Zealand, India and England. David Warner’s woeful form continued in the warm-up games where he scored 0 and 1. Skipper Aaron Finch, coming off a knee surgery, is also short of match practice; so is vice-captain Pat Cummins who hasn’t played any cricket since the IPL’s first leg in April. South Africa, on the other hand, comes in on rousing form, having won three consecutive series — against the West Indies, Ireland and Sri Lanka —and both the practice games.  The teams (from): Australia: Aaron Finch (Capt.), Ashton Agar, Pat Cummins (Vice-Capt.), Josh Hazlewood, Josh Inglis, Mitchell Marsh, Glenn Maxwell, Kane Richardson, Steve Smith, Mitchell Starc, Marcus Stoinis, Mitchell Swepson, Matthew Wade, David Warner and Adam Zampa.   South Africa: Temba Bavuma (Capt.), Keshav Maharaj, Quinton de Kock (wk), Bjorn Fortuin, Reeza Hendricks, Heinrich Klaasen, Aiden Markram, David Miller, Wiaan Mulder, Lungi Ngidi, Anrich Nortje, Dwaine Pretorius, Kagiso Rabada, Tabraiz Shamsi and Rassie van der Dussen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-takes-on-in-form-south-africa/article37134409.ece
23 October 2021||Dubai,||Teams ready to embark on road to semifinals||The Super 12 round of the 2021 T20 World Cup gets underway on Saturday with South Africa taking on Australia in Abu Dhabi and England facing West Indies in Dubai in the first of what promises to be thrilling 30 encounters before the top four move into the semifinals. Namibia has joined Afghanistan, India, New Zealand, Pakistan and Scotland in Group 2. Bangladesh joined Australia, England, South Africa, West Indies and Sri Lanka in Group 1. Defending champion West Indies will be one of the favourites. But its form in the warm-ups — it lost both matches — has flattered to deceive. Chris Gayle’s recent form slump has raised questions over his place. The absence of Sunil Narine is conspicuous. Meanwhile, the runs have also dried up for England captain Eoin Morgan. England will also miss the services of Ben Stokes and Jofra Archer. The pace of Mark Wood and Tymal Mills should give it an edge. Jos Buttler, Jason Roy and Jonny Bairstow add batting heft. Moeen Ali, given his exploits with CSK in IPL 2021, could be vital. The No. 3 spot suits him but he can also be a pinch-hitter at the death. England is bidding to become the first team to hold the 50-over and 20-over titles at the same time. New Zealand, which won the World Test Championship in June, is eyeing a second world title this year. There was concern over skipper Kane Williamson’s fitness but he is likely to be match-ready. Most of the Kiwi players have had enough game time through the IPL, CPL, and the Hundred. For Australia, all the big names are back. But the middle-order issues coupled with uncertainty over the bowling composition could spoil its title bid. Dark horses Pakistan, led by Babar Azam, will look to polish its mercurial mettle in the UAE, which has been home away from home for the subcontinent nation in the past decade. Pakistan’s blockbuster clash against India is scheduled for Oct. 24 in Dubai. South Africa enters the event having won three successive T20I series. Its pace attack comprising Kagiso Rabada, Lungi Ngidi and Anrich Nortje will be one of its strengths. The team starts as a dark horse. Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Bangladesh can be expected to create ripples. Scotland and Namibia, which beat a Test nation (Ireland) to advance to the next stage, would want to leave a mark as well. Of equal interest will be the pitches at Sharjah, Abu Dhabi and Dubai as they have been used extensively since the pandemic began.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/teams-ready-to-embark-on-road-to-semifinals/article37134413.ece
23 October 2021||Hyderabad,||‘Never thought of proving a point to anyone’||K.S. Bharat, the wicketkeeper-batsman of Royal Challengers Bangalore, is determined to keep performing consistently and wait for the day to realise his dream of playing for India. He has been a stand-by for the Indian team during some of the recent international fixtures. Bharat, who played eight IPL games for RCB in Dubai recently, which also featured his stunning last-ball six to help the side pull off a thrilling win over Delhi Capitals, felt that the experience of rubbing shoulders with some of the best names should help him a lot as he waits for the India call. “Honestly, I have never thought of proving a point to anyone in any format whenever I got the chance. I love to keep things simple. It is all about self-belief and that has been the approach over the years for any team I have played,” said Bharat, while thanking his coach J. Krishna Rao and the entire ACA team for ensuring continuous practice at Vizianagaram Academy even during the lockdown. Asked whether that one knock (last ball six) should make a statement of sorts about his T20 batting skills, Bharat felt otherwise. “But, in terms of confidence it means a lot to me and I am really happy that I could rotate the strike right through the IPL and also play my strokes without any inhibition,” he said. Attitude is important Bharat insisted that he never wanted to play second fiddle once given the responsibility in any match. “It is the attitude that is important for me. Stay focussed to give the best,” he said. “Yes, the competition for a wicketkeeper-batsman's slot in the Indian team is very high. But, I was not only handy with the bat for RCB in the IPL but also in other things which matter like fitness and obviously this is because of inspirational captain Kohli bhai (Virat Kohli),” he said. “I am not competing with anyone for sure or else it would mean inviting pressure. The only way to look ahead is to keep improving,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/never-thought-of-proving-a-point-to-anyone/article37134487.ece
23 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Mondal swims to two more new marks||Bengal’s Swadesh Mondal created two more National records on the penultimate day of the sub-junior and junior National Aquatic Championships at the Basavanagudi Aquatic Centre on Friday. In the Group I boys’ 400m medley race, Mondal fought off a stiff challenge from Shoan Ganguly to come home in 4:34.15s, just over half a second faster than Advait Page’s previous National best from 2018. In the 200m breaststroke, he beat S. Danush’s record timing from 2017 to win the gold in 2:22.29s. The efforts took Mondal’s tally to four golds, all of which have come in National record timings. Elsewhere, Karnataka’s Hashika Ramachandra continued her fine form, winning two more golds in Group II girls’ category to take her total to four. She clinched the 100 butterfly race by rewriting Mayuri Lingaraj’s record from 2016 (1:05.98), touching the pad in 1:05.51s. She won the 400m IM event in 5:27.86s.  The results: Boys: Group I: 50m freestyle: R. Sambhavv (Kar), 23.57; 100m backstroke: Utkarsh Santosh Patil (Kar), 58.93; 200m breaststroke: Swadesh Mondal (Ben) 2:22.29 (NMR; OR: 2:22.44, S. Danush (TN), 2017); 400m IM: Swadesh Mondal (Ben), 4:34.15 (NMR; OR: 4:34.76, Advait Page, 2018).   Group II: 50m freestyle: Sarungbam Athouba Meitei (Mnp) 25.99; 1500m freestyle: Pavan Dhananjaya (Kar), 17:12.05; 100m butterfly: Aditya Thapa (SSCB), 1:01.48; Group III: 100m backstroke: Yashaswi Nune (Tel), 1:15.37; 50m butterfly: Akshaj Thakuria (Kar), 30.56.   Group IV: 100m backstroke: Ishan Ghosh (Ben), 1:16.11; 50m butterfly: Sharan Sridhara (Kar), 32.86; Group V: 100m backstroke: Arjun Raghavan (Kar), 1:29.89; 50m butterfly: Ajeet Yadav (UP), 34.20.   Girls: Group I: 50m freestyle: Janhvi Choudhary (Ben), 27.48; 800m freestyle: Vritti Agarwal (Tel), 9:22.16; 100m backstroke: Nina Venkatesh (Kar), 1:06.68; 200m breaststroke: Saanvi S. Rao (Kar), 2:47.70.   Group II: 50m freestyle: Ridhima Veerendra Kumar (Kar), 27.88; 1500m freestyle: Shirin (Kar), 18:45.01; 100m butterfly: Hashika Ramachandra (Kar), 1:05.51 (NMR; OR: 1:05.98, Mayuri Lingraj (Kar), 2016); 400m IM: Hashika Ramachandra (Kar), 5:27.86.   Group III: 100m backstroke: Dhinidhi Desinghu (Kar), 1:11.23; 50m butterfly: Tanishi Gupta (Kar), 30.57; Group IV: 100m backstroke: Annika Deborah Paripoornam Ananth (Tel), 1:21.67; 50m butterfly: Alyssa Sweedal Rego (Kar), 34.16; Group V: 100m backstroke: Shreya Binil (Ker), 1:26.11; 50m butterfly: K. Lasya Sri (AP), 35.76 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mondal-swims-to-two-more-new-marks/article37134493.ece
23 October 2021||Odense (Denmark),||Se-young sends Sindhu crashing||P.V. Sindhu bowed out of the Denmark Open Super 1000 badminton tournament on Friday losing to World No. 8 Korean An Se-young in the women’s quarterfinals. Playing her first tournament since winning the bronze at the Tokyo Olympics, Sindhu lost to Se-young 11-21, 12-21 in 36 minutes. Later, Sameer Verma, who had notched up stunning 21-14, 2-18 win over World No. 3 Anders Antonsen in the second round, was forced to retire after losing the first game 21-17 in the quarterfinals against Indonesia’s Tommy Sugiarto.  The results: Women: Quarterfinals: An Se-young (Kor) bt P.V. Sindhu 21-11, 21-12.   Men: Quarterfinals: Tommy Sugiarto (Ina) bt Sameer Verma 21-17, retd.   Second round: Sameer bt Anders Antonsen (Den) 21-14, 21-18; Viktor Axelsen (Den) bt Lakshya Sen 21-15, 21-7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/se-young-sends-sindhu-crashing/article37134497.ece
23 October 2021||HISAR,||Jaismine, Pwilao coast||Asian championships bronze medallist Jaismine and defending champion Pwilao Basumatary recorded convincing victories in the 60kg weight class to advance to the second round of the National women’s boxing championships at the St. Joseph’s International School here on Friday. The promising Jaismine defeated Chhattisgarh’s Rajbala 5-0. The seasoned Pwilao showcased her trademark power-packed punches to beat Karnataka’s Theertha Lakshmi as the referee stopped the contest in the second round. Among other well-known boxers, Olympian Pooja Rani and Nupur in 81kg and World youth champion Arundhati Choudhary in 70kg also reached the second round comfortably.  Important results (preliminary rounds): 60kg: Jaismine (Har) bt Rajbala (Cht) 5-0, Pwilao Basumatary (Asm) bt Teertha Lakshmi (Kar) RSC-R2, Meena Rani (RSPB) bt Lucky Rana (Utk) 5-0, Pravish Konthoujam (Man) bt Parul Adhikari (Del) 5-0, Manasa Mattaparthi (TS) bt Runchi Dare (Aru) 5-0.   63kg: Chaoba Devi Hemam (AIP) bt J. Revathi (AP) 5-0, Manju Bamboria (MP) bt Harpreet Kaur (Pun) 5-0, Yana Techi (Aru) bt Stanzin Deachen (Lad) 5-0, Neema (Chd) bt Neha Kasnyal (Utk) 4-1.   66kg: Niharika Gonella (TS) bt Dolly Singh (Bih) 5-0, Shruti Yadav (MP) bt Anju (Chd) 5-0, Anjali Tushir (Del) bt Lalita (Raj) 5-0.   70kg: Aarti Rawal (Del) bt Greeta Saji (Ker) 5-0, Arundhati Choudhary (Raj) bt Kiran (Har) RSC-R3.   75kg: Gitimoni Gogoi (Asm) bt Pravallika Gundapu (AP) 5-0, Diksha Rajpoot (Pun) bt Sheela Goswami (UP) 5-0.   81kg: Nupur (RSPB) bt Amita (Del) 5-0, Shaily Singh (UP) bt Vidhi Giri (Raj) 5-0, Pooja Rani (Har) bt Pinki (AIP) 5-0, Sakshi Gaidhani (Mah) bt Ruchita Rajput (Guj) 4-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jaismine-pwilao-coast/article37134502.ece
23 October 2021||Doha,||World Cup final venue almost complete||Work on Qatar’s Lusail Stadium, which will host the 2022 World Cup final, is nearly complete, an official said on Thursday, with only systems checks and commissionings left to tackle. “We are at approximately 98.5 percent completion,” Tamim El Abed, project manager for the stadium, told AFP. Huge capacity “The structural works, the civil works, the steel works, the roof works are all 100 percent complete. The remaining 1.5 percent is the testing and commissioning of the multiple systems needed for the operation of the building,” he said. El Abed said the stadium could host 85,000 to 86,000 spectators. “Eighty thousand of those would have a totally unobstructed view of the field of play,” he said. The Lusail Stadium is about 20km from the capital, Doha, and will host a number of matches during the tournament, including the final. It is one of eight stadiums Qatar has designated for the World Cup — the first ever in the Middle East.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/world-cup-final-venue-almost-complete/article37134422.ece
23 October 2021||Los Angeles,||NBA announces team of all-time greats||Michael Jordan, Oscar Robertson, Wilt Chamberlain, Bill Russell and LeBron James highlight the National Basketball Association’s 75th anniversary team which was announced on Thursday. The members of the team have won a total of 158 NBA championships and amassed 730 All-Star selections. A panel of voters were asked to choose the 75 greatest players of all-time, but the league ended up settling on 76. They did not rank the players by number or position. There are six international stars from a half dozen countries, comprising Giannis Antetokounmpo (Greece), Patrick Ewing (Jamaica), Steve Nash (Canada), Dirk Nowitzki (Germany) and Hakeem Olajuwon (Nigeria) and Tim Duncan (US Virgin Islands). Eleven active players also got the nod: Antetokounmpo, James, Carmelo Anthony, Stephen Curry, Anthony Davis, Kevin Durant, James Harden, Kawhi Leonard, Damian Lillard, Chris Paul and Russell Westbrook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nba-announces-team-of-all-time-greats/article37134427.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Yuvaan, Shivangi win||Yuvaan Garg and Shivangi Alsisaria won the boys and girls titles respectively in the AITA talent series under-12 tennis tournament at the Dhyan Chand National Stadium on Friday. Yuvaan beat Anay Pandey 6-3, 2-6, 6-3 while Shivangi beat fellow trainee from Lassiter Academy, Kaavya Kala, in straight games, in an entertaining exhibition of fluent strokes. Aditya Khanna presented the trophies.  The results (finals): Under-12 boys: Yuvaan Garg bt Anay Pandey 6-3, 2-6, 6-3; Under-12 girls: Shivangi Alsisaria bt Kaavya Kala 6-4, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yuvaan-shivangi-win/article37134638.ece
23 October 2021||London,||UK Athletics in trouble||UK Athletics was in chaos after its CEO and performance director quit on Thursday consequent to a disappointing performance at the Tokyo Olympics, the country’s worst in 25 years. Terrible show CEO Joanna Coates, the former head of England Netball, was appointed only in March 2020 but oversaw Britain’s poorest athletics showing at an Olympics since 1996. Britain’s performance on the track in Tokyo was also overshadowed by a doping case involving silver medal-winning 4x100m relay runner C.J. Ujah. The relay team is likely to be stripped of their medals. Performance director Sara Symington, a former British Olympic cyclist, was appointed in August 2020 but is going to move back to her old sport. She will take up a newly-created role as head of the Olympic and Paralympic Programme for the highly successful Great Britain cycling team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uk-athletics-in-trouble/article37134979.ece
23 October 2021||Hyderabad:,||Lightning Bolt primed to deliver in main event||Trainer L.V.R. Deshmukh’s Lightning Bolt, who is in fine fettle, should not find it difficult to win the Dundoo Ekambar Memorial Cup, the chief event of Saturday’s (Oct. 23) races.  VENUS DE MILO PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.15 p.m.: 1. Aryaman (11) A.A. Vikrant 56, 2. Dream Jewel (7) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 3. First In Line (9) Khurshad Alam 56, 4. Quality Warrior (4) N.B. Kuldeep 56, 5. Royal Support (1) R. Ajinkya 56, 6. Wallop And Gallop (6) Deepak Singh 56, 7. Yesterday (2) Surya Prakash 56, 8. Golden Amaris (10) Mukesh Kumar 54.5, 9. Over Joy (8) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 10. Pink Splendor (5) Aneel 54.5 and 11. Southern Act (3) B.R. Kumar 54.5.  1. ARYAMAN, 2. OVER JOY,   3. FIRST IN LINE   RED INDIAN PLATE (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 1.45: 1. King Roger (3) Rohit Kumar 60, 2. November Rain (5) Mukesh Kumar 60, 3. Moringa (2) Ashad Asbar 59, 4. Campania (7) Gaurav Singh 58.5, 5. Muaser (1) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 6. Forever Bond (8) Surya Prakash 56, 7. Greek’s Ace (6) Ajit Singh 55 and 8. Epsom (4) Afroz Khan 50.5.  1. FOREVER BOND, 2. KING ROGER, 3. NOVEMBER RAIN   VENUS DE MILO PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 2.15: 1. Ashwa Migsun (1) Ashad Asbar 56, 2. Bandit King (8) Ajit Singh 56, 3. Costello (5) A.A. Vikrant 56, 4. Dream Station (7) Mukesh Kumar 56, 5. My Master (10) Nakhat Singh 56, 6. Salisbury (4) Kiran Naidu 56, 7. Special Effort (3) Gaurav Singh 56, 8. Mireya (6) Rafique Sk. 54.5, 9. Reining Queen (2) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5 and 10. Siri (9) B.R. Kumar 54.5.  1. DREAM STATION,   2. BANDIT KING,   3. SPECIAL EFFORT   K. SRINIVAS REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (1,800m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 2.45: 1. New Look (3) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Mark My Word (4) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 3. Kesariya Balam (2) Abhay Singh 57.5, 4. Crazy Horse (6) B.R. Kumar 57, 5. Maximum Glamour (1) A.A. Vikrant 56.5, 6. Just Incredible (7) Mukesh Kumar 55.5 and 7. Limoncello (5) R. Ajinkya 54.  1. NEW LOOK, 2. JUST INCREDIBLE, 3. LIMONCELLO   BE MY GUEST PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.15: 1. City Of Blossom (8) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. Sandown Park (3) N.B. Kuldeep 59, 3. Ashwa Jauhar (2) Gaurav Singh 58.5, 4. General Atlantic (4) B. Nikhil 57.5, 5. Lifetime (1) Khurshad Alam 56.5, 6. Unmatched (10) Md. Ismail 56.5, 7. Aerial Combat (6) Abhay Singh 53, 8. Blazing Jupiter (7) Aneel 53, 9. Battle Ready (5) A.A. Vikrant 52.5, 10. California Beauty (11) G. Naresh 51.5 and 11. Hashtag (9) Rafique Sk. 51.5.  1. GENERAL ATLANTIC,   2. ASHWA JAUHAR, 3. LIFETIME   BE MY GUEST PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.45: 1. Beauty On Parade (9) Deepak Singh 60, 2. Stunning Force (1) Mukesh Kumar 59.5, 3. Lifes Song (10) Koushik 59, 4. Nearest (8) Gaurav Singh 58.5, 5. Blue Valentine (7) Surya Prkaash 57, 6. Curcumin (6) R. Ajinkya 56, 7. Angelita (2) Ajeeth Kumar 55, 8. Soul Empress (4) Aneel 54.5, 9. Whiskey Martini (5) Kuldeep Singh 54.5 and 10. Hurricane (3) Abhay Singh 52.5.  1. STUNNING FORCE, 2. NEAREST, 3. BEAUTY ON PARADE  DUNDOO EKAMBAR MEMORIAL CUP (1,600m), rated 80 and above (Cat. I), 4.15: 1. Lightning Bolt (5) Gaurav Singh 63, 2. Titus (7) Deepak Singh 60, 3. Premier Action (4) Mukesh Kumar 59.5, 4. Prince Valiant (6) Khurshad Alam 58.5, 5. Havelock Cruise (2) A.A. Vikrant 56.5, 6. N R I Valley (1) Abhay Singh 53.5 and 7. Skipton (3) S.S. Tanwar 51.  1. LIGHTNING BOLT,   2. N R I VALLEY, 3. TITUS   SOLARIO PLATE (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 4.45: 1. Flamingo Fame (1) Santosh Raj 60, 2. Golden Forza (9) Mukesh Kumar 60, 3. City Queen (12) Deepak Singh 59.5, 4. Air Salute (10) N.B. Kuldeep 59, 5. Mehrnoosh (7) Rafique Sk. 59, 6. Sea Wolf (6) Ajit Singh 59, 7. Inception (2) B. Nikhil 58.5, 8. Elegant Stroke (11) C.P. Bopanna 58, 9. Starwalker (4) Ajeeth Kumar 58, 10. Silver Set (8) Surya Prakash 57.5, 11. Thunder Road (3) Kuldeep Singh 57.5, 12. Big Day (5) Nakhat Singh 56, 13. Good Tidings (15) Md. Ismail 55.5, 14. Acadian Angel (14) G. Naresh 53 and 15. Elmira (13) Afroz Khan 52.5.  1. FLAMINGO FAME,   2. THUNDER ROAD, 3. SEA WOLF  Day’s Best: LIGHTNING BOLT  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5; (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 3, 4 & 5. (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala : All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lightning-bolt-primed-to-deliver-in-main-event/article37134485.ece
23 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Pankaj Advani on a roll||Pankaj Advani continued his unbeaten run in the GSC World Snooker qualifiers by registering three more wins in the second stage of the tournament here on Friday. Representing Petroleum Sports Promotion Board (PSPB), Advani defeated Neeraj Kumar (RSPB) 4-2, Himanshu Jain (Telangana) 4-2 and Pushpender Singh (RSPB) 4-0. National champion Aditya Mehta (PSPB) also won both his matches. In the women's section, Karnataka’s Chitra Magimairaj started the second phase with three back-to-back victories. She beat Statemate Vidya Pillai (Karnataka) 3-2, Amee Kamani (Madhya Pradesh)3-1 and Anupama Ramchandran (Tamil Nadu) 3-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pankaj-advani-on-a-roll/article37134491.ece
23 October 2021||Misano (Italy),||Rossi prepares to ride off into sunset||Valentino Rossi is ready to wave goodbye to his army of adoring Italian fans in the Emilia-Romagna MotoGP. This will be the motorcycling legend’s final Grand Prix in front of home supporters. Seven-time MotoGP World champion Rossi said he would retire at the end of this season, bringing down the curtain on a storied career which has made him an icon of the sport and a hero to millions of Italians. Large crowd expected The 42-year-old will step onto the track at Misano, the track where he cut his teeth as a rider, for the last time in front of an expected crowd of 35,000 and he insisted now was the time to step aside. “It’s a great chance to say ciao to all the Italian fans, it’s always great to race here in Misano in my home circuit,” Rossi told reporters on Thursday. “It’s been a long story, it’s more than 400 races and a long career. I just want to say thank you to everybody because I had and I have incredible support all over the world. It’s always a sad moment when you arrive at the end but anyway it was good, we enjoyed it,” he said. Asked how he wanted to be remembered Rossi, one of the sport’s most personable characters, said he didn’t know how to answer. After a pause, he said he hoped the people had enjoyed following his races over all these years. Rossi hasn’t been at his best in the slow march towards retirement. He sits 21st in the overall standings after only making the top 10 twice all season. He is hoping for a better result on Sunday than he achieved at Misano in September’s San Marino MotoGP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rossi-prepares-to-ride-off-into-sunset/article37134425.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Depleted field for javelin championship||After Neeraj Chopra’s Olympics gold, some sections of the media chose to project the javelin throw as the next showpiece event in domestic competitions. But the poor response to the 3rd National javelin throw championship starting at the Nehru Stadium complex here on Saturday, shows the projection is far off the mark. The presence of a lone top-10 thrower — seventh-placed Kishore Kumar Jena — highlights the total lack of interest shown by the bigger names. Only a total of 16 men and six women are taking part. Among the men under-20, there are only eight entries. Jay Kumar, who took part in the World juniors in Nairobi, is around but Ajayraj Singh is missing. In such a depleted field, there is not much to look forward to. The finals of girls under-16 and under-18 are scheduled on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/depleted-field-for-javelin-championship/article37134641.ece
23 October 2021||Monastir (Tunisia),||Jennifer in semifinals||Jennifer Luikham recovered from being down 1-3 in the decider to beat sixth seed Elena Milovanovic of Serbia 6-7(8), 6-3, 6-4 in the quarterfinals of the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis on Friday.  Other results: $15,000 ITF men, Doha: Pre-quarterfinals: Tom Kocevar-Desman (Slo) bt Digvijay Pratap Singh 7-5, 6-3.   Doubles: Quarterfinals: Shashank Theertha & Tushar Madan w/o Daniel Cox (GBR) & Alex Deckers (Ned); Li Hanwen & Mu Tao (Chn) bt B.R. Nikshep & Shahbaaz Khan 6-3, 6-0; Yanki Erel (Tur) & Zura Tkemaladze (Geo) bt Dev Javia & Digvijay Pratap Singh 7-5, 7-6(9).   $15,000 ITF, Monastir: Men: Doubles: Quarterfinals: Viktor Jovic (Srb) & Aziz Quakaa (Tun) bt Ankit Chopra & Aaditya Tewari 6-2, 6-0; Niki Poonacha & Sidharth Rawat bt Wissam Abderrahman & Mohamed Amin Oueslati (Tun) 7-6(3), 4-6, [10-7].     $15,000 ITF women, Sharm El Sheikh: Doubles: Quarterfinals: Eri Shimizu (Jpn) & Ho Ching Wu (Hkg) bt Divine Dasam Nweke (Den) & Shreya Tatavarthy 6-4, 2-6, [10-4] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jennifer-in-semifinals/article37134503.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Junior WC: foreign teams exempt from quarantine||Foreign teams arriving in India for next month’s men’s junior hockey World Cup in Bhubaneswar have been exempted from quarantine and will only be required to monitor themselves for COVID-19 symptoms during the stay. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare took the decision following a request by Sports Joint Secretary L.S. Singh earlier this month. Protocols The Health Ministry, however, stated that all arriving teams would have to follow necessary COVID-19 protocols.  Pre-arrival RT-PCR tests for all participants a must Masks and physical distancing also mandatory||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/junior-wc-foreign-teams-exempt-from-quarantine/article37134423.ece
23 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anuj battles past Shoaib to clinch title||In a contest that lasted over five hours, Anuj Uppal defeated former National junior champion Shoaib Khan 5-2 in the Amit Sharma memorial Delhi state senior snooker championship at the Megapool Academy, Dwarka, here. Shoaib took the opening frame before Anuj raced away with the next three. Shoaib bridged the gap to 3-2 by winning the fifth but could not prevent Anuj from adding the next two frames for the title. Anuj and Shoaib will represent Delhi in the Nationals to be held in Bhopal later this year.  The score: (final): Anuj Uppal bt Shoaib Khan 34-79, 67-54, 75-10, 65-51, 11-79, 78-22, 65-30 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anuj-battles-past-shoaib-to-clinch-title/article37134636.ece
23 October 2021||JHAJJAR,||Sandeepti wins title||Sandeepti Singh Rao won the title in the Rs. 100,000 AITA women’s ranking tennis tournament at the Joygaon Academy on Friday. Sandeepti led 3-0 when her opponent, the top seed Renne Singla, retired as she had back ache. It was a commendable fare from Sandeepti who came through the qualifying event, and dropped only 12 games in all in five matches in the main draw.  The results (final): Sandeepti Singh Rao bt Renne Singla 3-0 (retired).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sandeepti-wins-title/article37134639.ece
23 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Suresh Murthati triumphs||Suresh Murthati beat Narender Janweja 6-2, 0-6, 6-0 to win the men’s over-65 title in the ITF seniors tennis tournament at the Roots Academy in Zirakpur on Friday.  The results (finals): Men: Over-35: Harmeet Singh bt Raj Kumar 6-3, 7-5; Doubles: Manav Arora & Varun Makkar bt Raj Kumar & Dilip Mohanty 7-6(3), 7-6(3); Over-45: Monty Roy bt Yogesh Kohli 6-3, 6-0; Over-55: Ajeet Bhardwaj bt Nirmal Kumar Ranjan 1-6, 4-4 (retired); Over-65: Suresh Murthati bt Narender Janweja 6-2, 0-6, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suresh-murthati-triumphs/article37134640.ece
23 October 2021||Lahore,||Windies teams to tour Pakistan||The Pakistan Cricket Board on Thursday announced that the West Indies women’s team would visit the country for three One-Day Internationals in Karachi next month, a huge boost after the pullouts by New Zealand and England. PCB chairman Ramiz Raja said “the West Indies women’s tour will be followed by their men’s side who will visit Pakistan for three ODIs and three T20Is in December. So, the Pakistan fans can brace for some exciting and entertaining cricket in women’s and men’s cricket later this year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/windies-teams-to-tour-pakistan/article37134829.ece
23 October 2021||KOCHI,||Senior State event from Monday||The 55th Kerala State senior billiards and snooker championships begin at Club Yolo, Kollam, on Monday. Around 20 players in billiards and 45 in snooker will be in action in the championships which run till October 31. The State junior and sub-junior billiards and snooker championships, which were scheduled to begin on Friday have been postponed as young players are preparing for their board exams. The new dates will be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/senior-state-event-from-monday/article37134828.ece
23 October 2021||LONDON,||Edgbaston to host cancelled Test next July||The fifth and final Test of the series at Old Trafford between England and India that was called off after a COVID-19 case in the Indian camp will be played in July 2022 at Edgbaston, England’s cricket board (ECB) said on Friday. “We are very pleased that we have reached an agreement with BCCI to creating a fitting end to what has been a brilliant series so far,” ECB CEO Tom Harrison said. BCCI secretary Jay Shah said he was delighted the series will have a “rightful conclusion”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/edgbaston-to-host-cancelled-test-next-july/article37134410.ece
23 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||Mallikarjuna shines||G. Mallikarjuna’s seven for 26 helped Anantapur bundle out Chittoor for 190 on the first day of the three-day ACA inter-district (under-19) cricket championship at Korm College Ground in Kadapa on Friday. In reply, Anantapur was 138 for four in 28 overs with Datta Reddy unbeaten on 62.  The scores: Chittoor 190 in 59.5 overs (Teja Reddy 63, Nikith Goud 63, G. Mallikarjuna 7/26) vs Anantapur 138/4 in 28 overs (Datta Reddy 62 batting, Mahendra 41).   Nellore 292/7 in 90 overs (Pavan Kumar 77 batting, Revanth Reddy 61, Manvith 62, Rajesh 4/52) vs Kadapa.      Sabari Football Club scored a 4-3 win over East Coast Railway Sports Association via penalty tie-breaker in the semifinal of the Attili Suribabu and Attili Pydikonda memorial football tournament for seniors here on Friday. The teams were locked goalless at the end of full-time.  The result: Semifinal: Sabari FC 4 (Rajasekhar, Naveen, Deepak, Hemanth) bt ECoRSA 3 (Sitarama Raju, Kumar, Yarranna) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mallikarjuna-shines/article37134896.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Legala CA wins trophy||Legala Cricket Academy scored a 37-run win over Muchkund Cricket Academy in the final of the second Dussehra Trophy T-20 cricket championship organised by City College Old Boys Cricket Association at Legala Ground (Lingampally) near here on Friday. Special prizes were given to Vasudev Sahoo (player of the tournament) and V. Vijayendra (player of the final). Dr. Faheemuddin Khaja, principal, Crescent Model English School & Secretary, SSGF, and Salam Bayash, chief coach at Legala CA, gave away the prizes.  The scores: Final: Legala C A 152/6 in 20 overs (Vijayendra 54 n.o., Shirish Kumar 36, J. Prakash 34, Vivek Chari 3/36, Dhanush Krishna 3/14) bt Muchkunda CA 115 in 19.4 overs (Vasudev Sahoo 49, N, Akshaya 4/23, Vijayendra 3/11) .      Gudem Mahipal Reddy prize money badminton tournament for sub-junior boys and girls (under-13) will be held from October 29 to 31 at Bhaskar Babu MLRIT Indoor Stadium (Dindigul) near here with a total prize money of Rs 1 lakh. Entries close on October 26. For details call 94898 02616.   Gymnastics Federation of India dissolved the Telangana Gymnastics Association and formed an ad hoc panel comprising Nishikanth Pathak as chairman, Dr. S.R. Prem Raj and K. Prabhakar as members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/legala-ca-wins-trophy/article37134727.ece
23 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Five Kerala players picked for U-19 Challenger tournament||Five players from Kerala have been selected for the under-19 Challenger Trophy cricket tournament which will be held in Ahmedabad from October 25 to November 10. Shoun Roger, Rohan Nair, Varun Nayanar, Mohit Shibu and Vijay Viswanath were the players who have been picked. They were part of the Kerala under-19 team that reached the knockout stage of the Vinoo Mankad Trophy for the first time. Shoun, who scored 294 runs and took seven wickets in the tournament, Mohit and Vijay were included in Team-B while Varun and Rohan were selected to Team D and F respectively.   Kerala Police came from behind to edge out Central GST and Customs 73-69 in the SBL all-Kerala basketball tournament here on Friday. Kerala Police, which trailed Customs 53-59 at the end of the third quarter, rallied in the last quarter and out-scored the Kochi side 20-10 to win by four points.  The results: Kerala Police 733 (Shanazil Muhammed 12, Antony Johnson 11) bt Central GST & Customs 69 (Eudric Pereira 15, Aaron Blessen 10).   Local tournament: YMCA 49 (Ajith 19, Stalin 11) bt Covid Warriors 2 (Anandu 13); St. Joseph’s HSS 37 (Nabeel 16, Devanand 14) bt LOBO 24 (Prabhul Pradeep 10) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/five-kerala-players-picked-for-u-19-challenger-tournament/article37134830.ece
23 October 2021||Kitakyushu (Japan),||China's||China’s Zhang Boheng won the men’s all-around title at the World gymnastics championships on Friday, edging out Olympic champion Daiki Hashimoto of Japan.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chinas/article37134541.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Humility is wealth||Wealth holds the greatest attraction to mankind. Because wealth brings with it power and fame, it is much sought after. At different times, different things constituted wealth. There was a time when wealth was measured in terms of the size of one’s cattle herds. As the world became industrialised, other things became more important. However, Thiruvalluvar speaks of something entirely different when he writes about wealth, elaborated Malayaman in a discourse. Money, gold, jewellery, land, houses, cattle — these are not the only things that can be termed wealth. There is something intangible which qualifies to be called wealth, according to Thiruvalluvar. He says humility is a form of wealth too. Humility in a man who possesses riches, must be seen as an additional wealth that he has. Kumaraguruparar says that both material possessions and education constitute wealth. But he says that they become wealth to a person only when he is humble. We adorn ourselves with gold ornaments. But the Jain work Naladiyar says that the ornament worth having is humility. A Tamil work known as Vetriverkai observes that humility adds beauty to the educated. Mudumozhi says that humility imparts beauty to virtuous and upright people. If a man is well read, follows the right path in life, and in addition is also humble, then such a person will earn the praise of everyone, says Thiruvalluvar. Humility raises a man to the status of a celestial; lack of humility pushes him into misery. Nature shows us how being humble can even save one’s life. When there is a storm, tall trees break and fall to the ground. But grass bends and thus saves itself from being broken by the strong wind. This shows us that to bow in humility is far better than to oppose everyone arrogantly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/humility-is-wealth/article37134038.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 07:21 IST,||Sudoku — October 23, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-23-2021/article37135028.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Dialogue With Dr Funky||There are days when deep-diving into His Divine Wiseness, Dr Funky Astral Kumar’s life-saving quotes alone doesn’t do it for me. I need a live, one-on-one exchange with him from time to time to have my faith in life restored. I’m blessed that Guruji gave me a tatkal entry. Given below, for the benefit of his fans from across the globe, is the gist of our life-affirming exchange. His Divine Wiseness: Why are you here, my son? Me: Feeling a bit down, Guruji. So I wanted to see you. HDW ( smiling mystically ): Do the sirasasana , son. Immediately. Me: Why, Guruji? Is it... er... because blood will rush to my head and make me feel better? HDW ( laughing supernaturally ): You’d think that, but no. Didn’t you say you were down? What happens when you stand on your head? Down becomes Up. And Up becomes Down. Proving that it is all a matter of perception, leading to the divine union of the feminine–masculine in the yin-yang of the jingbang. More importantly, when you do the asana , your wallet will fall out and we will be able to take your credit card without troubling you. Me ( sobbing gratefully ): Dhanyosmi , Astral Guruji, dhanyosmi . HDW: What else ails you, my son? Tell me fearlessly. Me: Why are they making a sequel to Gadar: Ek Prem Katha , Guruji? Why now? Isn’t the world suffering enough? HDW: Do you know what Bhishma Pitamaha said as he lay dying on a bed of arrows? Me: What did he say, Guruji? HDW ( scrolling on his phone ): I don’t know. That’s why I asked you. I’m taking part in a closed-group quiz for Gurujis. Me: Oh... okay... but what about Gadar’ s sequel, Guruji, if you don’t mind? HDW ( smiling paranormally ): What is a sequel, my child? It is a continuation, isn’t it? Gadar Part 2 is just an example of the space-time continuum... with Sunny Paaji taking up space in our time. It is allMaya... Memsaab. It could have been far worse. Imagine if they’d made a sequel to Singh Saab The Great . Next question. Me: I have an inexplicable ache in my stomach, Guruji. I’ve had a bunch of tests done, docs say there isn’t a thing wrong with me but it continues to worry me. HDW: Come close, my son. I obeyed Guruji.  Ker-thwack!  Me: Neeyabba ! What the? Why did you punch me so hard in the stomach, Guruji? HDW: Does it hurt? Me: Yes ( sobbing ) like hell. HDW ( tittering metaphysically ): See, now you know the cause of your stomach ache. Next question. Me ( wiping away my tears ): My istriwalla Marimuthu has no respect for me, Guruji. Despite my repeated requests, he irons my jeans with a front crease. This is disturbing me, Your Wiseness. HDW ( shoulders shaking in silent laughter ): So simple. Just wear your jeans sideways. The crease will go to either side then. Me: But if I turn my jeans sideways, won’t I be able to wear only one leg? What about my other side? HDW: Do you have another pair? Me: Yes. HDW: Wear them on the other leg. Simple. Me: Guruji... er... wouldn’t it be simpler to send my jeans to another istriwalla ? HDW: Wrong. That is an admission of weakness. Do you know what Bakasura said to the villager when he came to offer himself as food? Me: No, Guruji. What did he say? HDW ( giggling psychically ): Apply ginger-garlic paste on yourself and wait a bit. I am chopping the onions and coriander. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dialogue-with-dr-funky/article37134192.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Johnnie Walker’s new whisky HQ||Experiencing the world through our screens has moved from novelty to necessity. In Edinburgh, the home of Scotch whisky, Johnnie Walker has been working on an immersive experience for drinkers and aficionados that doesn’t require a trip to one of their distilleries. Officially launched two weeks ago by Prince Charles, Johnnie Walker Princes Street offers an eight-floor deep dive into the brand, its over 200-year history, and its offerings. “The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown that it brought has accelerated the shift towards finding ways to interact with our customers in the online realm,” says Barbara Smith, general manager of Johnnie Walker Princes Street. “For the brand, it wasn’t something where we had to pivot massively because we were already operating in the online world. But we are ensuring that we are creating great experiences by adapting our approach to digital interactions [to cater to new consumer behaviours and buying habits].”  Gamifying the striding man  Online, you can navigate the space — organised into rooms that showcase its history, the brand’s global impact and a tasting room — with a virtual passport. The exploration is like an interactive treasure hunt: part future glimpse into the metaverse, part gamified brand experience, and part whisky lovers’ trivia offerings. An on-screen guide helps you discover clickable objects in a room, each of which gives some context to the Johnnie Walker story. Offline, it is the centrepiece of parent company Diageo’s investment into whisky tourism in Scotland (a £185 million investment). Visitors can book one of three tours, including The Whisky Maker’s Cellar, priced at £95, which gives access to their underground cellar and the chance to blend your own unique bottle from an ever-changing selection of casks. Or relax at its two rooftop bars, the Explorers’ Bothy (stocked with 150 different whiskies) and the 1820 cocktail bar. Smith, who oversees tourism at all of the brand’s 14 distillery homes across Scotland, says, “Firstly, Diageo has an unparalleled reserve of whisky casks, over 10 million at last count. More importantly, though, is where these casks are from. We have distilleries in all four corners of Scotland: the Highlands, Lowlands, Speyside and the Islands, meaning that we have access to the widest range of flavours of any other blender out there.” It’s this variety that the attendees on the tour will have access to.  Tailor your drink  If you’re looking to drink rather than learn, try The Whisky Explorers (£35), an hour-long tasting of matured whiskies that have spent at least 12 years in the barrel, along with an exclusive whisky available to taste only at the centre. Neophytes can book the Journey of Flavour tour (£25) that takes 90 minutes, and helps identify personal flavour preferences. It results in whisky drinks tailored to the palate. With no-age statement whiskies trending, this immersive new experience is tailor-made for those seeking exclusive bottles — the retail shop features a seasonal cask from which visitors can purchase and fill a bottle — and a sense of community. There are also more than 800 flavour combinations to check out. Smith teases, “We have an exciting pipeline of limited editions in development in collaboration with partners that we will be announcing in the near future. So, watch this space!”  Tours can be booked online at johnniewalker.com. The 1820 bar and retail shop can be accessed without a booking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/johnnie-walkers-new-whisky-hq/article37134188.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||McQueen bubble: Announce your arrival in London with a selfie by the cloud-like bubble structure providing panoramic views of the city. Atop a car park in Tobacco Dock, it was designed for Alexander McQueen's Spring Summer 2022 show that concluded on October 12. The inflated dome designed by Chilean architect Smiljan Radić announced the brand’s return to physical shows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article37134194.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Saffron Rose calling||The renovated Good Earth store at Mumbai’s Raghuvanshi Mills opens in time for the brand’s 25th anniversary collection launch, but we’re excited about the Persian-themed pop-up cafe, Saffron Rose. The curated menu with a mezze bowl and lambkibbehbeckons. goodearth.in Time to dine under the canopy of Le Dupleix, Puducherry’s 200-year-old mango tree. At the Gout de France food festival, a five-course menu of goat cheese, rillettes and other delights await. Till October 31, 7 pm onwards.0413 2226999.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/saffron-rose-calling/article37134196.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Diwali already||Diwali treats get an upgrade with the hampers from Mumbai’s newly-opened artisanal food brand, Origin. The Truffle Treasure (Rs. 9,900) comprises Hoeksche truffle chips, red pesto truffle, truffle vinegar, etc. The As You Like It curation (Rs. 12,500) features Moroccan lemons, goji berry cookies, Spaccatini rosemary, Enrico roasted red paprika, and Mulhouse onion confit, among other delicacies. Details: 8591720929. For more sourcing tips this gifting season, check outWeekend’s festive food curation in next week’s issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/diwali-already/article37134198.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Precious metal project||Bengaluru-based Aman Poddar who has been engraving on precious metal for the last two years has his debut exhibit ‘Ekab’ underway in Mumbai. On display are over 40 intricately-carved jewellery pieces and framed art in gold and silver. October 22-24 at Akara Art.9845450612 In an attempt to bring back the ‘afterhours’ culture, Johnnie Walker’s #RevibeTheNight campaign features performances by artistes Divine, Ritviz, and indie bands across India. johnniewalker.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/precious-metal-project/article37134200.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Of green collabs||Apparel brand Vraj:bhoomi has joined hands with upcycling social enterprise Silaiwali to create a range of handmade dolls. Crafted in natural-dyed textile scraps, the cotton dolls named Tashi, Atasi, and Avarna are priced at Rs. 1,990 each. vrajbhoomi.in Adding to the eco-collab list is L’Occitane India’s partnership with Saahas Zero Waste to launch their first-ever recycling programme, Big Little Things. Full-sized L’Occitane empties and PET bottles from all beauty brands can be dropped off at their stores. loccitane.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/of-green-collabs/article37134202.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Cultural crossing||Artists Julia Romano (from Argentina) and Meghna Patpatia are now showcasing their paintings at Dreamscapes, a two-person show at Tao Art Gallery in Mumbai. Visitors can look forward to a ‘merger in the expression of the two artists from diverse cultures and geographies’. 6 pm onwards. Until November 25. If films are more to your liking, Goethe-Institut’s Science Film Festival has a range of 122 films themed on the science of health and wellbeing. Until December 20. To sign up, call 04428331314||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cultural-crossing/article37134204.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Two immersive worlds||Be it their visual scale or audience expectations, this year’s biggest Hollywood releases have finally come to Indian theatres. Denis Villeneuve's sci-fi, dystopian space epic, Dune , with music by Hans Zimmer and stunning visuals tops our list. Only to be followed by The French Dispatch , director Wes Anderson's 10th feature that premiered at Cannes this July. Both films have something in common — a delayed release due to the pandemic, and Timothée Chalamet, of course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/two-immersive-worlds/article37134209.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The Boat Club walk||Early this morning, over 50 members of the FICCI Ladies’ Organisation’s (FLO) Chennai Chapter will come together for a marathon hosted by Apollo Hospitals. The partership seeks to raise funds for under-aged paediatric patients at Apollo and walkers can choose their distance - 3, 5 or 10 km. October 23 at 6.30 am. Boat Club Road, Adyar. If you’re an aspiring author, editor Poonam Ganglani has a free webinar ‘Demystifying the Publishing Process’. October 28 at 4 pm. @poonam_ganglani on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-boat-club-walk/article37134213.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking Point||Boycott brigade: Our Twitter feeds are filled with ‘angry netizens’ trashing brands and calling for their boycott for everything from ad campaigns to collection taglines. After Manyavar and Tanishq, it is now clothing major Fabindia that is under fire after rolling out a festive collection named ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’. The big question now is if brands must fall in line or take a hard stand and fight the backlash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article37134215.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The virtual luxe edit||Fans of Inditex’s clothing brand, Massimo Dutti, can now access their cashmere sweaters and woollen suits anywhere in the country thanks to the Indian e-store and app. And while the silk shirts are flying off the virtual shelves, the Spanish design house is also banking on smart features such as geolocation to help access physical stores, and AR-enabled product selection. The latter, for shoes in particular, lets you ‘try on’ the loafers and trainers, share those photos on social media and buy the shoes instantly. Like its sister company Zara, Massimo Dutti has been taking post-pandemic hybrid workwear seriously, so expect their relaxed styles to be picked up as soon as they drop. Free home deliveries for orders above Rs. 4,500 and AR features only on the app. Massimodutti.com; the app is available on GooglePlay and the Apple store. Tiffany & Co has a new pandemic retail shift - its new e-store for the Indian market makes spontaneous gifting easier across the country. Visitors can now browse the brand’s prized diamonds and gemstones that include Tiffany T, Tiffany HardWear, Tiffany Victoria, Tiffany True, as well as their contemporary home and accessories range. A fair bit from their charming Love Bugs collection is already out of stock, so you know where the Diwali purchases are happening. Also launching on the site is the Tiffany T1 collection that celebrates the luxury retailer’s ‘T’ motif that has been a part of its identity since the 1980s. Beyond browsing, buyers can also book virtual diamond consultations and avail the services of personal shoppers, among other services. tiffany.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-virtual-luxe-edit/article37134180.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Dialogue With Dr Funky||There are days when deep-diving into His Divine Wiseness, Dr Funky Astral Kumar’s life-saving quotes alone doesn’t do it for me. I need a live, one-on-one exchange with him from time to time to have my faith in life restored. I’m blessed that Guruji gave me a tatkal entry. Given below, for the benefit of his fans from across the globe, is the gist of our life-affirming exchange. His Divine Wiseness: Why are you here, my son? Me: Feeling a bit down, Guruji. So I wanted to see you. HDW ( smiling mystically ): Do the sirasasana , son. Immediately. Me: Why, Guruji? Is it... er... because blood will rush to my head and make me feel better? HDW ( laughing supernaturally ): You’d think that, but no. Didn’t you say you were down? What happens when you stand on your head? Down becomes Up. And Up becomes Down. Proving that it is all a matter of perception, leading to the divine union of the feminine–masculine in the yin-yang of the jingbang. More importantly, when you do the asana , your wallet will fall out and we will be able to take your credit card without troubling you. Me ( sobbing gratefully ): Dhanyosmi , Astral Guruji, dhanyosmi . HDW: What else ails you, my son? Tell me fearlessly. Me: Why are they making a sequel to Gadar: Ek Prem Katha , Guruji? Why now? Isn’t the world suffering enough? HDW: Do you know what Bhishma Pitamaha said as he lay dying on a bed of arrows? Me: What did he say, Guruji? HDW ( scrolling on his phone ): I don’t know. That’s why I asked you. I’m taking part in a closed-group quiz for Gurujis. Me: Oh... okay... but what about Gadar’ s sequel, Guruji, if you don’t mind? HDW ( smiling paranormally ): What is a sequel, my child? It is a continuation, isn’t it? Gadar Part 2 is just an example of the space-time continuum... with Sunny Paaji taking up space in our time. It is allMaya... Memsaab. It could have been far worse. Imagine if they’d made a sequel to Singh Saab The Great . Next question. Me: I have an inexplicable ache in my stomach, Guruji. I’ve had a bunch of tests done, docs say there isn’t a thing wrong with me but it continues to worry me. HDW: Come close, my son. I obeyed Guruji.  Ker-thwack!  Me: Neeyabba ! What the? Why did you punch me so hard in the stomach, Guruji? HDW: Does it hurt? Me: Yes ( sobbing ) like hell. HDW ( tittering metaphysically ): See, now you know the cause of your stomach ache. Next question. Me ( wiping away my tears ): My istriwalla Marimuthu has no respect for me, Guruji. Despite my repeated requests, he irons my jeans with a front crease. This is disturbing me, Your Wiseness. HDW ( shoulders shaking in silent laughter ): So simple. Just wear your jeans sideways. The crease will go to either side then. Me: But if I turn my jeans sideways, won’t I be able to wear only one leg? What about my other side? HDW: Do you have another pair? Me: Yes. HDW: Wear them on the other leg. Simple. Me: Guruji... er... wouldn’t it be simpler to send my jeans to another istriwalla ? HDW: Wrong. That is an admission of weakness. Do you know what Bakasura said to the villager when he came to offer himself as food? Me: No, Guruji. What did he say? HDW ( giggling psychically ): Apply ginger-garlic paste on yourself and wait a bit. I am chopping the onions and coriander. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dialogue-with-dr-funky/article37134228.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Johnnie Walker’s new whisky HQ||Experiencing the world through our screens has moved from novelty to necessity. In Edinburgh, the home of Scotch whisky, Johnnie Walker has been working on an immersive experience for drinkers and aficionados that doesn’t require a trip to one of their distilleries. Officially launched two weeks ago by Prince Charles, Johnnie Walker Princes Street offers an eight-floor deep dive into the brand, its over 200-year history, and its offerings. “The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown that it brought has accelerated the shift towards finding ways to interact with our customers in the online realm,” says Barbara Smith, general manager of Johnnie Walker Princes Street. “For the brand, it wasn’t something where we had to pivot massively because we were already operating in the online world. But we are ensuring that we are creating great experiences by adapting our approach to digital interactions [to cater to new consumer behaviours and buying habits].”  Gamifying the striding man  Online, you can navigate the space — organised into rooms that showcase its history, the brand’s global impact and a tasting room — with a virtual passport. The exploration is like an interactive treasure hunt: part future glimpse into the metaverse, part gamified brand experience, and part whisky lovers’ trivia offerings. An on-screen guide helps you discover clickable objects in a room, each of which gives some context to the Johnnie Walker story. Offline, it is the centrepiece of parent company Diageo’s investment into whisky tourism in Scotland (a £185 million investment). Visitors can book one of three tours, including The Whisky Maker’s Cellar, priced at £95, which gives access to their underground cellar and the chance to blend your own unique bottle from an ever-changing selection of casks. Or relax at its two rooftop bars, the Explorers’ Bothy (stocked with 150 different whiskies) and the 1820 cocktail bar. Smith, who oversees tourism at all of the brand’s 14 distillery homes across Scotland, says, “Firstly, Diageo has an unparalleled reserve of whisky casks, over 10 million at last count. More importantly, though, is where these casks are from. We have distilleries in all four corners of Scotland: the Highlands, Lowlands, Speyside and the Islands, meaning that we have access to the widest range of flavours of any other blender out there.” It’s this variety that the attendees on the tour will have access to.  Tailor your drink  If you’re looking to drink rather than learn, try The Whisky Explorers (£35), an hour-long tasting of matured whiskies that have spent at least 12 years in the barrel, along with an exclusive whisky available to taste only at the centre. Neophytes can book the Journey of Flavour tour (£25) that takes 90 minutes, and helps identify personal flavour preferences. It results in whisky drinks tailored to the palate. With no-age statement whiskies trending, this immersive new experience is tailor-made for those seeking exclusive bottles — the retail shop features a seasonal cask from which visitors can purchase and fill a bottle — and a sense of community. There are also more than 800 flavour combinations to check out. Smith teases, “We have an exciting pipeline of limited editions in development in collaboration with partners that we will be announcing in the near future. So, watch this space!”  Tours can be booked online at johnniewalker.com. The 1820 bar and retail shop can be accessed without a booking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/johnnie-walkers-new-whisky-hq/article37134227.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||They don’t need the bright lights||In August, when Aaliyah Kashyap was on the cover of digital magazine, The Voice of Fashion , she wasn’t announcing her entry to Bollywood. The 20-year-old daughter of director Anurag Kashyap is a digital creator. Her lifestyle/fashion/beauty channel on YouTube has close to 93K subscribers, and on Instagram, she has 247K followers. She collaborates with international brands such as Fashion Nova, Lounge and Derma-E. And she’s a student of business management at Chapman University in California. Nepotism in Bollywood has always been the elephant in the room. Actors with families in the film industry often get a leg up. But like Aaliyah, there’s a growing tribe of star kids today who are not about which movie they are debuting in or where they are partying — they are blazing their own trail. Fitness influencer Krishna Shroff — whose brother, Tiger, went the expected way and is now in the news for Heropanti 2 — says, “It’s not easy to break away from what my family does. The automatic assumption is that I will do the same. But I wanted to carve out my own niche. To be identified for my vision, and not just my family name, is a huge achievement for me.” And social media has a big part to play. While some have gone the influencer and model route (Alanna Panday, Alaviaa Jaaferi), others are using their platforms to follow different paths. Navya Naveli Nanda, scion of the Bachchan family, recently launched Project Nyay’ri in collaboration with Pink Legal, a platform for women’s laws. Their aim is to make pro bono legal consultation accessible to women. Aamir Khan’s daughter, Ira’s Agatsu Foundation focusses on mental health awareness. And Jamie Lever has pursued stand-up comedy. “They [star kids] are very aware that circulating on social media is a must. It’s not the only thing, however, since popularity on these platforms can be short-lived,” says Ankur Pathak, entertainment editor at HuffPost. That said, he theorises that at some point, these large followings could become capital for movie deals. “Not many will turn down an offer from Dharma Productions for the next Student of the Year ,” he chuckles. We meet a few of these trailblazers to find out what makes them tick.                   Continued on page 3||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/they-dont-need-the-bright-lights/article37134255.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||McQueen bubble: Announce your arrival in London with a selfie by the cloud-like bubble structure providing panoramic views of the city. Atop a car park in Tobacco Dock, it was designed for Alexander McQueen's Spring Summer 2022 show that concluded on October 12. The inflated dome designed by Chilean architect Smiljan Radić announced the brand’s return to physical shows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article37134229.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Saffron Rose calling||The renovated Good Earth store at Mumbai’s Raghuvanshi Mills opens in time for the brand’s 25th anniversary collection launch, but we’re excited about the Persian-themed pop-up cafe, Saffron Rose. The curated menu with a mezze bowl and lambkibbehbeckons. goodearth.in Time to dine under the canopy of Le Dupleix, Puducherry’s 200-year-old mango tree. At the Gout de France food festival, a five-course menu of goat cheese, rillettes and other delights await. Till October 31, 7 pm onwards.0413 2226999.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/saffron-rose-calling/article37134230.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Diwali already||Diwali treats get an upgrade with the hampers from Mumbai’s newly-opened artisanal food brand, Origin. The Truffle Treasure (Rs. 9,900) comprises Hoeksche truffle chips, red pesto truffle, truffle vinegar, etc. The As You Like It curation (Rs. 12,500) features Moroccan lemons, goji berry cookies, Spaccatini rosemary, Enrico roasted red paprika, and Mulhouse onion confit, among other delicacies. Details: 8591720929. For more sourcing tips this gifting season, check outWeekend’s festive food curation in next week’s issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/diwali-already/article37134237.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Precious metal project||Bengaluru-based Aman Poddar who has been engraving on precious metal for the last two years has his debut exhibit ‘Ekab’ underway in Mumbai. On display are over 40 intricately-carved jewellery pieces and framed art in gold and silver. October 22-24 at Akara Art.9845450612 In an attempt to bring back the ‘afterhours’ culture, Johnnie Walker’s #RevibeTheNight campaign features performances by artistes Divine, Ritviz, and indie bands across India. johnniewalker.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/precious-metal-project/article37134238.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking Point||Boycott brigade: Our Twitter feeds are filled with ‘angry netizens’ trashing brands and calling for their boycott for everything from ad campaigns to collection taglines. After Manyavar and Tanishq, it is now clothing major Fabindia that is under fire after rolling out a festive collection named ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’. The big question now is if brands must fall in line or take a hard stand and fight the backlash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article37134239.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Two immersive worlds||Be it their visual scale or audience expectations, this year’s biggest Hollywood releases have finally come to Indian theatres. Denis Villeneuve's sci-fi, dystopian space epic, Dune , with music by Hans Zimmer and stunning visuals tops our list. Only to be followed by The French Dispatch , director Wes Anderson's 10th feature that premiered at Cannes this July. Both films have something in common — a delayed release due to the pandemic, and Timothée Chalamet, of course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/two-immersive-worlds/article37134240.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Of green collabs||Apparel brand Vraj:bhoomi has joined hands with upcycling social enterprise Silaiwali to create a range of handmade dolls. Crafted in natural-dyed textile scraps, the cotton dolls named Tashi, Atasi, and Avarna are priced at Rs. 1,990 each. vrajbhoomi.in Adding to the eco-collab list is L’Occitane India’s partnership with Saahas Zero Waste to launch their first-ever recycling programme, Big Little Things. Full-sized L’Occitane empties and PET bottles from all beauty brands can be dropped off at their stores. loccitane.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/of-green-collabs/article37134241.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Cultural crossing||Artists Julia Romano (from Argentina) and Meghna Patpatia are now showcasing their paintings at Dreamscapes, a two-person show at Tao Art Gallery in Mumbai. Visitors can look forward to a ‘merger in the expression of the two artists from diverse cultures and geographies’. 6 pm onwards. Until November 25. If films are more to your liking, Goethe-Institut’s Science Film Festival has a range of 122 films themed on the science of health and wellbeing. Until December 20. To sign up, call 04428331314||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cultural-crossing/article37134242.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Seychelles on your arm||MAYU, the Nordic-inspired sustainable luxury brand, has just released Isle N°1 - The Exotic Functional Edit (the first line of The ISLE collection, a three-part series). With a range of functional bags and accessories made out of fish leather and pineapple leather — teamed with botanically-dyed natural fabrics and seasoned teakwood hardware — the collection is minimalistic yet fun. Think a tote inspired by coastlines and a baguette bag made from wolfish leather. The colour palette borrows from founder Mayura’s travels to Seychelles, with the islands’ flora and fauna reflected in the hues. Accessories from Rs. 2,500 onwards (eyewear and phone cases, wallets) and bags from Rs. 14,000 onwards, onworldofmayu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/seychelles-on-your-arm/article37134223.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||An evening with DJ Ivan||Looking forward to an evening of music by DJ Ivan followed by a meal featuring Pan Asian favourites, European cuisine and regional specialties? Head to FLO on Church Street this weekend. The event will be held on October 23, at 7pm. For details, call 45685650. If you’re an aspiring author, editor Poonam Ganglani is hosting a free webinar ‘Demystifying the Publishing Process’. On October 28 at 4 pm. For details, contact @poonam_ganglani on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/an-evening-with-dj-ivan/article37134225.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The virtual luxe edit||Fans of Inditex’s clothing brand, Massimo Dutti, can now access their cashmere sweaters and woollen suits anywhere in the country thanks to the Indian e-store and app. And while the silk shirts are flying off the virtual shelves, the Spanish design house is also banking on smart features such as geolocation to help access physical stores, and AR-enabled product selection. The latter, for shoes in particular, lets you ‘try on’ the loafers and trainers, share those photos on social media and buy the shoes instantly. Like its sister company Zara, Massimo Dutti has been taking post-pandemic hybrid workwear seriously, so expect their relaxed styles to be picked up as soon as they drop. Free home deliveries for orders above Rs. 4,500 and AR features only on the app. Massimodutti.com; the app is available on GooglePlay and the Apple store. Tiffany & Co has a new pandemic retail shift - its new e-store for the Indian market makes spontaneous gifting easier across the country. Visitors can now browse the brand’s prized diamonds and gemstones that include Tiffany T, Tiffany HardWear, Tiffany Victoria, Tiffany True, as well as their contemporary home and accessories range. A fair bit from their charming Love Bugs collection is already out of stock, so you know where the Diwali purchases are happening. Also launching on the site is the Tiffany T1 collection that celebrates the luxury retailer’s ‘T’ motif that has been a part of its identity since the 1980s. Beyond browsing, buyers can also book virtual diamond consultations and avail the services of personal shoppers, among other services. tiffany.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-virtual-luxe-edit/article37134226.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Dialogue With Dr Funky||There are days when deep-diving into His Divine Wiseness, Dr Funky Astral Kumar’s life-saving quotes alone doesn’t do it for me. I need a live, one-on-one exchange with him from time to time to have my faith in life restored. I’m blessed that Guruji gave me a tatkal entry. Given below, for the benefit of his fans from across the globe, is the gist of our life-affirming exchange. His Divine Wiseness: Why are you here, my son? Me: Feeling a bit down, Guruji. So I wanted to see you. HDW ( smiling mystically ): Do the sirasasana , son. Immediately. Me: Why, Guruji? Is it... er... because blood will rush to my head and make me feel better? HDW ( laughing supernaturally ): You’d think that, but no. Didn’t you say you were down? What happens when you stand on your head? Down becomes Up. And Up becomes Down. Proving that it is all a matter of perception, leading to the divine union of the feminine–masculine in the yin-yang of the jingbang. More importantly, when you do the asana , your wallet will fall out and we will be able to take your credit card without troubling you. Me ( sobbing gratefully ): Dhanyosmi , Astral Guruji, dhanyosmi . HDW: What else ails you, my son? Tell me fearlessly. Me: Why are they making a sequel to Gadar: Ek Prem Katha , Guruji? Why now? Isn’t the world suffering enough? HDW: Do you know what Bhishma Pitamaha said as he lay dying on a bed of arrows? Me: What did he say, Guruji? HDW ( scrolling on his phone ): I don’t know. That’s why I asked you. I’m taking part in a closed-group quiz for Gurujis. Me: Oh... okay... but what about Gadar’ s sequel, Guruji, if you don’t mind? HDW ( smiling paranormally ): What is a sequel, my child? It is a continuation, isn’t it? Gadar Part 2 is just an example of the space-time continuum... with Sunny Paaji taking up space in our time. It is allMaya... Memsaab. It could have been far worse. Imagine if they’d made a sequel to Singh Saab The Great . Next question. Me: I have an inexplicable ache in my stomach, Guruji. I’ve had a bunch of tests done, docs say there isn’t a thing wrong with me but it continues to worry me. HDW: Come close, my son. I obeyed Guruji.  Ker-thwack!  Me: Neeyabba ! What the? Why did you punch me so hard in the stomach, Guruji? HDW: Does it hurt? Me: Yes ( sobbing ) like hell. HDW ( tittering metaphysically ): See, now you know the cause of your stomach ache. Next question. Me ( wiping away my tears ): My istriwalla Marimuthu has no respect for me, Guruji. Despite my repeated requests, he irons my jeans with a front crease. This is disturbing me, Your Wiseness. HDW ( shoulders shaking in silent laughter ): So simple. Just wear your jeans sideways. The crease will go to either side then. Me: But if I turn my jeans sideways, won’t I be able to wear only one leg? What about my other side? HDW: Do you have another pair? Me: Yes. HDW: Wear them on the other leg. Simple. Me: Guruji... er... wouldn’t it be simpler to send my jeans to another istriwalla ? HDW: Wrong. That is an admission of weakness. Do you know what Bakasura said to the villager when he came to offer himself as food? Me: No, Guruji. What did he say? HDW ( giggling psychically ): Apply ginger-garlic paste on yourself and wait a bit. I am chopping the onions and coriander. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dialogue-with-dr-funky/article37134258.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Three make a party||Failure can be as much a cause for cheer as success, but not when it comes to your cocktail. So when Sophia Sinha, marketing head for Moët Hennessy (MH) India, concocted a “terrible cocktail” by her own reckoning (pineapple juice, chillies and Belvedere vodka; “basically, I killed Belvedere”) out of pantry staples during the lockdown last year, it was something not to be laughed away. “I am a good cook but I can’t make cocktails,” she chuckles. She was not alone either. Social media then was full of posts about “pantry mixologists”, people concocting drinks with whatever ingredients they had at home, aspiring to imaginative DIYness, but failing to pour palatable or consistent drinks into their coupes. It was this failure that led Sinha to pick up the phone to Shehan Minocher, brand ambassador of MH in India, and the company’s resident bar expert, to discuss the idea of creating mixers that could go with some of the luxe alcohol the French major sells. The result has now been unveiled. MH has collaborated with home-grown brand Svami, a leader in the non-alcoholic drinks category, to produce three fairly sophisticated mixers: a pomelo ‘spritz’, tangerine ‘highball’, and cinnamon and pepper-accented ginger ale — to go with the conglomerate’s top-of-the-line brands Belvedere (vodka), Glenmorangie (single malt) and Hennessy VS (cognac) respectively. Home consumers who buy these spirits get packs of mixers matched with the spirit.  When opposites meet  This collaboration is interesting for more reasons than taste alone. Its significance lies in the fact that this is the first time in India that a spirits major is joining forces with a non-spirits drinks company to address changing consumer tastes and habits. Developed markets globally have been seeing phenomenal growth in the non-alcoholic, “not quite mocktails” category since 2018-19. The founding brand of this category, Seedlip (a complex botanicals-based formulation that mimics gin) came into its own around then with listings at Selfridges and top London bars. A host of similar start-ups have followed suit, the likes of My Celtic Soul (‘whisky’-esque), Spiritless Kentuky 74 (‘bourbon’), Fluere (‘rum’), Ritual Zero Proof (‘tequila’) and so on. The category as a whole should have hurt spirits majors. Except that some of the biggest companies globally were quick to recognise changing trends and jump on to this bandwagon. Diageo, in fact, picked up a 20% stake in Seedlip pretty early in its incubation (in 2016), and, more recently, last year, Pernod Ricard UK partnered with the South African award-winning Ceder’s (a non-alcoholic ‘gin’).  Bringing choice to the table  In India, the MH x Svami tie up is the first in this space — and the first globally, too, for MH. “Last year, as home consumption shot up, we did a small collaboration with Pernod Ricard,” says Svami co-founder Aneesh Bhasin. “But this is the first big tie-up where we have been contracted to make mixers exclusively for top-of-the-line brands.” For Svami, launched in early 2018, this is an important landmark. Just before Bhasin and his co-founders had come up with their lean tonic water — cracking the category till then dominated by sugary stuff — I had run into him socially in Mumbai and landed up going for a microbrewery crawl through Andheri with him and chef Saransh Goila. After a rather long evening out, Bhasin had taken us to his office, where we had tasted the still-under experimentation tonic water. It has been an eventful journey since then for Svami, now a market leader with a wide product range, including non-alcoholic gin and tonic, rum and cola, and most recently a “2 cal” cola (the equivalent of a diet cola). “We are pricing these slightly higher than mass brands since the aim is to go for scale instead of being a niche player,” says Bhasin. This is an important ambition. The spurt in the craft category of both alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks in the last two years means that a bevy of entrepreneurs are now in the game, but most remain inconsequential with limited reach and production. With its own state-of-the-art 18,000 sq ft manufacturing facility and reach in tier 1 and 2 cities (the aim is to go to the kirana store level), Svami is getting bigger. The big brand tie up will boost its footprint and cred further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/three-make-a-party/article37134296.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Aahana’s agent makeover||During the 2020 lockdown, when most actors were taking a break, Aahana Kumra was on her feet. The actor had completed the shooting for Bawri Chhori , which released earlier this year, and had shot for two web shows — the sitcom Sandwiched Forever (2020) and Call My Agent: Bollywood , that is all set to release on Netflix later this month. A remake of the successful French show Dix Pour Cent — which follows the lives of agents who, while serving their celebrity clients, are also desperate to keep their agency afloat — it also stars Rajat Kapoor, Soni Razdan, and Ayush Mehra. Kumra’s journey from Lucknow to Mumbai, as she took the leap from theatre to television in 2014 with Yudh , and then to streaming, shows a slow, careful conviction. Be it Lipstick Under My Burkha , where she plays Leela, an entrepreneuring beautician, or the viral FilterCopy sketch comedy When You’re Expecting a Baby , the 34-year-old has dabbled across genres and is now both “excited and nervous” for the Indian remake of the cult show. In an interview with The Hindu Weekend , the actor speaks without inhibition about the film industry, working during the pandemic, and her love for theatre.  What was it like working during lockdown?  I had five back-to-back releases in 2020 and I never said no to work. During the lockdown, my spot boy came to see me and, given the circumstances, I assumed he needed money. But he had just come to tell me to take on projects as only then would he get employed. It was because of him that I pushed myself and shot Sandwiched Forever in an indoor set in August. I was then offered Call My Agent: Bollywood .   You’re a big fan of the original show. What was it like working on its remake?   The biggest star I shot with was Shaad Ali, the show’s director. While he spoils you, Shaad has also tested my patience too many times because he wouldn’t give me a second take! Our ensemble was absolutely fantastic. Soni [Razdan] and I go way back, Hussain [Dalal], who co-wrote the dialogues with Abbas, is a very dear friend, and we both did theatre together. Radhika [Seth] is debuting on the show and as her first scene was with me I felt responsible.  Does your character Amal Ahmed share similarities with Andréa Martel from the original?   Amal Ahmed is very similar to Camille Cottin’s Andréa. They have kept my character bisexual [she is gay in the first season]. But I had to borrow from the aggressive casting agents I have met in real life. I enjoyed playing Amal, and felt very empowered — she’s very manipulative, sketchy, and ensures she gets what she wants.  They gave you a nose ring. Was that an attempt to ‘Indianise’ Amal?   I have always been conscious about my nose, because it’s so long, but when I put on the nose ring, it looked fun. Tanya Sharma [the costume designer] and Shaad wanted me to look different from my other shows. They cut my hair short and gave me oversized jackets, shirts, and straight-fit pants to make me look overbearing. I will be seen wearing hues of red and the colour becomes an inherent part of the character — she is like goddess Kali.  You were part of the first batch of Whistling Woods. How important was that formal education in acting for you?   One of the good things that came out of it was my relationship with Naseer sir [Naseeruddin Shah] and Ratna ma’am [Ratna Pathak Shah]. They were my teachers, and I want to have that childlike dignity. If I hadn’t gone to film school, I would never know about 2001: A Space Odyssey , or Clockwork Orange or Andrei Tarkovsky. I would still be watching only Indian and mainstream Hollywood films and think only that is cinema. I go to Russia often because my father lives in Moscow. I watch the Bolshoi there, and love watching other artistes. When I was in Japan, I saw sumo wrestlers and thought, ‘Oh my God, that’s art!” So much of the mainstream has been fed to us, and then you think that is the be all and end all.  You’ve said that there is an intense lobbying that happens in Bollywood. Is it the same for OTT?   In cinema, you need to know people to be able to get a film. I hardly do films as I don’t get them easily and I still don’t know how you get films. I know of people who haven’t auditioned but gotten a part whereas we don’t even get a foot in the door with films. Now with film stars coming to OTT, shows are paying them huge amounts of money and we are still getting peanuts. They are trying to make a Hindi film industry out of an OTT platform, but it is not going to work. The audience on OTT love performances, not stars. You have to prove your mettle as an actor. You cannot be a factory, launching and announcing films. Call My Agent: Bollywood releases on Netflix on October 29th||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/aahanas-agent-makeover/article37134314.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘I did not want to connect with negativity’||Shriya Saran is back in India after two years, and she sounds delighted to have successfully managed to keep a secret. The actor recently opted for a baby reveal instead of a gender reveal — Radha, her daughter with entrepreneur husband Andrei Koscheev, was born in January this year in Barcelona, Spain. Now back in Mumbai with her family, and at work, Saran is part of several projects: SS Rajamouli’s ambitious RRR , Telugu film Gamanam that is coming out in four languages, the bilingual Music School , co-starring Sharman Joshi and with music by Ilaiyaraaja (the film’s choreographer, Adam Murray, was part of the Elton John film, Rocket Man ), besides her Tamil projects. Her film with Karthick Naren, Narasasooran , is due for release too. In between shooting, she speaks about the journey of having Radha at a time when the world was in turmoil, coping with Covid-19, and staying relevant decades after she made her debut with the Telugu Ishtam in 2001. Edited excerpts from an interview with The Hindu Weekend.  How did you manage to hold on to your happy secret and spring Radha as a surprise, while remaining active on social media? While it is very difficult to keep something like this to yourself, I knew the world was going through a torrid time. I lost a friend in the second wave, and it was very hard for me. This put me in a space where I knew how precious a moment the pregnancy was, and I wanted to share it when I, and people were ready. It did not feel right to share it when there was grief around. I wanted Radha to be welcomed into the world when I was ready and she was big enough. Although she was a planned baby, no one really prepares you for the journey. It is an intense process — I am a social person, but I chose to stay quiet. I grew happy and fat, wore what I wanted and read a book, went to a cafe and walked around in Barcelona. I really wanted to enjoy the last few months of life before the baby. Was there any pressure on you, being a public figure, to get back to your pre-pregnancy shape?  Well, your body changes completely, and it was not a quick process to get back to what I was. My mother got back into shape in a month. I wanted to do so too, and I ate healthy and worked out. I did not post a picture because even though you’re used to negative comments on social media, I was not in the mindframe to receive them. I did not want to connect with negativity. I decided the best thing to do was to share images after Radha met her grandparents. What was your routine like during pregnancy?  For the first three months, I was very careful. Then, I resumed my Kathak classes, yoga, and walking. It was difficult as we were all in our individual bubbles. Andrei and I were doing everything ourselves, and a two-week visit extended to two years. We did not have time to think; there was enough work to do, and there was dance. How were the first few months of coping with motherhood?  My mother came by for a month, and then it was just the three of us. We were stressed out and needed family support. My mother-in-law chipped in when Andrei and I got Covid-19. I don’t know how we would have managed without her. But the journey and staying up during the night was worth it. Now, Radha has a lovely nanny in Mumbai, and my mother is also around. Did you miss the sets these two years?  Not quite, because no one was really shooting then. I’ve always wanted to be a working mother and now I am back at work. I miss Radha, yes, but it’s nice to be back at work. Radha is a well-travelled child...  Yes. It was really nice in Barcelona and then in Russia. We lived by a lake, and I took her swimming. She loves the water and it was fun. Do you intend to pen down your pregnancy journey?  I don’t think I’ll do that. But it was an interesting one, like it was for any mother who had a baby during the pandemic. Intense and beautiful, all at once. I am just blessed and happy to have Radha and get some good medical help during these tough times. There was a lot of positivity and love in our lives and I am grateful for that. Over the years, you’ve always reinvented yourself... stayed relevant.  Well, it’s about identifying something that challenges you and avoiding getting into a place where you do the same things repeatedly because it’s easier. I’ve always tried to push boundaries; I’ve done that in the Telugu film Gamanam too. It is a constant struggle, but as long as you are an artiste, you keep working on yourself. The process is always on. A few years ago, you set up Spandana, a spa managed by the visually-challenged. How has the pandemic impacted this passion project?  The spa is on hold now because it is difficult to operate one during the pandemic. The people I was working with are super talented and have love in their hands. During the pandemic, did you have a close circle to lean on?  Not really. I think for me it was all about Zoom classes, doing as many ‘lives’ as I could, and learning new things. I learnt to bake and cook. I had to be more careful because Covid-19 is more dangerous when one is pregnant, so I only went on long walks. My parents and friends were around, but my true circle was my husband. And then, there’s Radha, my constant companion during the pandemic — first inside of me and then in my arms!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/i-did-not-want-to-connect-with-negativity/article37134341.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||My experiments with woo wellness||I began writing this story on a full moon night, right after a conversation about tantra on Clubhouse. If 2020 was the year of reality checks, this year I’m running away from this dystopian world, indulging in sound baths, charging crystals, clearing chakras, cutting chords, manifesting, earthing, and dabbling in white witchcraft. I’m obsessed with the school of woo-woo wellness, which is sometimes seen as magical but mostly as pseudoscience or an alternate belief system, thereby eliciting skepticism and several eyerolls. It doesn’t help that Gwyneth Paltrow is its poster child, with her ear seeds, ice plunges, jade eggs, and vaginal steaming. But even though people love to hate woo and Gwyneth, I love them. Why? Because this type of wellness is more playful, palatable and doable. And while some people recharge with a vacation, I like to explore new rituals. Covid-19 has amplified the need to get better, shifting priorities from work and money towards physical, mental and emotional health. Because of this reason, the wellness industry in general is seeing an upswing. According to a 2021 McKinsey report, the 1.5 trillion-worth global wellness market is growing at 5-10% every year, with 72% respondents believing wellness is important and 42% making it a top priority. Science behind rituals While some practices are now being viewed through the lens of science, let’s not forget that until recently, most rituals (including pranayama and meditation) were seen as pseudoscience and therefore a part of woo-woo wellness. But today, we have scientific proof that they can help. For instance, a daily meditation practice helps relieve the eczema itch, according to researchers at Emory University, United States. Scientists at Seoul National University, Korea, found evidence that the body has a system of meridians. And just the fragrance of sandalwood oil helps cells proliferate and heal, as per a study by Ruhr University Bochum, Germany. Of course, a huge part of wellness can be attributed to placebo, but isn’t that real too? Personally, I use these rituals merely as functional tools since I have no great, yogic ambitions such as moksha or nirvana. For me they work as a daily practice, a mental bath. They help me sleep, find answers and most importantly, shift focus. But that doesn’t mean there’s no magic. If you think about what makes things magical, it’s discovery. A sound bath or chakra healing helps me discover the minutest sensations in the body and peel back the layers of my mind, which is quite extraordinary. Still, one cannot deny that woo-woo wellness is now so commercialised. Today anyone can be a healer with a three-month course, past life regression is a weekend exploration and tarot reading is an essential pastime. The market is reaching saturation point with chakra-activating teas, protective crystals, cleansing salts, magical candles, aura-boosting oils, and videos on everything from channelling angels to strengthening the aura. It’s becoming so popular that it’s irksome, even for me. Meanwhile on Clubhouse An information overload on ashwagandha smoothies and ayahuasca transformations can be irritating. But to be open, vulnerable and candid because you have done internal work (with woo, traditional wellness or therapy) is the biggest flex. This was apparent in a recent Clubhouse room I did with a wiccan on manifestation. It was a new moon night, perfect for setting new intentions. At exactly midnight, one by one the audience members revealed their deepest fears, hopes and ambitions. The room wasn’t special only because we were manifesting but also because there were 300 other people listening with compassion and an open mind. Perhaps this is why we need woo wellness. Because traditional systems are too rigorous and science too sterile. I like to view it as wellness lite, which is more relevant in these times when most of us (me included) lack the focus or discipline required for more advanced practices. And ultimately, the biggest advantage of any type of practice, be it new-age or traditional, is that it helps us form a connection, be it to our inner, outer or astral worlds.  Vasudha Rai has authored Glow: Indian Foods, Recipes and Rituals for Beauty Inside and Out and blogs at vbeauty.co.   Disclaimer: The views expressed in this article are those of the author alone, and do not substitute for professional medical advice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/my-experiments-with-woo-wellness/article37134324.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The road to El Gouna||It has been a mad couple of weeks. Several frantic days at the BFI London Film Festival included the privilege of attending the world premiere of Prasun Chatterjee’s delightful Dostojee , listening to the great and the good of the film world speak, including Trishna filmmaker Michael Winterbottom, the great Mike Leigh ( Secrets & Lies , Topsy Turvy ), The Warrior , Amy and Senna director Asif Kapadia, who had an immersive VR project Laika in the festival, to trans iconLingua Francafilmmaker Isabel Sandoval who was the head of the first features jury. And, while London was winding down, it was more PCR tests and on to another plane to Cairo, a dash to change flights to Hurghada and thence by road to the Red Sea resort town of El Gouna. It was my first time at the El Gouna Film Festival, where, besides writing about the festival for Variety , I had to present an award. The journey began dramatically as, while waiting at Heathrow to board the Cairo flight, my news feed went berserk with images of the event’s main venue, the Festival Plaza, in flames. Pausing only to write a report on the blaze, I boarded the flight. By the time the next day dawned, the organisers had worked miracles and at the glittering opening night ceremony, there was nary a trace of the fire. Meanwhile, Egyptian authorities denied entry to UK-resident Palestinian filmmaker Said Zagha and in solidarity, fellow Palestinian, Homeland actor Mohammad Bakri decided to cancel his El Gouna trip to accept a career achievement award and deliver a masterclass. Except during the parties, the pace at El Gouna was unhurried, the stay at a seven star resort was relaxed, and the films were excellent. I finally caught up with Laurent Cantet’s Arthur Rambo , which begins as a slide into the black hole of French social media and segues into an examination of the immigrant experience. Ali El Arabi’s moving documentary Captains of Za’atari , which began life as a project at El Gouna a couple of years ago, documents the experiences of two best friends and aspiring footballers, trapped in a Jordanian refugee camp. While on refugees, the International Emerging Film Talent Association’s annual Refugee Voices in Film event, in conjunction with United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, was a collection of several searing short films and a reminder of the privileged life most of us have compared to the lot of the refugees depicted in the film. The highlight of the festival undoubtedly was a masterclass by American filmmaker Darren Aronofsky, director of films such as Pi , Requiem For A Dream , Black Swan , The Fountain and his most polarising work, Mother! Aronofsky spoke at length about his craft and then proceeded to dispense advise to the eager crowd of young Egyptian filmmakers, actors and writers present at the Festival Plaza. For the directors, he stressed the necessity of having an original voice and being honest with actors. He advised actors to understand the meaning behind each line of the script and to spend as much time as possible with the director and writer. The festival was also a great way of catching up with old friends, and making new ones, in a tranquil atmosphere while the Red Sea twinkled in the distance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-road-to-el-gouna/article37134319.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Johnnie Walker’s new whisky HQ||Experiencing the world through our screens has moved from novelty to necessity. In Edinburgh, the home of Scotch whisky, Johnnie Walker has been working on an immersive experience for drinkers and aficionados that doesn’t require a trip to one of their distilleries. Officially launched two weeks ago by Prince Charles, Johnnie Walker Princes Street offers an eight-floor deep dive into the brand, its over 200-year history, and its offerings. “The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown that it brought has accelerated the shift towards finding ways to interact with our customers in the online realm,” says Barbara Smith, general manager of Johnnie Walker Princes Street. “For the brand, it wasn’t something where we had to pivot massively because we were already operating in the online world. But we are ensuring that we are creating great experiences by adapting our approach to digital interactions [to cater to new consumer behaviours and buying habits].”  Gamifying the striding man  Online, you can navigate the space — organised into rooms that showcase its history, the brand’s global impact and a tasting room — with a virtual passport. The exploration is like an interactive treasure hunt: part future glimpse into the metaverse, part gamified brand experience, and part whisky lovers’ trivia offerings. An on-screen guide helps you discover clickable objects in a room, each of which gives some context to the Johnnie Walker story. Offline, it is the centrepiece of parent company Diageo’s investment into whisky tourism in Scotland (a £185 million investment). Visitors can book one of three tours, including The Whisky Maker’s Cellar, priced at £95, which gives access to their underground cellar and the chance to blend your own unique bottle from an ever-changing selection of casks. Or relax at its two rooftop bars, the Explorers’ Bothy (stocked with 150 different whiskies) and the 1820 cocktail bar. Smith, who oversees tourism at all of the brand’s 14 distillery homes across Scotland, says, “Firstly, Diageo has an unparalleled reserve of whisky casks, over 10 million at last count. More importantly, though, is where these casks are from. We have distilleries in all four corners of Scotland: the Highlands, Lowlands, Speyside and the Islands, meaning that we have access to the widest range of flavours of any other blender out there.” It’s this variety that the attendees on the tour will have access to.  Tailor your drink  If you’re looking to drink rather than learn, try The Whisky Explorers (£35), an hour-long tasting of matured whiskies that have spent at least 12 years in the barrel, along with an exclusive whisky available to taste only at the centre. Neophytes can book the Journey of Flavour tour (£25) that takes 90 minutes, and helps identify personal flavour preferences. It results in whisky drinks tailored to the palate. With no-age statement whiskies trending, this immersive new experience is tailor-made for those seeking exclusive bottles — the retail shop features a seasonal cask from which visitors can purchase and fill a bottle — and a sense of community. There are also more than 800 flavour combinations to check out. Smith teases, “We have an exciting pipeline of limited editions in development in collaboration with partners that we will be announcing in the near future. So, watch this space!”  Tours can be booked online at johnniewalker.com. The 1820 bar and retail shop can be accessed without a booking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/johnnie-walkers-new-whisky-hq/article37134257.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||What if jokes don’t land?||In her first ever set as a stand-up comic, actor Sunny Leone doesn’t mince words. “You all know me for something I’ve done in the past that you have all judged me for, and that I might be ashamed of,” she says with a shrug and a smile before delivering the punchline or more like punch-word — ‘mastizade’ (fun seekers). And, the audience cracks up. This according to comedian Neeti Palta is a great strategy to win the crowd over. “Comics will tell you that if you get the audience with the first joke, they are with you. And, when you start by addressing what the audience is already thinking about you, you have them.” For season two of Amazon Prime’s One Mic Stand , a reality show (hosted by Sapan Verma) that has celebrities attempt stand-up comedy after being trained by professionals, Palta mentors Leone.We see the likes of Karan Johar, Faye D’Souza, Raftaar and Chetan Bhagat, who are mentored by Sumukhi Suresh, Atul Khatri, Samay Raina, Abish Mathew. Less chat, more comedy One of the first steps after everyone is onboard is what Verma, also the showrunner, calls a “long therapy session” where the celebrities meet their comedy mentors and the writers of the show. “They talk about their lives and then the writers write jokes for them,” he adds. At the end of season one, Verma and the team knew that they had ‘cracked the format’ but there was always room for improvement; one of which was to keep each celebrity set crisp and packed with jokes. “In the first season, we often wrote long scripts but this time we ruthlessly cut them down to five pages. We have a great writers’ room and they understood that this was to make the show better.” Much like celebrities who are attempting stand-up for the first time, this is a novel experience for the comics as well. And, teaching a newbie how to make a room full of strangers laugh isn’t easy. “You can be funny among your group of friends but that doesn’t always translate on stage. The stories you tell them are based on people and backgrounds that they know,” says Palta. Mathew adds, “It’s a Catch-22 situation. Comics become better by going to open-mics again and again. Only by failing, do you build the confidence that helps you manage a room the next time.” Bracing imperfection The format of One Mic Stand though, is such that a celebrity has only one chance on a given night to establish their comedy credentials. “It’s a live show, with a live audience. There is no cheating,” Palta says. Honesty, according to Verma, is a great way to win the audience over. “I’ve told the celebs that if a joke bombs, they can just say ‘It’s not my fault. Sapan told me it was funny’”. Verma understands that the USP of the show is the vulnerability and imperfection that comes with having well-known faces attempt something new in front of the camera. “You know that they aren’t going to be perfect and it’s unfair to even expect it. This is why we retain moments when they look at their cheat sheet or fumble. Last season, someone fumbled and our editor cut it out but I told him to add it back because that’s the charm of the show.” One Mic Stand is now streaming on Amazon Prime Video||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/what-if-jokes-dont-land/article37134309.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Ginger’s fullness rediscovered||The pandemic has been the reason for numerous delays, including for the launch of Hermès third women’s fragrance in their Twilly line. While the rest of the world has already gotten a whiff of its floral, spicy and woody notes, in India, the scent came in earlier this month. At the brand’s Mumbai store, a sensory experience awaited those who attended the launch. A magician, a painter, and some practical silk accessories (a Twilly neck scarf made into a face mask holder) awaited those in attendance, but the centerpiece, quite literally, was an expertly-wrapped giant bottle of perfume. ‘Not scent that makes the gender’ “Creating a fragrance from scratch or continuing an existing story is not the same exercise, but both are exciting," says Christine Nagel, Hermès in-house perfumer, about the newest scent. Paradoxically, it is perhaps a little more difficult to create a fragrance within an existing family because it involves respecting its spirit, structure and imaginary world while “adding your own signature”. In this case that meant using ginger — with its crispness and bite — to layer with peony and cedar. The perfume is aimed at women, but Nagel draws on history to explain why it fits in neatly with the current push towards genderless fashion. She explains, “I consider fragrances to be works of art, and as such they are aimed at all humanity. In Eastern and Indian cultures, rose or patchouli can be worn by men. It’s not the scent that makes the gender because a scent becomes masculine on a man’s skin and feminine on a woman’s skin. We just have to know how to dare, be bold, trust ourselves and try things out.” With freedom comes creativity And if asked to look ahead? “Looking to the future… if I had a dream, it would be to ban consumer tests and panels that have standardised and confined the world of fragrance,” is Nagel’s response. “If I had a dream, it would be to give all perfumers the freedom that Hermès gives me. It allows me to be bold, to take risks, to go where no one else can go.” She goes deeper and cites changes that are “also technological because new methods for extracting materials, new molecules and tools for understanding and analysing materials have also shaken up the way fragrance is designed”. As for the new fragrance, Nagel explains why she’s working with ginger, found in the original and first Twilly formulation, but now amped up and used for its unique candied scent. “I had not finished with [ginger] and wanted to reinvent it in a different style, because when I work on a material, I like to take it to its limits... I retained its burning heat while softening the texture to make it convey something different. I could compare this exercise to the work on the Brides de Gala scarf, the emblematic Hermès design that has been artistically reinterpreted ever since 1957.” Priced at Rs. 11,500, Twilly Eau Ginger is available at the Hermès stores in Mumbai and New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/gingers-fullness-rediscovered/article37134330.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||BV Doshi’s need to dream||BV Doshi is in his ninth decade, but you will never catch the architect whiling away his time. Over the last year and a half, the Pritzker Prize winner has been keeping busy working on his art. “I’m experimenting with different mediums without any baggage. So I am constantly discovering the unexpected,” he says. Earlier this year, he participated in a group show at New Delhi’s Bikaner House. The exhibited works included two sculptures, canvas paintings, drawings, and even a teak wood door — all varied, but, as he explains, each has been built, experimented on and reworked over stretches of time. “Each time has something else to say, if you’re sensitive. And so I’m trying to connect to that particular moment.” His paintings were recently on display at Frieze London.  Finding his real self  His recent immersion in art is thanks to the pandemic. So, I ask him about its impact. “The pandemic has been a scary time. You don’t know what the next moment holds. Vulnerability in such situations often makes you think of yourself and your bearings. Imagine you are on a flight and the gasoline is over — what will happen? You will leave it to chance. That is when your real self comes out,” says Doshi. “So, good architecture is where you lose yourself; it is almost fluid in its manifestation and experience without any preconceived notions.” During our chat, he keeps coming back to the ideas of ‘losing oneself, total relaxation and understanding how different elements — even if it’s just a pen and paper — have unique interactions’. “Everything you know creates an impact. If you have one line, even the paper on which it is drawn influences the line, as there is a dialogue,” he explains, adding that each of his projects is a challenge and an experiment. “So the joy is to discover something you had never seen before and that’s what I try to do.”  Of ants, flies and design  Doshi’s designs are varied, but are rooted in Hindu spiritualism. Major works include the grotto-like Amdavad Ni Gudfa, the courtyard-focussed public buildings of Bengaluru’s Indian Institute of Management, in addition to his barrel-vaulted series of buildings for Sangath, his architectural practice. Describing the process for creating each, he says, “I enjoy the act of putting paper and pen together and allowing them to float and converse. In doing so I often wonder how the ants move on a paper and create an impression. Or how a fly goes from one place to the other.” When I press him for details, he laughs. “You know you are asking so many questions in one.” But then he attempts to give me a better understanding of his process: “I ask myself the question, what is it that I like to interpret or explain or create. Then I start [looking at] the location, the context and the things around it.” It’s clear that over the years, Doshi has worked to integrate his practice with his firmly-held beliefs. Whatever the medium, it’s his holistic approach that guides his creative life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/bv-doshis-need-to-dream/article37134300.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||They don’t need the bright lights||In August, when Aaliyah Kashyap was on the cover of digital magazine, The Voice of Fashion , she wasn’t announcing her entry to Bollywood. The 20-year-old daughter of director Anurag Kashyap is a digital creator. Her lifestyle/fashion/beauty channel on YouTube has close to 93K subscribers, and on Instagram, she has 247K followers. She collaborates with international brands such as Fashion Nova, Lounge and Derma-E. And she’s a student of business management at Chapman University in California. Nepotism in Bollywood has always been the elephant in the room. Actors with families in the film industry often get a leg up. But like Aaliyah, there’s a growing tribe of star kids today who are not about which movie they are debuting in or where they are partying — they are blazing their own trail. Fitness influencer Krishna Shroff — whose brother, Tiger, went the expected way and is now in the news for Heropanti 2 — says, “It’s not easy to break away from what my family does. The automatic assumption is that I will do the same. But I wanted to carve out my own niche. To be identified for my vision, and not just my family name, is a huge achievement for me.” And social media has a big part to play. While some have gone the influencer and model route (Alanna Panday, Alaviaa Jaaferi), others are using their platforms to follow different paths. Navya Naveli Nanda, scion of the Bachchan family, recently launched Project Nyay’ri in collaboration with Pink Legal, a platform for women’s laws. Their aim is to make pro bono legal consultation accessible to women. Aamir Khan’s daughter, Ira’s Agatsu Foundation focusses on mental health awareness. And Jamie Lever has pursued stand-up comedy. “They [star kids] are very aware that circulating on social media is a must. It’s not the only thing, however, since popularity on these platforms can be short-lived,” says Ankur Pathak, entertainment editor at HuffPost. That said, he theorises that at some point, these large followings could become capital for movie deals. “Not many will turn down an offer from Dharma Productions for the next Student of the Year ,” he chuckles. We meet a few of these trailblazers to find out what makes them tick.                   Continued on page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/they-dont-need-the-bright-lights/article37134270.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||They don’t need the bright lights||In August, when Aaliyah Kashyap was on the cover of digital magazine, The Voice of Fashion , she wasn’t announcing her entry to Bollywood. The 20-year-old daughter of director Anurag Kashyap is a digital creator. Her lifestyle/fashion/beauty channel on YouTube has close to 93K subscribers, and on Instagram, she has 247K followers. She collaborates with international brands such as Fashion Nova, Lounge and Derma-E. And she’s a student of business management at Chapman University in California. Nepotism in Bollywood has always been the elephant in the room. Actors with families in the film industry often get a leg up. But like Aaliyah, there’s a growing tribe of star kids today who are not about which movie they are debuting in or where they are partying — they are blazing their own trail. Fitness influencer Krishna Shroff — whose brother, Tiger, went the expected way and is now in the news for Heropanti 2 — says, “It’s not easy to break away from what my family does. The automatic assumption is that I will do the same. But I wanted to carve out my own niche. To be identified for my vision, and not just my family name, is a huge achievement for me.” And social media has a big part to play. While some have gone the influencer and model route (Alanna Panday, Alaviaa Jaaferi), others are using their platforms to follow different paths. Navya Naveli Nanda, scion of the Bachchan family, recently launched Project Nyay’ri in collaboration with Pink Legal, a platform for women’s laws. Their aim is to make pro bono legal consultation accessible to women. Aamir Khan’s daughter, Ira’s Agatsu Foundation focusses on mental health awareness. And Jamie Lever has pursued stand-up comedy. “They [star kids] are very aware that circulating on social media is a must. It’s not the only thing, however, since popularity on these platforms can be short-lived,” says Ankur Pathak, entertainment editor at HuffPost. That said, he theorises that at some point, these large followings could become capital for movie deals. “Not many will turn down an offer from Dharma Productions for the next Student of the Year ,” he chuckles. We meet a few of these trailblazers to find out what makes them tick.                   Continued on page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/they-dont-need-the-bright-lights/article37134279.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Meet Husain’s AI twin||The pandemic handed out lessons by the dozen. Some welcome, some forced, but all essential. In Bengaluru, at the Museum of Art & Photography (MAP) — founded by industrialist and art collector Abhishek Poddar — fine-tuning their digital offerings has been one of the big takeaways. “Our digital focus and programming has helped us reach a wider range of people and geographies; we would not have managed otherwise,” says Kamini Sawhney, director. Like their digital museum initiative, MAP Plus. With a digital membership, people can access a variety of virtual exhibitions and events. For instance, the private museum tapped into artificial intelligence capabilities to create a digital persona of artist MF Husain. Visitors can interact with the late artist’s AI twin, to learn more about his life and work. “Art is something that has to be accessible to and enjoyable for everybody. We have taken a 360 degree approach to accessibility, right from the physical space at MAP [they have a quiet room for people suffering from panic attacks, anxiety and autism; a lift with Braille and sound cues; a floor map of the building as a tactile display; and induction loops for people with low hearing] to digital activities and educational workshops,” explains Carolina Artegiani, head of development, MAP.  W hat audiences want  Most recently, in its efforts to foster a conversation between the public and museums, MAP undertook (in collaboration with the ReReeti Foundation) a research project to understand audience behaviour. “We wanted to learn what the motivations are for people to participate in any cultural activity,” shares Artegiani. According to the report (based on a survey of 500 people), more than half of the respondents, mostly under 30 years, felt museums in India could offer more engaging content. And while 54.5% of the respondents feel arts and culture are essential, they rarely manage to dedicate time to it. MAP believes making the interaction a two-way street is key. “Instead of unilaterally deciding what the audiences should see, museums should collaborate with the public to decide what should actually be displayed,” says Artegiani. In fact, they are already putting the findings to use. Based on the research, music is the most popular cultural activity. So, the second edition of the museum’s annual ‘Art is Life’ festival (a by-product of the pandemic) is themed Sound Frames — and will showcase the interconnectedness of music and the visual arts. The survey is the first in a series of planned steps, adds Artegiani. “If people think going to MAP is cool, then museum-going will become an activity just as going to a park on a Saturday afternoon,” she concludes. Sound Frames is onfrom December 3-5. Details: map-india.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/meet-husains-ai-twin/article37134336.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||McQueen bubble: Announce your arrival in London with a selfie by the cloud-like bubble structure providing panoramic views of the city. Atop a car park in Tobacco Dock, it was designed for Alexander McQueen's Spring Summer 2022 show that concluded on October 12. The inflated dome designed by Chilean architect Smiljan Radić announced the brand’s return to physical shows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article37134259.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Saffron Rose calling||The renovated Good Earth store at Mumbai’s Raghuvanshi Mills opens in time for the brand’s 25th anniversary collection launch, but we’re excited about the Persian-themed pop-up cafe, Saffron Rose. The curated menu with a mezze bowl and lambkibbehbeckons. goodearth.in Time to dine under the canopy of Le Dupleix, Puducherry’s 200-year-old mango tree. At the Gout de France food festival, a five-course menu of goat cheese, rillettes and other delights await. Till October 31, 7 pm onwards.0413 2226999.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/saffron-rose-calling/article37134260.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Diwali already||Diwali treats get an upgrade with the hampers from Mumbai’s newly-opened artisanal food brand, Origin. The Truffle Treasure (Rs. 9,900) comprises Hoeksche truffle chips, red pesto truffle, truffle vinegar, etc. The As You Like It curation (Rs. 12,500) features Moroccan lemons, goji berry cookies, Spaccatini rosemary, Enrico roasted red paprika, and Mulhouse onion confit, among other delicacies. Details: 8591720929. For more sourcing tips this gifting season, check outWeekend’s festive food curation in next week’s issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/diwali-already/article37134261.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Precious metal project||Bengaluru-based Aman Poddar who has been engraving on precious metal for the last two years has his debut exhibit ‘Ekab’ underway in Mumbai. On display are over 40 intricately-carved jewellery pieces and framed art in gold and silver. October 22-24 at Akara Art.9845450612 In an attempt to bring back the ‘afterhours’ culture, Johnnie Walker’s #RevibeTheNight campaign features performances by artistes Divine, Ritviz, and indie bands across India. johnniewalker.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/precious-metal-project/article37134262.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking Point||Boycott brigade: Our Twitter feeds are filled with ‘angry netizens’ trashing brands and calling for their boycott for everything from ad campaigns to collection taglines. After Manyavar and Tanishq, it is now clothing major Fabindia that is under fire after rolling out a festive collection named ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’. The big question now is if brands must fall in line or take a hard stand and fight the backlash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article37134263.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Two immersive worlds||Be it their visual scale or audience expectations, this year’s biggest Hollywood releases have finally come to Indian theatres. Denis Villeneuve's sci-fi, dystopian space epic, Dune , with music by Hans Zimmer and stunning visuals tops our list. Only to be followed by The French Dispatch , director Wes Anderson's 10th feature that premiered at Cannes this July. Both films have something in common — a delayed release due to the pandemic, and Timothée Chalamet, of course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/two-immersive-worlds/article37134264.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The Boat Club walk||Early this morning, over 50 members of the FICCI Ladies’ Organisation’s (FLO) Chennai Chapter will come together for a marathon hosted by Apollo Hospitals. The partership seeks to raise funds for under-aged paediatric patients at Apollo and walkers can choose their distance - 3, 5 or 10 km. October 23 at 6.30 am. Boat Club Road, Adyar. If you’re an aspiring author, editor Poonam Ganglani has a free webinar ‘Demystifying the Publishing Process’. October 28 at 4 pm. @poonam_ganglani on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-boat-club-walk/article37134265.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Of green collabs||Apparel brand Vraj:bhoomi has joined hands with upcycling social enterprise Silaiwali to create a range of handmade dolls. Crafted in natural-dyed textile scraps, the cotton dolls named Tashi, Atasi, and Avarna are priced at Rs. 1,990 each. vrajbhoomi.in Adding to the eco-collab list is L’Occitane India’s partnership with Saahas Zero Waste to launch their first-ever recycling programme, Big Little Things. Full-sized L’Occitane empties and PET bottles from all beauty brands can be dropped off at their stores. loccitane.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/of-green-collabs/article37134266.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Cultural crossing||Artists Julia Romano (from Argentina) and Meghna Patpatia are now showcasing their paintings at Dreamscapes, a two-person show at Tao Art Gallery in Mumbai. Visitors can look forward to a ‘merger in the expression of the two artists from diverse cultures and geographies’. 6 pm onwards. Until November 25. If films are more to your liking, Goethe-Institut’s Science Film Festival has a range of 122 films themed on the science of health and wellbeing. Until December 20. To sign up, call 04428331314||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cultural-crossing/article37134267.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||National Tribal Dance Festival @ Chhattisgarh||Artistes from India’s diverse tribal communities and from abroad, including Rwanda, Uzbekistan, Nigeria, Swaziland, Sri Lanka and Palestine are coming together for the three-day National Tribal Dance Festival at Raipur, Chhattisgarh. The event organised under the Tourism Development plan of Government of Chhattisgarh, will not only see dance forms — performed by tribes from Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Manipur, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir — but will also spearhead discussions on the economic development initiatives of the communities. Visitors get access to the live showcase area, a tribal-inspired exhibit, a craft market, and more. October 28-30. At Science College Ground, Raipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/national-tribal-dance-festival-chhattisgarh/article37134274.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Goop, it's Gwyneth||Gwyneth Paltrow is pretty open about the extremes she is ready to go to for the sake of her wellness. Even get stung by bees! In her new show, Sex, Love & Goop , the entrepreneur and Oscar-winning actor spills all as she tries to improve the relationships and sex lives of six couples. The 49-year-old even opens up about being insecure about her physical appearance. Who would have thunk? “I always say sex and relationships, that area is really indicative of what we still have to work on,” she toldUSA Todayrecently. “So we thought it would be a fascinating subject for the second series [if you've missed the first, catch The Goop Lab with Gwyneth Paltrow ].” Watch the six-episode series on Netflix.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/goop-its-gwyneth/article37134276.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Seychelles on your arm||MAYU, the Nordic-inspired sustainable luxury brand, has just released Isle N°1 - The Exotic Functional Edit (the first line of The ISLE collection, a three-part series). With a range of functional bags and accessories made out of fish leather and pineapple leather — teamed with botanically-dyed natural fabrics and seasoned teakwood hardware — the collection is minimalistic yet fun. Think a tote inspired by coastlines and a baguette bag made from wolfish leather. The colour palette borrows from founder Mayura’s travels to Seychelles, with the islands’ flora and fauna reflected in the hues. Accessories from Rs. 2,500 onwards (eyewear and phone cases, wallets) and bags from Rs. 14,000 onwards, onworldofmayu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/seychelles-on-your-arm/article37134325.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The virtual luxe edit||Fans of Inditex’s clothing brand, Massimo Dutti, can now access their cashmere sweaters and woollen suits anywhere in the country thanks to the Indian e-store and app. And while the silk shirts are flying off the virtual shelves, the Spanish design house is also banking on smart features such as geolocation to help access physical stores, and AR-enabled product selection. The latter, for shoes in particular, lets you ‘try on’ the loafers and trainers, share those photos on social media and buy the shoes instantly. Like its sister company Zara, Massimo Dutti has been taking post-pandemic hybrid workwear seriously, so expect their relaxed styles to be picked up as soon as they drop. Free home deliveries for orders above Rs. 4,500 and AR features only on the app. Massimodutti.com; the app is available on GooglePlay and the Apple store. Tiffany & Co has a new pandemic retail shift - its new e-store for the Indian market makes spontaneous gifting easier across the country. Visitors can now browse the brand’s prized diamonds and gemstones that include Tiffany T, Tiffany HardWear, Tiffany Victoria, Tiffany True, as well as their contemporary home and accessories range. A fair bit from their charming Love Bugs collection is already out of stock, so you know where the Diwali purchases are happening. Also launching on the site is the Tiffany T1 collection that celebrates the luxury retailer’s ‘T’ motif that has been a part of its identity since the 1980s. Beyond browsing, buyers can also book virtual diamond consultations and avail the services of personal shoppers, among other services. tiffany.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-virtual-luxe-edit/article37134256.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Aahana’s agent makeover||During the 2020 lockdown, when most actors were taking a break, Aahana Kumra was on her feet. The actor had completed the shooting for Bawri Chhori , which released earlier this year, and had shot for two web shows — the sitcom Sandwiched Forever (2020) and Call My Agent: Bollywood , that is all set to release on Netflix later this month. A remake of the successful French show Dix Pour Cent — which follows the lives of agents who, while serving their celebrity clients, are also desperate to keep their agency afloat — it also stars Rajat Kapoor, Soni Razdan, and Ayush Mehra. Kumra’s journey from Lucknow to Mumbai, as she took the leap from theatre to television in 2014 with Yudh , and then to streaming, shows a slow, careful conviction. Be it Lipstick Under My Burkha , where she plays Leela, an entrepreneuring beautician, or the viral FilterCopy sketch comedy When You’re Expecting a Baby , the 34-year-old has dabbled across genres and is now both “excited and nervous” for the Indian remake of the cult show. In an interview with The Hindu Weekend , the actor speaks without inhibition about the film industry, working during the pandemic, and her love for theatre.  What was it like working during lockdown?  I had five back-to-back releases in 2020 and I never said no to work. During the lockdown, my spot boy came to see me and, given the circumstances, I assumed he needed money. But he had just come to tell me to take on projects as only then would he get employed. It was because of him that I pushed myself and shot Sandwiched Forever in an indoor set in August. I was then offered Call My Agent: Bollywood .   You’re a big fan of the original show. What was it like working on its remake?   The biggest star I shot with was Shaad Ali, the show’s director. While he spoils you, Shaad has also tested my patience too many times because he wouldn’t give me a second take! Our ensemble was absolutely fantastic. Soni [Razdan] and I go way back, Hussain [Dalal], who co-wrote the dialogues with Abbas, is a very dear friend, and we both did theatre together. Radhika [Seth] is debuting on the show and as her first scene was with me I felt responsible.  Does your character Amal Ahmed share similarities with Andréa Martel from the original?   Amal Ahmed is very similar to Camille Cottin’s Andréa. They have kept my character bisexual [she is gay in the first season]. But I had to borrow from the aggressive casting agents I have met in real life. I enjoyed playing Amal, and felt very empowered — she’s very manipulative, sketchy, and ensures she gets what she wants.  They gave you a nose ring. Was that an attempt to ‘Indianise’ Amal?   I have always been conscious about my nose, because it’s so long, but when I put on the nose ring, it looked fun. Tanya Sharma [the costume designer] and Shaad wanted me to look different from my other shows. They cut my hair short and gave me oversized jackets, shirts, and straight-fit pants to make me look overbearing. I will be seen wearing hues of red and the colour becomes an inherent part of the character — she is like goddess Kali.  You were part of the first batch of Whistling Woods. How important was that formal education in acting for you?   One of the good things that came out of it was my relationship with Naseer sir [Naseeruddin Shah] and Ratna ma’am [Ratna Pathak Shah]. They were my teachers, and I want to have that childlike dignity. If I hadn’t gone to film school, I would never know about 2001: A Space Odyssey , or Clockwork Orange or Andrei Tarkovsky. I would still be watching only Indian and mainstream Hollywood films and think only that is cinema. I go to Russia often because my father lives in Moscow. I watch the Bolshoi there, and love watching other artistes. When I was in Japan, I saw sumo wrestlers and thought, ‘Oh my God, that’s art!” So much of the mainstream has been fed to us, and then you think that is the be all and end all.  You’ve said that there is an intense lobbying that happens in Bollywood. Is it the same for OTT?   In cinema, you need to know people to be able to get a film. I hardly do films as I don’t get them easily and I still don’t know how you get films. I know of people who haven’t auditioned but gotten a part whereas we don’t even get a foot in the door with films. Now with film stars coming to OTT, shows are paying them huge amounts of money and we are still getting peanuts. They are trying to make a Hindi film industry out of an OTT platform, but it is not going to work. The audience on OTT love performances, not stars. You have to prove your mettle as an actor. You cannot be a factory, launching and announcing films. Call My Agent: Bollywood releases on Netflix on October 29th||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/aahanas-agent-makeover/article37134360.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Dialogue With Dr Funky||There are days when deep-diving into His Divine Wiseness, Dr Funky Astral Kumar’s life-saving quotes alone doesn’t do it for me. I need a live, one-on-one exchange with him from time to time to have my faith in life restored. I’m blessed that Guruji gave me a tatkal entry. Given below, for the benefit of his fans from across the globe, is the gist of our life-affirming exchange. His Divine Wiseness: Why are you here, my son? Me: Feeling a bit down, Guruji. So I wanted to see you. HDW ( smiling mystically ): Do the sirasasana , son. Immediately. Me: Why, Guruji? Is it... er... because blood will rush to my head and make me feel better? HDW ( laughing supernaturally ): You’d think that, but no. Didn’t you say you were down? What happens when you stand on your head? Down becomes Up. And Up becomes Down. Proving that it is all a matter of perception, leading to the divine union of the feminine–masculine in the yin-yang of the jingbang. More importantly, when you do the asana , your wallet will fall out and we will be able to take your credit card without troubling you. Me ( sobbing gratefully ): Dhanyosmi , Astral Guruji, dhanyosmi . HDW: What else ails you, my son? Tell me fearlessly. Me: Why are they making a sequel to Gadar: Ek Prem Katha , Guruji? Why now? Isn’t the world suffering enough? HDW: Do you know what Bhishma Pitamaha said as he lay dying on a bed of arrows? Me: What did he say, Guruji? HDW ( scrolling on his phone ): I don’t know. That’s why I asked you. I’m taking part in a closed-group quiz for Gurujis. Me: Oh... okay... but what about Gadar’ s sequel, Guruji, if you don’t mind? HDW ( smiling paranormally ): What is a sequel, my child? It is a continuation, isn’t it? Gadar Part 2 is just an example of the space-time continuum... with Sunny Paaji taking up space in our time. It is allMaya... Memsaab. It could have been far worse. Imagine if they’d made a sequel to Singh Saab The Great . Next question. Me: I have an inexplicable ache in my stomach, Guruji. I’ve had a bunch of tests done, docs say there isn’t a thing wrong with me but it continues to worry me. HDW: Come close, my son. I obeyed Guruji.  Ker-thwack!  Me: Neeyabba ! What the? Why did you punch me so hard in the stomach, Guruji? HDW: Does it hurt? Me: Yes ( sobbing ) like hell. HDW ( tittering metaphysically ): See, now you know the cause of your stomach ache. Next question. Me ( wiping away my tears ): My istriwalla Marimuthu has no respect for me, Guruji. Despite my repeated requests, he irons my jeans with a front crease. This is disturbing me, Your Wiseness. HDW ( shoulders shaking in silent laughter ): So simple. Just wear your jeans sideways. The crease will go to either side then. Me: But if I turn my jeans sideways, won’t I be able to wear only one leg? What about my other side? HDW: Do you have another pair? Me: Yes. HDW: Wear them on the other leg. Simple. Me: Guruji... er... wouldn’t it be simpler to send my jeans to another istriwalla ? HDW: Wrong. That is an admission of weakness. Do you know what Bakasura said to the villager when he came to offer himself as food? Me: No, Guruji. What did he say? HDW ( giggling psychically ): Apply ginger-garlic paste on yourself and wait a bit. I am chopping the onions and coriander. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dialogue-with-dr-funky/article37134344.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘I did not want to connect with negativity’||Shriya Saran is back in India after two years, and she sounds delighted to have successfully managed to keep a secret. The actor recently opted for a baby reveal instead of a gender reveal — Radha, her daughter with entrepreneur husband Andrei Koscheev, was born in January this year in Barcelona, Spain. Now back in Mumbai with her family, and at work, Saran is part of several projects: SS Rajamouli’s ambitious RRR , Telugu film Gamanam that is coming out in four languages, the bilingual Music School , co-starring Sharman Joshi and with music by Ilaiyaraaja (the film’s choreographer, Adam Murray, was part of the Elton John film, Rocket Man ), besides her Tamil projects. Her film with Karthick Naren, Narasasooran , is due for release too. In between shooting, she speaks about the journey of having Radha at a time when the world was in turmoil, coping with Covid-19, and staying relevant decades after she made her debut with the Telugu Ishtam in 2001. Edited excerpts from an interview with The Hindu Weekend.  How did you manage to hold on to your happy secret and spring Radha as a surprise, while remaining active on social media? While it is very difficult to keep something like this to yourself, I knew the world was going through a torrid time. I lost a friend in the second wave, and it was very hard for me. This put me in a space where I knew how precious a moment the pregnancy was, and I wanted to share it when I, and people were ready. It did not feel right to share it when there was grief around. I wanted Radha to be welcomed into the world when I was ready and she was big enough. Although she was a planned baby, no one really prepares you for the journey. It is an intense process — I am a social person, but I chose to stay quiet. I grew happy and fat, wore what I wanted and read a book, went to a cafe and walked around in Barcelona. I really wanted to enjoy the last few months of life before the baby. Was there any pressure on you, being a public figure, to get back to your pre-pregnancy shape?  Well, your body changes completely, and it was not a quick process to get back to what I was. My mother got back into shape in a month. I wanted to do so too, and I ate healthy and worked out. I did not post a picture because even though you’re used to negative comments on social media, I was not in the mindframe to receive them. I did not want to connect with negativity. I decided the best thing to do was to share images after Radha met her grandparents. What was your routine like during pregnancy?  For the first three months, I was very careful. Then, I resumed my Kathak classes, yoga, and walking. It was difficult as we were all in our individual bubbles. Andrei and I were doing everything ourselves, and a two-week visit extended to two years. We did not have time to think; there was enough work to do, and there was dance. How were the first few months of coping with motherhood?  My mother came by for a month, and then it was just the three of us. We were stressed out and needed family support. My mother-in-law chipped in when Andrei and I got Covid-19. I don’t know how we would have managed without her. But the journey and staying up during the night was worth it. Now, Radha has a lovely nanny in Mumbai, and my mother is also around. Did you miss the sets these two years?  Not quite, because no one was really shooting then. I’ve always wanted to be a working mother and now I am back at work. I miss Radha, yes, but it’s nice to be back at work. Radha is a well-travelled child...  Yes. It was really nice in Barcelona and then in Russia. We lived by a lake, and I took her swimming. She loves the water and it was fun. Do you intend to pen down your pregnancy journey?  I don’t think I’ll do that. But it was an interesting one, like it was for any mother who had a baby during the pandemic. Intense and beautiful, all at once. I am just blessed and happy to have Radha and get some good medical help during these tough times. There was a lot of positivity and love in our lives and I am grateful for that. Over the years, you’ve always reinvented yourself... stayed relevant.  Well, it’s about identifying something that challenges you and avoiding getting into a place where you do the same things repeatedly because it’s easier. I’ve always tried to push boundaries; I’ve done that in the Telugu film Gamanam too. It is a constant struggle, but as long as you are an artiste, you keep working on yourself. The process is always on. A few years ago, you set up Spandana, a spa managed by the visually-challenged. How has the pandemic impacted this passion project?  The spa is on hold now because it is difficult to operate one during the pandemic. The people I was working with are super talented and have love in their hands. During the pandemic, did you have a close circle to lean on?  Not really. I think for me it was all about Zoom classes, doing as many ‘lives’ as I could, and learning new things. I learnt to bake and cook. I had to be more careful because Covid-19 is more dangerous when one is pregnant, so I only went on long walks. My parents and friends were around, but my true circle was my husband. And then, there’s Radha, my constant companion during the pandemic — first inside of me and then in my arms!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/i-did-not-want-to-connect-with-negativity/article37134364.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The road to El Gouna||It has been a mad couple of weeks. Several frantic days at the BFI London Film Festival included the privilege of attending the world premiere of Prasun Chatterjee’s delightful Dostojee , listening to the great and the good of the film world speak, including Trishna filmmaker Michael Winterbottom, the great Mike Leigh ( Secrets & Lies , Topsy Turvy ), The Warrior , Amy and Senna director Asif Kapadia, who had an immersive VR project Laika in the festival, to trans iconLingua Francafilmmaker Isabel Sandoval who was the head of the first features jury. And, while London was winding down, it was more PCR tests and on to another plane to Cairo, a dash to change flights to Hurghada and thence by road to the Red Sea resort town of El Gouna. It was my first time at the El Gouna Film Festival, where, besides writing about the festival for Variety , I had to present an award. The journey began dramatically as, while waiting at Heathrow to board the Cairo flight, my news feed went berserk with images of the event’s main venue, the Festival Plaza, in flames. Pausing only to write a report on the blaze, I boarded the flight. By the time the next day dawned, the organisers had worked miracles and at the glittering opening night ceremony, there was nary a trace of the fire. Meanwhile, Egyptian authorities denied entry to UK-resident Palestinian filmmaker Said Zagha and in solidarity, fellow Palestinian, Homeland actor Mohammad Bakri decided to cancel his El Gouna trip to accept a career achievement award and deliver a masterclass. Except during the parties, the pace at El Gouna was unhurried, the stay at a seven star resort was relaxed, and the films were excellent. I finally caught up with Laurent Cantet’s Arthur Rambo , which begins as a slide into the black hole of French social media and segues into an examination of the immigrant experience. Ali El Arabi’s moving documentary Captains of Za’atari , which began life as a project at El Gouna a couple of years ago, documents the experiences of two best friends and aspiring footballers, trapped in a Jordanian refugee camp. While on refugees, the International Emerging Film Talent Association’s annual Refugee Voices in Film event, in conjunction with United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, was a collection of several searing short films and a reminder of the privileged life most of us have compared to the lot of the refugees depicted in the film. The highlight of the festival undoubtedly was a masterclass by American filmmaker Darren Aronofsky, director of films such as Pi , Requiem For A Dream , Black Swan , The Fountain and his most polarising work, Mother! Aronofsky spoke at length about his craft and then proceeded to dispense advise to the eager crowd of young Egyptian filmmakers, actors and writers present at the Festival Plaza. For the directors, he stressed the necessity of having an original voice and being honest with actors. He advised actors to understand the meaning behind each line of the script and to spend as much time as possible with the director and writer. The festival was also a great way of catching up with old friends, and making new ones, in a tranquil atmosphere while the Red Sea twinkled in the distance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-road-to-el-gouna/article37134362.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||What if jokes don’t land?||In her first ever set as a stand-up comic, actor Sunny Leone doesn’t mince words. “You all know me for something I’ve done in the past that you have all judged me for, and that I might be ashamed of,” she says with a shrug and a smile before delivering the punchline or more like punch-word — ‘mastizade’ (fun seekers). And, the audience cracks up. This according to comedian Neeti Palta is a great strategy to win the crowd over. “Comics will tell you that if you get the audience with the first joke, they are with you. And, when you start by addressing what the audience is already thinking about you, you have them.” For season two of Amazon Prime’s One Mic Stand , a reality show (hosted by Sapan Verma) that has celebrities attempt stand-up comedy after being trained by professionals, Palta mentors Leone.We see the likes of Karan Johar, Faye D’Souza, Raftaar and Chetan Bhagat, who are mentored by Sumukhi Suresh, Atul Khatri, Samay Raina, Abish Mathew. Less chat, more comedy One of the first steps after everyone is onboard is what Verma, also the showrunner, calls a “long therapy session” where the celebrities meet their comedy mentors and the writers of the show. “They talk about their lives and then the writers write jokes for them,” he adds. At the end of season one, Verma and the team knew that they had ‘cracked the format’ but there was always room for improvement; one of which was to keep each celebrity set crisp and packed with jokes. “In the first season, we often wrote long scripts but this time we ruthlessly cut them down to five pages. We have a great writers’ room and they understood that this was to make the show better.” Much like celebrities who are attempting stand-up for the first time, this is a novel experience for the comics as well. And, teaching a newbie how to make a room full of strangers laugh isn’t easy. “You can be funny among your group of friends but that doesn’t always translate on stage. The stories you tell them are based on people and backgrounds that they know,” says Palta. Mathew adds, “It’s a Catch-22 situation. Comics become better by going to open-mics again and again. Only by failing, do you build the confidence that helps you manage a room the next time.” Bracing imperfection The format of One Mic Stand though, is such that a celebrity has only one chance on a given night to establish their comedy credentials. “It’s a live show, with a live audience. There is no cheating,” Palta says. Honesty, according to Verma, is a great way to win the audience over. “I’ve told the celebs that if a joke bombs, they can just say ‘It’s not my fault. Sapan told me it was funny’”. Verma understands that the USP of the show is the vulnerability and imperfection that comes with having well-known faces attempt something new in front of the camera. “You know that they aren’t going to be perfect and it’s unfair to even expect it. This is why we retain moments when they look at their cheat sheet or fumble. Last season, someone fumbled and our editor cut it out but I told him to add it back because that’s the charm of the show.” One Mic Stand is now streaming on Amazon Prime Video||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/what-if-jokes-dont-land/article37134359.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Johnnie Walker’s new whisky HQ||Experiencing the world through our screens has moved from novelty to necessity. In Edinburgh, the home of Scotch whisky, Johnnie Walker has been working on an immersive experience for drinkers and aficionados that doesn’t require a trip to one of their distilleries. Officially launched two weeks ago by Prince Charles, Johnnie Walker Princes Street offers an eight-floor deep dive into the brand, its over 200-year history, and its offerings. “The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown that it brought has accelerated the shift towards finding ways to interact with our customers in the online realm,” says Barbara Smith, general manager of Johnnie Walker Princes Street. “For the brand, it wasn’t something where we had to pivot massively because we were already operating in the online world. But we are ensuring that we are creating great experiences by adapting our approach to digital interactions [to cater to new consumer behaviours and buying habits].”  Gamifying the striding man  Online, you can navigate the space — organised into rooms that showcase its history, the brand’s global impact and a tasting room — with a virtual passport. The exploration is like an interactive treasure hunt: part future glimpse into the metaverse, part gamified brand experience, and part whisky lovers’ trivia offerings. An on-screen guide helps you discover clickable objects in a room, each of which gives some context to the Johnnie Walker story. Offline, it is the centrepiece of parent company Diageo’s investment into whisky tourism in Scotland (a £185 million investment). Visitors can book one of three tours, including The Whisky Maker’s Cellar, priced at £95, which gives access to their underground cellar and the chance to blend your own unique bottle from an ever-changing selection of casks. Or relax at its two rooftop bars, the Explorers’ Bothy (stocked with 150 different whiskies) and the 1820 cocktail bar. Smith, who oversees tourism at all of the brand’s 14 distillery homes across Scotland, says, “Firstly, Diageo has an unparalleled reserve of whisky casks, over 10 million at last count. More importantly, though, is where these casks are from. We have distilleries in all four corners of Scotland: the Highlands, Lowlands, Speyside and the Islands, meaning that we have access to the widest range of flavours of any other blender out there.” It’s this variety that the attendees on the tour will have access to.  Tailor your drink  If you’re looking to drink rather than learn, try The Whisky Explorers (£35), an hour-long tasting of matured whiskies that have spent at least 12 years in the barrel, along with an exclusive whisky available to taste only at the centre. Neophytes can book the Journey of Flavour tour (£25) that takes 90 minutes, and helps identify personal flavour preferences. It results in whisky drinks tailored to the palate. With no-age statement whiskies trending, this immersive new experience is tailor-made for those seeking exclusive bottles — the retail shop features a seasonal cask from which visitors can purchase and fill a bottle — and a sense of community. There are also more than 800 flavour combinations to check out. Smith teases, “We have an exciting pipeline of limited editions in development in collaboration with partners that we will be announcing in the near future. So, watch this space!”  Tours can be booked online at johnniewalker.com. The 1820 bar and retail shop can be accessed without a booking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/johnnie-walkers-new-whisky-hq/article37134343.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||They don’t need the bright lights||In August, when Aaliyah Kashyap was on the cover of digital magazine, The Voice of Fashion , she wasn’t announcing her entry to Bollywood. The 20-year-old daughter of director Anurag Kashyap is a digital creator. Her lifestyle/fashion/beauty channel on YouTube has close to 93K subscribers, and on Instagram, she has 247K followers. She collaborates with international brands such as Fashion Nova, Lounge and Derma-E. And she’s a student of business management at Chapman University in California. Nepotism in Bollywood has always been the elephant in the room. Actors with families in the film industry often get a leg up. But like Aaliyah, there’s a growing tribe of star kids today who are not about which movie they are debuting in or where they are partying — they are blazing their own trail. Fitness influencer Krishna Shroff — whose brother, Tiger, went the expected way and is now in the news for Heropanti 2 — says, “It’s not easy to break away from what my family does. The automatic assumption is that I will do the same. But I wanted to carve out my own niche. To be identified for my vision, and not just my family name, is a huge achievement for me.” And social media has a big part to play. While some have gone the influencer and model route (Alanna Panday, Alaviaa Jaaferi), others are using their platforms to follow different paths. Navya Naveli Nanda, scion of the Bachchan family, recently launched Project Nyay’ri in collaboration with Pink Legal, a platform for women’s laws. Their aim is to make pro bono legal consultation accessible to women. Aamir Khan’s daughter, Ira’s Agatsu Foundation focusses on mental health awareness. And Jamie Lever has pursued stand-up comedy. “They [star kids] are very aware that circulating on social media is a must. It’s not the only thing, however, since popularity on these platforms can be short-lived,” says Ankur Pathak, entertainment editor at HuffPost. That said, he theorises that at some point, these large followings could become capital for movie deals. “Not many will turn down an offer from Dharma Productions for the next Student of the Year ,” he chuckles. We meet a few of these trailblazers to find out what makes them tick.                   Continued on page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/they-dont-need-the-bright-lights/article37134358.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||They don’t need the bright lights||In August, when Aaliyah Kashyap was on the cover of digital magazine, The Voice of Fashion , she wasn’t announcing her entry to Bollywood. The 20-year-old daughter of director Anurag Kashyap is a digital creator. Her lifestyle/fashion/beauty channel on YouTube has close to 93K subscribers, and on Instagram, she has 247K followers. She collaborates with international brands such as Fashion Nova, Lounge and Derma-E. And she’s a student of business management at Chapman University in California. Nepotism in Bollywood has always been the elephant in the room. Actors with families in the film industry often get a leg up. But like Aaliyah, there’s a growing tribe of star kids today who are not about which movie they are debuting in or where they are partying — they are blazing their own trail. Fitness influencer Krishna Shroff — whose brother, Tiger, went the expected way and is now in the news for Heropanti 2 — says, “It’s not easy to break away from what my family does. The automatic assumption is that I will do the same. But I wanted to carve out my own niche. To be identified for my vision, and not just my family name, is a huge achievement for me.” And social media has a big part to play. While some have gone the influencer and model route (Alanna Panday, Alaviaa Jaaferi), others are using their platforms to follow different paths. Navya Naveli Nanda, scion of the Bachchan family, recently launched Project Nyay’ri in collaboration with Pink Legal, a platform for women’s laws. Their aim is to make pro bono legal consultation accessible to women. Aamir Khan’s daughter, Ira’s Agatsu Foundation focusses on mental health awareness. And Jamie Lever has pursued stand-up comedy. “They [star kids] are very aware that circulating on social media is a must. It’s not the only thing, however, since popularity on these platforms can be short-lived,” says Ankur Pathak, entertainment editor at HuffPost. That said, he theorises that at some point, these large followings could become capital for movie deals. “Not many will turn down an offer from Dharma Productions for the next Student of the Year ,” he chuckles. We meet a few of these trailblazers to find out what makes them tick.                   Continued on page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/they-dont-need-the-bright-lights/article37134355.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||McQueen bubble: Announce your arrival in London with a selfie by the cloud-like bubble structure providing panoramic views of the city. Atop a car park in Tobacco Dock, it was designed for Alexander McQueen's Spring Summer 2022 show that concluded on October 12. The inflated dome designed by Chilean architect Smiljan Radić announced the brand’s return to physical shows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article37134345.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Saffron Rose calling||The renovated Good Earth store at Mumbai’s Raghuvanshi Mills opens in time for the brand’s 25th anniversary collection launch, but we’re excited about the Persian-themed pop-up cafe, Saffron Rose. The curated menu with a mezze bowl and lambkibbehbeckons. goodearth.in Time to dine under the canopy of Le Dupleix, Puducherry’s 200-year-old mango tree. At the Gout de France food festival, a five-course menu of goat cheese, rillettes and other delights await. Till October 31, 7 pm onwards.0413 2226999.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/saffron-rose-calling/article37134346.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Diwali already||Diwali treats get an upgrade with the hampers from Mumbai’s newly-opened artisanal food brand, Origin. The Truffle Treasure (Rs. 9,900) comprises Hoeksche truffle chips, red pesto truffle, truffle vinegar, etc. The As You Like It curation (Rs. 12,500) features Moroccan lemons, goji berry cookies, Spaccatini rosemary, Enrico roasted red paprika, and Mulhouse onion confit, among other delicacies. Details: 8591720929. For more sourcing tips this gifting season, check outWeekend’s festive food curation in next week’s issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/diwali-already/article37134347.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Precious metal project||Bengaluru-based Aman Poddar who has been engraving on precious metal for the last two years has his debut exhibit ‘Ekab’ underway in Mumbai. On display are over 40 intricately-carved jewellery pieces and framed art in gold and silver. October 22-24 at Akara Art.9845450612 In an attempt to bring back the ‘afterhours’ culture, Johnnie Walker’s #RevibeTheNight campaign features performances by artistes Divine, Ritviz, and indie bands across India. johnniewalker.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/precious-metal-project/article37134348.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Shine a light||Mayanand Thakur and Chaitanya Thakur bring their hand-painted and terracotta diyas to light up this Deepavali. The multi-coloured clay diyas have various embellishments and take on a different hue when they are lit. Supporting this local venture got easier with their home delivery option, albeit at a small cost: Beginning from Rs. 29 for 3 kilometers to Rs. 79 for 15 kilometres and above. Payment can be made on Google Pay, Phonepe and Paytm. For details.9391221342 or 9177030941.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/shine-a-light/article37134350.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking Point||Boycott brigade: Our Twitter feeds are filled with ‘angry netizens’ trashing brands and calling for their boycott for everything from ad campaigns to collection taglines. After Manyavar and Tanishq, it is now clothing major Fabindia that is under fire after rolling out a festive collection named ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’. The big question now is if brands must fall in line or take a hard stand and fight the backlash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article37134351.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Two immersive worlds||Be it their visual scale or audience expectations, this year’s biggest Hollywood releases have finally come to Indian theatres. Denis Villeneuve's sci-fi, dystopian space epic, Dune , with music by Hans Zimmer and stunning visuals tops our list. Only to be followed by The French Dispatch , director Wes Anderson's 10th feature that premiered at Cannes this July. Both films have something in common — a delayed release due to the pandemic, and Timothée Chalamet, of course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/two-immersive-worlds/article37134352.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Of green collabs||Apparel brand Vraj:bhoomi has joined hands with upcycling social enterprise Silaiwali to create a range of handmade dolls. Crafted in natural-dyed textile scraps, the cotton dolls named Tashi, Atasi, and Avarna are priced at Rs. 1,990 each. vrajbhoomi.in Adding to the eco-collab list is L’Occitane India’s partnership with Saahas Zero Waste to launch their first-ever recycling programme, Big Little Things. Full-sized L’Occitane empties and PET bottles from all beauty brands can be dropped off at their stores. loccitane.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/of-green-collabs/article37134353.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Cultural crossing||Artists Julia Romano (from Argentina) and Meghna Patpatia are now showcasing their paintings at Dreamscapes, a two-person show at Tao Art Gallery in Mumbai. Visitors can look forward to a ‘merger in the expression of the two artists from diverse cultures and geographies’. 6 pm onwards. Until November 25. If films are more to your liking, Goethe-Institut’s Science Film Festival has a range of 122 films themed on the science of health and wellbeing. Until December 20. To sign up, call 04428331314||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cultural-crossing/article37134354.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The virtual luxe edit||Fans of Inditex’s clothing brand, Massimo Dutti, can now access their cashmere sweaters and woollen suits anywhere in the country thanks to the Indian e-store and app. And while the silk shirts are flying off the virtual shelves, the Spanish design house is also banking on smart features such as geolocation to help access physical stores, and AR-enabled product selection. The latter, for shoes in particular, lets you ‘try on’ the loafers and trainers, share those photos on social media and buy the shoes instantly. Like its sister company Zara, Massimo Dutti has been taking post-pandemic hybrid workwear seriously, so expect their relaxed styles to be picked up as soon as they drop. Free home deliveries for orders above Rs. 4,500 and AR features only on the app. Massimodutti.com; the app is available on GooglePlay and the Apple store. Tiffany & Co has a new pandemic retail shift - its new e-store for the Indian market makes spontaneous gifting easier across the country. Visitors can now browse the brand’s prized diamonds and gemstones that include Tiffany T, Tiffany HardWear, Tiffany Victoria, Tiffany True, as well as their contemporary home and accessories range. A fair bit from their charming Love Bugs collection is already out of stock, so you know where the Diwali purchases are happening. Also launching on the site is the Tiffany T1 collection that celebrates the luxury retailer’s ‘T’ motif that has been a part of its identity since the 1980s. Beyond browsing, buyers can also book virtual diamond consultations and avail the services of personal shoppers, among other services. tiffany.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-virtual-luxe-edit/article37134342.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Allocating a patta||Since 1988, I have been staying at a residential DTP layout (it was formed in 1971). This layout was formed by an individual who in-turn bought the same from a temple through a general auction in 1969. The necessary TN government order is available with me. I bought this land by subdivision from the previous owner, and he had obtained a patta after selling a portion of the said land to me. When I recently approached the taluk office for getting a patta, I was asked to get a no-objection certificate from the temple authorities. I approached the temple’s executive officer and he gave me an online copy of the patta with my survey number (wherein the temple’s name is mentioned) and told me that the patta would not be issued for my property. I requested him to verify his 1969 records but he refused saying that it was not possible. Approximately 50% of the residents in our layout have already obtained an individual patta. How do I proceed? Sriram. J Chennai If the authorities have recognised private ownership of a part of the layout, it is not clear as to why they are declining to issue a patta for other similarly placed persons. The affected owners can initially make a representation to the authorities and in the event there is no proper response, the affected owners may collectively initiate legal proceedings and seek directions from court for issuance of patta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/allocating-a-patta/article37134369.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Realty’s festive makeover||The trend of the Indian festive season becoming the annual high point for housing sales originates from a traditional sentiment. Simply put, it is considered a fortuitous time to invest in wealth-creating assets. While a traditional sentiment is obviously still involved, it eventually ceased to be the most important driving factor behind any housing traction. Sales in this period are now primarily driven by the fact that developers and lending banks roll out the most attractive offers of the entire year during the festive season. That said, the festive season of 2021 is unique in many ways. There is also a lot of demand for homes — both old demand (pent up from before the Covid-19 pandemic hit) and new demand — coming from people who were content with renting homes before. One of the most defining features of today’s housing demand is that even millennials are now on the market for home ownership. This was a predominantly ‘renting generation’ which preferred to use its money for other investments and purposes, not for buying homes. The pandemic shift Above everything else, the pandemic had the effect of intimidating people, institutions, and markets, inducing a feeling of having no control over what was happening. Everything depended on what a virus did next, and how people reacted to it. Life became impossible to predict and for a long time, jobs were lost at worst or uncertain at best, salaries and markets nosedived, and most people’s investments lost value. In this environment, people tend to long for a sense of stability, control, and predictability. To the backdrop of constant warnings to stay at home, and with offices and schools closing indefinitely, our homes became our first line of control and defence. Within our four walls, we are in control of our lives and can safeguard our families. While the job markets remained weak, people began leaving their rented homes in the cities and returned to their native towns and cities to live in their family homes. Signs of revival The trend of ownership housing gaining sudden popularity during the pandemic was first seen in the UK, United States and Middle Eastern markets like Dubai. While housing demand spontaneously grew in these countries, India was still reeling under first wave of Covid-19. However, as soon as site visits became possible again and the Indian job market stabilised, Indians began to scout for ownership homes in 2020. Aware of the increasing interest in buying homes and the need to revive consumption and lending, the central and state governments began rolling out incentives last year. Maharashtra announced a well-timed stamp duty cut which made a huge difference in cities like Mumbai and Pune. However, the overall news on the pandemic was still negative and various restrictions on movement remained in place across the country. In short, festive season 2020 was anything but festive. What’s in store 2021’s festive season comes at a time when most restrictions within the country have been lifted. While business from NRIs remains tepid because of international travel bans, the domestic housing market was booming even before the onset of this year’s festive season. Indians are now moving freely, restarting their businesses and attending office, socialising and going on site visits. Even the malls have opened shop as cases have reduced drastically in most States. We predict that a huge number of Indians will book their dream homes in the next two months — as a celebration of overcoming the worst nightmare of the century, as a safeguard against any such disruptions in the future, and to benefit from deals which may not last much longer. Growth in numbers Already, property prices have risen by between 3-4% in many cities, and the RBI will keep the repo rates reined in only as long as the economic situation remains sensitive. Anarock Research indicates that we may see at least 10-15% growth in housing demand in the ongoing festive period (October-December) across the top seven cities against the preceding quarter. In Q3 2021, the top seven cities saw total housing sales of approx. 62,800 units — already the best quarterly sales since pandemic. If our current predictions hold true, the ongoing festive quarter will see at least 35-40% yearly rise in overall housing sales across the top cities when compared to the same period last year. In Q4 2020, the top seven cities saw total housing sales of about 50,900 units. Will it be a sustained revival? The long-awaitedhousing market revival is underway even before the pandemic is fully subdued. Whether it will last well into next year and beyond remains to be seen. The normal laws of the market will soon begin to take hold again. Increased demand leads to increased property prices, and increased consumption and decreased inflation lead to higher lending rates. Nevertheless, the fundamentals for a sustained revival phase are strong because the current housing demand is considerable, driven by end-users who long to fulfil their long-cherished aspiration to own homes. The onus of fostering and nurturing this demand long beyond the festive season rests on the RBI, government support and interventions, and on developers, who decide at what price they should sell their properties.  The writer is Chairman, Anarock Group   In Q3 2021, the top seven cities saw total housing sales of approx. 62,800 units||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/realtys-festive-makeover/article37134381.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Take a window seat||We all know the joy of sitting by a train window, watching the myriad hues of time, places and life pass by. As a child, this was one activity I could stay engaged in for hours. This joy of staying within an enclosed space but being able to observe the outdoors continues to fascinate me even as an adult. In our homes, ‘window seats’ with good views become places to sit and stare — an opportunity for one to stay indoors and yet stay connected to the outdoors. Such seats also provide space for multiple activities such as reading, writing, working and even dining. Architecturally, the bay window is one feature that comes alive when integrated with a built-in seat or bench. The oriel window is a type of bay window that has been in use in English homes since the 17th century. Projecting out of the main wall, with windows on all three sides, an oriel window helps increase the surface area of the main wall in order to let in more natural light. This kind of window also adds more interior space, making the room appear larger. Going back in time, the jharokha is one of the predecessors to the oriel window. More formal and ornamental, jharokhas were widely used in medieval Indian architecture. Mostly made of stone, they are supported off the main wall by aesthetically carved brackets and enclosed with intricate jaalis . Typically overlooking a street or market, jharokhas would provide a place for women to watch the outside world without being seen from outside. The design element would also protect the main walls of the home from direct heat and allow for breeze to enter indoors. Originally thought to have been derived from projecting balconies seen during the Mauryan empire as early as the 3rd century BC, jharokhas were later adopted in different regions according to their specific aesthetic, material and functional needs. Another variation of the jharokha is the mashrabiya , used in Arabic architecture. In addition to intricate jaalis (commonly seen in the jharokha too), stained glass was also used in the mashrabiya . These windows would ensure continuous ventilation and were traditionally used to keep water pots cool. Later, towards the 14th century, primarily in Egypt, these windows were converted from being just a storage space to a comfortable and cool area for people to sit and observe the outside world. Fitted with cushioned beds and seats, mashrabiyas were transformed into cozy, interesting corners. Architectural features such as jharokhas , mashrabiyas , oriels and bay windows provide an interesting aesthetic to our buildings, relate to our rich cultural heritage, provide a comfortable and interesting space for occupants to observe the world outside, and also help enhance natural light and ventilation. If designed thoughtfully, they can act as sustainable design elements that are both functional and aesthetic, retaining a strong connection to history.  The author is the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/take-a-window-seat/article37134367.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The shades of Diwali||Thanks to the pandemic, we haven’t had much to celebrate over the last year-and-a-half. But now, amid vaccination drives and lifting restrictions, people are eager to get back to their pre-pandemic life. And could there be a better reason to celebrate than the fact that the festive season is round the corner? The nine nights of Navratri have now made way for India’s most-loved celebration, Diwali, which is traditionally the time for annual spring clean and redecorating in Indian homes. It may not have been possible last year, but it seems that this year the timing is right to kit out your home for Diwali. Begin by choosing the colour that resonates best with you, your home, and your spaces, and set yourself up for a wonderful festive season. ORANGE The colour orange radiates warmth and happiness, as it combines the energy and stimulation of red with the cheerfulness of yellow. This flamboyant colour can own the room in large amounts; use in small doses if you like your room calm. WHITE The complete colour, white is synonymous with innocence, purity and wholesomeness. If an all-white palette doesn’t work for you — it does look fabulous though — we suggest you set off your love for colours against a white background. And white isn’t just white these days as there are hundreds of shades to choose from. RED The colour of passion, energy and action, red has been associated with celebration in India for long. Brides wear red on their wedding day in most states, the kum kum is red and so is the alta . No better colour to infuse drama and festivity into your décor. NAVY BLUE Navy is the new black these days. Associated with the nautical style in home decor, navy is classic, strong and tends to be conservative. But you can lighten it up with fun colours like bubblegum or coral. YELLOW This joyous and radiant colour stands for optimism, cheerfulness and growth. It’s a happy hue that seems to harness the power of the sun and bring sunshine into your home. Be it as the main colour or as pops of colour, we recommend it for the kitchen in particular. GREEN Mother Nature’s colour is but naturally the colour of new beginnings, growth, harmony and balance. Available in a variety of shades, it helps create a soothing and relaxing ambience. Shades such as sage can be used as a neutral while emerald will make your wall a show-stopper. PEACOCK GREEN This bright colour, a mix of a little blue and plenty of green, adds cheer and vibrancy to any space. Associated with the peacock, it adds a certain radiance that seems just right for the festive season. PURPLE Long used by royalty, this opulent colour denotes the future, and encourages creativity and originality. Hues you can use around the home include deep purple, lavender, mauve and amethyst. SKY BLUE The favourite colour of every third person in the world, blue is steadfast and loyal. The lighter shade of blue, sky blue, is a colour that speaks of safety and serenity. It’s the perfect shade for a soothing bedroom, almost a sanctuary. PINK Seen as feminine, pink tones down the physical passion of red and replaces it with a gentler and more loving energy. Pink doesn’t just mean the light dreamy pink we associate with all things princess; try shades like salmon, rosewood, punch, rouge and watermelon. GREY There’s something about grey that just refuses to let this monochromatic and once-seen-as-dull colour from the home décor scene. It’s soothing, restful and creates the best backdrop for any room in the home. Just adding colour isn’t enough; make sure that you add dollops of festivity across the home in the form of fresh flowers, lights, diyas, personal artefacts, and more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-shades-of-diwali/article37134377.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Commercial realty’s post-pandemic comeback||When the pandemic hit India last year, it slowed down the demand for commercial space because of shutdowns, work-from-home (WFH) orders, at-home quarantines, unemployment spikes, supply chain disruptions and a huge drop in consumer confidence. It meant a huge fall for the sector that had witnessed two successive peak years in 2018 and 2019. The commercial segment had recorded leasing activity of landmark 55.7 million sq.ft. in 2019, across six major cities, urban conglomeration into peripheral areas, growth of the IT sector and infrastructure, MNCs had expanded their operations in India, and lower rentals played a critical role in the success story of the sector. As the office market expanded, new micro-markets emerged within the cities. Bandra-Kurla Complex in Mumbai, Cybercity in Gurgaon, and ORR and Whitefield in Bengaluru are now the prominent zones both in terms of supply infusion and leasing activity. In the first half of 2021, it is these micro-markets that contributed to almost one-third of the supply and demand of office space in the cities. Pandemic halt However, the growth of the commercial real estate sector came to a grinding halt with the onset of the pandemic. Absorption and incremental supply infusion fell by 43% and 35% respectively year-on-year. The year 2021 began on a sombre note. As compared to H1 2020, absorption fell by 38%. The new supply, meanwhile, showed a marginal growth of 4% as the lockdowns and supply constraints eased this year. Vacancy levels increased from 10% in 2019 to 16.2% in the first half of 2021 on accounts of terminations, exits and supply outpacing the demand by a significant extent. The co-working sector took a body blow — the segment’s overall share decreased from a peak of 14% in 2019 to 8% in H1 2021. As the country begins to ease lockdowns and recover from the severe disruptions caused by the pandemic, many real estate investors and customers want to know what will happen next. Gradual pick-up The pandemic has disrupted commercial real estate in India, but the outlook for the future is optimistic. The year 2021 has seen greater resilience, digital insurgency, and innovation which will lead to the rising of the sector in the coming months. The groundwork for a sector-wide recovery has already been built in 2020. The second-half of 2021 is expected to perform better than the first-half. The year is likely to end with overall commercial space absorption of 31.5 million sq.ft. across six major cities. Overall office stock is expected to breach the 650 mn sq.ft mark. Vacancy levels, however, is expected to increase from 16.2% to 17% by the end of the year. As the businesses begin to reopen, both leasing and rentals are expected to perform well. The demand is steady and the supply side has been bolstered throughout the last decade as institutional investors such as Brookfield, Embassy and Blackstone gained a strong foothold in the market. Sector-wise analysis Although, WFH has now become an acceptable norm and occupiers are reassessing their real estate portfolios as there is a demand for office spaces. This steady demand is driven by IT/ITes sector that has been largely unaffected by the economic downturn. The sector had a 51% share in overall leasing activity in 2020. The increase in IT hiring by around 50% this year as compared to 2019, is expected to translate into additional space take-up. For the rest of 2021 and 2022, we expect the technology industry to remain the key occupier and an increase in demand from sectors such as IT, e-commerce and healthcare. REITable premium quality office space has also been on a steady rise. The three REITs — Embassy, Brookfield and Mindspace have outperformed both the Realty Index and Sensex for a major portion of the two and a half years since the first one was listed in 2019. Sectors such as co-working which had to bear the initial brunt of the pandemic, are repositioning themselves with additional unique services, and are expected to cater strongly to the agile workforce of many small, mid and large-sized occupiers. Hence, the overall commercial real estate market, on account of its inherent strengths is recovering, though slowly. It is expected to bounce back to its 2018-19 peak in the next couple of years. Eyes on the South The three southern cities of Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai have been the major demand drivers of office space in the country with a share of over 55%. Bengaluru alone accounts for more than one-third of India’s leasing activity, even amid the ongoing pandemic. While the other office markets reported a decline of 35-65% in leasing activity in H1 2021, the resilient market of Bengaluru reported a smaller decline of 16%. The city is likely to witness transactions of around 11 million sq.ft. in 2021. The IT/ITes sector and new-age startups have been instrumental in the rise of the office market in southern cities. Progressive government policies such as Karnataka IT Policy for 2020-25, Growth in Dispersion (GRID) policy in Hyderabad, and Information Communication Technology Policy in Chennai, along with the availability of land and concessions for MNCs have helped the IT industry grow in South of India. Consequently, the commercial real estate segment here has witnessed immense growth in the last decade. It is evident that the Southern commercial real estate market will bounce back stronger post the pandemic. Apart from offering a comparatively better quality of life, the cities have a stronghold in the technology sector. This will remain consistent on the account of their impressive ability to attract local, global as well as migratory talent from across the country.  The writer is CEO, Savills India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/commercial-realtys-post-pandemic-comeback/article37134365.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The property fair goes virtual||If you’re looking to buy a home this festive season, The Hindu Property Plus’ recently-launched virtual property fair is your go-to destination. Launched on October 22, the online event sponsored by Casagrand features over 15 builders from Chennai showcasing their properties virtually. From budget homes and functional apartments to lavish villas and luxury bungalows, buyers have a lot to choose from. Until October 31, 2021. To register, visit https://bit.ly/THVP21 or scan the QR Code||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-property-fair-goes-virtual/article37134383.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Commercial realty’s post-pandemic comeback||When the pandemic hit India last year, it slowed down the demand for commercial space because of shutdowns, work-from-home (WFH) orders, at-home quarantines, unemployment spikes, supply chain disruptions and a huge drop in consumer confidence. It meant a huge fall for the sector that had witnessed two successive peak years in 2018 and 2019. The commercial segment had recorded leasing activity of landmark 55.7 million sq.ft. in 2019, across six major cities, urban conglomeration into peripheral areas, growth of the IT sector and infrastructure, MNCs had expanded their operations in India, and lower rentals played a critical role in the success story of the sector. As the office market expanded, new micro-markets emerged within the cities. Bandra-Kurla Complex in Mumbai, Cybercity in Gurgaon, and ORR and Whitefield in Bengaluru are now the prominent zones both in terms of supply infusion and leasing activity. In the first half of 2021, it is these micro-markets that contributed to almost one-third of the supply and demand of office space in the cities. Pandemic halt However, the growth of the commercial real estate sector came to a grinding halt with the onset of the pandemic. Absorption and incremental supply infusion fell by 43% and 35% respectively year-on-year. The year 2021 began on a sombre note. As compared to H1 2020, absorption fell by 38%. The new supply, meanwhile, showed a marginal growth of 4% as the lockdowns and supply constraints eased this year. Vacancy levels increased from 10% in 2019 to 16.2% in the first half of 2021 on accounts of terminations, exits and supply outpacing the demand by a significant extent. The co-working sector took a body blow — the segment’s overall share decreased from a peak of 14% in 2019 to 8% in H1 2021. As the country begins to ease lockdowns and recover from the severe disruptions caused by the pandemic, many real estate investors and customers want to know what will happen next. Gradual pick-up The pandemic has disrupted commercial real estate in India, but the outlook for the future is optimistic. The year 2021 has seen greater resilience, digital insurgency, and innovation which will lead to the rising of the sector in the coming months. The groundwork for a sector-wide recovery has already been built in 2020. The second-half of 2021 is expected to perform better than the first-half. The year is likely to end with overall commercial space absorption of 31.5 million sq.ft. across six major cities. Overall office stock is expected to breach the 650 mn sq.ft mark. Vacancy levels, however, is expected to increase from 16.2% to 17% by the end of the year. As the businesses begin to reopen, both leasing and rentals are expected to perform well. The demand is steady and the supply side has been bolstered throughout the last decade as institutional investors such as Brookfield, Embassy and Blackstone gained a strong foothold in the market. Sector-wise analysis Although, WFH has now become an acceptable norm and occupiers are reassessing their real estate portfolios as there is a demand for office spaces. This steady demand is driven by IT/ITes sector that has been largely unaffected by the economic downturn. The sector had a 51% share in overall leasing activity in 2020. The increase in IT hiring by around 50% this year as compared to 2019, is expected to translate into additional space take-up. For the rest of 2021 and 2022, we expect the technology industry to remain the key occupier and an increase in demand from sectors such as IT, e-commerce and healthcare. REITable premium quality office space has also been on a steady rise. The three REITs — Embassy, Brookfield and Mindspace have outperformed both the Realty Index and Sensex for a major portion of the two and a half years since the first one was listed in 2019. Sectors such as co-working which had to bear the initial brunt of the pandemic, are repositioning themselves with additional unique services, and are expected to cater strongly to the agile workforce of many small, mid and large-sized occupiers. Hence, the overall commercial real estate market, on account of its inherent strengths is recovering, though slowly. It is expected to bounce back to its 2018-19 peak in the next couple of years. Eyes on the South The three southern cities of Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai have been the major demand drivers of office space in the country with a share of over 55%. Bengaluru alone accounts for more than one-third of India’s leasing activity, even amid the ongoing pandemic. While the other office markets reported a decline of 35-65% in leasing activity in H1 2021, the resilient market of Bengaluru reported a smaller decline of 16%. The city is likely to witness transactions of around 11 million sq.ft. in 2021. The IT/ITes sector and new-age startups have been instrumental in the rise of the office market in southern cities. Progressive government policies such as Karnataka IT Policy for 2020-25, Growth in Dispersion (GRID) policy in Hyderabad, and Information Communication Technology Policy in Chennai, along with the availability of land and concessions for MNCs have helped the IT industry grow in South of India. Consequently, the commercial real estate segment here has witnessed immense growth in the last decade. It is evident that the Southern commercial real estate market will bounce back stronger post the pandemic. Apart from offering a comparatively better quality of life, the cities have a stronghold in the technology sector. This will remain consistent on the account of their impressive ability to attract local, global as well as migratory talent from across the country.  The writer is CEO, Savills India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/commercial-realtys-post-pandemic-comeback/article37134384.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘I did not want to connect with negativity’||Shriya Saran is back in India after two years, and she sounds delighted to have successfully managed to keep a secret. The actor recently opted for a baby reveal instead of a gender reveal — Radha, her daughter with entrepreneur husband Andrei Koscheev, was born in January this year in Barcelona, Spain. Now back in Mumbai with her family, and at work, Saran is part of several projects: SS Rajamouli’s ambitious RRR , Telugu film Gamanam that is coming out in four languages, the bilingual Music School , co-starring Sharman Joshi and with music by Ilaiyaraaja (the film’s choreographer, Adam Murray, was part of the Elton John film, Rocket Man ), besides her Tamil projects. Her film with Karthick Naren, Narasasooran , is due for release too. In between shooting, she speaks about the journey of having Radha at a time when the world was in turmoil, coping with COVID-19, and staying relevant decades after she made her debut with the Telugu film Ishtam in 2001. Edited excerpts from an interview with The Hindu Weekend.  How did you manage to hold on to your happy secret and spring Radha as a surprise while remaining active on social media? While it is very difficult to keep something like this to yourself, I knew the world was going through a torrid time. I lost a friend in the second wave, and it was very hard for me. This put me in a space where I knew how precious a moment the pregnancy was, and I wanted to share it when I, and people were ready. It did not feel right to share it when there was grief around. I wanted Radha to be welcomed into the world when I was ready and she was big enough. Although she was a planned baby, no one really prepares you for the journey. It is an intense process — I am a social person, but I chose to stay quiet. I grew happy and fat, wore what I wanted and read a book, went to a cafe and walked around in Barcelona. I really wanted to enjoy the last few months of life before the baby. Was there any pressure on you, being a public figure, to get back to your pre-pregnancy shape?  Well, your body changes completely, and it was not a quick process to get back to what I was. My mother got back into shape in a month. I wanted to do so too, and I ate healthy and worked out. I did not post a picture because even though you’re used to negative comments on social media, I was not in the mindframe to receive them. I did not want to connect with negativity. I decided the best thing to do was to share images after Radha met her grandparents. What was your routine like during pregnancy?  For the first three months, I was very careful. Then, I resumed my Kathak classes, yoga, and walking. It was difficult as we were all in our individual bubbles. Andrei and I were doing everything ourselves, and a two-week visit extended to two years. We did not have time to think; there was enough work to do, and there was dance. How were the first few months of coping with motherhood?  My mother came by for a month, and then it was just the three of us. We were stressed out and needed family support. My mother-in-law chipped in when Andrei and I got COVID-19. I don’t know how we would have managed without her. But the journey and staying up during the night was worth it. Now, Radha has a lovely nanny in Mumbai, and my mother is also around. Did you miss the sets these two years?  Not quite, because no one was really shooting then. I’ve always wanted to be a working mother and now I am back at work. I miss Radha, yes, but it’s nice to be back at work. Radha is a well-travelled child...  Yes. It was really nice in Barcelona and then in Russia. We lived by a lake, and I took her swimming. She loves the water and it was fun. Do you intend to pen down your pregnancy journey?  I don’t think I’ll do that. But it was an interesting one, like it was for any mother who had a baby during the pandemic. Intense and beautiful, all at once. I am just blessed and happy to have Radha and get some good medical help during these tough times. There was a lot of positivity and love in our lives and I am grateful for that. Over the years, you’ve always reinvented yourself... stayed relevant.  Well, it’s about identifying something that challenges you and avoiding getting into a place where you do the same things repeatedly because it’s easier. I’ve always tried to push boundaries; I’ve done that in the Telugu film Gamanam too. It is a constant struggle, but as long as you are an artiste, you keep working on yourself. The process is always on. A few years ago, you set up Spandana, a spa managed by the visually-challenged. How has the pandemic impacted this passion project?  The spa is on hold now because it is difficult to operate one during the pandemic. The people I work with are super talented and have love in their hands. During the pandemic, did you have a close circle to lean on?  Not really. I think for me it was all about Zoom classes, doing as many ‘lives’ as I could and learning new things. I learnt to bake and cook. I had to be more careful because COVID-19 is more dangerous when one is pregnant, so I only went on long walks. My parents and friends were around, but my true circle was my husband. And then, there’s Radha, my constant companion during the pandemic — first inside of me and then in my arms!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/i-did-not-want-to-connect-with-negativity/article37134804.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Winter season starting with better air than last 3 years: CSE||The winter season this year is starting with much cleaner air compared to the last three years in Delhi, the Nation Capital Region and the Indo-Gangetic Plain region, according to an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). . The analysis covers 156 continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations spread across 67 cities in Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal. “The 2021 winter is starting with a cleaner threshold than the previous years, largely due to the intense and prolonged effect of the monsoons. How soon and intensely the winter pollution will hit us will depend on the scale and speed of action across the region and leveraging it for more sustained air quality gains,” said CSE executive director Anumita Roychowdhury. This year, the number of farm fires pre-winter has been less than half of the last year count, and the lower number correlates well with the lower pollution in Delhi-NCR, according to the analysis. But it has warned that the lower count, as reported by satellite imagery, could also be due to increased cloud cover, which prevents satellites from spotting fires. During September and October this year, the number of days with ‘satisfactory’ levels of air quality has increased to 90%, compared with 43% in 2018. However, it was 27% in 2020. A similar pattern is seen in the “moderately polluted” category, the CSE said. ‘Urgent action needed’ “Delhi and the larger region will require urgent action to prevent severe smog episodes and speed up deeper reforms to sustain the gains. Reduce traffic volume, eliminate waste burning, eliminate dirty industrial fuels, and implement stringent dust control measures, especially in the construction sector. Act now, and act decisively,” Ms. Roychowdhury said. Air pollution in the city spikes during the winter season mainly because of the combined effect of stubble-burning in the neighbouring States and climatic conditions, that lower the wind speed and mixing height, thus trapping pollutants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/winter-season-starting-with-better-air-than-last-3-years-cse/article37134644.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Meet Husain’s AI twin||The COVID-19 pandemic handed out lessons by the dozen. Some welcome, some forced, but all essential. In Bengaluru, at the Museum of Art & Photography (MAP) — founded by industrialist and art collector Abhishek Poddar — fine-tuning their digital offerings has been one of the big takeaways. “Our digital focus and programming has helped us reach a wider range of people and geographies; we would not have managed otherwise,” says Kamini Sawhney, director, MAP. Like their digital museum initiative, MAP Plus. With a digital membership, people can access a variety of virtual exhibitions and events. For instance, the private museum tapped into artificial intelligence capabilities to create a digital persona of artist M.F. Husain. Visitors can interact with the late artist’s AI twin, to learn more about his life and work. “Art is something that has to be accessible to and enjoyable for everybody. We have taken a 360 degree approach to accessibility, right from the physical space at MAP [they have a quiet room for people suffering from panic attacks, anxiety and autism; a lift with Braille and sound cues; a floor map of the building as a tactile display; and induction loops for people with low hearing] to digital activities and educational workshops,” says Carolina Artegiani, head of development, MAP.  W hat audiences want  Most recently, in its efforts to foster a conversation between the public and museums, MAP undertook (in collaboration with the ReReeti Foundation) a research project to understand audience behaviour. “We wanted to learn what the motivations are for people to participate in any cultural activity,” says Artegiani. According to the report (based on a survey of 500 people), more than half of the respondents, mostly under 30 years, felt museums in India could offer more engaging content. And while 54.5% of the respondents feel arts and culture are essential, they rarely manage to dedicate time to it. MAP believes that making the interaction a two-way street is key. “Instead of unilaterally deciding what the audiences should see, museums should collaborate with the public to decide what should actually be displayed,” says Artegiani. In fact, they are already putting the findings to use. Based on the research, music is the most popular cultural activity. So, the second edition of the museum’s annual ‘Art is Life’ festival (a by-product of the pandemic) is themed Sound Frames — and will showcase the interconnectedness of music and the visual arts. The survey is the first in a series of planned steps, says Artegiani. “If people think going to MAP is cool, then museum-going will become an activity just as going to a park on a Saturday afternoon,” she concludes. Sound Frames is onfrom December 3 to 5. Details: map-india.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/meet-husains-ai-twin/article37134802.ece
23 October 2021||New Delhi,||Winter season starts in Delhi with better air||The winter season this year is starting with much cleaner air than the last three years in Delhi, the National Capital Region and the Indo-Gangetic Plain region, according to an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), a Delhi-based think tank. The analysis covers 156 continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations spread across 67 cities in Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal. “The 2021 winter is starting with a cleaner threshold than the previous years, largely due to the intense and prolonged effect of the monsoons. How soon and intensely the winter pollution will hit us will depend on the scale and speed of action across the region and leveraging it for more sustained air quality gains,” said CSE executive director Anumita Roychowdhury. This year, the number of farm fires pre-winter has been less than half of the last year’s count, and the lower number correlates well with the lower pollution in Delhi-NCR, according to the analysis. But it has warned that the lower count, as reported by satellite imagery, could also be due to increased cloud cover, which prevents satellites from spotting fires. During September and October this year, the number of days with ‘satisfactory’ levels of air quality has increased to 90%, compared with 43% in 2018. However, it was 27% in 2020. A similar pattern is seen in the “moderately polluted” category, the CSE said. “Delhi and the larger region will require urgent action to prevent severe smog episodes and speed up deeper reforms to sustain the gains. Reduce traffic volume, eliminate waste burning, eliminate dirty industrial fuels, and implement stringent dust control measures, especially in the construction sector. Act now, and act decisively,” Ms. Roychowdhury said. Air pollution in the city spikes during the winter mainly because of the combined effect of stubble-burning in the neighbouring States and climatic conditions that lower wind speed and mixing height, thus trapping pollutants.  Delhi and the larger region will require urgent action to prevent severe smog episodes and speed up deeper reforms to sustain the gains Anumita RoychowdhuryCSE executive director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/winter-season-starts-in-delhi-with-better-air/article37134578.ece
23 October 2021||Mumbai,||One dead in south Mumbai tower blaze||One person died after falling from 19th floor and 16 others were rescued after a fire broke out in the 60-storey Avighna Park in south Mumbai’s Currey Road area around midday on Friday. The fire was doused by evening and Municipal Commissioner of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ordered an inquiry based on the complaints filed by other residents of the high riser. Arun Tiwari, 30, was working as security guard in the building and was present at the 19th floor when furniture work was going on in one of the flats. “He panicked and ran to the window from where he was trying to come out by hanging outside. But he fell. He was rushed to the KEM hospital but he was declared dead on arrival,” said a fire brigade official. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said the staff of the tower should have rushed to evacuate and help immediately after the fire broke out while fire brigade was on its way. “Had they acted, the man could have been saved,” she said. Ms. Pednekar added that residents have complained against the developer of Avighna Park for non-cooperation in land conveyance and other matters. “It has resulted in delay in several safety related matters in the tower and today’s incident is a result of that,” she said. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said the civic officials have taken a note of complaints of residents. “An administrative probe will be conducted and action will be taken based on that,” he said. The fire broke out at around 11.45 a.m. A total of 40 vehicles including 14 fire engines, nine jumbo tankers, one control room vehicle, skylift were on the spot. The fire was controlled by around 3.30 p.m. and it was completely doused by around 4.58 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-dead-in-south-mumbai-tower-blaze/article37134809.ece
23 October 2021||Imphal,||Migratory Amur falcons reach Manipur||With the arrival of the migratory Amur falcons to Tamenglong district of Manipur for the annual stopover, State Forest and Environment Minister Awangbow Newmai has appealed to the people not to hunt the seasonal visitors. These falcons visit the district every year from breeding grounds in China and Russia before beginning their onward voyage to Africa for the winter — a journey of more than 30,000 km. Satellite tagging Officials who have been tracking the travel routes of these birds through satellite tagging said one Amur falcon had reached the district for the third year in a row. Mr. Newmai, in a statement, warned that the hunting of the bird was punishable under the Manipur Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 and could lead to three years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 25,000 The Minister launched a poster campaign on Thursday to create awareness among the people. Officials of the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, were also present. Less than 300 Sangai In another development, officials said the population of the brow-antlered deer (Sangai) found only in Manipur stood at fewer than 300 in its natural habitat, the 40 sq km Keibul Lamjao National park in Bishnupur district. However, there was a silver lining, as officials said more and more people, including hunters, were coming forward to protect the deer and the migratory birds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amur-falcons-in-manipur-for-annual-migration/article37134643.ece
23 October 2021||Mumbai,||Cinema halls, theatres reopen in Maharashtra||Cinema halls, drama theatres and auditoriums reopened in Maharashtra after several months on Friday with 50% seating capacity and COVID-19 protocols as the second wave of the pandemic appears to be ebbing in the State. These establishments, shut after the second wave hit the State, have reopened just ahead of Diwali in line with the State government's policy to ease coronavirus-related curbs. Earlier, the State government had allowed reopening of religious places and schools for Classes 8 t 12.  ‘70% remained closed’ However, according to sources in the entertainment industry, at least 70% of single screen movie halls in the State did not reopen, while a majority of multiplexes commenced operations during the day. The State government had last week issued guidelines for reopening cinema halls, drama theatres and auditoriums by allowing them to operate with 50% seating capacity. As per the guidelines, only people who have taken both doses of the COVID-19 vaccines and those showing safe status on Aarogya Setu app will be allowed entry at these establishments. Nitin Datar, who heads the Single Screen Cinema Exhibitors Association, said 70% of the single screens in the State did not open on Friday. “This was primarily because there was no picture flow and the SoPs are not ready. Most of the theatre owners wish to wait and watch. Some movies that released in multiplex screens had only 10% occupancy," Mr. Datar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cinema-halls-theatres-reopen-in-maharashtra/article37134810.ece
23 October 2021||Imphal,||Amur falcons reach Manipur for annual stopover||Manipur Forest and Environment Minister Awangbow Newmai has appealed to the people not to hunt the migratory Amur falcons that have stopped over in Tamenglong district on their way to southern Africa from China or Siberia. Hunters had, in the past, ignored appeals from officials and avian enthusiasts not to kill the birds. Some Amur falcons with satellite tags had been shot too. Officials said one of the migratory birds reached Tamenglong district for the third consecutive year. It was among a few tagged in the last three years for monitoring the raptor’s travel route. “Hunters who kill these visiting friends are liable to be imprisoned for three years and fined Rs. 25,000. There are ample provisions for punishment in the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972,” Mr. Newmai said in a statement. To create awareness among the people in Tamenglong and other districts of the State, he launched a poster campaign on Thursday. Experts from the Wildlife Institute of India in Dehradun were present during the launch of this campaign. Amur falcons used to be hunted for food in Nagaland’s Pangti, where the largest flock arrives. Relentless campaigns have made Pangti one of the safest destinations for these migratory birds. Manipur also has been grappling with the hunting of the sangai or brow-antlered deer found nowhere else on earth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amur-falcons-reach-manipur-for-annual-stopover/article37134576.ece
23 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Four lakes in Chennai to be notified as wetlands||Four waterbodies in Chennai will soon be notified as wetlands under the Wetland Conservation and Management Rules, 2017. This will help in their conservation as well as sustainable use and in preventing further degradation. The lakes in Velachery, Madipakkam, Ambattur and Korattur have been prioritised in the first phase for being identified as wetlands, besides the Pallikaranai marshland. The district-level wetland management committee, established by the Tamil Nadu State Wetland Authority, had initiated the process of notifying the identified waterbodies as wetlands. All natural waterbodies qualify for being identified as wetlands under the Wetland Rules, except for rivers and river channels. Those waterbodies created for salt production, drinking water supply and aquaculture have been exempted from the rules. Sources in the committee said the process had been started at a meeting held earlier this month for notifying these four lakes as wetlands. Once the committee, comprising the Collector, the District Forest Officer and representatives of government agencies, recommends the identified wetlands to the State Wetland Authority, steps would be taken for their notification and regulation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/panel-shortlists-four-lakes-in-city-to-be-notified-as-wetlands/article37134524.ece
23 October 2021||October 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Epic drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/epic-drive/article37134580.ece
23 October 2021||Mumbai,||Ananya Pandey quizzed by NCB||Bollywood actor Ananya Pandey appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau here for the second straight day on Friday and was questioned for nearly four hours in connection with her alleged WhatsApp chats with Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan. Ananya Pandey has been again called by the NCB on Monday, a senior official said. Her actor-father Chunky Pandey accompanied her to the NCB office as he had done on Thursday when she was questioned for the first time over chats linked to the case which relates to alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast early this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ananya-pandey-quizzed-by-ncb/article37134642.ece
