24 October 2021||New Delhi,||Curfew, Internet curbs a ‘bitter pill’ to save Kashmiri lives: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday that the curfew and Internet restrictions imposed in Jammu and Kashmir post-August 5, 2019, were like a “bitter pill that saved many lives”, and he had come to “make friends with the youth” who will be the agents of development and democracy, earlier held hostage by only three families. Mr. Shah said the restrictions were necessary, else many fathers would have had to carry their children to graves, adding that “terrorism and development” could not go together. Addressing the representatives of 4,500 youth clubs in J&K that work at the panchayat level, Mr. Shah said certain inimical forces, foreign powers and a few families wanted to create pressure to lift curfew then so that people were forced to come out on the road, and clash with security forces to serve their political interests. He reiterated that statehood would be restored after elections were held, once the delimitation exercise concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curfew-internet-curbs-a-bitter-pill-to-save-kashmiri-lives-shah/article37146224.ece
24 October 2021||TIRUVARUR,||Govt. will vaccinate those below 18 years if allowed: Minister||Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian has said that the Tamil Nadu government will take up vaccination of children below 18 years of age if the Medical Council of India and the World Health Organisation make an announcement in this regard. Disclosing this to reporters here on Saturday, the Health Minister said that medical experts suggest that children below 18 years should also be covered under the COVID-19 vaccination exercise. The State government had already placed a request in this regard with the Union government, he said and added that there should not be any complacency among the public that the COVID-19 regulations could be overlooked in view of the reduction in number of positive cases in the State. Urging the public to continue to adhere the standard operating procedure laid down to check the spreading of novel coronavirus, Mr. Subramanian claimed that administration of COVID-19 vaccination was the only solution. Stating that administration of first and second dose of vaccination had been made compulsory for Tasmac customers, he called upon the Tasmac customers and non-vegetarian food lovers to come forward to get themselves vaccinated without fail. The vaccination camps were being organised on Saturdays in order to help these people get the jab without any excuse, he added.   Tasmac customers and non-vegetarian food lovers should come forward to get themselves vaccinated Ma. Subramanian Minister for Health and Family Welfare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-will-vaccinate-those-below-18-years-if-allowed-health-minister/article37146739.ece
24 October 2021||Rameswaram,||‘Release two Sri Lankan fishermen’||Appealing to the Central government to immediately direct the authorities concerned to release two fishermen from Sri Lanka detained under the charges of having allegedly crossed the territorial waters two days ago, the Thangachimadam fishermen urged both the Indian and Sri Lankan governments to hold talks and bring an end to the insecurity experienced by them while fishing in the Palk Bay area here on Saturday. Various fishermen associations staged a protest here condemning the death of a fisherman Raj Kiran (30) of Kottaipattinam, a few days ago allegedly by the Sri Lankan Navy personnel. It was charged that the Lankan authorities had dashed against the boat and it capsized. In the incident, three fishermen from Pudukottai district had drowned. Fortunately, two survived, while Raj Kiran died. Demanding the Sri Lankan Navy personnel to stop harassing them under the guise of violating the IMBL, the fishermen shouted slogans against them and sought both the Union and State governments to come to their rescue. “At a time when our survival is under big threat, such humiliation and harassment has led to depression. We are in a state of insecurity. We feel let down by our governments,” said Sesu Raja, a fishermen leader association. He further said that the governments should allow the fishermen to perform their duty without any fear. “Neither Sri Lankan nor Indian fishermen should feel insecure...” Two days ago, the Indian authorities had reportedly detained two fishermen from Lanka...We want them to be freed immediately,” Mr Sesu Raja told this reporter  over telephone from Pamban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/release-two-sri-lankan-fishermen/article37146730.ece
24 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gap between first, second doses is the starkest in India||India has delivered over a billion vaccine doses, making it the second-highest dispenser of COVID-19 vaccines globally but the gap between the proportion of population that has got at least one dose and that which got two doses is widest in India. According to the Bloomberg Tracker mapping vaccination trends globally, 82% of China’s population has got at least one dose and 76% two doses — a ratio of 1.1. In the United States, this ratio is 1.15 (66.2% with at least one dose and 57.3% fully dosed). For the European Union, this works out to 1.04 (69% with at least one dose and 66% with two doses). In India, however, this gap is more than twice at 2.4 (51% with at least one dose and just 21.9% with two doses). The key reason for this, according to experts, is the gap between two doses of Covishield — which comprises 88% of the administered vaccines in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gap-between-first-second-doses-starkest-in-india/article37146222.ece
24 October 2021||Hyderabad,||Should we say Gujaratis rule India?: KTR||Rejecting the allegations of family rule and objecting to State BJP leaders abusing Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao, TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao asked whether the TRS too should stoop to the level of saying Gujaratis have taken over India. “The narrative in India is that Gujaratis have taken over India. So should we also abuse Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah like the BJP is doing in Telangana?” he asked. He said freedom of expression has become the right to abuse, but the TRS had always maintained some dignity. “We are good people and we don’t react strongly when the Chief Minister is abused.” On the TRS targeting the rising fuel prices in its election campaign, he said “we want to remind people how Mr. Modi had targetted the UPA government on the rising prices and promised succour to the people if the BJP is voted to power”. “Fuel prices have almost doubled,” he said, and ridiculed the BJP leaders’ advice to the State governments to reduce taxes. “So Modi will increase the prices and we should decrease. What kind of logic is this?” he asked. Mr. Rao also took objection to the Election Commission of India’s decision to stop Dalit Bandhu till the bypolls are over and felt the Commission has crossed the limits in halting an ongoing scheme. “Anyway, they can’t stop it after the elections,” he said. The Municipal Minister said the TRS is a cause-based party and it has turned into a performance party with huge administrative milestones to be emulated by the country within 7 years of its rule. He said though Telangana has 2.5% of the country’s population, it contributes 5% of the national GDP. “Telangana’s money is used for development in other States, including the BJP- ruled states,” he said and asked if this is not development. Mr. Rao said the government has not held any Investment Conclaves spending huge money like other BJP ruled States but still Telangana has turned into the destination for investments in the country. Reiterating his earlier charges of collusion between the Congress and the BJP, the TRS working president alleged that Congress chief A. Revanth Reddy and BJP leader Eatala Rajender met at Golconda resorts. “If they deny the meeting, I am willing to release pictures,” he said, adding what more evidence is needed of their collusion with the sole aim of defeating TRS in Huzurabad. However, he clarified there is no snooping, but some fans of TRS government had clicked the pictures of their secret meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/should-we-say-gujaratis-rule-india-ktr/article37146867.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Cinemas to operate with full occupancy from November 1||In a fresh set of relaxations issued on Saturday, the Tamil Nadu government has allowed cinemas to operate with 100% occupancy from November 1. In schools, Classes I-VIII can function on shift basis from November 1. All buses (inter- and intra-district), including air-conditioned, can ply with 100% occupancy, except those bound for Kerala. Hotels, shops till 11 p.m. Hotels, bakeries and shops will be allowed to operate till 11 p.m. in view of the festive season. All cultural events and meetings have also been allowed in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol laid down by the government. Film and television shootings will be allowed with the required number of artistes, but they have to be vaccinated. The announcement of the opening of cinema halls has come as a breather for the Tamil film industry, which is waiting for the Deepavali release of Rajinikanth-starrer Annaatthe . The government training centres, such as the State Institute of Rural Development and the Civil Service Training Institute, Bhavanisagar, will be allowed to operate with 100% trainees. Both contact and non- contact sports are allowed. Swimming pools can be used for therapeutic purposes. However, the current ban on festivals and political events will continue. The government has urged all those aged above 18 to take their first and second doses of vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cinemas-to-operate-with-full-occupancy-from-november-1/article37146686.ece
24 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Ten arrested for ransacking TDP office at Mangalagiri||The Mangalagiri police on Saturday arrested 10 persons on charges of ransacking the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) State office, and damaging furniture in it, four days ago. Special teams had been constituted to identify and arrest the remaining accused in the case, said Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. Police so far traced P. Chaitanya, P. Mahesh Babu, P. Ajay, S. Pavan Kumar, A. Ganapathi, Sk. Abdullah, K. Durga Rao, J. Ramana, G. Durga Prasad and L. Abhi Naidu, natives of Guntur and Krishna districts, and arrested them. “Investigation in the case is being done systematically. The police are making efforts to identify the remaining accused,” Mr. Sawang said adding that notice had been served on the office staff under Section 91 Cr.P.C. to handover the CCTV footages to the police. Eleven arrested Meanwhile, the Patamata police arrested 11 persons, including a few women, for the attack on the house of TDP leader K. Pattabhiram in Vijayawada. The incident occurred in Dairy Officers Colony, Patamata, on October 19. Following a complaint lodged by Pattabhiram’s wife, K. Chandana, Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu constituted a team to inquire into the incident. The police team, that visited the spot, identified 11 persons so far, the Police Commissioner said on Saturday. The arrested were identified as B. Madhavi Krishna, I. Subashini, T. Jhansi, B. Sunitha, Y. Karthik, G. Prabhu Kumar, V. Avinash, G. Bharati, D. Nagamani, V. Raj Kumar and B. Ashok Kumar, all residents of the city.  CCTV footage sought Notices have been served to hand over the CCTV clippings available in the house. Investigation is on, Mr. Srinivasulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ten-arrested-for-ransacking-tdp-office-at-mangalagiri/article37146225.ece
24 October 2021||Vijayawada,||High Court grants bail to Pattabhiram||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Saturday granted bail to Telugu Desam Party spokesman K. Pattabhiram, whose alleged objectionable comments on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy sparked attacks on the opposition party’s offices across the State, including the main one near Mangalagiri in Guntur district. The issuance of bail is subject to the execution of a bond for Rs. 20,000 with two sureties each for a like sum to the satisfaction of the III Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Vijayawada. Hearing Mr. Pattabhiram’s bail plea on Saturday, Justice Kanneganti Lalitha said she was not justifying the remarks passed against the Chief Minister, but would at the same time question why the police did not show the same excitement when the High Court Judges were abused. She turned down Advocate-General S. Sriram’s request to let a counter to be filed by the investigating officer and wondered why the police arrested the accused after issuing a notice under Section. 41-A of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cr.P.C.), which made it clear that there was initially no intention to detain on charges framed against him under Sections.153-A, 505 (2) and 504 read with 120-B of the Indian Penal Code. Mr. Sriram insisted that with two conflicting statements made about the proceedings that led to the arrest, a counter by the investigating officer was necessary, but Justice Lalitha did not concur with him. She observed that whatever be the offence, the procedure contemplated ought to had been followed, and in many cases the court had seen that the police had not been complying with the provisions of the Cr.P.C. Mr. Pattabhiram’s counsel Posani Venkateswarlu said the report of the de facto complainant on the basis of which a case was registered by the Governorpet police, did not contain ingredients or allegations that constituted an offence under the above Sections. He maintained that the constitutional functionary (Chief Minister) does not come under any group or clause for the purpose of Sections.153-A and 505 (2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-high-court-grants-bail-to-tdp-spokesman-pattabhiram/article37146194.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Enforcement wing takes ‘power’ nap ahead of TRS plenary||Disappearance of the GHMC’s Enforcement wing at a time when the western part of the city is painted pink with the ruling party’s flags and flexis, has given rise to trolling on social media platforms. Twitter is agog with insinuations about the silence of the Enforcement on the glaring violations as part of the TRS party’s plenary meeting scheduled for October 25 at Madhapur. Flexi banners and posters with the Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao’s picture imprinted on them have come up across the city, especially Madhapur, Jubilee Hills and Banjara Hills areas. The Central Enforcement Cell of the Enforcement, Vigilance, and Disaster Management wing of GHMC, which attends to all the complaints online about the violations pertaining to the aesthetics of the city, has gone mute since Thursday. The cell has had the history of imposing hefty penalties even on ruling party leaders for such breaches. However, on Thursday evening, the CEC’s official Twitter handle had posted that generation of e-challans has been put on hold for indefinite time due to server maintenance and upgradation of software. Besides, the account settings have been changed to ‘Private’, which protects the handle from being tagged by non-followers. “CEC will be unavailable until further notice,” the post said, seeking co-operation from the netizens. The netizens, especially BJP supporters, have chosen to roast the Enforcement wing instead! “Hope here also EVDM will show the same energy when they removed #prajasangramayatra flexi in Oldcity[sic],” tweeted one Saffron Sagar Goud. “Our tax money put into best use Sir? No rules for ruling government?” Questioned another Gopal Bhargav tagging minister K.T.Rama Rao’s official handle. Unverified allegations have also been made that EVDM Director Viswajit Kampati has gone on leave. Last tweet from the Director’s official Twitter handle was posted on October 16. GHMC officials were unavailable for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/enforcement-wing-takes-power-nap-ahead-of-trs-plenary/article37146864.ece
24 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India-made spray linked to rare illness in U.S.||A made-in-India aromatherapy spray is being pulled off retail giant Walmart’s shelves in the United States after a medical investigation linked it to melioidosis, a rare disease that has sickened at least four, and may have caused two deaths, in the country. The spray was reported to contain a bacterium, Burkholderia pseudomallei , that causes a rare but deadly disease called melioidosis, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said in a statement on Friday. The spray, “Better Homes and Gardens Lavender & Chamomile Essential Oil Infused Aromatherapy Room Spray with Gemstones”, was found on October 6 in the home of a Georgia resident who became ill with melioidosis in late July. Other than mentioning that the spray was manufactured in India, no other details on the spray’s origins were disclosed. The contaminated spray was sold at 55 Walmart stores on the company’s website from February to October 21 of this year, when Walmart pulled the remaining bottles and related products from its shelves. A spokesperson for Walmart, in response to queries from The Hindu , said that the room spray was manufactured by “Flora Classique Inc.” and sold under the “Better Homes & Gardens” brand. “We pulled the product from the shelves of about 55 stores where it was part of a pilot programme,” the spokesperson wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-made-spray-linked-to-rare-illness-in-us/article37146220.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Reduce use of chemical fertilizers in agricultre, says Minister||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani has called for reduction of chemical fertilizers in agriculture and a shift to organic cultivation practices. Addressing the gathering at Southern India Chamber of Commerce’s (SICCI) three-day National Food Conclave-cum-Expo 2021 that concluded on Saturday at the M.A. Chidambaram Conference Hall, the Minister stressed on the importance of consuming healthy food, especially in view of the pandemic.  He said the State government had allocated Rs. 9,000 crore for subsidies and distributed 14 varieties of groceries through the public distribution system during the lockdown. The State government, he said, had allocated Rs. 20,000 crore for food processing sector in the Budget for 2021-22. He released a knowledge report on Food Processing in India: Opportunities and Perspectives. Member of Parliament Tamizhachi Thangapandian highlighted the connection between food and culture. She stressed the importance of consuming locally grown foods for a healthy living with reference to five types of lands — Kurinji, Mullai, Marutham, Neidhal and Paalai. Every land had its unique condition with its specific food habit, profession and lifestyle. Hence, she appreciated the wisdom of the ancient Tamils in devising the way of life according to the land. In today’s context, she underlined the need to improve processing of agricultural produce. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu and Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj were present. Ar Rm Arun, president, SICCI,V.N. Shiva Shankar, vice-president, SICCI andMuthumaran, regional director, FSSAI, spoke. M. K. Shanmugasundaram, Development Commissioner, MEPZ Special Economic Zone, said that processed food accounted for 32% of India’s food market and 13% of export business in India.  The State government had allocated Rs. 9,000 crore for subsidies and distributed 14 varieties of groceries through the public distribution system during the lockdown R. Sakkarapani Minister for Food and Civil Supplies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reduce-use-of-chemical-fertilizers-says-minister/article37146699.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi,||Bio-decomposer a better solution, say farmers||The Delhi Government’s initiative of spraying bio-decomposer solution in agricultural fields to help decompose stubble into manure has brought relief to several farmers in the city. Some farmers in whose fields the solution was sprayed last year told The Hindu that the move helped them save money as the Government was doing it for free. This year, the authorities have so far sprayed the solution in over 500 acres of fields in the city, said officials. “We plan to continue the spraying till November 15. Last year, the Government had sprayed the solution in about 1,935 acres,” said an official. The time taken in the administrative procedure, however, is bothering a farmers’ association. “The Government says it will come to the villages and register the name of those who want the solution to be sprayed in their fields. But in reality, the farmers have to go to the BDO (Block Development Office) for registration. The government takes about a week’s time after the harvest to spray the solution and this is creating difficulties. If this process gets late, the sowing also gets delayed and the farmers suffer. The Government has to fix the administrative procedure for spraying the solution,” said Virender Dagar, Delhi State chief, Bharatiya Kisan Union. Plea to replicate move The Delhi Government, which first used the bio-decomposer solution last year, sees it as a means to minimise stubble burning and has been urging other States to adopt the measure. Devender Mann, 45, a farmer from Naya Bans village, said the solution was sprayed in about 11 acres of his field last year and it helped him save around Rs. 1,500 per acre. “I saved around Rs. 1,000 per acre on diesel [for tractor] and Rs. 300-Rs. 400 per acre in terms of labour charges due to bio-decomposer spraying,” he said. Earlier, Mr. Mann had to plough his field several times to cut the stubble. After two-three rounds of ploughing, he used to release water into the field and leave it for around 10 days. The water helped decompose the stubble to an extent. The spraying of the bio-decomposer involves a similar process but the ploughing rounds are fewer as the stubble decomposes faster, officials said. “When the Government first approached us, we didn’t trust the move. Still I gave my consent to spray the solution. Twenty days later, I checked by removing the top soil and saw the stubble had decomposed. This year too, I have asked officials to spray the solution in my fields,” said Sahdev Mann, a farmer from Holambi Khurd village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bio-decomposer-a-better-solution-say-farmers/article37146747.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Testing children||As there is an apprehension that the possible third wave of COVID-19 pandemic would affect children more, the TAC had recommended that 10% of the total tests should be compulsorily done on children below age 18. Analysis of one month testing data (September 21 -21 October 2021) showed that out of total testing done, testing in children below 18 years had accounted for 20.8% testing, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/testing-children/article37146658.ece
24 October 2021||NARSAPURAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),||3 kg drugs booked from A.P. seized in Bengaluru||In another drug racket busted in Karnataka, sleuths of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) reportedly seized 3 kg of pseudoephedrine drug in Bengaluru. The parcel was booked giving an address in Narsapuram in West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh, and was bound for Australia. On a tip-off, the NCB officials tracked the consignment and busted the racket. The police said the smuggler had allegedly used fake address and documents to book the consignment. Concealed in lehengas The banned drug, worth some crores of rupees, was packed in the folds of the lehengas (women’s garments). During investigation, the consignor was traced to Chennai, who was arrested. Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang told The Hindu that instructions had been given to the police officials concerned to investigate the case and trace the address in Naraspuram. West Godavari Superintendent of Police (SP) Rahul Dev Sharma said a team of police officials were trying to trace the address mentioned on the pseudoephedrine drug parcel, seized at Bengaluru airport. ‘Contacting NCB officials’ “We are trying to speak to the NCB officials, who seized the drug and busted the racket. Preliminary investigations revealed that the smuggler gave fake address to the courier agency. A detailed investigation is on,” Mr. Sharma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-kg-of-banned-drugs-booked-from-ap-seized-in-bengaluru/article37146192.ece
24 October 2021||Mangaluru,||Digital platform to link blood donors and patients||Students of the Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), a wing of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) in collaboration with KMC, Manipal, launched a digital platform ‘Sociio Ichor’ on Saturday for connecting donors with those patients in need of blood. The platform also displays live requests of those in need of blood and its components. The potential donor can register on the platform to get connected to the patients in need. The platform has put all digital privacy measures in place to keep the donors and the receivers’ information safe. Starting from Manipal, the team envisions to spread across the nation and implement blood delivery system in its future plans. Speaking at the launching the Pro Chancellor of MAHE H. S. Ballal said that the initiative will go to a long way in meeting the blood shortage in the country. Vice-Chancellor M.D. Venkatesh said that the platform will make a huge difference in meeting the demand for blood in the country. A registration form is available on the site which can be filled by donors willing to donate blood. This information is carefully handled by the team, making sure no privacy breach occurs. When a blood request is received, the donor compatible with the blood type of the patient is notified. If no donor is found, then a search for live donors is initiated. The team of Sociio Ichor consisted Manorath Khanna, Mohammed Dilshaad Uzair, Abhishek Gupta, Pratik Shewkani, Amulya Kollipara, Insha Manowar, Nivedita Singh, and Yash Aryan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/digital-platform-to-link-blood-donors-and-patients/article37146999.ece
24 October 2021||SIDDIPET,||Panic as six police personnel test COVID-positive||Creating panic among the police, as many as six police personnel working in Mirdoddi police station limits tested positive for coronavirus. According to sources, Sub-Inspector Srinivas reported of fever and body pains recently and got tested for coronavirus. He tested positive and is in home isolation. Later, a head constable, two homeguards and two constables tested positive and are undergoing treatment. After a long gap, so many positive cases were reported from one place in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panic-as-six-police-personnel-test-covid-positive/article37147087.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Bitter harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bitter-harvest/article37146744.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Governor meets PM in Delhi||Governor R.N. Ravi called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Saturday. A number of issues concerning the development of Tamil Nadu and welfare of its people were discussed, according to a statement from Raj Bhavan. The Prime Minister assured Mr. Ravi of all possible assistance for the State.  The Governor expressed his gratitude to the Prime Minister for his keen interest in development of Tamil Nadu and the welfare of its people, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-meets-pm-in-delhi/article37146703.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Diesel price goes up||Shocking thousands of motorists, diesel prices crossed Rs. 100 a litre in the city on Saturday after public sector oil marketing companies revised the fuel price by 33 paise a litre. Diesel in several parts of the State had crossed the Rs. 100 mark a few days ago due to difference in transport charges. The OMCs attribute the increase to international crude prices. This month alone, there has been an increase of around Rs. 5 a litre. At a fuel outlet in West Mambalam, diesel was sold at Rs. 100.25 a litre, at Velachery it was Rs. 100.33 a litre, at Medavakkam at Rs. 100.44 a litre and at Kelambakkam Rs. 100.50 a litre. Diesel used to be the go-to fuel for the common man as it cost less. Now its price is almost on a par with petrol, which costs around Rs. 104 a litre. “When I filled my tank this morning, I had to pay Rs. 5,000, it came as a shock. Though it was costlier, I had purchased a diesel vehicle a couple of years ago since diesel was then cheaper by at least Rs. 15 a litre,” said Raja, a resident of Anna Nagar. Cab operators have been forced to increase their rates to match diesel prices, despite objections from customers. P. Nandagopal of Freedom Travels said that several of his regular customers had been objecting to the increase in car rents. “The per km rate of cars has gone up by Rs. 3 - Rs. 4 since our previous rates were fixed when diesel cost about Rs. 70 a litre. We did not hike rates last year due to COVID-19 and the lack of trips. But we cannot bear the hike any longer,” he said. Padmapriya Baskaran, whose work involves travelling 15 days a month, said she had cut down on travel since she was finding it difficult to hire a taxi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/diesel-price-crosses-rs-100-a-litre-in-city/article37146701.ece
24 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Six more succumb to COVID in State||The State reported six more deaths and 396 COVID-19 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. Krishna district reported two more deaths in the past day, while Guntur, Prakasam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari reported one death each. All the districts reported less than a hundred infections. The number of active cases came down to 5,222 as 566 patients recovered in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stands at 20,43,616  and 99.05% respectively. The daily test positivity rate was the lowest in the past seven months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-more-succumb-to-covid-in-state/article37146227.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Militancy continues’||Militancy and civilian killings are continuing in J&K despite the withdrawal of Article 370, says senior J&K politician and Congress Working Committee member Tariq Hameed Karra.page 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/militancy-continues/article37146229.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi/Kolkata,||Mamata heads to Goa to widen TMC base||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee is heading to Goa on October 28 for her maiden political visit even as her party prepares for the 2022 Assembly election. The poll is just the first milestone in what the party claims will be a long-term engagement. Ahead of her visit, Ms. Banerjee on Saturday called upon all parties, organisations and individuals to join forces to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party in Goa. This is the first time that the Trinamool Congress chief has shared her party’s plans for the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-heads-to-goa-to-widen-trinamool-base/article37146745.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||KSEB preparing 5-year plan for distribution||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) is developing a ‘‘comprehensive and realistic’’ power distribution plan for the next five years for the State, targetting uninterrupted supply, hassle-free integration of renewables, and the development of a ‘smart’ distribution network. Covering the period from 2022-23 to 2026-27, the plan will reflect essential features of the KSEB’s ongoing Dyuthi distribution -- sector modernisation scheme, while accommodating the requirements of the ‘reforms-based and results-linked’ Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme (RDSS) cleared by the Union Cabinet in June, notes the plan guidelines approved by the KSEB. Targets include enhancing the reliability and quality of the supplied power, improving energy efficiency, ensuring resilient and safe electrical installations, smooth integration of green energy into the network, geo-mapping of assets, and supporting e-mobility. Evolving a “revamped, smart, technologically equipped and adaptable” network constitutes an important aspect of the plan. Smooth roll-out For the smooth roll-out of the plan programmes, the State has been divided into six categories: coastal areas, hilly terrains/areas with thick vegetation, flood-prone regions, waterlogged areas, critical areas such as urban locales, and industrial zones and plains/midland areas not included in the first five categories. Overall, the aim is “an absolutely reliable, efficient, resilient, accommodative, robust, safe, standard and adequately adaptable distribution network of global standards”, the guidelines notes. Under Dyuthi, the KSEB had managed to cut down on transmission and distribution losses from 13.07% in 2017-18 to 10.26% in 2020-21. But the State power utility notes the persistence of several shortcomings, such as long periods of outages during natural disasters and slow progress in adopting new technologies. “The Dyuthi scheme is scheduled to be completed by March 31, 2022, so the proposed plan is looking at the next five years from that point. It is also in line with the multi-year tariff (MYT) petition for the 2022-23 to 2026-27 period which the KSEB has to file before the State Electricity Regulatory Commission,” says Rajkumar S., Director (Distribution), KSEB. Efficiency improvement The Central-sector RDSS seeks to improve operational efficiencies and financial sustainability of public sector distribution companies and power departments by offering conditional assistance for strengthening supply infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kseb-developing-5-year-distribution-plan/article37146907.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi,||Koozhangal is India’s official entry for Oscars||Tamil dramaKoozhangal(Pebbles), directed by Vinothraj P.S., has been selected as India’s official entry for the 94th Academy Awards. It was picked by a 15-member jury, headed by filmmaker Shaji N. Karun, in a unanimous decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/koozhangal-is-indias-official-entry-for-oscars/article37146748.ece
24 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Court extends remand of Singhu murder accused||A local court in Sonipat has extended by two days the police custody of the four accused in a case of murder of a man over the alleged desecration of a holy Sikh scripture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/court-extends-remand-of-singhu-murder-accused/article37146750.ece
24 October 2021||Mangaluru,||Yakshagana mela to resume shows from Oct. 27||Mandarthi Sri Durgaparameshwari Dashavatara Yakshagana Mela will resume its rainy season/off-season daily “harake aata”at Mandarthi in Udupi district from October 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yakshagana-mela-to-resume-shows-from-oct-27/article37147000.ece
24 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Byndoor ITI will offer 11 new courses: Minister||Minister for Higher Education, Information Technology and Bio-technology, Skill Development and Science and Technology C.N. Ashwath Narayan said on Saturday that the ITI at Byndoor in Udupi district will offer 11 new courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/byndoor-iti-will-offer-11-new-courses-minister/article37147002.ece
24 October 2021||Mumbai,||Judge was not biased, court tells Kangana||A Mumbai court has held that the Andheri metropolitan magistrate, which is presiding over the defamation case filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar against Kangana Ranaut, has acted “judiciously” and didn’t show bias against the actor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/judge-was-not-biased-court-tells-kangana/article37146966.ece
24 October 2021||Lucknow,||Priyanka flags off ‘Pratigya Yatra’ in U.P.||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday flagged off her party’s ‘Pratigya Yatra’ from Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki with seven promises if voted to power in next year’s Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/priyanka-flags-off-pratigya-yatra-in-up/article37146967.ece
24 October 2021||MYSURU,||Inflow to reservoirs up, but KRS yet to reach FRL||In all, 19 districts in Karnataka have received bountiful rain between October 1 and 23, including those in the Cauvery catchment area, augmenting the inflow into the reservoirs significantly. However, Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) has not reached full reservoir level (FRL) so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inflow-to-reservoirs-up-but-krs-yet-to-reach-frl/article37146841.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,||2.87 lakh workers to get Deepavali bonus||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced Deepavali bonus of 8.33% and ex gratia of 1.67% to Group C and D workers and staff of all profit and loss making public sector undertakings. The decision will benefit more than 2.87 lakh workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/287-lakh-workers-to-get-deepavali-bonus/article37146799.ece
24 October 2021||Chennai,||State records 1,140 new cases, 15 deaths||The State reported 1,140 COVID-19 infections on Saturday, taking its tally to 26,94,089. Seventeen persons died, taking the total toll to 36,004. Chennai and Coimbatore reported 141 and 132 cases respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-1140-new-cases-17-deaths/article37146689.ece
24 October 2021||Chennai,||2.87 lakh PSU workers to get Deepavali bonus||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has announced a Deepavali bonus of 8.33% and an ex gratia of 1.67% to Group C and D workers and staff of all profit- and loss-making public sector undertakings (PSUs). The decision will benefit more than 2.87 lakh workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/287-lakh-psu-workers-to-get-deepavali-bonus/article37146687.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Restless mountains, shattered lives||In his preface to the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel (WGEEP) report submitted in 2011, ecologist and panel chairman Madhav Gadgil points to the degradation suffered by Kalidasa’s “charming maiden” thus: “Once the lady was adorned by a sari of rich green hues; today her mantle lies in shreds and tatters. It has been torn asunder by the greed of the elite and gnawed at by the poor, striving to eke out a subsistence. This is a great tragedy, for this hill range is the backbone of the ecology and economy of south India”. Nearly a decade later, the reverberations of Mr. Gadgil’s warnings resonated in the minds of many following the tragic loss of over 40 lives in flash floods and landslides in the aftermath of heavy rains in the hilly regions of the Western Ghats in central Kerala districts of Kottayam, Idukki and Pathanamthitta between October 12 and 20. In recent years, Kerala, known for its peaks and rich water bodies, most of which originate from the Ghats, has seen back-to-back calamities, including the disastrous 2018 floods, which raised serious questions on the conservation of the mountain chain. Recognised as one of the world’s biodiversity hotspots, the Western Ghats region runs to a length of 1,600 km starting from the mouth of the river Tapti near the border of Gujarat and Maharashtra to Kanniyakumari, the southernmost tip of India in Tamil Nadu. It stretches over the six States of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Goa, Maharashtra and Gujarat. The Ghats are second only to the Eastern Himalaya as a treasure trove of biological diversity in the country. The 39 serial sites of the Western Ghats were inscribed into UNESCO’s World Heritage Site list in 2012 for its “outstanding universal value and for representing significant ongoing ecological and biological processes in the evolution and development of terrestrial, fresh water, coastal and marine ecosystems, and communities of plants and animals”. They were also recognised as areas containing “the most important and significant natural habitats for in-situ conservation of biological diversity, including those containing threatened species of outstanding universal value from the point of view of science or conservation”. Sensitive area It’s home to hundreds of globally threatened flora, fauna, bird, amphibian, reptile and fish species. An assessment by the International Union for Conservation of Nature in 2020 had found that the Western Ghats is “under increasing population and developmental pressure that requires intensive and targeted management efforts to ensure that not only are existing values conserved, but that some past damage may be remediated”. The WGEEP report, popular as Gadgil report, had designated the entire hill range as an Ecologically Sensitive Area (ESA). It had classified the 142 taluks in the Western Ghats boundary into three Ecologically Sensitive Zones (ESZs). The panel, which was appointed in 2010 by the then UPA government, recommended that “no new dams based on large-scale storage be permitted in the Ecologically Sensitive Zone 1”. It suggested that development activity needs to be decided through a participatory process involving the gram sabhas in these zones. The report had never seen the light until the Delhi High Court issued an order in May, 2012 to make it public. The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had opposed disclosure of the report stating that it could affect the economic and scientific interests of the six States. The successive State governments opposed it stating that most of its suggestions were impractical. The Centre appointed a high-level working group on Western Ghats led by K. Kasturirangan, a noted space scientist, in August, 2012 to examine the Gadgil report. Its mandate was to give special attention to “the preservation of the precious biodiversity” and “the rights, needs and development aspirations of the local and indigenous people”. However, the committee’s report in April 2013 identified only 37% or 59,940 sq. km of the Western Ghats in the six States as ESAs. Around 4,156 villages along the region were identified as ESAs on the basis of the criterion that “they had 20% or more of ecologically sensitive area within their boundary”. Nearly 123 such villages were identified as ESAs in Kerala, provoking political and religious protests. It snowballed into a political conflict between the then ruling United Democratic Front and the Left front and even influenced the 2014 Idukki Lok Sabha election outcome, with the victory of the Left front’s independent candidate backed by the High Range Samrakshana Samithi (Protection Council), a collective of various groups under the Catholic Church. The Bharatiya Janata Party and the Sangh Parivar organisations, which had initially supported the Gadgil report, later turned silent. The then Congress-led government decided that an area of 9,993.7 sq. km be considered ESAs in Kerala as against the 13,108 sq. km area proposed by the Kasturirangan Committee. It was based on a recommendation by the State-level expert committee led by Oommen V. Oommen, the then chairman of the Kerala Biodiversity Board, which recommended that the inhabited areas, plantations and agricultural lands in the Western Ghats region be excluded from the scope of ESA. The Union Environment Ministry issued a draft notification in March 2014 by notifying a total of 56,825 sq. km in the Western Ghats as ESA instead of the original 59,940 sq. km recommended by the Kasturirangan Committee. The final notification remains pending despite a directive by the Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal in September last that there is no justification for continued delay merely because the States have sought exclusion of area from eco sensitive zone. Farmers had approached the Supreme Court to declare the Centre’s draft notification as “unconstitutional” while saying that the recommendations based on Kasturirangan report (and earlier Gadgil report) on land use, farming practices, animal husbandry, forestry, industries, infrastructure development, power generation, transport, tourism, etc. would convert the semi-urban villages in the region into forests with no facilities and roads. Natural disasters About 40% of Western Ghat ranges lie in Kerala, which makes the State particularly vulnerable to the ecological changes in the mountain chain. Environmentalists argue that the flash floods and landslips point to the fragile ecosystem of the Ghats and call for urgent action. Take the case of the October landslips in Kerala. Kootickal village in Kottayam, which was among the four local bodies in the State that were removed by the State government in 2015 from the list of 123 ESAs witnessed back-to-back landslides. The increasing extreme climate events have resulted in large-scale disasters and destabilised the already vulnerable districts along the Western Ghats. The World Meteorological Organisation had included the August deluge that rocked Kerala in 2018 as among the five major extreme flooding events in the world between 2015 and 2019. Official estimates showed that there were a total of 2,062 landslides in the State in 2018-19. Idukki was the most vulnerable with the district facing around 1,048 landslides in this period. As Mr. Gadgil reiterated, the human interference and unscientific land use had worsened the already damaged ecosystem of the Western Ghats. The studies by the Geological Survey of India in the landslide vulnerable areas in the hilly districts of Kerala had found faulty cultivation patterns and defective maintenance of drainage systems. Geoscientists have advocated the need for exempting areas of very high susceptibility in the Western Ghats from any types of constructions while urging the government and the local communities to increase the vegetative cover as a first defence against the landslide vulnerability.  In Focus Recognised as one of the world’s biodiversity hotspots, the Western Ghats region runs to a length of 1,600 km, starting from the mouth of the river Tapti near the border of Gujarat and Maharashtra to Kanniyakumari It’s home to hundreds of globally threatened flora, fauna, bird, amphibian, reptile and fish species The Gadgil report has designated the entire hill range as an Ecologically Sensitive Area and has classified the villages along the Ghats into three Ecologically Sensitive Zones   Nearly 123 villages along the Western Ghats were identified as ecologically sensitive areas in Kerala, provoking protests by political parties and religious groups||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restless-mountains-shattered-lives/article37146169.ece
24 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ties with Bangladesh a role model: Shringla||India’s relations with Bangladesh is a “role model” in international affairs, said Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Saturday. Delivering a speech on the role of the IAF in the 1971 War of Liberation, Mr. Shringla recollected the sacrifices that Indians made to assist the people of Bangladesh fight the genocidal violence of the Pakistani military. “India-Bangladesh relations today are deeper than any other strategic partnership. It is a role model for relations between two neighbouring countries. The spirit of friendship, understanding and mutual respect engendered during the liberation of Bangladesh continues to permeate different aspects of this relationship,” said Mr. Shringla at the Swarnim Vijay Varsh Conclave: 2021 on “Humanitarian, Political and Diplomatic Facets of the 1971 War”. It was noteworthy that Mr. Shringla’s remarks had no mention of the condition of the minority Hindu community which faced targeted attacks during the recent Durga puja celebrations. The statement shows that India has adopted a cautious approach in dealing with the recent attacks. Soon after the violence erupted targeting the Hindu community in Comilla, Chittagong, Noakhali and Rangpur, the official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs said Dhaka had dealt with the violence ‘promptly’. However, civil society figures in Dhaka have criticised the Sheikh Hasina Government for slow response. Soon after the incidents, Indian High Commissioner Vikram Doraiswamy met a group of Hindu community leaders at the High Commission though the meeting remained unpublicised. In his comments, Mr. Shringla highlighted that India under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has cultivated “vibrant ties” with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and that Delhi is committed to ensure socio-economic growth in Bangladesh. “Bangladesh is India’s biggest development partner and India’s largest trading partner in South Asia, contributing to economic prosperity and supply chain resilience in the region and beyond,” said Mr. Shringla. The comments appear to show that South Block does not want to criticise Bangladesh on the failure to protect the Hindu minority, an issue which India has enshrined in its legislative process with the passing of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in 2019. The emphasis on the harmonious ties is also interesting as it reveals India’s desire to maintain undisturbed ties even under great stress. High-profile projects Bangladesh has several high-profile projects being built by the Chinese. On Thursday, Sheikh Hasina inaugurated one such project — Bangabandhu Bangladesh China Friendship Exhibition Centre (BBCFEC) on the outskirts of Dhaka. Built over 26 acres, the centre is a showpiece of the close cooperation between Bangladesh and China. The venue will be able to host fairs and exhibitions around the year and will give an important platform to project the strengths of Bangladesh in the industrial and economic areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ties-with-bangladesh-a-role-model-shringla/article37146159.ece
24 October 2021||Lakhimpur Kheri,||3 more held in Lakhimpur case||Three more arrests were made on Saturday in connection with the Tikonia violence in Lakhimpur Kheri which had left eight people, including four farmers, dead during a protest by farmers on October 3, officials said on Saturday. This takes to 13 the total number of arrests made so far, including Union Minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish, in connection with the violence. A senior police officer identified those arrested Saturday as Mohit Trivedi of Singahi town, Ranku Rana of Barsola Kalan and Dharmendra of Chimma Tanda both under Tikonia kotwali limits. The arrests were made after their names emerged during the interrogation of other accused in police custody, the officer added. All the three accused would be produced in the court later in the day and the investigators would request for their 14 days police remand for further interrogation, he said. Ashish was arrested on October 9 and is presently in police custody. The nine other arrested accused include BJP ward member Sumit Jaiswal, Ankit Das, Latif alias Kale, Shekhar Bharti, Shishu Pal, Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam, Nandan Singh Bisht, Ashish Pandey and Lavkush Rana. Barring Ashish Pandey and Lavkush Rana, all other seven are in police custody for interrogation. An FIR was lodged at the Tikonia police station on October 3. The next day, a counter-FIR was lodged at the same police station on the basis of a complaint by Sumit Jaiswal, who has now been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-more-held-in-lakhimpur-case/article37146134.ece
24 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi meets COVID-19 vaccine manufacturers, hails their work||India’s leading vaccine manufacturers met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence on Saturday. Several of them heaped praise on Mr. Modi’s leadership. “The Prime Minister went out of his way and made all the regulatory people move very fast and that is why India has been able to achieve the numbers it has,” said Cyrus Poonawalla, managing director, Serum Institute of India, which has supplied over 88% of the 100 crore vaccines. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has continuously encouraged us,” said Pankaj Patel, chairman and managing director, Zydus Cadilla healthcare, which is manufacturing the ZycovD vaccine that has been approved for those above 12. “We are really proud of the country. PM Modi was determined and he converted the initial pessimism into an opportunity. That is the mark of a leader,” said Krishna Ella, chairman, Bharat Biotech Ltd., that has developed Covaxin. “PM Modi praised the efforts of vaccine manufacturers which resulted in India achieving the 100-crore milestone and said they had played a big role in the success story of India. He appreciated their hard work and confidence given by them during the pandemic,” a press statement following the meeting said. Mr. Modi said the country needed to institutionalise the best practices learnt from the last one and a half years and said this is an opportunity to modify practices and synchronise them to global standards. He said the entire world is looking up to India, in the backdrop of the success of the vaccination drive. He also said the manufacturers should continuously work together to be ready to face future challenges. Other participants included Mahima and Narender Mantela (Biological E Ltd.), Dr. Sanjay Singh and Satish Mehta (Gennova Biopharmaceuticals), Satish Reddy and Deepak Sapra (Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories) and Dr. Rajesh Jain and Harshit Jain (Panacea Biotech). Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and officials from the Health Ministry were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-meets-covid-19-vaccine-manufacturers-hails-their-work/article37146143.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||From philanthropy to prison||Turkey on Tuesday summoned the Ambassadors of 10 countries to protest their joint statement demanding the release of Osman Kavala, a 64-year-old businessman and philanthropist who has been in jail since October 2017. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan described the statement of the diplomats — representing the U.S., Germany, France, the Netherlands, Canada, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Norway and New Zealand — as “irresponsible”. Mr. Kavala’s incarceration has become an international symbol of the autocratic turn taken by the Erdogan regime as well as of the democratic resistance to it. Interestingly, although Mr. Kavala was into philanthropy, he never set out to be a dissident or activist. Born in 1957 to a family of tobacco traders, he was heir to the Kavala group of companies, which he took over after his father’s death. Starting from the early 1980s, when he helped set up progressive publishing houses, Mr. Kavala went on to fund civil society groups that promoted grassroots democracy and pluralism. In 2002, he founded Anadolu Kultur, which supported radical artistic and cultural projects. A story narrated by a former New York Times journalist Stephen Kinzer reflects how Mr. Kavala is unlike the typical philanthropist in his readiness to stand by the values espoused by his altruism even when they clashed with his business interests. Some years ago, Kavala Holdings wanted to build a beachfront hotel in the town of Daylan. But environmentalists protested, arguing that the construction would harm the turtles that nested on the beach. To everyone’s surprise, Mr. Kavala came down and met with the protesters. After listening to their concerns, he tried to change the design of the hotel, and when that did not work out, he simply shut down the project. Coup attempt Above all, it is Mr. Kavala’s promotion of initiatives to bridge the divide between the Turkish/Muslim majority and non-Turkish/non-Muslim minorities, including Armenians and Kurds, which seem to have landed him in trouble. This denotes a direct challenge to the ethno-nationalism of the Erdogan regime, which has shown little tolerance for dissenters, especially after the unsuccessful coup attempt of 2016. Mr. Erdogan reacted to the coup attempt with a massive crackdown. All government institutions, including the Army, academia and the judiciary, were purged of anyone suspected to be disloyal to Mr. Erdogan. The Turkish government accused the Gulen Movement of orchestrating the coup. It was was branded a terrorist organisation and thousands of citizens with links to it were arrested. Mr. Kavala was left untouched by this mass purge of ‘Gulenists’, which began in July 2016. But on October 18, 2017, Turkish police picked him up for questioning. Subsequently, he was charged with attempting to overthrow the constitutional order and the government, apparently by helping to organise two very different events: the ‘Gezi Park’ protests against Mr. Erdogan in the summer of 2013, and the 2016 military coup. Mr. Kavala’s lawyers have argued that both these charges were ludicrous. Firstly, no one had linked Mr. Kavala to the Gezi park protests in the course of the four years that separated the event from his detention. Second, it was absurd that Mr. Kavala, a known secularist and liberal, would collaborate with a conservative Islamic community such as the Gulen Movement. The Turkish Supreme Court agreed that the charges were baseless and acquitted Mr. Kavala in February 2020. But he was re-arrested on fresh charges before he could leave jail. In all, Mr. Kavala has spent more than four years in prison without ever being convicted. Not only has Turkey’s judicial system been a mute spectator, it has become a tool to keep dissenters in jail on politically motivated charges. In an order that was as much an indictment of the Turkish judiciary as it was an exoneration of Mr. Kavala, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) ordered his release in December 2019. Turkey is bound by the rulings of the ECHR but has so far failed to comply. The diplomats’ letter and Mr. Erdogan’s churlish reaction to it are the latest episode in the conflict between the two sides on the issue of human rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/from-philanthropy-to-prison/article37146171.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The Trump network||Last December, with just about a month to go for Donald Trump’s presidential stint to end, CNN highlighted a much-debated aspect of his presidency with data points. It said, Mr. Trump “has tweeted more than 25,000 times — an average of 18 times per day — since taking office in January 2017.” It added: “His longest break from Twitter was just 1.9 days without tweeting in June 2017, when former FBI Director James Comey was testifying before the Senate Intelligence Committee during the Russia investigation.” Mr. Trump, who as President controversially used Twitter to make big policy announcements and take on his opponents, had an abrupt end to his social media innings just a few weeks later. Major social media platforms banned him permanently for his posts during the January 6 violence in Capitol Hill. New innings Now, after nearly 10 months of relative silence, Mr. Trump is all set to begin his social media innings afresh. His vehicle of re-entry will be called TRUTH Social, a product from his own Trump Media & Technology Group (the group is merging with the listed Digital World Acquisition Corp). In a press release, Mr. Trump has been quoted as saying, “We live in a world where the Taliban has a huge presence on Twitter, yet your favorite American President has been silenced. This is unacceptable.” A few months ago, Mr. Trump filed lawsuits against Twitter, Facebook, Google, and their CEOs, for violating the right of freedom of speech. His site elaborates on the vision: “In the year 2021, the media pendulum has swung dangerously to the left. Silicon Valley, the mainstream media, and Big Tech have begun to forcibly silence voices that do not align with their woke ideology.” TRUTH Social has been presented as a counter to this. It comes with a promise of no discrimination based on political ideology. But what has quickly caught the attention of media outlets is a ‘Terms of Service’ clause that says users shall not “disparage, tarnish, or otherwise harm, in our opinion, us and/or the Site”, which they say is a first for any social media platform. A beta launch of TRUTH Social for invited guests will happen next month. And a U.S. national roll-out is slated for the first quarter of 2022. Posts will be called Truths, and “excessive use of capital letters” won’t be allowed. From a business point of view, the stated idea is to tap the vast following that Mr. Trump has. When he was offloaded from Twitter, Mr. Trump had over 88 million followers in the platform. His stint as President has also been characterised as a period of ‘Trump Bump’, which created intense news cycles and largely benefited news outlets and social media platforms. A cartoon that epitomised his fascination for tweeting pictures his work table having the ‘tweet’ button alongside the ‘nuke’ button. Long accused of making unsubstantiated comments on social media platforms, Mr. Trump saw the rules catch up with him only at the fag end of his presidency though some interventions such as ‘fact check’ labels did come along in between. The tipping point was the violence in Capitol Hill in which five lives were lost. Mr. Trump’s posts, which repeatedly asserted that the 2020 elections, in which he lost to Joe Biden, was stolen, was seen fuelling the protests. He has been banned from many social media networks ever since. Alternative platforms Toward the end of his presidency, though, the growing tensions between him and the big social platforms put the spotlight on alternative platforms that attracted conservative users. Alternatives like Parler and Gab did emerge but they have faced troubles due to lax moderation. TRUTH Social has quickly triggered a slew of news items about itself, not just about it coming into being. AFP reported that the value of shares of Digital World Acquisition Corp, which is merging with Trump Media & Technology Group, has risen more than nine times in two days. There is also an accusation by the Software Freedom Conservancy, which has said that Mr. Trump’s new network has violated a licence agreement. Not just that. A test version of the site was defaced. More than just being another social media network, it might be the vehicle that keeps Mr. Trump politically relevant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-trump-network/article37146173.ece
24 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Short-haul international trips are all the rage||While most countries cherished by Indian tourists continue to shut their doors on them 18 months into the COVID-19 pandemic, many are turning to alternatives closer home to indulge their cravings for foreign travel. Dubai and the Maldives, which emerged as the two topmost foreign destinations for Indians since the pandemic, have further consolidated their position this travel season as more people are willing to venture out and travel demand is at an all-time high in 18 months. Search enquiries for luxury holidays like the Maldives and Dubai have seen an incredible growth of more than 100% for October this year as compared to the same time last year, according to data shared by travel portal ixigo. In fact, search enquiries for the two destinations have surpassed pre-COVID-19 levels by 70%, says ixigo.  Global trend An increased preference for either domestic or short-haul destinations is not just true for India, but globally. And this could well be the trend for the near future. According to a survey conducted by global travel technology company Amadeus of 9,000 respondents from nine countries, 77% of travellers surveyed agreed they would travel within the next one year and that they would prefer to travel to a destination close to their home country, rather than travelling further afield.  Indians said they would prefer to travel within Asia, Singaporeans too said they were keen to stay within Asia (excluding West Asia), Spanish, British and German travellers wanted to remain within Europe and the U.S. travellers within North America. “International travel restrictions, visa rules, as well as quarantine and testing requirements are some of the factors that may have prompted Indian travellers to focus on domestic and intra-regional travel for now. That said, in recent weeks we have seen more countries around the world looking to ease restrictions and requirements, especially for vaccinated travellers,” says Mani Ganeshan, Asia Pacific R&D Head, Amadeus Labs. “Advance bookings for the Deepavali week have seen a jump of around 450% when compared to last year,” says Prashant Pitti, co-founder, EaseMyTrip. “Apart from the Maldives and Dubai, nearby destinations like Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bhutan too are gaining traction with recent search trends indicating a surge of around 30% in the last month. Domestically, people are making the most of long weekends where bookings are up by nearly 60% such as during Dasara. Bookings to and from places such as Kolkata, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi and Gujarat have witnessed a rise between 50%-70% and tourist destinations such as Kashmir, Leh and Rajasthan have also witnessed a rise in bookings,” says Mr. Pitti. Charter planes While there is a surge in demand for air travel, there is no let-up in the demand for charter planes from the uber rich, says Sachit Wadhwa, co-founder, BookMyCharters. “Booking enquiries are 12-13 times of what we saw pre-COVID. The travel sentiment is quite high and we already have bookings for December and January. There is also a demand for wedding charters from November to January,” says Mr. Wadhwa  .  International travel restrictions, testing requirements may have prompted Indian travellers to focus on domestic and intra-regional travel for now Mani Ganeshan Asia Pacific R&D Head, Amadeus Labs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/short-haul-international-trips-are-all-the-rage/article37146145.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Kashmir has become a laboratory for all forces’||The Congress Working Committee (CWC), in a strongly worded political resolution, expressed concern over the rise in violence in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and linked it with events such as China’s aggressive posturing, infiltration attempts by Pakistan and Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan. Senior J&K politician and CWC member Tariq Hameed Karra spoke on the security situation and his comments at the CWC that created a political storm. Edited excerpts:  Let’s start with your comments about Sardar Patel’s role with regard to J&K at the CWC meeting. The BJP said your comments were meant to vilify him. I don’t have to clarify nor do have I to give any explanation. Since you have asked something which is already in the media, I will repeat what I said. We had different set of agendas for the meeting and among them, the serial killings in J&K. When the idea of partition was conceived on religious lines, three States became the bone of contention: Jammu and Kashmir, Junagadh and Hyderabad. In an informal discussion, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel suggested to Jawaharlal Nehru that Junagadh and Hyderabad can be negotiated in lieu of J&K. To this, Pandit Nehru said it will have national and international ramifications and he didn’t want India labelled as a theocratic state like Pakistan. Maybe Sardar Patel got convinced and there was unison. As the other States got integrated into the Union, so was J&K. That’s all I said, which is a historical fact. The whole incident is being given a different colour. There are issues like inflation, rise in fuel prices and essential commodities, killings of farmers, and a recent report saying hunger levels are going up and even the value of our passport has gone down. So, the BJP wanted to make an issue and give a new narrative. My counter to their vilification charge is that it is they who have vilified the Sardar by removing his name from a stadium in Gujarat and renaming it as Narendra Modi stadium. Coming to the recent violence in J&K, the CWC resolution seems to suggest a link between Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan, hostility with China and Pakistan’s infiltration attempt. What’s your take? Nothing can be ruled out. Kashmir has become a laboratory and a testing ground for all forces. There are the external forces but what about your own internal security. You can’t hold China or Pakistan responsible for your own internal security, your failure in intelligence grid is your failure. You had glorified the abrogation of Article 370 and given a narrative that it [Art 370] was a stumbling block, be it development or political progress. Or the root cause of militancy. It’s more than two years now since you abrogated it, militancy is still there, civilian killings are still there. Many of our soldiers are getting martyred now and it was not of this magnitude earlier. Who is responsible for it? Now, they [the administration] have coined a new term ‘unknown’ gunman to describe the killings. Whose job is it to find them? Government statistics show 32 civilians have been killed so far and 21 were Kashmiri Muslims. It is either intelligence failure or failure at the borders or a failure of their [the BJP] approach. They have to explain to the nation why our jawans are being martyred after Article 370. There are now demands for holding elections and restoring the Statehood. How will that help in bringing down the violence? Personally speaking, I would not like to link the violence with passing on the legislative powers to the elected bodies. Violence has its own reasons and genesis . You have to see what your focus is. Either you want to keep the pot boiling or you want to douse the fire. Union Home Minister [Amit Shah] has gone to Kashmir and my expectation would be that as the Home Minister of India, who is in charge of the internal security, he should adopt a holistic approach. And elections are a part of this approach to regain the confidence of the people.  You can’t hold China or Pakistan responsible for your own internal security, your failure in intelligence||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kashmir-has-become-a-laboratory-for-all-forces/article37146128.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi/KolkAta,||Mamata heads to Goa to widen TMC base||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress President Mamata Banerjee is heading to Goa on October 28 for her maiden political visit to the State even as her party prepares to put down its roots in Goa. The February 2022 Assembly elections are just the first mile stone in what the TMC claims will be a long term engagement. Ahead of her visit Ms. Banerjee on Saturday called upon all parties, organisations and individuals to join forces to defeat the BJP in Goa. “As I prepare for my maiden visit to Goa on 28th, I call upon all individuals, organisations and political parties to join forces to defeat the BJP and their divisive agenda. The people of Goa have suffered enough over the last 10 years,” Ms. Banerjee said on Twitter. This is the first time the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chairperson has shared her party’s plans for the State. “Together, we will usher in a new dawn for Goa by forming a new govt that will truly be a govt of the people of Goa and committed to realising their aspirations! #GoenchiNaviSakal,” she added. With two MLAs As of now, the TMC has got two sitting legislators — Congress’s Luizinho Falerio, who joined the party and was appointed vice-president on Friday, and independent MLA Prasad Goankar, who has announced support for the TMC and is expected to join the party close to polls. The Congress, which is the lead opposition party here, has only four legislators. Sources said the party is also talking to other independent legislators and smaller parties to join TMC. More leaders are expected to join the party during Ms Banerjee’s visit. “We will exceed the Congress’s tally in a month's time,” a senior TMC leader said. The party also has one Rajya Sabha seat vacant, after the sitting MP Arpita Ghosh resigned. This seat will be utilised to accommodate new TMC entrants from Goa. After the May 2021 victory in West Bengal Assembly polls against an aggressive BJP, the TMC has often claimed that it is better suited to counter the saffron party than the Congress. There have also been significant changes in the party’s working style with the appointment of Abhishek Banerjee as the national general secretary, and the signing of a five-year contract with the political consultancy firm, I-PAC. The party is clear that it will not spread itself thin by contesting in States just to retain its national party status. “The goal is to contest to form the government or be the lead opposition party. A seat here or a seat there is no longer our target,” a top party leader from Kolkata said. Party national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said the TMC would not go in for a pre-poll alliance in Goa. The party plans to field candidates in all 40 seats when the State goes to the polls in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-heads-to-goa-to-widen-tmc-base/article37146130.ece
24 October 2021||Mumbai,||CJI stresses on judicial infrastructure||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday urged Union Minister of Law and Justice Kiren Rijiju to ensure that the proposal to create National Judicial Infrastructure Authority of India (NJIAI) with statutory backing is taken up in the upcoming winter session of Parliament. The CJI was present along with Mr. Rijiju, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and judges of the Supreme Court to inaugurate the B and C wings of the High Court Annexe Building at Aurangabad. Chief Justice Ramana again stressed on the need for NJIAI and said, “Good judicial infrastructure for courts in India has always been an afterthought. It is because of this mindset that courts in India still operate from dilapidated structures, making it difficult to effectively perform their function.” He said judicial infrastructure is important for improving access to justice and to meet the growing demands of the public that is more aware of its rights and is developing economically, socially and culturally. It is baffling to note that the maintenance of judicial infrastructure is still being carried out in an ad-hoc and unplanned manner, he said. Mr. Ramana went on to present hard facts and said, “The total sanctioned strength of judicial officers in the country is 24,280 and the number of court halls available is 20,143 (including 620 rented halls); 26% of court complexes do not have separate ladies’ toilets and 16% do not have gents’ toilets; only 54% of court complexes have purified drinking water facility; only 5% of court complexes have basic medical facilities; only 32% of court rooms have separate record rooms; only 51% of court complexes have a library; only 27% of courtrooms have computer placed on the Judge’s dais with video-conferencing facility. According to international research published in 2018, failure to deliver timely justice cost the country as much as 9% of annual GDP.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-stresses-on-judicial-infrastructure/article37146166.ece
24 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Call to separate Barak Valley from Assam grows louder||The defacing of Assamese slogans from hoardings of Jal Jeevan Mission in the Bengali-majority Barak Valley has led to a call for the bifurcation of Assam. Miscreants had over the past few days smeared some hoardings in black to protest the “imposition” of the Assamese language in Barak Valley where Bengali is the official language. The valley covers the southern Assam districts of Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj. Several Brahmaputra Valley-based organisations, including the All Assam Students’ Union, viewed the defacing of the hoardings as an insult to the Assamese language and people. Their demand for action against the miscreants saw the police arrest two persons. Both are out on bail. Leading the call for separating Barak Valley from Assam, Assamese litterateur Nagen Saikia said bifurcation would go a long way in maintaining peace and tranquillity in the State. “Granting statehood to Barak Valley would bring an end to language-based conflicts. The State Government should take the bifurcation issue up with people in both the valleys,” Mr. Saikia, the former president of the influential Assam Sahitya Sabha said. In Barak Valley, organisations such as the Barak Democratic Front and the All Bengali Youth and Students’ Organisation staged demonstrations protesting the use of Assamese language in the hoardings. Pradip Datta Roy, the Front’s convenor said Bengali was made the official language of Barak Valley following the language movement of 1961 that had claimed the lives of 11 people in police firing. “The use of Assamese in the hoardings was a violation of the provisions under the Language Act,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-to-separate-barak-valley-from-assam-grows-louder/article37146147.ece
24 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Himachal’s women farmers expand their horizons, without hurting nature||Women farmers in the hill State of Himachal Pradesh are gradually turning to non-chemical, low cost “natural farming”, which has not only provided them with a sustainable livelihood but also empowered them better. Launched in 2018, the State’s Prakritik Kheti Khushhal Yojana (PK3Y) is promoting the climate resilient Subhash Palekar Natural Farming (SPNF), also called ‘Zero Budget Natural Farming’. Over 1.5 lakh farmers have been trained in natural farming in the State so far, with substantial numbers of women participants. Moreover, the coming together of women from the hill regions for natural farming, regardless of their level of education, has helped them gain confidence in matters beyond agriculture. Practical training in natural farming is helping rural women in Himachal Pradesh gain confidence by supplementing family incomes. ‘New empowerment’ “It is a different kind of empowerment. Since I shifted to the natural farming technique, the government’s Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA) staff is regularly in touch with me. They motivate me and help me stay connected with the latest happenings in the field on a regular basis personally, and on WhatsApp groups, which is happening for the first time,” said Ganga Sarni Bisht, 54, from Kilba in the tribal Kinnaur district. Ms. Bisht, a post-graduate in Hindi and a former teacher, has been farming independently since 2013. “I shifted to this non-chemical farming technique three years back, after attending a training workshop on the SPNF technique in Kufri. I am growing vegetables like beans, radish, carrot, spinach and beetroot with natural farming on one bigha land, along with apples. I am happy with the results. I have sown hing (asafoetida) now,” she said. Ready to replicate natural farming on another five bigha s  of land gradually, Ms. Bisht inspires women farmers in the village and shares the latest information with them in a group. Natural farming gave Charna Devi, 49, a tribal woman from Chagaon village in uphill Tapri in Kinnaur, the opportunity to go outside the State for the first time in her life. She had not ventured beyond State capital Shimla before. “The travel taught me so many things,” she said. Ms. Devi is now a member of an SPNF women farmers’ group formed in 2019. Its members cultivate apples, garlic, maize and other traditional crops in their own farms. The group has over 20 women farmers and it functions like a family. They even help each other in finding solutions for personal and social issues. Executive Director of PK3Y, Dr. Rajeshwar Singh Chandel, said that women have always had an important role in agriculture in India. “Their inclusion in natural farming for training and exposure will not only build their capacity but will help women farmers gain confidence for overall betterment in society,” he said. At many other places in the State, women farmers who have shifted to natural farming collectively plan to increase their income by processing fruits and creating marketing networks on their own. Another group of more than 20 young women in Khaushshah village near Rampur Bushahr in Shimla district had been contributing in agriculture and horticulture at home but, “We were just silent workers with no say in deciding things in the field. The income from apple orchards was falling due to over-use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Since we were provided training in the natural farming project, we could move out of the four walls of the house and are now actively involved in changing the course of farming ,” said Sujata, a graduate farmer. Breaking barriers Their group, the Prakritik Kheti Mahila Khushhal Kisan Samiti, Khaushshah, was formed two years back, and registered in 2021. The women farmers’ group is doing natural farming individually on land measuring around 12.5 bigha s,  and the SPNF technique has helped them grow multiple crops like pulses and vegetables, alongside apples, for regular income from the same field. “Besides, it has helped us in connecting socially, and break mindset barriers on issues other than farming also,” said the group’s members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himachals-women-farmers-expand-their-horizons-without-hurting-nature/article37146153.ece
24 October 2021||Pune,||BJP bets big on Maharashtra civic polls in February||At a recent closed-door meeting of the corporators and the MLAs to strategise about the upcoming Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) election, BJP’s Maharashtra unit president Chandrakant Patil urged partymen to expedite pending infrastructure projects on a mission mode and improve its rickety public transport services. According to sources, Mr. Patil is reported to have told the local party leaders that Union Home Minister Amit Shah was keenly following the party’s progress in Pune and other crucial civic bodies in the State ahead of the civic polls to be held in February next year. Key points Mr. Patil’s remark is significant as it underscores a pattern in the BJP’s planning in that even the leaders at the Centre had their eyes fixed on important, cash-rich civic bodies in Maharashtra like Pune, Mumbai and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Another key point in Mr. Patil’s instructions was to drastically improve communication with the public in the city’s ‘weak areas’ where the party was not firmly established. “It has been part of the BJP’s expansion strategy that even vital civic body polls in the country have been overseen by top Central and State-level brass. Ahead of the 2017 PMC poll, Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, among other Central leaders, had visited Pune. Last year in November, Mr. Shah along with BJP national president J.P. Nadda, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis had campaigned for the party candidates in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections,” said senior city-based political analyst Rajendra Pandharpure. According to poll watchers, the BJP, which prior to 2014, had its base limited to the State’s Vidarbha region, has been aggressively trying to lay deep roots throughout the State especially in pockets previously considered to be Congress and NCP strongholds. “The BJP’s preparations reflect their intent on expanding their party base in areas in the State which until 2014 was dominated either by the Congress or Sharad Pawar’s NCP. In contrast, few among the Congress or the Shiv Sena's top brass have seldom shown any interest in campaigning for the civic polls outside their immediate sphere of influence or communicated with their potential constituents in a consistent manner,” says Mr. Pandharpure. In the 2014 State Assembly election, the BJP had swept all the six seats in urban Pune, while the 2017 civic polls saw it clocking an emphatic wins in the PMC and the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), and coming second only to the Sena in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) poll. The BJP set a record by winning nearly 100 of the 162 seats in the PMC while supplanting the NCP from the PCMC, in a personal blow to Ajit Pawar. Since then, after the formation of the MVA and his reinstatement at the State’s Deputy Chief Minister, Mr. Pawar, in his capacity of Pune’s Guardian Minister, has left no stone unturned to wrest the PCMC back from the BJP. In contrast to the BJP and the NCP, the Congress has suffered from the insipid leaderships of its past MPCC presidents Ashok Chavan and Balasaheb Thorat, say observers. “Local Congress leaders had even urged more visits by the State leadership, but none were forthcoming. Sunil Kedar, who has been appointed the ‘communication minister’ for Pune, did not visit the city even once during the pandemic, let alone trying to consolidate his party’s base here,” observes Mr. Pandharpure. A lacklustre attitude on part of the Congress and the Sena’s top brasses has led to a steady erosion (in case of the Congress) and stagnation (in the Sena’s case) of their respective part bases. On the other hand, Devendra Fadnavis’s leadership has been vigorous with his continual visits and close coordination with local BJP leaders doing much to deepen the party’s influence at the civic level, said another analyst. While admitting that his party’s grip in areas outside Mumbai and the Konkan was tenuous, a Shiv Sena leader pointed that MP and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut had been making efforts over the last several months to expand the party’s base in Pune. Likewise, the Congress sees hope in current MPCC chief Nana Patole’s galvanising leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-bets-big-on-maharashtra-civic-polls-in-february/article37146752.ece
24 October 2021||Ballia (U.P.),||‘Seat-sharing pact with BJP to be finalised in next meeting’||The seat-sharing pact with the BJP for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly election will be finalised in the next meeting with the party, Nishad party president Sanjay Nishad said on Saturday. “The seat sharing with the BJP will be decided in the next meeting with BJP leadership,” he said while talking to media persons here. Mr. Nishad claimed that the alliance between the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) would last only till the Assembly election due early next year. Taking a dig at SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar, Mr. Nishad said his feet are always on the move. Mr. Nishad, who had earlier demanded the post of Deputy Chief Minister for himself, clarified that it was just a suggestion and accused the media of twisting his statement. The Nishad party chief had in July said his community wanted to see him as the Deputy CM of the State. ‘Cong. ship sinking’ Attacking the Congress, Mr. Nishad said: “The ship of the Congress is sinking. The situation in the Congress is chaotic and its leaders are leaving the party. The Congress must take control of its ship.” Taking a swipe at the Congress’ “Pratiga Yatra”, he said: “The Congress will gain nothing from the yatra. Priyanka Gandhi has made the announcement keeping in mind the U.P. Assembly election. She should first implement these announcements in the Congress-ruled States.” The Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (Nishad) party had contested the 2017 Assembly election in alliance with the Peace Party and contested 72 seats. Its candidate Vijay Mishra had won from Gyanpur in Bhadohi district. Recently, BJP leaders had announced an alliance with Mr. Nishad for the 2022 Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seat-sharing-pact-with-bjp-to-be-finalised-in-next-meeting/article37146754.ece
24 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Remand of Singhu murder accused extended by 2 days||A local court in Sonipat has extended the police custody of the four accused in the murder case of a man over the alleged desecration of the holy Sikh scriptures for two days. The accused were produced before the court on Saturday on the completion of their police remand. Virender Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Law and Order, said the police sought the remand of the four for the identification of more accused in the murder case. “The closed circuit television (CCTV) footage of the murder spot shows a large number of Nihang Sikhs surrounding the victim. We demanded the police custody of the accused for the identification of these people featuring in the footage,” said Mr. Singh, adding that the police had received the footage only recently. The senior police officer, heading a Special Investigation Team in the case, said the blood-stained clothes of the accused and the weapons used in the commission of the crime were recovered during the remand period. Lakhbir Singh, a resident of Punjab’s Tarn Taran, was found dead near the farmers’ protest site at the Singhu border in Haryana’s Sonipat on October 15, tied to a police barricade with his wrist and leg severed. The court had remanded Sarabjit Singh, the first to surrender in the case, to police custody for seven days on October 16. A day after the arrest of Sarabjit Singh, three more accused in the case — Narain Singh, Bhagwant Singh and Govind Preet — surrendered before the police and were remanded to six days police custody. The accused’s counsel Yogesh told The Hindu that the police had sought four days’ remand for his clients for the identification of the other accused in the CCTV footage of the incident, but he opposed it saying that the four could not be expected to “know all and sundry present at the spot”. “The court considered our argument and granted only two days police remand,” said Mr. Yogesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/remand-of-singhu-murder-accused-extended-by-2-days/article37146139.ece
24 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crucial cases await SC physical hearings||A gradual opening up of physical hearings in the Supreme Court may see long-pending but crucial cases come to the fore. Some of them are before Constitutional Benches. These include the challenge against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) of 2019; the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution; questions of equal right to worship triggered by the Sabarimala temple entry for women case; pleas against the agricultural laws over which farmers have been protesting nearly two years; and questions whether the colonial law of sedition deserves a place in a modern democracy. In January 2020, the apex court had said that petitions concerning the CAA were “uppermost in everybody’s minds”, but refused to stay the new law without hearing the government first. The Bench, at that point, had indicated that the CAA challenge may eventually be referred to a Constitution Bench for a decision on merits. In August this year, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader and spokesperson of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration M.Y. Tarigami had asked the Supreme Court to “expeditiously” begin hearing petitions challenging the Centre’s abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the State of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories, saying the government was taking “irreversible actions” which may render the pending case “infructuous”. Several petitions, including one by Mr. Tarigami, have been waiting in the Supreme Court for nearly two years. A nine-judge Bench of the Supreme Court had, in February last year, framed several questions of law for itself to answer — one of them was to lay down the ambit of religious freedom under Article 25 of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crucial-cases-await-sc-physical-hearings/article37146157.ece
24 October 2021||Lucknow,||Priyanka Gandhi flags off ‘Pratigya Yatra’ in Uttar Pradesh||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday flagged off her party’s “Pratigya Yatra” from Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki with seven promises, including loan waiver for farmers and jobs to 20 lakh people, if voted to power in next year’s Assembly polls. The party also promised purchase of wheat and paddy at Rs. 2,500 per quintal, and sugarcane at Rs. 400 per quintal. The Congress leader also said her party would “halve the electricity bill of all”. She said her party would bring a separate manifesto for women, reiterating that the Congress would give “40% tickets to women in the election”. Ms. Gandhi said the Congress would give smartphones to girls who passed Class XII, if voted to power in the State. The party said it would give Rs. 25,000 to families who faced a financial crunch due to the COVID crisis. Ms. Gandhi promised a separate manifesto for women in a week’s time and stressed that their participation in politics is necessary. “Till they do not move forward and participate in politics, they will not be able to fight their battles,” she said. Ms. Gandhi said providing smartphones and scooters to girls is a way to make them empowered. “Smartphones can help in their safety and scooter will facilitate their movement,” she said. Referring to farmers, the AICC general secretary said they were helpless in the State. “All have seen how farmers were killed brutally by the son of a Minister in the Modi government. This in itself proves how much importance is being given to farmers,” she said, referring to the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. “How long it took to arrest the accused? His father, who is saving him, is still in the Modi government and is not dismissed,” she said. For the farmers “Farmers know what all they have been facing since the past few years. It is because of this that we have decided to waive their loans. Earlier too, the Congress had waived off loans worth Rs. 72,000 crore,” she said. Ms. Gandhi said on the lines of the Congress-led Chhattisgarh government, which is purchasing paddy at Rs. 2,500 per quintal, here too wheat and paddy would be purchased at the same price if her party was voted to power. Farmers would get Rs. 400 per quintal for sugarcane, she added. On electricity bills, she said during the coronavirus crisis, small traders were the worst-affected and yet had to pay their power bills. “So, it has been decided to waive the pending bills of the coronavirus period. besides halving the bills of all,” she said. She said Rs. 25,000 would be given to poor families to help them overcome their financial losses during the coronavirus crisis. Ms. Gandhi said they would regularise the services of teachers, health workers and others if voted to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-flags-off-pratigya-yatra-in-up-makes-poll-promises/article37146163.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi,||Tamil drama Koozhangal is India’s official entry for Oscars||Tamil drama Koozhangal ( Pebbles ), directed by filmmaker Vinothraj P.S., has been selected as India’s official entry for the 94th Academy Awards. The movie follows an alcoholic abusive husband who, after his long-suffering wife runs off, sets out with his young son to find her and bring her back. It stars newcomers — Chellapandi and Karuththadaiyaan — and is produced by Vignesh Shivan and Nayanthara. “India’s official entry for Oscars this year is Koozhangal . It was picked by a 15-member jury, headed by filmmaker Shaji N. Karun, in a unanimous decision,” Supran Sen, Secretary General, Film Federation of India, told PTI. A total of 14 films, including Malayalam feature Nayattu , Tamil film Mandela , filmmaker Shoojit Sircar’s Sardar Udham , Vidya Balan-starrer Sherni , Captain Vikram Batra biopic Shershaah and Marathi film Godavari , were in the race. Mr. Vinothraj said he was grateful for all the love and support.  Koozhangal had won the top honour, the Tiger Award for best film, at the 50th International Film Festival Rotterdam (IFFR), earlier this year. The 94th Academy Awards are scheduled to take place on March 27, 2022, in Los Angeles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tamil-drama-koozhangal-is-indias-official-entry-for-oscars/article37146625.ece
24 October 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. bypolls acid test for Shivraj Chouhan||Issues outside Madhya Pradesh — violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, rising prices and food inflation, and fertiliser shortage — are likely to impact byelections in three Assembly seats and one Lok Sabha seat in the State, scheduled for October 30. A win in two or more seats will consolidate the position of Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the only BJP chief minister from the Vajpayee-Advani era still in power. A victory will also silence critics who have been expecting the central leadership of effect a reshuffle on the lines of Uttarakhand, Karnataka and Gujarat. “Both Shivrajji and Yogiji [Yogi Adityanath of U.P.] are mass leaders, unlike the others who were appointee CMs,” a senior Minister said. “These elections are more significant than they might otherwise have been for Chouhan. His popularity, typical art to beat anti-incumbency still dominates among the voters,” a senior party functionary told The Hindu at the State party headquarters. In the second week of September, Mr. Chouhan undertook a Jan Darshan Yatra, a public outreach programme to directly interact with the people on whether benefits from government schemes were reaching them and to gauge the pulse of the voters of the poll-bound constituencies. Action on corruption During his yatra and later on at public meetings, he went on a suspension spree of officials on corruption charges. During his visit to Singhpur in Raigaon, an Assembly constituency where bypoll is due, the Chief Minister pulled up officers for their inability to provide tap water connections to the villagers under the Nal Jal Yojna. For the Congress, the main opposition party, a win is likely to be a boost to prepare for the Assembly elections two years away. Senior Congress leader and former Chief Minister Kamal Nath thinks that the results of the upcoming by polls will give a message to the nation. Addressing a rally in Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, Mr. Nath criticised the BJP-led governments at the Centre and in the State responsible for price rise and fooling people. “People can’t be fooled every time,” said Mr. Nath at a public meeting in Khanda Lok Sabha seat a few days back. People are distressed due to rising prices and a downturn in the economy, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-bypolls-acid-test-for-shivraj-chouhan/article37146123.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Enforcement takes ‘power’ nap||“Hope here also EVDM will show the same energy when they removed #prajasangramayatra flexi in Oldcity[sic],” tweeted one Saffron Sagar Goud. “Our tax money put into best use Sir? No rules for ruling government?” Questioned another Gopal Bhargav tagging minister K.T.Rama Rao’s official handle. Unverified allegations have also been made that EVDM Director Viswajit Kampati has gone on leave. Last tweet from the Director’s official Twitter handle was posted on October 16. GHMC officials were unavailable for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/enforcement-takes-power-nap/article37146872.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Virtual property fair showcases key projects||The Hindu and Casagrand are organising The Hindu Property Plus virtual property fair from October 22 to October 31. Buyers will be able to get a glimpse of various options of budget homes, functional apartments, villas and bungalows. The fair will feature prominent builders including Casagrand, Lancor, Hiranandani Communities, SPR City, KG Builders, Sumanth & Co, VGN Homes, Navin’s, Voora, Fomra, Baashyaam, Marutham Group, Deccan, The Nest and Nova. To register and view the offers please visit bit.ly/THVP21 or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/virtual-property-fair-showcases-key-projects/article37146151.ece
24 October 2021||London,||U.K. strike group in India to ‘forge stronger ties’||HMS Queen Elizabeth aircraft carrier-led Carrier Strike Group’s major port stop in Mumbai is the U.K.’s Indo-Pacific tilt in action, British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said in India on Saturday. The Minister, who arrived in Mumbai from New Delhi, said that her visit is aimed at forging stronger security and defence links with India, the world’s largest democracy, as a key part of the U.K.’s Indo-Pacific strategy. The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) said that the minister sees India as “essential” in ensuring a free, open, inclusive and prosperous Indo-Pacific. “Closer defence and security partnerships between the U.K. and India underpin deeper economic ties and make both countries, as well as the wider region, safer,” said Ms. Truss. “We need to protect our sea and trade routes and, operating from a position of strength, be hard-headed in defending our interests and challenging unfair practices. The arrival of the Carrier Strike Group in India represents the U.K.’s Indo-Pacific tilt in action. “This is a true symbol of Global Britain, working closely with like-minded partners like India,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uk-strike-group-in-india-to-forge-stronger-ties/article37146164.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||India-made spray linked to rare illness in U.S.||A spokesperson for Walmart, in response to queries from The Hindu , said that the room spray was manufactured by “Flora Classique Inc.” and sold under the “Better Homes & Gardens” brand. “We pulled the product from the shelves of about 55 stores where it was part of a pilot programme,” the spokesperson wrote. Flora Classique, an online search showed, is registered in Wildomar, California, the U.S. Its website says it is “...affiliated with Ramesh Flowers Pvt Ltd. in Tuticorin India, one of the largest manufacturers and exporters of Home Fragrance and Home Decor products in India since its inception in 1982”. Since 2018, the company has been a part of the Gala Candles Group, a German company. The CDC has been testing blood samples from patients as well as soil, water and consumer products in and around patients’ homes since they began receiving samples in May. A sample of the Better Homes & Gardens spray tested positive for the bacterium this week and genetic analysis revealed that it was similar to the strains found in South Asia, the CDC statement noted. Melioidosis is a rare but serious disease in the United States with 12 cases reported annually. The causative bacterium is extremely elusive and hard to detect and the disease symptoms it manifests are frequently mistaken for other diseases. The true burden of the disease is unknown in India but a 2016 modelling study by scientists at the University of Oxford predicted a global incidence of around 1,65,000 cases worldwide with an estimated case fatality of 89,000 (54%). This study suggested melioidosis to be endemic to India with an annual incidence of close to 52,500 cases. Treatment usually involves a long intensive course of intravenously delivered anti-microbial therapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-made-spray-linked-to-rare-illness-outbreak/article37146124.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Gap between two doses is starkest in India||The spacing of 12-16 weeks is among the longest in the world. Further vaccine administration has taken off in earnest only after July. The dosage gap between two shots of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines is four weeks and the Astrazeneca vaccine is administered at an eight week gap in the United Kingdom. On Saturday, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, following a meeting with representatives from States, urged them to “speed up vaccination.” “Highlighting the sizeable number of eligible beneficiaries who have not received their second dose of vaccine, the Union Health Secretary urged the States and UTs to focus on those beneficiaries who are waiting for their second dose after their interval period has been over,” a statement from the Union Health Ministry noted. So, far 71.24 crore first doses — covering 76% of the eligible population — and 30.06 crore second doses — covering 32.0% of the eligible population — have been administered, the Health Ministry noted. This works out to about 40 crore people having got only one shot and 30 crore being fully vaccinated. However a perusal of vaccination data shows that after September 17, when the country recorded an all-time high of 2.5 crore vaccinations on a single day, there has been a steady decline in the number of immunisations. For over a month, the number of vaccines administered weekly has fallen from 6.6 crore in the week September 11-17 to 4.2 crore in the first week of October and 3.6 crore in the week of October 16-22. However during this same period there has been a rise in the second doses administered. In fact, for the first time since May 8-14, the weekly number of second doses exceeded single doses. There were 2.1 crore second doses administered in the last week compared to 1.5 crore first doses. The number of those getting their first doses, however, has fallen from four crore to 1.5 crore. India has set itself a target of fully inoculating all adults, roughly 94 crore, by the year end for which it needs to administer over one crore doses a day. Experts say that there is no evidence yet of vaccine hesitancy in India.  The discrepancy in first and second shots are, so far, better explained in the gap between scheduled doses. However experience with previous vaccination showed that covering the last 10-15% of any population, anywhere in the world, was challenging. “It can be that there’s a proportion of the population that wants the vaccine but cannot access it. So special efforts have to be made to ensure that. We’ve also seen a large spike in first doses since July following the second wave and improved availability and factoring the 12-16 week gap, this is when we would see a rise in second dose numbers,” public health expert and epidemiologist, Dr Chandrakant Lahariya told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gap-between-two-doses-is-starkest-in-india/article37146125.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Curfew, curbs a ‘bitter pill’ to save lives: Shah||August 5, 2019 will be written in golden letters in history, the Minister added. Mobile phone connectivity and Internet services remained suspended for months after August 2019, when the BJP government at the Centre moved two Bills in Parliament to read down Article 370 of the Constitution that gave special status to J&K, and bifurcated and downgraded the State into two Union Territories — J&K and Ladakh. Thousands were detained and hundreds arrested under the stringent Public Safety Act. “In the past 70 years, why more than 40,000 people including security forces were killed in J&K? Do these three families have an answer? [Prime Minister] Modiji has always been concerned about J&K, it is his priority. In the long run, many lives were saved,” Mr. Shah said defending the stringent curbs imposed in J&K. He said corruption was the biggest problem and though J&K received highest per capita grant from the Centre, poverty never reduced here. However, according to government data, in 2019 when the Centre revoked J&K’s special status, the former State stood eighth in terms of poverty rate (10.35%) while the national average was (21.92%). “Kashmir has suffered a lot, we want to see a day when Kashmir is able to give back more to the Centre than it receives.” “Please tell me honestly, before August 5, 2019 could the youth of J&K dream of becoming the Finance or Home Minister of this country? In the past 70 years, J&K gave 87 MLAs, 6 Members of Parliament and three families. Modiji ensured that democracy percolated down to 30,000 people through panchayat elections,” he said. “I want to answer people who talk about Pakistan, but I am not here to talk about it. Just compare Pakistan-occupied Kashmir with the Kashmir here, you will find darkness and poverty there. Here you will find development. 25,000 jobs have been created in the past two years, I am going to hand over 7,000 appointment letters tomorrow,” he said. Under the new industrial policy, J&K has received Rs. 12,000 crore investment in the past six months compared to a total of Rs. 15,000 crore in the past seven years. Mr. Shah said there was a proposal to construct nine medical colleges and 15 nursing colleges. “Earlier children used to go to Pakistan to study medicine, now they can study here….Now there is an IIM, NIT, NIFT, IIMC and a Cancer Institute in J&K,” he said. The Minister said 5 lakh jobs would be created through private investment. He noted that compared to 36,000 tourists in 2020, only from January-March this year, the number of tourists stood at 1.13 lakh He said terrorism had ended and stone pelting had disappeared and those who wanted to disrupt peace here would be dealt with an iron hand. Earlier in the day, Mr. Shah reviewed the security situation with the security brass in Srinagar. Lt. Gov Manoj Sinha was also present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curfew-curbs-a-bitter-pill-to-save-lives-shah/article37146132.ece
24 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Rawat warns of tighter restrictions in Kashmir||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat has said that restrictions imposed following the scrapping of Article 370 may return to the Kashmir Valley at the cost of freedom of movement because of terror strikes. He also accused Pakistan of carrying out a proxy war to “create fear-mongering” because “a semblance of peace and tranquillity was happening” in Jammu and Kashmir. “Whenever there is peace and tranquillity in Jammu and Kashmir, our western adversary creates a situation where people of some community are killed and fear is generated,” Gen. Rawat said after participating in the first Ravi Kant Singh Memorial lecture series in Guwahati, organised by the Assam police on Saturday. Preventing terrorism “The intelligence network is being strengthened and more monitoring of the people is happening there. People don’t like the armed forces to become intrusive, but we will have to get back into this fold again and carry out activities to ensure the terrorists do not carry out any activity,” Gen. Rawat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rawat-warns-of-tighter-restrictions-in-kashmir/article37146624.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi,||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for fourth day||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday by 35 paise per litre, pushing the total increase in rates on petrol to Rs. 36 per litre and on diesel to Rs. 26.58 since early May 2020. Petrol in Delhi now costs Rs. 107.24 a litre and diesel comes for Rs. 95.97, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The latest increase has pushed pump rates across the country to their highest-ever levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-for-fourth-day/article37146148.ece
24 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Bar Assam CM from campaigning’||The Assam unit of Congress has asked the State’s chief electoral officer to bar Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma from campaigning in the byelections for violating the model code of conduct. The byelections to five Assembly constituencies – two in eastern Assam and three in the western part – are scheduled on October 30. In a memorandum submitted to the Election Commission on Saturday, Assam Pradesh Congress Committee president Bhupen Kumar Borah said promises from the Chief Minister have been flying thick and fast during the Bharatiya Janata Party campaigns. Video footages were enclosed with the memorandum. “The CM made a slew of announcements for the 40 tea gardens in Mariani constituency during a campaign. Apart from assuring Rs. 1-crore each for the gardens to develop labour line roads, he promised to incorporate each garden into the Jal Jeevan Mission besides announcing 10 new high schools in the gardens,” Mr. Borah said. If that were not enough, the CM announced financial assistance to the self-help groups of women tea workers and incorporation of casual labourers in the tea gardens into the MGNREGA scheme, the State Congress chief pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bar-assam-cm-from-campaigning/article37146160.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi,||No criticism of the party in public: Cong.||Anyone wishing to take up the primary membership of the Congress will have to make a declaration of abstention from alcohol and drugs, and give an undertaking to never criticise the party’s policies and programmes in public forums. According to the grand old party’s membership form, new members have to give a declaration that they will not own any property in excess of ceiling laws and will undertake tasks, including “manual labour” prescribed by the party. “This is an old form and is part of our party constitution. And we expect all Congress members, including new ones, to follow these norms,” said Madhusudan Mistry, head of the party’s central election authority. The Congress will launch a membership drive on November 1 and it will continue till March 31 next year, before the organisational elections. The election of the new Congress president will be held between August 21 and September 20, 2022, according to the Congress Working Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-criticism-of-the-party-in-public-cong/article37146161.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi,||DGPs’ annual conference to be held in U.P.||The annual conference of the DGPs chaired by the Prime Minister will be held in Lucknow in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh this year. The conference organised by the Intelligence Bureau will be held in November where Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will brainstorm with the police brass. The Prime Minister will preside over various sessions to discuss myriad internal security issues and will also interact with the officers. The Directors General of all the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) such as the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the Border Security Force (BSF), the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSS), the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will also take part in the three-day conference. Last year due to COVID-19 curbs, the conference was held online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dgps-meet-to-be-held-in-poll-bound-up/article37146131.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi,||Protect those who feed us, says Varun||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Varun Gandhi on Saturday shared a video clip purportedly showing a man setting fire to a heap of paddy crop after his vain efforts to sell it, and sought a rethink of the agriculture policy. “It is a failure of all in the nation if we cannot protect those who feed us,” he said. Mr. Gandhi shared the video of the man on Twitter. “Samodh Singh, a farmer of Uttar Pradesh, had been running around mandis for the last 15 days to sell his paddy crop. When paddy did not sell, he in frustration put fire to it himself. Where has this system brought the farmers? The need of the hour is to rethink our agriculture policy,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. “There is no greater punishment that a farmer can inflict upon himself than setting fire to his own crops. We must all introspect as to why the system has pushed them to the edge for no fault of their own. It is a failure of all in the nation if we cannot protect those who feed us,” he added. He has been critical of the Central Government on the handling of the farmers’ protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mp-shares-clip-of-up-man-setting-fire-to-crop/article37146136.ece
24 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot rejects reports of meeting Rahul||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday refuted media reports that he had met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi after attending a Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting in New Delhi on October 16. “Such rumours will make rounds until there is a reshuffle of the [State] Cabinet,” he said. The Congress party’s committee constituted to look into the issues in Rajasthan met after the CWC meeting, Mr. Gehlot told reporters here. He said there might have been an “eye-catching” with Mr. Gandhi at the CWC event, but no meeting took place. “The media reports described how Mr. Gandhi expressed his annoyance with the Chief Minister. It seemed as if the reporters themselves were sitting there,” Mr. Gehlot quipped referring to a newspaper published from Jaipur. Earlier, Mr. Gehlot gave away the lifetime achievement award to senior journalist Vijay Bhandari, 89, at the latter’s residence in Tilak Nagar here. The award was instituted jointly by media advocacy institution Lok Samvad Sansthan and Journalism and Mass Communication Department of the Mohanlal Sukhadia University, Udaipur. Asked about the appointment of Revenue Minister Harish Chaudhary as the Congress in-charge of Punjab, Mr. Gehlot said giving responsibility to the leaders from Rajasthan reflected their hard work and commitment. Health Minister Raghu Sharma was also recently made party in-charge of Gujarat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehlot-rejects-reports-of-meeting-rahul/article37146141.ece
24 October 2021||Panaji,||‘Double-engine’ is best choice for Goa: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday virtually sounded the bugle for next year’s Goa Assembly election and expressed the need for the continuation of a “double-engine” government to realise the vision of making Goa self-sufficient. Mr. Modi interacted with beneficiaries and stakeholders of the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa programme’ via video conferencing. His “double engine” reference was to the BJP Governments at the Centre and in the BJP-ruled Goa, where the polls are due in February. Mr. Modi said that self-sufficiency for Goa would fulfil the aspirations of the common people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/double-engine-is-best-choice-for-goa-pm/article37146126.ece
24 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Channi stops his cavalcade near protest site, reiterates support to farmers||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday reiterated his support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws. Mr. Channi stopped his cavalcade when he saw a protest by farmers at a toll plaza near Jhallian village on Ropar-Chamkaur Sahib road and expressed his solidarity. The Punjab government stands with the farmers against the “draconian” laws, he said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/channi-stops-his-cavalcade-near-protest-site-reiterates-support-to-farmers/article37146137.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A gentle giant in captivity||Elephants are the largest land mammals on earth wandering free in the wild. Yet, man has captured. tamed and kept them in captivity for long. Now, the correctness of holding elephants in captivity is in question before the Madras High Court. After deliberating on the issue for some time, the High Court, in an interim order, has ruled against taking elephants in captivity in future. The practice of capturing wild Asian elephants, and then taming and training them for work, seems to have originated approximately 4,000 years ago as per epical references, according to Shekhar Kumar Niraj, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF)-cum-Chief Wildlife Warden (CWLW). The Matanga Leela , a rendition of the Gaja Shastra by Sanskrit poet Nilakanta, talks of five different techniques that can be used for capturing elephants — driving them into pens or stockades, using female elephants as bait, noosing the elephant, following the animal until it tires out and placing a noose in a small pit before attracting the elephant to the pit using food. Thanks to scientific advancements, now the menacing/injured elephants in the wild are being captured by the Forest Department using tranquilliser guns under expert supervision of veterinarians, with minimum trauma to the animals, Mr. Niraj told the High Court in an exhaustive report called for by Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu in response to a public interest litigation petition. Taming the jumbos After capture, the method used for taming the animal is human positive reinforcement/reward-based training. The traditional way of training an elephant involves establishing dominance through various methods. Forceful submission, the most common of these, has drawn criticism globally. This method is mostly used during open training of the animals, a practice generally followed in northeast India and southeast Asia. “During open training, the elephant has more opportunity to display resistance and aggression, potentially endangering the trainer’s life. This method, therefore, leads to the animal being subject to more torture to control its behaviour. The Forest Department of Tamil Nadu only uses the closed training system, where the captured elephant is confined within a standard 12 feet x 12 feet kraal or a boma [a wooden enclosure],” the CWLW says. The floors of the kraal are made of wooden slats, with gaps in between to prevent them from becoming damp. The roof is made of tiles or sheets. A small tank or large drum of water is provided, and care is taken that no sharp edges or nails, which could harm the elephant, are present in the kraal. The mahouts use vocal and tactile commands, and employ a mixture of positive reinforcement/reward-based training. “They have been trained to recognise the thin line between punishment and cruelty. Punishment in this context does not necessarily involve physically harming the animal. It can involve threatening the animal with loud or harsh vocal commands, showing the stick, splashing water on the elephant’s face and, sometimes, mild physical punishment to prevent undesirable behaviour,” the forest officer notes. It takes about 30 days for the animal to accept the mahout’s intervention and pick food directly from his hands. About a week later, the relationship is strengthened further by him entering the kraal to feed and check for injuries. Slowly, the mahouts proceed with habituation of the elephant. “Mahouts who lack necessary patience often fail in this approach,” says the report submitted by the Chief Wildlife Warden. Stating that the kraal method of taming elephants differs from others since it does not push the tolerance limit of the animals, he says: “The emphasis is on winning the elephant’s trust, not breaking its spirit.” Illegal transfer So far, the Forest Department has not traded any captive elephant in violation of the Wild Life (Protection) Act of 1972, the Tamil Nadu Captive Elephants (Management & Maintenance) Rules of 2011 and the guidelines issued by the Centre. As per the laws in force, ownership of a captive elephant can only be by inheritance or acquisition by government agencies by captive transfer. As many as 28 captive elephants in the custody of some temples and private individuals in the State have been issued certificates of ownership by the forest authorities in Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Kerala and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. These elephants have been transported to Tamil Nadu using transit permit for a limited period, but had overstayed and not returned to their States of origin. “After a certain period, the temple or private person applied for ownership certificate in the State of Tamil Nadu, which is not permissible under the Act. Measures have been taken for returning these elephants to their State of origin,” Mr. Niraj says. It was also brought to the notice of the court that an elephant named Shanthakumari has been illegally transported from Kerala to Tamil Nadu without a transit permit. Missing elephant Implanting microchips with unique identification numbers in elephants’ ears is a method used by the Forest Department to identify the animals and keep an eye on them. Out of 127 captive elephants in the State as on October 20, only two are in a zoo (Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Chennai), 62 in forest camps, various temples are in custody of 32, and the remaining 31 are in private custody. While all temple and private elephants had been microchipped, 12 in forest department custody were yet to be implanted with the chips. When an elephant named Lakshmi, maintained by M. Soundararajan of Palani in Dindigul district, was transported to an Animal Rescue Centre in Rajapalayam for medical treatment, it was found that her microchip number read different than what was available in the database. An inquiry revealed that the elephant brought for treatment was actually Indhira (microchip number 00065DE113) and not Lakshmi. “A case has been booked against Soundararajan for illegally changing the elephant and the captive elephant originally named as Lakshmi is missing. Investigation is being conducted for tracing the original elephant Lakshmi,” the CWLW says. Other offences The Forest Department has also booked cases regarding shuttling of private elephant Ritu Kumari from one district to another. A captive elephant named Malolan maintained in Ahobila Mutt in East Tambaram was transported to Kerala in 2015 with five years transit permit and was not returned to Tamil Nadu despite expiry of the permit. “The owner has been instructed to bring it back to its original location,” the officer states. Acting on the direction of the High Court, the department had created a catalogue of all captive elephants in the State and produced a video recording of them (except Lakshmi, Ritu Kumari and Malolan) in a thumb drive. Legal confusion The PCCF/CWLW has brought it to the notice of the court that Section 40(2) of the 1972 Act permits sale of captive elephants with the previous permission of CWLW. However, Section 43(1) places an embargo on any sort of sale. To circumvent this embargo, many requests have been received for gifting captive elephants by one person to another. The department has sought clarification from the Central government on allowing transfer either by way of sale or gift. As far as donation to temples is concerned, the exercise is governed by the 2011 Rules framed by the State government. Such donation can be made after obtaining previous permission of the CWLW. A State-level committee scrutinises the applications for donation depending upon the financial position of the donor as well as the temple concerned and makes appropriate recommendations to the CWLW. Live longer After public interest litigant Rangarajan Narasimhan of Srirangam took the issue of captive elephants to court and complained about ill-treatment, a number of elephant owners filed petitions urging the court to hear them too before taking a call on the issue. Meanwhile, Elsa Foundation, an animal protection institution based in Delhi, and activist S. Muralidharan, too, made their submissions before the court. Arguments have been advanced both in favour of and against domesticating the wild animals. Interestingly, the PCCF/CWLW, in his report, says: “According to scientific research and recorded evidence, captive elephants have greater lifespan than wild elephants because the captive elephants get veterinary care and regular food with food supplements too at times.” Regular checks The forest officials and veterinarians regularly check on temple and private elephants to make sure they are treated well. “Strict action is taken against the defaulters who maintain the elephants improperly and indulge in ill-treatment,” the officer says. However, when advocate Krishna Ravindran, representing one of the litigants before the court, highlighted that many district-level captive elephant welfare committees are dysfunctional, the Forest Department reverted saying nominations for the reconstitution of the committees have been received from 15 out of the 18 districts where captive elephants are available in temple and private custody. “After receiving nominations from these districts, a proposal will be sent to the State government for reconstitution of District-Level Captive Elephant Welfare Committees,” the CWLW says. Verdict awaited While calling upon the Forest Department to catalogue all captive elephants in the State along with video recordings, the High Court had passed the interim order against taking elephants in captivity in future. “The State should ensure that no elephant is taken into captivity except for the purpose of treatment of such elephants if found unable to support itself in the wild. No private person may capture any elephant or keep the same except those already existing,” the Bench ordered. Now that the cataloguing is over and the PCCF/CWLW has also filed an exhaustive report on the status of captive elephants, all eyes are on further orders to be passed by the court solely in the interest of these gentle giants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-gentle-giant-in/article37146241.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police step up vigil at T. Nagar||An elaborate security arrangement has been put in place to ensure that people follow all COVID-19 norms in shopping areas and to ensure crime-free Deepavali shopping in T. Nagar. A senior police officer said, “We have put in place all festival security arrangements as Deepavali shoppers started arriving for purchase on Ranganathan Street and adjoining areas. We have records of chain and mobile snatching accused who may mix with the crowd. We are monitoring suspicious movement through CCTV. We have multiplied deployment by more than three times compared to previous years.” More manpower Surveillance drones have been deployed backed by advanced closed circuit television cameras with face-recognition software. Police personnel have been equipped with body cameras. Nearly 500 more police personnel would be deployed with the crowd expected swell on weekends. Ten beat constables have been given smart jackets with body-worn cameras, and deployed for round-the-clock patrolling in 15 sectors. Watchtowers have been set up at vantage points. The police have also opened mini-control rooms and police assistance booths under the Mambalam and Soundarapandianar Angadi police station limits. The police and the Greater Chennai Corporation staff are monitoring shops and commercial establishments to ensure that COVID-19 norms are strictly followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-step-up-vigil-at-t-nagar/article37146693.ece
24 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Nagercoil Corpn. launches retail sale of manure||After achieving success in bulk sale of organic manure produced from biodegradable waste, the Nagercoil Corporation on Saturday launched retail sale of the manure for use in roof and backyard gardens. Information Minister Mano Thangaraj launched the retail sale of five kg packets priced at Rs. 10 in Nagercoil. “Earlier, farmers procured from us in bulk. We started retail sale as a pilot project as there is a request from residential associations and individuals. Depending on the response, we will expand the sale,” said Asha Ajith, Commissioner of the Corporation. At present, the conservancy workers turn the waste collected in the corporation limits into manure and the proceeds from the sale is shared among them. “We are planning to tie-up with the agriculture department and nurseries for sale of the manure,” she explained. Nagercoil Corporation has 11 micro composing centres. Besides vegetables and flowers collected from the local market, other biodegradable waste from houses was used for producing the manure. “In the last two-years, we were producing large particles, as the manure was sold to farmers. Now we are producing fine particles meant for use in small gardens in the backyard and roof-top,” said Dr M. Vijay Chandran, Chief Health Officer of the corporation. He said each centre has the capacity to produce 2.5 tonnes a week and the demand would go up in the wake of retail sale to houses. He said the corporation was ready to set up pipe in houses if owners were interested. “It will cost Rs. 2,500. We will install two pipes and biodegradable waste generated in a family of four to five persons could be deposited in the pipes. It would turn waste into manure between 60 and 65 days. It is a sustainable method and the waste could be turned into wealth at source,” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nagercoil-corporation-launches-retail-sale-of-manure/article37146802.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Economy is still in the woods’||Former finance minister and senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram said the Indian economy is still in the woods. Delivering the R. K. Shanmugam Memorial Lecture, organised by The Tamil Chamber of Commerce in Chennai on Saturday, he also took a jibe at the Centre’s claim of V-shaped recovery of the economy. Mr. Chidambaram pointed out that the economy is seeing a two-speed K-shaped recovery where some have seen their income and wealth grow, while the majority have suffered pain and economic loss. Only 10% of the population has seen some increase in income, while 40% has seen a sharp fall, and it has been a status quo for the remaining 50%, he added. Mr. Chidambaram also cited Reserve Bank of India’s commentary that demand has been sluggish, while growth in bank deposits has dropped, household debt has risen, financial savings have declined and high fuel prices have crowded out other discretionary spending. He also pointed out that inequality has been increasing. Mr. Chidambaram said that true recovery will happen if the economic growth reaches the 2018-19 levels and crosses the numbers of Financial Year 2020. “I don’t think it will happen in the current fiscal (2021-22),” he said. “We are looking at a cloudy future and economists have pointed out that the sluggishness in the world economy would continue till June, 2022,” he said. Fuel prices “So, for the next nine months, the sluggishness in the Indian economy will continue. Post that, if the Indian government takes the right policy measures, the Indian economy can recover. For that, they should know how to retain the economic advisors,” he said. To a question on high fuel prices, Mr. Chidambaram blamed this on a high tax of 33% levied by the Central government and said that it amounted to extortion.  Only 10% of the population has seen some increase in income, while 40% has seen a sharp fall, and it has been a status quo for the remaining 50%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/economy-is-still-in-the-woods/article37146707.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shortage of M-sand hits construction activity||Escalating cost of M-sand and shortage of material in the market has affected construction activity in the city and its fringes. The cost of M-sand has jumped by Rs. 500 a tonne in the last few days and is sold at Rs. 1,350 a tonne. This has hit the construction sector, particularly small-time builders. Transparency needed J. Jayakumar, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Progressive Consumer Centre, Pattabiram, said small-time builders were unable to take new projects as cost of most of the construction material, including cement, had increased by 40-50%. Quality of M-sand had fallen. There must be more transparency about availability of quality material and consumers must be provided choice of buying material be it river sand or M-sand, he said. Tamil Nadu Sand Lorry Owners’ Association president R. Muniratnam said several quarries producing M-sand and blue metal in districts, including Tiruvallur, Ranipet, Cuddalore and Kancheepuram, had been shut and this rendered several workers jobless. The delay in providing licence for stone crusher quarries was cited as a major reason for the price rise and shortage of M-sand. K. Chinnasamy, president, Tamil Nadu Stone Quarry, Crusher and Lorry Owners Association, said the number of stone crusher quarries had dropped by half to 1,500 quarries now. The issues in obtaining transit permits for transporting the sand loads had led to the temporary shortage. Drivers were refusing to transport goods fearing harassment by officials. “We have submitted petitions to various government agencies, including the Department of Geology and Mining, seeking action against manufacturers who sold substandard material. We have asked to accelerate process to clear pending applications for licences and withdraw transmit permit system,” he said. The association had demanded that the rules must be simplified to help operation of the units. Officials of the Public Works Department said that nearly 360 manufacturing units had been certified for their quality so far. The department checked only the quality of the material produced and other issues, including pricing and licence, would have to be processed by other government agencies.  We have asked to accelerate process to clear pending applications for licences and withdraw transmit permit system K. Chinnasamy President, Tamil Nadu Stone Quarry, Crusher and Lorry Owners Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/m-sand-crunch-hits-construction-sector/article37146704.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro commuters were in for a musical surprise||Metro Rail commuters, used to the monotonous announcements, were in for a surprise when they were treated to lilting instrumental music on Wednesday evening. A glitch in the communication system had resulted in music being played instead of information about arrival and departure of trains. “On Wednesday evening, an essential testing work related to telecommunication system was carried out and inadvertently, instead of announcements, instrumental music began playing throughout the system. After 20 minutes, the issue was resolved and the announcements were back in all stations. Usually, we ensure such glitches don’t occur but this time we didn’t see it coming. We will make sure such snags don’t happen again” a source said. This issue happened while the staff were testing a software in the Operation Control Centre at Koyambedu, another source said. “The issue was restricted to stations and not in trains; so, passengers on board got the announcements and knew what the next station was; otherwise, this would have resulted in confusion,” another source said. In six years since starting operations, there have been numerous incidents caused by snags, but this is the first time, a glitch resulted in music began played in stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-commuters-were-in-for-a-musical-surprise/article37146694.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Country’s mindset on occupational health must shift from curative to preventive’||Stating that much needs to be done in the country in relation to occupational health and safety, Shrinivas Shanbhag, past president of Indian Association of Occupational Health, said there was an urgent need to move from a curative to a preventive mindset. Delivering the 17th Professor Arcot Gajaraj Memorial Oration through a virtual conference organised by The Arcot Gajaraj Educational and Training Program (TARGET) here on Saturday, he said in India, occupational health remained under the mandate of the Ministry of Labour and not the Ministry of Health. He said there was often a lack of coordination between the two ministries. Apart from ensuring workers’ safety, he said there was a need for companies to focus on occupational safety as it was in their economic interest as well. He recollected his experiences in implementing safety measures when he served as the group medical advisor for Reliance Industries. Girija Vaidyanathan, former Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu, said the unorganised sector, which accounted for a majority of the country’s economy, was largely not under the purview of any occupational safety standards. While the National Policy on Safety, Health and Environment at Workplace, introduced in 2009, largely covered the organised sector, she expressed hope that the new Labour Code on Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions, once implemented, would address some of the policy related gaps. Sudha S. Ramachandran, senior advisor, occupational health division of Lifetime Wellness Rx International Ltd. (Apollo Life), recollected her interactions with Arcot Gajaraj. A. Jaishree Gajaraj, chairperson, Kausalya Gajaraj Charitable Trust, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/countrys-mindset-on-occupational-health-must-shift-from-curative-to-preventive/article37146702.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suba. Veerapandian to head social justice committee||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday announced the formation of a seven-member social justice committee, headed by Dravidian ideologue Suba. Veerapandian. Retired IAS officer K. Dhanavel; former pro Vice-Chancellor of the Periyar Maniammai Institute of Science and Technology Swaminathan Devadoss; poet Manushyaputhiran; Adi-Dravidar and Scheduled Castes-related legislations expert A. Jaison; economic expert R. Rajendaran, and general secretary of the All-India Federation of Other Backward Classes Employees’ Association G. Karunanidhi are the other members. The committee will monitor if social justice is being implemented properly in education, employment, postings, promotions and appointments across Tamil Nadu, and make recommendations from time to time to the State government to take appropriate measures, an official statement said. The principal secretary of the Social Reforms Department will be member secretary of the panel, the statement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suba-veerapandian-to-head-social-justice-committee/article37146251.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||22.33 lakh get jabs in mega drive||Tamil Nadu administered COVID-19 vaccine doses to 22,33,219 people at the sixth mega vaccination drive organised across the State on Saturday. Prior to the drive, the Health and Family Welfare (HFW) Department had said that the focus would be on administering second doses to people who were due for it. Consequently, the State managed to administer more second doses of the vaccines than the first during the drive. According to an update provided by the Department around 8 p.m. on Saturday, the State had administered the second dose to 13,65,646 people and the first dose to 8,67,573. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inspected some camps in Kannagi Nagar and Ezhil Nagar, accompanied by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Principal Secretary of HFW Department J. Radhakrishnan and Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian toured Perambalur, Ariyalur and Tiruvarur districts to monitor the drive. Interacting with the media, the Minister said the drive was taking place in 50,000 places, with a stock of around 66 lakh doses. . The State has managed to administer 1.33 crore doses of vaccines through its six mega drives, organised since September 12. Following the drive on Saturday, no vaccination camps will be organised by the government on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2233-lakh-get-jabs-in-mega-drive/article37146245.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Duathlon to raise funds to treat paediatric cancer||Several members of FLO, the women’s wing of FICCI, participated in a duathlon organised along with Apollo Cancer Centre in Chennai on Saturday, to raise awareness and funds to treat paediatric cancers. Apollo Dawn to Dusk (D2D) Duathlon 2021 was flagged off by Harshad Reddy, director, Apollo Proton Cancer Centre, and Neville J. Bilimoria, founder of D2D Marathon, Neville Endeavours Foundation. Besides raising awareness on paediatric cancers, Apollo’s D2D Duathlon promotes the need for a healthy lifestyle to reduce the risk of cancers. Funds raised through the duathlon would go to treating young cancer patients. Preetha Reddy, executive vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals; Jeyasree Ravi, chairperson FICCI FLO - Chennai Chapter; and Sangita Reddy, joint managing director of Apollo Hospitals; participated in the event along with 50 other women from FLO. Apollo Cancer Centre and Neville Endeavours Foundation joined hands to increase awareness and garner support for treatment of underprivileged paediatric cancer patients, said Ms. Preetha Reddy who sought more participation to raise funds for the cause. Online registrations for the Apollo D2D duathlon are open atwww.apollod2d.comtill November 13. The participants can run, walk, or cycle to cover 3 km to 125 km at their own pace and the location is their choice, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/duathlon-to-raise-funds-to-treat-paediatric-cancer/article37146706.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin milk sale up after price cut, says Minister||Minister for Dairy Development S.M. Naser on Saturday said that sale of Aavin milk had increased by 2.12 lakh litres a day following the reduction of milk prices by Rs. 3 a litre. Similarly, the sale of milk-based products too had increased by Rs. 3.58 crore a month. Speaking after flagging off Deepavali sweets for supplies to various credit and thrift cooperative societies and corporates from Ambattur dairy, he said milk sales had jumped from 12.65 lakh litre a day (LLPD) to 13.60 LLPD in Chennai. In rest of the State, the daily sale of milk increased from 12.02 LLPD to 13.20 LLPD. The sale of milk at reduced prices was introduced on 16.5.2021. Aavin Managing Director K.S. Kandasamy said that last year, the sale of milk-based products stood at Rs. 42.68 crore a month. However, it had gone up to Rs. 46.26 crore a month, which was an increase of Rs. 3.58 crore a month. There was a marked increase in Deepavali special sweets sale, which was Rs. 5.17 crore in November 2020, had now witnessed a jump of Rs. 6.51 crore till date. The Deepavali sweets sale was still on, he said. For retail customers, Aavin introduced five sweets for the festival, including Kaju Kathli, Nutty Milk Cake, Mothi Pak, Kaju Pista Roll and flavoured milk burfi, all in 250 g packs. It has an assorted sweets pack weighing 500 g. Those requiring sweets in bulk can call 9345660380 or 9566860286.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-milk-sale-up-after-price-cut-naser/article37146698.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu records 1,140 fresh COVID-19 infections||While 1,140 people tested positive for the COVID-19 infection on Saturday, the State has been seeing a decline in fresh cases every day, for a month. Its tally stood at 26,94,089. Seventeen deaths were logged, taking the toll to 36,004. As many as 1,374 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,44,805. Chennai and Coimbatore recorded 141 and 132 cases respectively. Six other districts too — Chengalpattu (97), Tiruppur (81), Erode (72), Namakkal (55), Salem (54), and Thanjavur (54) — recorded over 50 cases each. Among the other districts, nine saw cases in single digits, with Perambalur and Ramanathapuram logging just one case each. Fourteen of the 38 districts saw a marginal increase in fresh infections compared with the previous day, while the remaining 24 reported a marginal decline. Twelve districts reported deaths, with Coimbatore and Ariyalur reporting three deaths each, Chengalpattu reporting two and nine other districts logging one each. Among the 17 deceased, 16 had co-morbidities. The one person who did not have any co-morbidity was a 41-year-old man from Dharmapuri, who was admitted to the Dharmapuri Medical College Hospital on October 5, after testing positive for COVID-19. He died on Thursday night. Eleven of the 16 who had co-morbidities were aged 60 and above. The oldest was a 95-year-old man from Mayiladuthurai district, who had diabetes mellitus. He was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital in Kumbakonam on October 16 after testing positive for COVID-19. He died on Thursday afternoon. The youngest was a 27-year-old woman from Ariyalur, who had type-1 diabetes mellitus. After testing positive for COVID-19, she was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Tuesday. She died the next day. As many as 1,24,700 were tested, and the test positivity rate stood at 0.91%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-records-1140-fresh-covid-19-infections/article37146247.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prices of construction materials have shot up, says EPS||The prices of construction materials have gone up sharply after the DMK came to power about six months ago, AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Saturday. In a statement, he gave a comparative account of the increase in the prices of materials such as cement, steel, brick, M-sand and paint. In January, the unit cost for building a house was Rs. 2,200 a sq ft, but this has risen to at least to Rs. 3,100. Mr. Palaniswami said nowhere in the country had the price of cement gone up to the extent that it had in Tamil Nadu. The price of a bag of cement was Rs. 350 in New Delhi, Rs. 370 in Andhra Pradesh and Rs. 380 in Karnataka, but it was Rs. 480 in Tamil Nadu. Likewise, the prices of other construction materials were higher by 30% in Tamil Nadu, when comapred with other States. Even though construction activities in the State was more than in New Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka, and the production of cement was also higher in the State than in others, cement was costlier here when compared with the rest of the country. The hike in prices of construction materials had robbed thousands of livelihood opportunities, the former Chief Minister said, adding that the cost of transportation of materials through lorries had also gone up. The DMK government had not yet fulfilled its electoral promise of reducing the price of diesel by Rs. 4 a litre. It should immediately bring cement, steel, brick, sand and wood under the ambit of the Essential Commodities Act, he said. On Amma Canteens In a separate statement, party coordinator O. Panneerselvam said it was not acceptable to cite lack of funds for, what he called, scaling down the operations of Amma Unavagams — low-cost restaurants under the control of urban local bodies. He referred to reports that the distribution of chappatis in Chennai had been stopped citing a shortage of funds, due to which wheat was not being supplied to the Unavagams and the Chennai Corporation had been suffering a loss of Rs. 300 crore for providing food at subsidised rates. “If this is the status in Chennai, the situation will be much worse elsewhere in the State,” Mr. Panneerselvam said, calling upon the government to ensure that Amma canteens are run properly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prices-of-construction-materials-have-shot-up-says-eps/article37146253.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches sale of palm jaggery at ration shops||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday launched a scheme to sell palm jaggery under the name Karpagam through ration shops. The State government had announced in its Agriculture Budget that measures would be taken to sell palm jaggery through PDS shops. Mr. Stalin also launched a scheme to sell palm jaggery under the name Karumpanai through departmental stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-sale-of-palm-jaggery-at-ration-shops/article37146708.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Science lab in a box’ kits distributed among schoolchildren||In an effort to strengthen the cause of science education at grass-roots level, the India Literacy Project (ILP), a non-profit organisation, distributed “Science lab in a box” to students of nearly 30 government higher secondary schools in Tiruvallur district on Saturday. Grade appropriate skills The initiative to help nearly 12,000 children in government schools to gain access to grade appropriate skills was supported by Verizon India, an Information Technology driven Global Capability Centre (GCC). A.L. Rangarajan, country manager, India Literacy Project, said that ILP aims to create an interest in science among government schoolchildren by relating it to real world concepts. The use of innovative tools and processes would improve classroom engagement in science. The science kit manual and digital open-source content in Tamil to be used by the teachers were released during the event. P.A. Arumugam, Chief Educational Officer, Tiruvallur district, took part, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/science-lab-in-a-box-kits-distributed-among-schoolchildren/article37146740.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DVAC finds Rs. 5.5 lakh worth foreign currencies||After searching 36 places, officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) have found 20 kg of gold and 280 kg of silver articles to be over the stock at a jewellery shop at Valapadi in Salem district. According to a release, a case was registered on Thursday against chairman of Tamil Nadu State Apex Co-op Bank R. Elangovan and his son and vice-chairman of the Swami Ayyappan Educational Trust E. Praveenkumar. They were probing allegations of possession of assets disproportionate to the known sources of their income, and intentionally enriching themselves in 2014 and 2020. During the investigation, searches were held at 36 places. In continuation of the search conducted in Chennai, foreign currencies worth Rs. 5.5 lakh, investment in domestic shares for Rs. 25 crore and foreign shares valued at Rs. 45 crore were identified, the release said. Further, after searches at the jewellery shop at Valapadi, 20 kg of gold ornaments and 280 kg of silver articles were found to be over the stock, and the authorities concerned have been informed to carry out inspections. During the searches, relevant documents related to the case were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-finds-rs-55-lakh-worth-foreign-currencies/article37146258.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin gets into a bus, interacts with passengers||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday boarded a government bus M-19 B (Kannagi Nagar to T.Nagar route) in a surprise inspection. The Chief Minister interacted with women on the free bus pass scheme implemented by the State government this year, according to an official release. A few women took selfie with the Chief Minister on board. Later, Mr. Stalin also visited the Urban Community Health Centre in Kannagi Nagar and reviewed the hospital register, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-gets-into-a-bus-interacts-with-passengers/article37146696.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 arrested for murder of youth in Puzhal||Three persons, including two college students, were arrested on Saturday for allegedly murdering a 26-year-old youth at a construction site in Puzhal police station limits. On Friday night, control room received information that a man was lying in a pool of blood at a construction site belonging to GM Builders of Mani who is a VCK functionary on Subash Nagar Main Road, Putthagaram, Puzhal. His body bore cuts on head, face and hand. The police sent his body to the Government Stanley Hospital for post-mortem examination. The body was identified as that of Arumugam, 26, of Vaniyanchatram, Panruti, Villupuram district. He had been staying at the construction site for 15 days and doing centring work. He joined the work through his maternal uncle Murugavel. Money transfer issue He had a quarrel with Murugavel questioning the latter for sending Rs. 20,000 to his sister living in Bengaluru and assaulted him. Murugavel told his brother Manickam about the assault and abuse. Murugavel’s nephew M. Ajith Kumar, 21, of Putthagaram and two others went to the construction site and attacked Arumugam who was inebriated. Then they fled the scene. The police arrested Ajith Kumar and R. Rajesh Kumar, 19, of Villivakkam, both B. Com students in a city college, and Ashok Kumar, 21, of T.P. Chatram in the early hours of Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-murder/article37146690.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Collector releases credit plan for Tiruvallur||The Potential Linked Credit Plan (PLP) for the year 2022-23 prepared by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) has assessed the credit potential for Tiruvallur district at Rs. 5,266.28 crore, a growth of 7% over the current year. Tiruvallur Collector Alby John Varghese release the document during the mega customer outreach campaign held by Indian Bank, the lead bank, on Friday in the presence of B. Suri Babu, general manager, Indian Bank; Shyampriya R., District Development Manager, Nabard; and T.A. Srinivasan, lead district manager. The share in the PLP estimates for agriculture sector is Rs. 3,433.52 crore with farm credit estimated at Rs. 2,889.98 crore. Keeping in view the Centre’s policy initiatives to push MSME sector, Rs. 2,745 crore has been estimated for the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-releases-credit-plan-for-tiruvallur/article37147082.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Claims of 33% rise in cement prices false’||Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu on Saturday said claims that cement prices had gone up by 33% were false, and it had gone up by 4.7%, when compared with March. He said the State was taking measures to bring it down. He said due to the shortage of coal, an increase in the cost of importing and and transporting it, on October 6, cement was sold at Rs. 470-Rs. 490 a bag, and due to the State’s intervention, it is now being sold at Rs. 440-450 a bag. When compared with prices in March, it is a 4.7% increase, and claims that it has gone up by 33% are false, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/claims-of-33-rise-in-cement-prices-false/article37146249.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deepavali bonus for 2.87 lakh workers||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday announced a Deepavali bonus of 8.33% and an ex gratia of 1.67% to the Group C and D workers and employees of all profit- and loss-making public sector undertakings. Eligible permanent workers will receive a bonus and ex gratia of Rs. 8,400 each. The measure will benefit more than 2.87 lakh employees. Rs. 216.38 crore outgo The total outgo would be Rs. 216.38 crore, according to an official release. The first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic had impacted the State’s economic growth and the second wave had affected its finances. Though the functioning of the State Transport Corporations and Tangedco, among other units, were impacted, the employees were paid full salaries in view of the welfare of their families, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deepavali-bonus-for-287-lakh-workers/article37146250.ece
24 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Call for smooth coordination between judiciary, police||Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee on Saturday called for a smooth coordination between the judiciary and the police for speedy trial and disposal of cases. Justice Banerjee had an interaction with District Collector, City Police Commissioner, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Coimbatore range), Principal District and Sessions Judge, Chief Judicial Magistrate, Coimbatore District (Rural) Superintendent of Police, Pollachi Sub-Collector, District Revenue Officer and Trainee Collector (Coimbatore) at the Circuit House on Race Course. The Chief Justice interacted with them and urged them to have coordination in speedy disposal of cases, said sources. Justice Banerjee later had an interaction with the judges, magistrates and representatives of Coimbatore Bar Association. The Chief Justice went to Pollachi in the afternoon where he interacted with judicial officers and members of Bar Association, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-smooth-coordination-between-judiciary-police/article37146722.ece
24 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Migrant bird spotted near Coimbatore||A European Roller ( Coracias garrulus ), a passage migrant through the Indian sub-continent, was spotted near Coimbatore recently. Coimbatore-based senior photographer T.R.A. Arunthavaselvan spotted and photographed the bird in a farm land on Annur-Mettupalayam road on October 18. Mr. Arunthavaselvan received a call from his friend Jayaprakash on October 18 and the latter told him about a bird he had seen in a farm. “He told me that it looked like Indian Roller ( Coracias benghalensis ) but small in size with more blue plumage. “We visited the spot and observed it using binoculars. We could easily confirm that it was a European Roller from its distinct plumage, size and other characteristics,” said Mr. Arunthavaselvan, who also photographed the bird. According to Mr. Arunthavaselvan, who is aged 71, European Roller’s head, neck and underparts are light blue whereas Indian Roller’s neck, back and underparts are brownish. It breeds in parts of Western Europe to Central Asia and migrates to Africa during winter. Halt “European Roller do not migrate to Tamil Nadu. The bird could have made a halt during the migration to Africa,” he said. Mr. Arunthavaselvan said that the individual he spotted often changed its perch from slightly taller trees to electric pole during its flight for preys, mainly beetles. “Many butterflies flew past the bird which did not catch them. It looked for beetles and grasshoppers,” said Mr. Arunthavaselvan, adding that the passage migrant has been sighted in some parts of Tamil Nadu before.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-bird-spotted-near-coimbatore/article37146717.ece
24 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Trains cancelled after boulders fall on tracks||The Salem Division of the Southern Railway on Saturday announced the cancellation of train services on the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) section, between Mettupalayam and Udhagamandalam, after boulders fell on the railway track in the Nilgiris district. A release said the boulders fell on the track between Kallar and Hillgrove junctions of the NMR section, causing obstruction. On Saturday, Train No.06136 Mettupalayam-Udhagamandalam special train left Mettupalayam Junction at the scheduled time of 7.10 a.m. As the train crossed Kallar and encountered the boulders, the train was taken back to Mettupalayam. Following this, railway officials made arrangements for the refund of ticket fares to the 172 passengers who were on the train, the release said. Subsequently, the Salem Division announced that Train No.06136 Mettupalayam-Udhagamandalam special train as well as Train No.06137 Udhagamandalam-Mettupalayam special train on the NMR section had been fully cancelled for Saturday. However, NMR services between Coonoor and Udhagamandalam continued uninterrupted, said the release. Later in the day, the Salem Division announced that Train No.06136 and Train No.06137 would remain cancelled from Sunday, until further notice, following maintenance works that are to be undertaken on the NMR section due to the recurring incidents of boulders falling on railway tracks. NMR services between Coonoor and Udhagamandalam will not be affected.  Railway officials made arrangements for the refund of ticket fares to the 172 passengers who were on a train||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trains-cancelled-after-boulders-fall-on-tracks/article37146257.ece
24 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bulgaria urged to look at joint ventures in defence sector||The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia) has urged Bulgaria to look at joint ventures here, especially in the defence sector. Invitation to exhibitions M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of Codissia, said the Ambassador of Bulgaria to India, Eleonora Dimitrova, was in the city recently. She invited business delegations from here to four major exhibitions to be held in Bulgaria next year. The Codissia urged her to explore opportunities for joint ventures between industries in Coimbatore and Bulgaria in the defence sector. Bulgaria is supplying to the Indian defence sector for a long time, he said. “We have shown our interest to have further interaction in future regarding combining the start-ups from CODISSIA Defence Innovation and Atal Incubation Centre (CDIIC) and Bulgaria and explore the opportunities to work together,” said Mr. Ramesh Babu in a press release. The Ambassador indicated that her country was ready to provide support for ventures to manufacture industrial products required in Bulgaria and also invited industries here to invest in Bulgaria, the press release added. She offered that country’s support to Tamil Nadu in the Defence Industrial Corridor project. Iliya Dekov, Head of Trade and Economic Affairs of the Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria to India, was also present at the meeting. Office-bearers of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association and CDIIC also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/codissia-urges-bulgaria-to-look-at-joint-ventures-in-defence-sector/article37146726.ece
24 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Every dept. in Coimbatore should develop a five-year plan: Minister||Every State Government department in Coimbatore should develop a five-year plan and roadmap for implementation, Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthilbalaji told officials at a review meeting he chaired at the Coimbatore Collectorate on Saturday. A release quoting the Minister said the roadmap should have year-wise targets. If a department executing the roadmap faced funds shortage, it should immediately take it to the State Government’s notice. He would help in taking those issues to the notice of either the Chief Minister or Minister concerned to secure funds. Mr. Senthilbalaji said the Coimbatore Corporation would soon implement a grievance redress scheme wherein officials would directly meet people to redress their grievances. In rural areas, the District Collector and he would meet people in person. This would be called the ‘makkalai thedi mavatta nirvagam’ scheme. And, the officials concerned – be it in Corporation or other local bodies or other departments – should take steps to redress those grievances within 15 days of receiving those petitions. The scheme would also be implemented in seven municipalities, including the four newly-upgraded ones and 33 town panchayats, he added. As for drinking water supply, he asked officials in the Corporation and rural areas to ensure that the local bodies supplied water every two days. The State Government would come up with a mobile application for giving single-window clearance for giving licence for starting new enterprises or industries. It would design the application in such a way that the District Collectors had supervisory control to review application status. The release said the Minister asked officials to ensure that the Government’s schemes were implemented without any delay in Coimbatore. Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram, Coimbatore South MLA Vanathi Srinivasan, Collector G.S. Sameeran, Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, City Police Commissioner Deepak Damor and other senior officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/every-dept-in-coimbatore-should-develop-a-five-year-plan-minister/article37146713.ece
24 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for NEEDS||District Collector G.S. Sameeran has invited applications from aspiring entrepreneurs from the district for the New Entrepreneur cum Enterprise Development Scheme (NEEDS). A press release from the District Industries Centre (DIC) said the applicants should look at projects worth Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 5 crore. The selected applicants will get 25% of the project cost as subsidy to a maximum limit of Rs. 75 lakh, from the earlier limit of Rs. 50 lakh and also 3% interest subsidy with effect from September 2, 2021. Applications from women, the disabled and candidates of SC/ST communities will get priority. Applicants in the general category should be aged between 21 and 35 and should have studied at least till Class XII, which is a newly-introduced relaxation. Further, the general category candidates should invest 10% of the project cost, it said. The district is looking at disbursing Rs. 6.36 crore as subsidy under the scheme this financial year (2021-2022). For details and application, log on to www.msmetamilnadu. tn.gov.in General Manager of DIC B. Karthigaivasan said projects involving subsidy of Rs. 4.58 crore have already received approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-needs/article37146714.ece
24 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Stakeholders’ meeting discusses Tiruppur’s draft Master Plan||The local planning area for Tiruppur will be expanded from 220 sq. km to 514 sq. km, said Principal Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Department Hitesh Kumar S. Makwana on Saturday. He chaired a stakeholder consultative meeting on the draft Master Plan at the Collectorate in Tiruppur in the presence of Director of Town and Country Planning E. Saravanavelraj, District Collector S. Vineeth and other officials. A release said the local planning area will include local bodies namely Tiruppur Corporation, Samalapuram, Thirumuruganpoondi, Avinashi and Uthukuli town panchayats and eight village panchayats in Tiruppur panchayat union namely Pongupalayam, Kanakkampalayam, Kalipalayam, Perumanallur, Ettiveerampalayam, Mudalipalayam, Mangalam and Iduvai. Apart from this, it will also include three villages from Pongalur panchayat union namely Nachipalayam, Peruntholuvu and Thonguttipalayam; six village panchayats in Avinashi panchayat union such as Thekkalur, Sembianallur, Velayuthampalayam, Pudupalayam, Kaniampoondi and Palangarai and four village panchayats each from Uthukuli (Chengapalli, Muthampalayam, A. Periyapalayam and S. Periyapalayam) and Palladam (Poomalur, Velampalayam, Karaipudur and Naranapuram) panchayat unions, the release said. The meeting, which was organised by the Local Planning Authority, discussed aspects such as protection of water bodies, setting up of industries, environmental protection and safe disposal of solid, construction and medical waste with NGOs and industrial heads. Changes will be made to the draft Master Plan accordingly and will be submitted to the State government for approval, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stakeholders-meeting-discusses-tiruppurs-draft-master-plan/article37146715.ece
24 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 6,000 farmers in Coimbatore to get free power connection||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) would give free power connection to 6,363 farmers in Coimbatore, Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthilbalaji said at a function organised here on Saturday to give orders for free power for farmers. So far, Tangedco had given free power connection to 1,103 farmers in the district. At the function, he gave orders for 89 farmers. To the others, Tangedco would be giving the orders before March 2022. The decision to give free power connection to farmers was based on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s announcement in the Assembly. He had announced that Tangedco would give one lakh free power connection to farmers across the State. The announcement was only a continuation of what the then Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had announced. After announcing on November 17, 1990 that the State Government would give free power connections he had followed it up with a Government Order giving power connection to 12.40 lakh farmers. The cost of giving the free power connection to 6,363 farmers in Coimbatore worked out to Rs. 48.85 crore, he said and added that Tangedco was investing more in Coimbatore. It had installed 154 transformers and began steps to upgrade or build 13 sub-stations in the district. In all, Tangedco was investing Rs. 144 crore in Coimbatore, Mr. Senthilbalaji said. While giving the free power connection to farmers, he had instructed officials in Coimbatore that Tangedco should not impose any additional financial cost on farmers. Tangedco had chosen to go ahead and given free power connection even though its financial position was a cause for concern. More than 50% of Tangedco’s annual expenditure was spent on power purchase, thanks to the decisions taken in the last 10 years of AIADMK government. The power generation and distribution agency had incurred a debt of Rs. 1.59 lakh crore. To service the debt, it paid Rs. 15,000 crore to Rs. 16,000 crore a year in interest. This was the doing of the previous government, he said and added that the AIADMK government’s performance in power generation was no good either. It had added only 59 MW to the State-installed generation capacity. And, of the installed generation capacity of 4,320 MW from thermal power plants, Tangedco had managed to generate only 1,800 MW. Soon after assuming office the DMK government had increased the power generated to 3,500 MW. And, for improving the installed generation capacity, the Government had planned projects for generating 4,000 MW from solar power plants and 2,000 MW from gas-based plants. Tangedco would soon begin work on those projects, the Minister said. In response to a question on overpricing liquor in Tasmac shops, Mr. Senthilbalaji said after a review of complaints received in the recent past, it had suspended 135 supervisors and salesmen. It had asked general managers in the districts to take complaints over WhatsApp and attend to those at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-6000-farmers-in-coimbatore-to-get-free-power-connection/article37146711.ece
24 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Zoho to focus on R&D in manufacturing sector||Zoho will invest Rs. 50 crore to Rs. 100 crore and form a separate company that will focus on research and development in the manufacturing sector. Partnership Sridhar Vembu, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Zoho, told presspersons here on Saturday that the company would have local industries as partners who would bring in matching investment. Major sectors A centre would be set up in about three months and it would look at research and development in eight major sectors such as motors, machine tools, textiles, and battery technology. “We will have a laboratory that will work closely with industries here. We (Zoho) will bring capital and know-how. This will be a separate company with investment from Zoho,” he said. The laboratory would focus on issues that the industries faced and take up research in areas of mechanical, electrical and electronics. Import substitution  The aim is to bring in import substitution with high technology developed locally for the domestic manufacturing industries and also bring in automation through the centre, he said. “We need to develop the critical know-how for the industries. It will make this region and the State a high wage economy,” Mr. Vembu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/zoho-to-focus-on-rd-in-manufacturing-sector/article37146733.ece
24 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Court allows IAF to retain custody of Flight Lieutenant in rape case||The First Additional District Judge, Coimbatore, on Saturday held that the Indian Air Force (IAF) can retain the custody of the Flight Lieutenant who was arrested by the Coimbatore City Police on charges of raping a woman colleague. Allowing the IAF to have the custody of the accused, Flight Lieutenant Amitesh Harmukh (29), the court permitted the police to proceed with their investigation. Judge S. Nagarajan held that the accused would only be under the custody of the IAF and the police should give proper intimation to the IAF well in advance for the investigation. Upon receiving such intimation or requisition, the IAF should provide a feasible atmosphere within the campus of Air Force and should allow privacy of the investigation by the police. Material evidence The court ordered that the police, after completion of the investigation, shall prepare two sets of material evidence and one set shall be handed over for Court-Martial under the Air Force Act, 1950. The court further ordered that it was open to the police to seek appropriate direction after the disposal of the case by the Court-Martial, as per Section 126 of Air Force Act, that a person convicted or acquitted by a Court-Martial may, with the previous sanction of the Central government, be tried again by a criminal court for the same offence or on the same facts. The court issued the order after the police approached the District Court, Coimbatore, challenging the order of the Additional Mahila Court which sent the Flight Lieutenant to IAF custody on September 30, five days after his arrest. The plea challenged the custody of the accused, which the IAF claimed under Section 124 of the Air Force Act, 1950. As per the First Information Report (FIR) filed by the police, the alleged rape took place in the room of the woman officer on the campus of the Air Force Administrative College, Coimbatore, between 12.30 a.m. and 3 a.m. on September 10. The woman officer approached the police with a complaint and the All Women Police Station, Coimbatore Central, arrested the accused on September 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-allows-iaf-to-retain-custody-of-flight-lieutenant-in-rape-case/article37146734.ece
24 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Valuables stolen from house||Burglars broke open the house of a businessman near here early on Saturday and decamped with diamond necklaces and gold jewellery worth Rs. 1.30 crore. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Coimbatore Range) M.S. Muthusamy said that multiple teams have been formed to nab the burglars. The police said that the villa of B. Srinivasan in a semi-gated community at Gounder Mills near Coimbatore was targeted when the family members were sleeping on the first floor. The valuables were kept in a room on the first floor which was not locked, the police said. “The burglars took away four diamond necklaces and 20 sovereigns of gold jewellery,” said Mr. Muthusamy. Mr. Muthusamy and S. Selvanagarathinam, Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore District (Rural) Police, visited the villa. The police employed a sniffer dog and fingerprint experts at the crime scene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/valuables-worth-rs-13-cr-stolen-from-house/article37146718.ece
24 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Annamalai trying to stay politically relevant’||Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthilbalaji on Saturday said the BJP State president K. Annamalai had levelled corruption allegations against him only to stay politically relevant. Responding to reporters at a function held at the Coimbatore Collectorate, the Minister said there was no truth in the corruption allegations. Somebody who was defeated in Aravakurichi [the Assembly constituency where Mr. Annamalai contested and lost] was levelling such allegations just to stay afloat in politics, he said. Mr. Senthilbalajai said the Chief Minister was trying to deliver good governance by launching several welfare schemes. Soon after assuming office, the CM had said that the DMK government would function in such a way that those who had voted for the DMK would feel happy and those who did not, would regret it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annamalai-trying-to-stay-politically-relevant-minister/article37146725.ece
24 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter arrested for robbery||The Singanallur police on Saturday arrested a 46-year-old man from Madurai district on charges of robbery. The police said that S. Ravichandran from Sikkandar Chavadi at Pothumbu in Madurai was involved in more than 80 cases. On Friday, Ravichandran robbed a man of his money near Mani’s theatre in Singanallur. The police launched an investigation based on the man’s complaint. Ravichandran was nabbed by the police during a vehicle check at A.G. Pudur on Saturday. During questioning, the police found out his involvement in the robbery. The police also found out that he had involved in chain-snatching within the limits of the Singanallur, Podanur, Saravanampatti, Sulur and Thudiyalur police stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/history-sheeter-arrested-for-robbery/article37146727.ece
24 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No water supply for Kavundampalayam and Vadavalli on Sunday and Monday||There would be no water supply for wards in Kavundampalayam and Vadavalli on Sunday and Monday, said a release from the Coimbatore Corporation and attributed the disruption to a leak in the main supply pipeline in the Kavundampalayam-Vadavalli distribution scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-water-supply-for-kavundampalayam-and-vadavalli-on-sunday-and-monday/article37146712.ece
24 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Damaged housing board tenements to be rebuilt in two years: Minister||Steps have been taken to rebuild the 50 tenements constructed by Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) that were found to be fully damaged, in two years, said Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy here on Saturday. Addressing the media at the Collectorate, the Minister said 195 tenements in the State, both rented and sold, were found to be in a damaged condition and steps were taken to repair them. “The Chief Minister is holding a meeting on October 28 during which funds will be sought for demolition and rebuilding of tenements,” he added. To a question on whether another opportunity would be given for regularisation of unapproved plots and layouts, the Minister said many opportunities were given already. “But regularisation should be done within the time frame stipulated by the government. It is not to harass anyone, but to help people,” he said and added that a decision on extending the time period of regularisation would be announced. Mr. Muthusamy said steps would be taken to construct a multi-level parking lot in the Corporation limits. “The underground parking system planned at the bus stand terminal will accommodate vehicles to cater to the needs for the next 30 years,” he added. About the 12-feet pedestrian pathways created on smart roads, including the road at Periyar Nagar, the Minister said discussion was on with the Corporation to utilise the space. Earlier, the Minister along with Collector H. Krishnanunni and Anthiyur MLA A.G. Venkatachalam distributed welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 1.72 crore to 186 beneficiaries. Also, they conducted samuthaya valaikappu (community baby shower) for five pregnant women and handed over the ‘ seer ’ comprising turmeric, glass bangles and other items to them. Two children, who lost both their parents to COVID-19, were given fixed deposits for Rs. 10 lakh each. Also, 39 children, who had lost one of their parents, were given fixed deposits to the tune of Rs. 1.17 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/damaged-housing-board-tenements-to-be-rebuilt-in-two-years-minister/article37146820.ece
24 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water stagnation at rly. underpasses affects vehicle movement||Heavy rain on Saturday led to stagnation of water at the railway underpasses at K.K. Nagar on Chennimalai Road and Vendipalayam here. Two-wheelers had to wade through the water at the railway underpass at K.K. Nagar and normalcy was restored after 9 a.m. Only lorries could pass through the underpass at Vendipalayam. Two-wheelers and cars were forced to take a circuitous route to reach the other side. Normalcy was restored after 11 a.m. The district received a total rainfall of 617.1 mm. Rainfall recorded in other areas are as follows: Varattupallam -142.8 mm, Kavundapadi -102.2 mm, Perundurai -87 mm, Ammapettai -45.4 mm, Erode -43 mm, Bhavanisagar -41.3 mm, Gobichettipalayam-28.6 mm, Gunderipallam -26.2 mm, Elanthakuttaimedu -24.2 mm and Nambiyur -24 mm. In Salem district, Edappadi recorded 47.2 mm rainfall, Attur -22 mm, Mettur -17.2 mm, Sankari -16.4 mm, Gangavalli-15 mm and Thammampatti-10 mm. In Namakkal district, Koll Hills recorded 42 mm rainfall, Rasipuram -37.20 mm, Kumarapalayam- 32.60 mm and Erumapatti- 10 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-stagnation-at-rly-underpasses-affects-vehicle-movement/article37146835.ece
24 October 2021||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||PMK’s Karaikal district secy. hacked to death||Karaikal district secretary of the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) K. Devamani, 53, was hacked to death by unidentified persons on Friday night. He was returning to his residence on the outskirts of Karaikal on a two-wheeler from his party office in Tirunallar, when assailants waylaid him near his house and attacked him with deadly weapons, including sickles and knives. Devamani received multiple injuries on his neck, stomach and head. The assailants fled the spot after the attack. On information, Devamani’s supporters rushed to the spot and took him to the Government Hospital in Karaikal, where he died. Police attached to the Tirunallar station, who visited the scene of the crime, have registered a murder case and are investigating. Previous enmity is suspected to be the motive behind the murder. Police suspect mercenaries might have been hired to commit the murder. A long-time district secretary of the PMK, Devamani had several criminal cases pending against him. After the murder triggered tension in Tirunallar and Karaikal, the administration promulgated prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to prevent untoward incidents. All shops and business establishments in Tirunallar remained closed on Saturday. Public transport services also stayed off roads.  Demanding the immediate arrest of the accused, supporters of Devamani resorted to a road roko in Karaikal. They refused to accept the body from the Government Hospital in Karaikal, where the post-mortem was conducted. However, they withdrew the protest after assurance from senior police officials that the accused would be arrested soon. His body was later handed over to relatives.  After the murder triggered tension in Tirunallar and Karaikal, the administration promulgated prohibitory orders under Section 144||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmks-karaikal-district-secy-hacked-to-death/article37146243.ece
24 October 2021||Kariyapatti,TAMIL NADU||Constable assaulted in bar||A police constable, Manimaran, sustained head injury after he was assaulted at a bar here on Friday. The police said that Manimaran, attached to the Armed Reserve, had gone to the bar in the town. There a quarrel erupted between him and the bar owner, Kalyani. When the quarrel took a turn for the worse, there was fight between them, police sources said. In the attack, the constable sustained injury on his head. Kariyapatti police have registered a case against Kalyani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-assaulted-in-bar/article37146996.ece
24 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Sixth mega COVID-19 vaccination camp held in Western districts||The sixth mega COVID-19 vaccination camp was held in 819 places in Krishnagiri district. Inaugurating a camp, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy urged the public to take the vaccination to avoid complications in the event of COVID-19 infection. An infection despite the vaccination would still not be fatal and would protect the person from complications causing hospitalisation and artificial respiratory support, said the Collector. According to the administration, over 2,59,869 people have been vaccinated in the preceding five mega vaccination camps held in the district between September 12 and October 10. As of date, 2,23,570 vaccine doses are available in the district. This includes 2,14,480 Covidshield doses and 9,090 Covaxin doses. In Dharmapuri, over 62% of the population has been administered the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, according to the administration. Over 9,95,625 people have taken the vaccination as of October 20. On Saturday, the vaccination camp was organised in 601 places. Collector S. Dhivyadarshini inspected the vaccination camp in Dharmapuri Municipal School, Kadathur Anganwadi Center, among other vaccination spots.  Staff Reporter from Erode adds  In Erode, the camp was held at 569 places on Friday and at 620 places on Saturday. Forty mobile vehicles were deployed in the Corporation limits and health staff from the urban primary health centres vaccinated residents at their doorsteps. Also, people, who came for Deepavali purchase, also received their shots through the mobile vehicles at market areas. In Salem, Collector S. Karmegam inspected the vaccination camp held at the Urban Primary Health Centre at Kumarasamipatti. Most people received their second dose of COVID-19 vaccine at the camps conducted across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sixth-mega-covid-19-vaccination-camp-held-in-western-districts/article37146829.ece
24 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Two children drown in pond||Two children drowned in a farm pond of a private agriculture college at Athimugam in Shoolagiri here. Shabeer (14), son of Mehaboob Basha, and Ashok (12), son of Ravi, were last seen playing near the farm pond on a land owned by the college. The boys went missing and a search was conducted in the pond from where their bodies were recovered. Local people demanded compensation from the college that had allegedly not fenced the pond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-children-drown-in-pond/article37146830.ece
24 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Stress on women empowerment||Only when womenfolk in a society was respected and protected, there would be an opportunity for sustained peace and an overall development in all spheres, said Social Welfare Minister Geetha Jeevan here on Saturday. Speaking at a workshop organised at the Collectorate, with the objective to formulate and reconstruct the guidelines by the State government, where a large number of women representatives from various walks of life participated, she said that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had stated that womenfolk had not got their due share in the last 10 years. There were many irregularities and malpractice at various levels and loopholes were used to escape from crimes such as domestic violence and dowry harassment in which women were the victims, she said. “All these errors would not be allowed any more and will be taken up as per the laws by the government,” she assured. Minister for Registration and Commercial Taxes P. Moorthy said that soon after the new government took over in May, the first order passed by the Chief Minister was to permit free travel in TNSTC buses for women. About 70 % of women used the facility in the State. Likewise, more focus had been given for women education, he added. Principal Secretary (Social Welfare) Shambu Kallolikar gave an overview about the objective and need for the workshop. Already, similar interactions were held in Chennai recently. He appealed to the participants to air their views in an objective manner. Other senior officers from the Social Welfare Department, including S. Valarmathi and V. Amudavalli spoke. Collector S. Aneesh Shekhar said when womenfolk were given education, the real meaning of empowerment would be achieved. Earlier, Ms. Geetha Jeevan visited some of the schools run by the Corporation of Madurai and interacted with the students about the infrastructure and the food served in the neighbouring anganwadi centres, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stress-on-women-empowerment/article37146993.ece
24 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lifetime Achievement Award presented||The leading psychiatrist and founder of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation C. Ramasubramanian received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Indian Psychiatric Society (IPS) here on Friday. Two other psychiatrists M. Suresh Kumar from Chennai and Bharat Vatwani from Mumbai were also honoured for their dedicated service at the inauguration of the 54th annual conference of the society’s south zonal branch. They were recognised as icons and idols of psychiatry who inspire the new generation to enhance the quality of mental health delivery in the community. Dr. Ramasubramanian’s service to take psychiatric treatment to the doorsteps of those suffering from mental illnesses and his contribution in rehabilitating hundreds of beneficiaries are well known in the region. His self-effacing nature and humility with which he handles his patients was lauded by the IPS President Gautham Saha and others, who assembled for the three-day conference to discuss the way forward in psychiatric treatment, counselling and care giving especially in a post-COVID world. He said an award that is peer-reviewed is always significant but it is not meant for an individual or an institution. “The award is for the people whom I am serving, who are not wanted by their families or the community, who live in their world of imagination and are clueless about their future,” Dr. Ramasubramanian said.  Two other psychiatrists T.S. Rao from Vijayawada and M.S. Reddy from Hyderabad were presented the Acharya Award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lifetime-achievement-award-presented/article37146995.ece
24 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two special trains to depart early||The Southern Railway has changed the timings of two special trains from November 1. A statement said that Train No 06655 Madurai-Rameswaram special train will leave early from Manamadurai (7.15 p.m.), Sudiyur (7.25 p.m.), Paramakudi (7.40 p.m.), Sattirakudi (7.56 p.m.), Ramanathapuram (8.10 p.m.), Uchipuli (8.32 pm), Mandapam (8.52 p.m.), Pamban (9.10 p.m.) from November 4. Train No. 06730 Punalur - Madurai special train will leave from Virudhunagar at 3 a.m. instead of 3.15 a.m. from November 1. Train No. 06101 Chennai - Kollam special train will leave from Dindigul at 11.05 p.m. and Madurai at 12.15 a.m. instead of 11.40 p.m. and 12.45 a.m. respectively from November 1. In the return direction, Train No. 06102 Kollam - Chennai special train will leave from Dindigul at 8.05 p.m. instead of 8.10 p.m. Train No. 08496 Bhubaneswar Rameswaram special train will leave from Tiruchi at 4.15 p.m. Pudukkottai at 5.05 p.m., Karaikudi at 5.55 p.m., Devakottai Road at 6.04 p.m. Sivagangai 6.35 p.m., Manamadurai at 7 p.m., Paramakudi at 7.25 p.m., Ramanathapuram at 7.55 p.m. from November 4, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/change-in-timings-of-two-special-trains/article37146791.ece
24 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Early detection is must in management and treatment of breast cancer’||October is breast cancer awareness month, an annual campaign that seeks to educate the public on the impact of breast cancer and how early diagnosis can help those affected. In line with the protocol, the Velammal Multispeciality Hospital organised a special programme for the faculty of its engineering college here on Saturday. Oncology Head at Velammal Medical College S. R. Dhamotharan, and Medical Oncologist R. Rajkumar addressed the 300-strong gathering of teachers and other staff to stress the need for a healthy lifestyle. “Early detection is essential in management and treatment but often due to ignorance, fear, and social stigma, women present with stage III or IV cancer which requires surgery and extensive treatment,” Dr.Dhamotharan said. If detected early, then in most cases treatment is less aggressive and chances of recovery are much better, he added. Chairperson CII-Young Indians Poornima Venkatesh, Director Velammal Medical College V. Karthik Muthuramalingam, and Vice-Chairman of Velammal Education Trust Ganesh Natarajan also attended the event and reiterated that good health is in our own hands and we should follow what the doctors advise us.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/early-detection-is-must-in-management-and-treatment-of-breast-cancer/article37146990.ece
24 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Maintenance of Thyagi Sankaralinganar memorial: HC seeks State response||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday directed the State government to file a response in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the government to take steps to maintain the Thyagi Sankaralinganar memorial in Virudhunagar district. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar directed the State to file a counter affidavit in the petition filed by G. Thirumurugan of Ramanathapuram district. The petitioner pointed out that Thyagi Sankaralinganar played a prominent role in getting the name of the State changed from ‘Madras State’ to ‘Tamil Nadu’ and had begun a ‘fast unto death’ movement in this regard. He said that the memorial in Virudhunagar district should be developed along the lines of the Gandhi Museum in Madurai. Photographs and portraits depicting the historical events should be displayed at the memorial. The petitioner said that the memorial also lacked basic amenities. The authorities should take steps to improve the facilities at the memorial. The petitioner also said that the memorial should be developed into a tourist spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maintain-thyagi-sankaralinganar-memorial-high-court-tells-state/article37146803.ece
24 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Initiate wage settlement talks’||Scores of TNSTC workers, affiliated to CITU, staged a day-long "slogan raising on demands" protest at various places in the district on Saturday. CITU district president R. Deivaraj said that the protest was to draw the attention of the State Government to initiate wage settlement talks. "The talks should have been held as early as August 2019. But, the previous AIADMK Government failed to do it. When the TNSTC employees went on three-day strike in March 2020, it was told that only the next Government can hold talks," Mr. Deivaraj said. Though the DMK had given a slew of promises, including scrapping of new pension scheme, wage settlement talks, there was no sign of initiating them. Even the festival advance of Rs. 10,000 usually given for Deepavali has not been given. "We know the State finance situation is not good. But, the Government should call for the talks to keep the unions abreast of the situation," Mr. Deivaraj said.  Transport union office-bearers V. Pitchai and Kanagasundar were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiate-wage-settlement-talks/article37146988.ece
24 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP: restore concessions to passengers||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has appealed to Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to restore passenger concessions for their railway journeys. In a memorandum handed over to the Minister at New Delhi on Friday, Mr. Venkatesan welcomed restoration of most of the train services that were cancelled during Covid-19 pandemic. However, 53 concessions given to almost 21.75 crore passengers have not been given back except in the case of railway employees. Even for railway employees introduction of e-pass system has restricted their travel facility. As per CAG, 11.45% of reserved passengers avail the concessions. Out of this, the railway employees, for whom concession is statutory, constitute 37.2%, and senior citizens 52.5% . Patients constitute 3.8%., physically handicapped 3.6% and other concessions, including to media persons constitute 2.9% By a commercial circular dated December 7, 2020 all concessions except for railway passes were withdrawn in festival, holiday specials and clone trains. Senior citizen concession takes only Rs. 1,400 crore per year. All the concessions were allowed in course of time for various reasons out of social necessity and obligation. Even war widows, sports persons, kisans, youth , students enjoyed the concession. In a country where 20% of population is below the poverty level, the concessions are essential to ensure pilgrimage and tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-restore-concessions-to-passengers/article37146987.ece
24 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||MMHRC gets award||Meenakshi Mission Hospital & Research Center (MMHRC) has bagged the 13th edition of FICCI Healthcare Excellence Awards - 2021 for Digital Innovation in Healthcare. The introduction of Teladoc Health Robots by the hospital in June last year won it the award. The telemedicine robot ensured the safety of doctors, patients and healthcare workers during the pandemic and also checked the spread of Coronavirus infection. It was shortlisted for Excellence in Patient Safety category. The awards are given to recognise the contributions of individuals and organisations for innovating increased efficiency, affordability and improved performance of healthcare delivery. It deployed 16 health robots in departments, such as Covid ICU and wards, Intensive Respiratory Care Units, Accident & Emergency, Cardiology and Nephrology. The robots helped the doctors to remotely access patient data for diagnosing the health condition and suggesting the line of treatment. In a press release, its Chairman S. Gurushankar said the hospital would continue to uphold its objectives of providing safe infection-free environment for all. The award will inspire the staff to constantly maintain the treatment protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mmhrc-gets-award/article37146989.ece
24 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam was 135.75 feet (permissible level 142 ft). There was an inflow of 3,011 cusecs and a discharge of 2,150 cusecs. The water level in Vaigai dam was 57.35 ft (maximum level of the dam is 71 ft) with an inflow of 2,220 cusecs and a discharge of 1,319 cusecs. The rainfall (in mm) recorded in the region during the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday is as follows: Periyar dam: 21.8, Uthamapalayam: 2, Manjalaru: 2, according to PWD officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37146805.ece
24 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Chunnambar to get multi-level parking lot||As part of the efforts to make the Pondicherry Tourism Development Corporation self-reliant, the government is planning to engage the corporation in various revenue generating ventures. The government is planning to set up a multi-level parking lot, a petrol pump at Chunnambar and drive-in restaurants at Lawspet and Pondy Marina. “We want to make PTDC more self-reliant by improving its financial strength. Various revenue generating models are being considered,” Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan, who also holds the Tourism portfolio, told The Hindu . He recently held a meeting with senior officials of the Tourism Department to discuss various issues pertaining to PTDC. The Corporation was planning to construct a multi-level parking lot and start a petrol/diesel outlet at the Chunnambar boat house. “On any given day hundreds of tourists visit the boat house and on weekends the numbers swell. Now the vehicles are parked in the open. If there is a proper parking place, a reasonable amount could be collected from the visitors,” the Minister said. The government wants to utilise the vast stretch of land available near the boat house for such commercial purposes. A gas station was also being proposed at Chunnambar, he added. Steps are also being taken to operationalise two big boats purchased three years ago for ferrying tourists to the Paradise Island. The government was also planning to set up Drive-in restaurants near the airport and Pondy Marina, he added.  Steps are being taken to operationalise two big boats purchased three years ago for ferrying tourists to the Paradise Island||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chunnambar-to-get-multi-level-parking-lot/article37147078.ece
24 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records two deaths, 53 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded two COVID-19 deaths and 53 new cases. Two persons succumbed to the virus while undergoing treatment at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute and Government Chest Hospital during the last 24 hours ending Saturday 10 a.m., according to the data released by the Health department. Of the new cases registered, 30 are from Puducherry region, 15 in Karaikal, 7 in Mahe and 1 in Yanam. The cases were detected by screening 3,518 persons. The test positivity rate now stood at 1.51% and case fatality at 1.45%. The overall tally stands at 1,855 deaths, 457 active cases, a total of 1,27,674 cases and 1,25,352 recoveries till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-two-deaths-53-new-covid-19-cases/article37147079.ece
24 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||20 migrant workers arrested||The Sederapet Police on Saturday arrested 20 migrant workers for assaulting three policemen and damaging four vehicles inside the industrial estate. The workers resorted to violence on Friday after a worker, Tikaram Malik, died at a steel factory in Sederapet Industrial Estate. When the police came to the factory following the death, the workers attacked them and damaged their vehicles. The Sederapet Police said a case has been registered against migrant workers and two senior employees of the steel factory for the death of Mr. Malik. Twenty persons were arrested on Saturday for the violence, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-migrant-workers-arrested/article37147080.ece
24 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Fisher’s body brought to Kottaipattinam||A pall of gloom descended on Kottaipattinam, a remote coastal hamlet, as the body of Rajkiran, 30, was on Saturday brought home from Sri Lanka. He drowned in the sea after a Sri Lankan Naval vessel intercepted and collided with the boat he was on while fishing. When a mechanised boat with the coffin with Rajkiran’s remains reached the shore, a large number of fisherfolk rushed to the boat to have a glimpse of him. Fisherfolk, mainly women, came in large numbers to pay homage. Rasu, father of Rajkiran, Aravalli, his mother and Brinda, 25, his wife, were inconsolable on seeing the body. Ms. Brinda got married to him only 40 days ago. A section of fishers of Kottaipattinam, who have been on an indefinite strike since Wednesday following Rajkiran’s death and the detention of two fishers by the Sri Lankan Navy on Monday, raised slogans against the island nation’s Navy. They held the Sri Lankan Navy responsible for the fisher’s death, and alleged that the boat on which Rajkiran and two others had gone for fishing was sunk after being intentionally hit by the Sri Lankan Navy’s vessel. “No one should undergo the suffering and pain that we are undergoing now. What wrong has my son done? He ventured into the sea only in search of livelihood,” Mr. Rasu said. A large number of mourners paid homage to Rajkiran. Minister for Law S. Regupathy, Collector Kavitha Ramu, Fisheries Department officials and fishermen leaders were among those who were present. Consoling Mr. Rasu and his family, Mr. Regupathy handed over a cheque for Rs. 10 lakh as compensation on behalf of the State government. The Minister also told them that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had taken steps to secure the release of the two fishermen from Sri Lanka. Rajkiran’s body was later carried in an ambulance and taken to a burial ground, where the last rites were performed. Earlier, the Sri Lankan Navy handed over Rajkiran’s body to the Indian Coast Guard and the transfer took place near the IMBL. The coffin was later shifted to a local fishing boat, closer to home, to be brought ashore. Sri Lankan fishers held Two Sri Lankan fishermen were arrested on Friday for foraying into Indian waters, off the Vedaranyam coast, in Nagapattinam district. On noticing a Sri Lankan fibre boat off the Vedaranyam coast, a patrolling vessel of the Indian Navy rushed to the spot and inquired about them. It was found that Nimaladoss, 24, and Kajiban, 23, had ventured into the sea from Valvettithurai in Sri Lanka and crossed into the Indian waters. They were then handed over to Coastal Security Group police in Vedaranyam, who produced them at a court in Chennai. The fishermen were later remanded in judicial custody up to November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishers-body-brought-to-kottaipattinam/article37146255.ece
24 October 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||5.5 tonnes of ration rice seized from mill||Revenue officials on Saturday seized around 5.5 tonnes of ration rice from a rice mill here. Acting on a tip-off, a team of officials, led by Flying Squad Tahsildar S. Sankarapandian, Rajapalayam Taluk Supply Officer, T. Ramanathan, raided Sri Sankaranarayanan Modern Rice Mill on Thalavaipuram Road at around 7 a.m. The officials found ration rice stocked in 109 bags, each weighing 50 kg. The officials, including the Flying Squad Revenue Inspector D. Vigneshwaran handed over the rice to the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) godown. Mr. Sankarapandian lodged a complaint with the Civil Supplies - CID, who are investigating into the source of the rice. A report on the seizure was also sent to the district Collector. Only on September 7, the revenue officials had intercepted a truck that left the rice mill on Tenkasi Road and seized 14 tonnes of paddy supplied to the mill by TNCSC for hulling. The rice mill registered with TNCSC should not take out the paddy out of the mill, but supply the rice to the corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/55-tonnes-of-ration-rice-seized-from-mill/article37146811.ece
24 October 2021||Rajapalyam,TAMIL NADU||5 tonnes of ration rice seized in Rajapalayam||Revenue officials on Saturday seized around 5.5 tonnes of ration rice from a rice mill here. Acting on a tip-off, a team of officials, led by Flying Squad Tahsildar S. Sankarapandian, Rajapalayam Taluk Supply Officer, T. Ramanathan, raided Sri Sankaranarayanan Modern Rice Mill on Thalavaipuram Road at around 7 a.m. The officials found ration rice stocked in 109 bags, each weighing 50 kg. The officials, including the Flying Squad Revenue Inspector D. Vigneshwaran handed over the rice to the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) godown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-tonnes-of-ration-rice-seized-in-rajapalayam/article37147125.ece
24 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Water level nearing 98 feet at Mettur dam||Water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur Dam is nearing 98 feet against the full reservoir level of 120 feet on Saturday. Rain in catchments Due to rain in catchment areas and increase in discharge from dams in Karnataka, the inflow started to increase in the past two days. Officials of the Public Works Department said the inflow increased from 13,477 cusecs on Friday to 39,634 cusecs on Saturday while the discharge was 100 cusecs into River Cauvery and 550 cusecs in the canal. The water level stood at 97.80 feet while the storage was 62.02 tmc against the capacity of 93.50 tmc. Rainfall recorded in the area was 17.20 mm. Bhavanisagar Dam At Bhavanisagar Dam in Erode district, the inflow was 7,644 cusecs while the discharge continues to be at 7,600 cusecs, including 2,300 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project canal, 4,800 cusecs into River Bhavani and 500 cusecs into Arakkankottai-Thadappalli canals. At 8 a.m., the water level stood at 102 feet while the storage was 30.31 tmc against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. Rainfall recorded in the area was 41.2 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-nearing-98-feet-at-mettur-dam/article37146837.ece
24 October 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Encourage self-employment, Collector tells bankers||Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy has appealed to all the major public sector banks in Sivaganga district to encourage giving loans to self-employment category as they not only gave jobs to the seekers, but also helped the economy achieve robust growth. He said this while giving away credit intimation letters to as many as 702 borrowers from various banks here on Friday. The loans amounting to Rs. 46.60 crore were given for different purposes including investments in small and tiny units in the district. The role of banks in the society was crucial as advances to the right people not only helped in enhancing job opportunities in small and tiny sectors, but also gave them the economic empowerment, he pointed out. During the pandemic period, such a large scale disbursal of loans showed that the people were confident of doing business and return on investment was assured. He urged the bankers to study the feasibility of the applicants seeking loans and to give them a proper feedback within a week’s time. “Whether it was on a positive note or negative, convey the decision to them quickly. So in case of denial, they may approach some other institution,” Mr Madhusudhan Reddy said. The Sivaganga district had a number of service industry apart from agro based firms, automobile, jewellery, handicrafts, textile and among others. The health sector has also become a sun rise industry in the district with more number of people stepping into the business, the bankers said and added that repayment of loans in the priority and non-priority sector was encouraging when compared with other districts. The State government had already recommended the officials in Mahalir Thittam and Rural Development departments to encourage revival and formation of self-help-groups. Those who had not turned NPA or default in the past, but remained dormant for some vague reasons, may be supported after examining their proposals, the officials said and added that subsidy component from both Central and State governments encouraged the borrowers to opt for agriculture, horticulture and among other fields. Lead Manager Illavazhagan, DIC Manager Ganesan, and Regional Managers from IOB, Indian Bank participated in the loan mela.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encourage-self-employment-collector-tells-bankers/article37146807.ece
24 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow State government to decide on moisture content’||The authority to decide the moisture content level in paddy should be vested with the State government, said Communist Party of India’s Thanjavur unit. The party conducted its district executive committee meeting here on Saturday in the presence of State secretary R. Mutharasan. Discussing the current situation in the procurement of paddy at the direct purchase centres opened by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, the participants led by Thanjavur district secretary Muthu Uthirapathi and deputy secretary T. Kasinathan said that the moisture content in paddy brought to the DPCs was more than the prescribed limit of 17% in view of the incessant rain. But the DPC staff remain firm on insisting the moisture content rule so that a large quantity of paddy bags remain stacked in the open. Insisting that the paddy should be procured at a higher moisture content of up to 22% in view of the climatic conditions and the problems faced by the farmers in storing the harvested paddy, the office-bearers condemned the Central team which visited the district to assess ground situation for declaring that it would forward the report to the Union government for arriving at a decision within a fortnight. ‘Grains may sprout’ Pointing out that leaving the paddy grains with higher moisture content in the absence of a proper storage facility would only result in the grains sprouting, they said that the Union government should allow the State government to decide on the moisture content level for procurement of paddy depending on the climatic conditions. They insisted that all the paddy that have been brought to the DPCs should be procured immediately to avoid damage to the grains.  Since DPC staff remain firm on moisture content rule, a large quantity of paddy bags remain stacked in the open CPI Thanjvur unit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-state-government-to-decide-on-moisture-content/article37146737.ece
24 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Roadside vendors should not cause inconvenience’||The corporation has urged roadside ‘seasonal’ vendors to organise themselves in a proper manner during Deepavali season so that their vocation did not pose a threat to the public and the vehicular traffic movement in the market areas. Normally, the roadside sale of goods during festive season is streamlined by the civic bodies through the auctioning of ‘ground tax’ collection from vendors by successful bidders or directly collected by the civic body staff. However, during this Deepavali season, the Thanjavur Corporation has decided not to levy any charges or collect ‘ground tax’ from the seasonal vendors who would be putting up their temporary shops on the roadside at market areas, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation. At the same time, the civic body has exhorted the vendors to carry on with their business without causing any inconvenience to the public and vehicle movement in the market areas. They should also ensure that the COVID-19 SoP were followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roadside-vendors-should-not-cause-inconvenience/article37146787.ece
24 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Temple consecration to be webcast today||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department has made arrangements for the webcast of the consecration of Naganathaswamy Temple at Thirunageswaram near Kumbakonam on Sunday. The devotees can witness the ‘kumbhabishegam’ related events which start at around 6 a.m. and the main consecration event slated around 10 a.m. throughwww.hrce.tn.gov.in/www.thirunageswaram raghutemple.orgThey can also witness the events through YouTube –https://www.youtube.com/ c/templelivestreamon October 24, according to temple sources. It has also been planned to webcast the ‘thirukkalyanam’ festival to be held on Sunday night in connection with the ‘maha kumbhabishegam.’ Renovation and repair works have been taken up at a cost of Rs. 5 crore at the temple which is being consecrated after a gap of 16 years. The consecration-related rituals at the Naganathaswamy Temple were being performed by around 250 ‘sivacharyars’ in 108 ‘homa kundams’ at the ‘yaga salai’ and 40 ‘oduvars’ recited `thevaram’ during the ‘yaga salai’ events that began on the evening of October 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-consecration-to-be-webcast-today/article37146783.ece
24 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Man held for marrying minor girl||A 21-year-old man has been arrested by the Srivaikuntam All Woman Police Station (AWPS) on charges of marrying a 15-year-old girl here on Saturday. Following a complaint, the officials informed the Social Welfare department and Child Welfare Committee in the district. Based on the inputs, a team visited the spot and inquiries revealed that the man had married the minor girl on Thursday at an unknown location in the presence of limited members from both the families. Officials informed the AWPS at Srivaikuntam. Inspector Lakshmi Prabha conducted the probe and arrested the man. The police said that the minor girl’s parents and some relatives were found guilty for getting the marriage performed. Despite knowing that the marriage was illegal and punishable under the laws, the parents had confessed to having given their consent, the officials said and added that they would also be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-marrying-minor-girl/article37146735.ece
24 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Good response to sixth round of mega camp in delta districts||The central districts inoculated a sizeable population in the sixth edition of the mega vaccination camp held on Saturday. Most people who took the jab in the region were people eligible for the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccination. Tiruchi district stood third in the State, while Thanjavur stood fourth in the total number of people vaccinated at Saturday’s camps. In Tiruchi, 1,01,303 people took the jab, and in Thanjavur, 1,00,327. In Tiruchi, 44,012 people took the first dose, and 57,291, the second. In Thanjavur, 62,477 took the first dose, and 37,850, the second. To ensure that that all sections of the public could be reached, health workers of Tiruchi Corporation went door-to-door, inoculating eligible persons through 42 mobile camps at various locations. They enquired the people’s reason for not taking the jab, following which they went on to administer it to them, senior officials said. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian inspected the vaccination camps in Perambalur, Ariyalur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts on Saturday. In Tiruvarur, he said that the Chief Minister had sanctioned various infrastructural improvements for hospitals in the district. A total of 19 sub-centres would be renovated at a cost of Rs. 30 lakh. In addition, Rs. 41 lakh will be allocated for the purchase of equipment for the paediatric ward of the Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital, Rs. 80 lakhs for the purchase of digital X-ray equipment for the Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital and Rs. 9 crore for construction of new buildings for Tiruthuraipoondi Government Hospital. In Perambalur district, 100% of pregnant women, and residents of 12 town panchayats have taken at least one dose of the vaccination. The average total vaccinated population in Perambalur district stands higher than the State average at 69.2%, the Minister said, as he appreciated the achievement. On Saturday, 20,176 people took the jab in Perambalur district. Over 1,500 workers took part in the efforts to inoculate people who were eligible to take the first dose of the vaccination, and those who were due for the second. Ariyalur district outperformed the State average. Following Saturday’s achievement, 86% of the district’s eligible population - 4,44,612 people - had taken the first dose, and 1,63,083 people had taken the second. In Karur, 50,113 people took the jab at various camps. As many as 41,075 took the second dose. Officials in Tiruvarur vaccinated a total of 34,855 people, of which 24,982 took the second dose. In Nagapattinam, 23,475 people took the vaccination, and in Mayiladuthurai, 21, 640. In Pudukottai district, 19,392 people were vaccinated and in Aranthangi, 19,262.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-response-to-sixth-round-of-mega-camp-in-delta-districts/article37146796.ece
24 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic marshals to ensure smooth vehicular movement in Tiruchi||The Tiruchi City Police on Saturday launched traffic marshals to improve the efficiency of traffic regulation and management in the city. Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan, who flagged off traffic marshal police vehicles, said that the scheme was aimed at reaching the spots where traffic jams or accidents were reported within a few minutes. To enable the police personnel to reach the spots as early as possible, the traffic policemen posted in busy areas would be given two-wheelers fitted with communication gadgets and first aid box. The system would help clear bottlenecks that disrupt smooth flow of vehicles. Moreover, the traffic marshals would offer first aid to accident victims before the arrival of ambulance. The Commissioner of Police said that the traffic police units in Cantonment, Woraiyur, Srirangam, Fort, Ariyamangalam and Palakkarai had been allotted two vehicles each. Based on the need, the number of vehicles would be increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-marshals-to-ensure-smooth-vehicular-movement-in-tiruchi/article37146793.ece
24 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 66.09 crore to be disbursed to farmers as compensation||About Rs. 66.09 crore has been released as compensation under the crop insurance scheme to about 23,900 farmers in the district who had insured their paddy, maize and cotton crops during the Rabi season in 2020-21. While 11,305 farmers, who had raised paddy and suffered crop damage, have been sanctioned a compensation of Rs. 19.05 crore, 11,938 maize growers have been sanctioned Rs. 45.36 crore. A compensation of Rs. 1.68 crore has been released for about 650 farmers who had raised cotton, Collector S. Sivarasu said in a statement issued here on Saturday. The Agriculture Department has called up farmers cultivating paddy, maize and cotton during the Rabi season during the current financial year to insure their crop. All farmers, including tenant farmers, can insure their crops. Farmers who have not taken crop loans can also insure their crops by paying the premium and submitting relevant documents at nationalised bank branches or agricultural cooperative societies. For paddy, farmers will have to pay a premium of Rs. 537 an acre and for cotton, the premium will be Rs. 585.87. The last date for paying the premium for the two crops is November 15. For maize, the premium will be Rs. 373.50 an acre and the last date for insuring the crop will be November 30. However, farmers were advised to insure their crops at the earliest without waiting till the last date for payment of the premium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-6609-crore-to-be-disbursed-to-farmers-as-compensation/article37146785.ece
24 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SBI conducts meeting for builders||State Bank of India here organised a Builders’ Meet recently. Builders from Tiruchi, Thanjavur and adjoining areas besides office-bearers of Tiruchi Chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India attended the meet, addressed by Amit Verma, SBI General Manager, and Ravikumar, DGM (Real Estate and Housing) and Sivakumar, DGM (AO, Tiruchi). Mr. Verma said demand for home loans in tier 2 and 3 cities was encouraging post pandemic and gave an overview on specialised products for home loan borrowers, builder tie-ups for ap projects, festive home loan offers, interest rate concessions and waiver of processing fee till December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sbi-conducts-meeting-for-builders/article37146794.ece
24 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||201 new cases in delta region||The central region has reported 201 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Six deaths on account of the viral infection were registered - three in Ariyalur district and one each in Mayiladuthurai, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur districts. Thanjavur continues to report a dip in the number of cases. On Saturday, 54 patients tested positive. Tiruchi reported 45 cases while Tiruvarur reported a slight increase in the number of fresh cases with 31 registered on Saturday. In Nagapattinam, 20 patients reported COVID-19 positive. Karur district registered 17 cases, Pudukottai, 16 and Mayiladuthurai, 13. In Ariyalur, four patients tested positive while Perambalur resumed its spot as the district with the least number of fresh cases in the State with one fresh case reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/201-new-cases-in-delta-region/article37146784.ece
24 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SBI conducts Builders’ Meet||The BVM Global Group of School has launched a comprehensive Computer Science-Artificial Intelligence course for students of Class XI and XII as part of its curriculum. BVM also plans to offer project-based AI courses for students of Classes IV to X, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sbi-conducts-builders-meet/article37146790.ece
24 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 98.60 feet on Saturday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 36,125 cusecs and the discharge was 100 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article37146789.ece
24 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Ban on playing obscene songs in private buses||Following a series of heinous crimes reported in Tirunelveli district and peripheries, the police have announced certain measures, which would pave way for maintenance of law and order especially during the festival season. Police said that apart from intensified vigil and round-the-clock surveillance at check posts, they have instructed private buses, autos, vans and share autos not to play audio songs which incited other castes and community. A police officer said that the commuters can share information about any violation with the control room and assured of stern action against the violators. “Most of the times, the songs played in the private buses by the crew were not only in high decibel but also inflammatory too. With emotions running high, the situation resulted in a free-for-all and inquiries revealed that the reasons were petty but the crimes were grave. The private buses operating in rural pockets from Tirunelveli were briefed and the police expected the operators to cooperate”, the officer said. Meanwhile, with shoppers making a beeline to various showrooms, including textiles, in view of the Deepavali festival, the police have deployed additional pickets in markets. Special control room and outpost would be functioning. The police have appealed to the pubic to be guarded against pickpockets and bag lifters. They have underlined stores to keep an eye on the CCTV cameras and be pro-active in view of the large turnout of shoppers, especially, during weekends. Officials have warned the shoppers to wear masks properly and not to be negligent. They have given counselling to the salesmen to use hand sanitisers and thermal scanners to check on body temperature of the visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ban-on-playing-obscene-songs-in-private-buses/article37147122.ece
24 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Tvl_water level||The water level in Papanasam dam was 138 feet (max level 143 ft) with an inflow of 996.41 cusecs and discharge of 1,504.75 cusecs. The water level in Manimuthar dam was 78.50 ft (max level 118 ft) with an inflow of 243 cusecs and nil discharge, said PWD officials on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tvlwater-level/article37147124.ece
24 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Rain floods Poigai Veterinary Hospital||Incessant rain, especially during night, has flooded the Government Veterinary Hospital in Poigai village on the Chennai - Bengaluru Highway (NH 48) in Vellore. As the premises remained inundated in waist-deep rainwater for a week, the cattle owners had to walk at least 12 km along with their animals to the District Government Veterinary Hospital, the nearest facility available for them for treatment. Tucked between Anpoondi lake and the highway, the hospital is the lifeline for farmers from villages, including Poigai, Sathyamangalam, Mottur, Chozhamur, Kothamangalam, Thirumani, Vasathanadu, Maruthavallipalayam and Abdullapuram. These villages are located between the airport under construction and the Collectorate on the highway in Vellore. The lakes on both sides of the highway help these farmers to irrigate their lands through a series of water channels. “We can't allow our cows to suffer from sickness. A few farmers form small groups, pool their money, to transport the cattle to the district hospital. But, many of them walk with their animals to the nearest hospital,” said K. Maruthu, a farmer in Poigai village. Veterinarians cite two reasons for the inundation of the hospital, which had been the case for the past three years. First, the existing carriageway of the highway is about four feet higher that the hospital due to re-laying without milling. More importantly, the water channels that discharge excess rainwater to the Anpoondi lake, maintained by the PWD, were never desilted and repaired for years resulting in clogging of the channels during monsoon. Farmers, village elders and veterinarians have submitted petitions to the Vellore district administration seeking to repair the channels and construct shutters to divert excess rainwater to waterbodies nearby but their pleas remain unattended. "We have given our phone numbers to village elders in these villages. Any emergencies, our vets will visit their houses to treat their cattle as a stop-gap measure," Dr. G. Andhuvan, Assistant Director (AD), Animal Husbandry Department (Vellore), told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-floods-poigai-veterinary-hospital/article37147130.ece
24 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 1.5 lakh people get a jab during 6th vaccination camp||The district administrations in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur have vaccinated over 1.5 lakh people in 3,274 camps held in these four districts as part of the sixth mega vaccination camp between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. on Saturday. Among the four districts, Tiruvannamalai had set up 1,075 camps, which is also the highest among four districts, vaccinating 85,745 people, including 33,570 people from Cheyyar block. This is slightly higher than the fifth mega camp that was held on October 10 where 80,020 people, including 27,197 persons from Cheyyar block were vaccinated. At present, the district has a total of 19.62 lakh people in the 18 plus population. So far, 63% of the total population have been vaccinated in the district. “We are focusing on people who have to take their second dose. Tribals in Jawadhu Hills are also motivated to get vaccinated,” said B. Murugesh, District Collector, Tiruvannamalai. In Vellore, 1,000 camps were organised covering 247 villages, four town panchayats and two municipalities with a total staff including health workers of 800 persons. The district has a total eligible population of 13 lakh, who could be vaccinated. In Vellore, 42,802 people were vaccinated during the sixth mega camp on Saturday. The newly formed Tirupattur and Ranipet districts have organised 249 and 950 camps covering 21,158 and 21,685 people respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-15-lakh-people-inoculated-during-sixth-mega-vaccination-camp/article37147075.ece
24 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Stress on concept of healthy ageing||The Government Vellore Medical College Hospital celebrated the International Day of Older Persons with a theme on digital equity for all ages. According to a press release, a competition was held focussing on the importance of the elderly and their contribution to their families, communities and societies. The hospital has a separate geriatric ward with 20 beds and an out-patient ward for the elderly patients that functions daily. Expo held An exhibition was organised by the students on the occasion with display of posters and collages composing of various aspects of geriatric care like nutrition, physical medicine and rehabilitation, yoga and naturopathy, non -communicable diseases (NCD) and vaccination highlighting the concept of ‘Healthy ageing’. R. Selvi, Dean, N. Rathi Thilagam, Medical Superintendent, C. Inbaraj, Resident Medical Officer, took part in the celebrations, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stress-on-concept-of-healthy-ageing/article37147131.ece
24 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||18 new cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,735 with 18 new cases reported on Saturday. While 48,402 persons have been discharged, the active cases stands at 204. The district's death toll is 1,129. In Ranipet district, 7 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,361. In Tirupattur district, 3 new cases were reported and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,240. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 19, taking the total number of cases to 54,829.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-new-cases-in-vellore/article37147076.ece
24 October 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||3,000 saplings planted on medical college premises||State Minister for Revenue K. K. S. S. R. Ramachandran, and Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu on Saturday inaugurated a mass tree plantation programme on the under-construction Virudhunagar Government Medical College premises here. As part of the greening programme on the college premises, Ramco Group has taken initiative to plant 3,000 saplings on the 25-acre premises where various buildings for the medical college and hostels have come up. Along with Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, the Ministers inspected various facilities provided at the college. National Medical Commission has approved for admitting 150 students to the MBBS course for the current academic year. “All the buildings, except for auditorium is ready. We expect that the buildings would be handed over to us very soon,” Dean, J. Sangumani, said. The Ministers, officials, college faculty members, nursing students, planted peepal, neem, banyan, naval and mango saplings. “The trees that are suitable to the climatic and soil condition of Virudhunagar have been chosen to provide greenery on the college premises,” the Dean said. Another 3,000 saplings would be planted in the coming days. District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Ramco Cements Senior vice-president Ramalingam, senior general manager Manikandan and deputy general manager Ramachandran, were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3000-saplings-planted-on-medical-college-premises/article37146813.ece
24 October 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||81,000 vaccine doses administered in Virudhunagar||The district administration on Saturday administered around 81,471 doses of COVID-19 vaccine during the 6th mega vaccination camp held across the district on Saturday. “This is the highest number of single day vaccine doses administered in the district among all the six mega vaccination camps held so far,” said Collector J. Meghanath Reddy. Among the 81,471 doses, 52,184 persons took the second dose and 29,287 got their first dose. The district has so far administered 15.50 lakh doses, including 10.80 lakh first dose and 47.06 lakh second dose, the Collector said. He gave credit to the health workers and officials of local bodies and revenue for their tireless efforts in bringing people to the camps for vaccination.  “Distribution of tokens in the last two days to the eligible persons has also helped,” he said. The workers made door-to-door visit for the vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/81000-vaccine-doses-administered-in-virudhunagar/article37146815.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 1.17 lakh vaccine doses administered in mega drive in Coimbatore district||A total of 1,17,799 doses of COVID-19 vaccines were administered to people aged above 18 in Coimbatore district in the sixth mega vaccination drive held on Saturday. The district administration aimed to vaccinate two lakh people in the drive through 1,429 camps from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. According to District Collector G.S. Sameeran, health workers and volunteers conducted door-to-door vaccination in the last two hours. Out of the 1,17,799 doses administered in the district on Saturday, 81% constituted second doses. A total of 1,05,099 doses of Covishield and 12,700 doses of Covaxin were administered to the eligible population. Coimbatore Corporation vaccinated 47,351 persons across the city. Data shared by the civic body showed that it had vaccinated 9,511 persons with first dose and 34,550 with second dose of Covishield and 901 persons with first dose and 2,389 with second dose of Covaxin.  Tiruppur  The Health Department administered 77,684 vaccine doses in Tiruppur district. Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan visited Upgraded Primary Health Centre at Muthur on Saturday to inspect the vaccination drive. A total of 742 vaccination centres, including 660 stationary and 82 mobile centres were set up, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-117-lakh-vaccine-doses-administered-in-mega-drive-in-coimbatore-district/article37146721.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||72 new cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 72 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,03,762. While 67 persons were discharged, 880 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 54 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 99,407. While 49 persons were discharged, 600 persons continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 55 cases, taking the tally to 51,877. While 64 persons were discharged, 600 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 496. Krishnagiri reported 15 fresh cases, and 30 persons were discharged. The number of active cases stood at 223 as of Thursday. A total of 43,419 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri saw 18 fresh cases and one death. The number of active cases stood at 257. As of date, a total 28,298 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/72-new-cases-in-erode-district/article37146832.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||132 new cases, three deaths in Coimbatore||A total of 132 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday, registering a slight decrease from Friday’s 140 cases. The district, according to the Health Department, had 1,449 active cases of the disease on Saturday and 154 persons recovered. Three more persons died of COVID-19 in the district, taking the official toll to 2,400. The district had a test positivity rate of 1.5 % on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 81 fresh cases, which took the tally to 94,823. The overall toll remained at 974 as no new deaths were reported by the Health Department. The district had 792 active cases and 87 patients recovered. Positivity rate of Tiruppur district based on Friday’s data was 1.5%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/132-new-cases-three-deaths-in-coimbatore/article37146720.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cinema halls to operate with full occupancy||The announcement of opening of cinema halls has come as a breather for the film industry, which is waiting for the Deepavali release of Rajinikanth-starrer Annaatthe under the banner of Sun Pictures. Government training centres will be allowed to operate with 100% trainees. Both contact and non-contact sports are allowed. Indoor and outdoor sports training and use of swimming pools for therapeutic purposes are allowed with immediate effect. The current ban on festivals and political events will continue.  The announcement of opening of cinema halls has come as a breather for the film industry, which is waiting for the Deepavali release of Rajinikanth-starrer Annaatthe under the banner of Sun Pictures. Government training centres will be allowed to operate with 100% trainees. Both contact and non-contact sports are allowed. Indoor and outdoor sports training and use of swimming pools for therapeutic purposes are allowed with immediate effect. The current ban on festivals and political events will continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cinema-halls-to-operate-with-full-occupancy/article37146248.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||GENERAL  Cholan Kalai Ootru and Makkal Sakthi Iyyakam: Exhibition of COVID-19 awareness paintings of Sithan Siva, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Minister for School Education, inaugurates, Lakshmi Elementary School, Ariyamangalam, noon  Manitham Trust: Deepavali and sixth anniversary celebrations, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Minister for School Education, chief guest, Bishop Heber College, noon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article37147120.ece
24 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Christian institutions are being targeted’||“Christian institutions across the country are working for the welfare of the poor and deprived, but some vested interests don’t like it and are trying to target the institutions and the community in the name of survey of churches and the proposed anti-conversion law,” said Derek Fernandes, Bishop of Belagavi Diocese, on Saturday. “Some people want the poor to remain poor and the Dalit to remain Dalit. That is why they are creating obstacles to the welfare and development works taken up our institutions,” he said. “These moves by the government seem to be based on the unfounded beliefs that Christian institutions are engaged in conversion. That is an absolute lie.” He said there was absolutely no necessity for enacting a law against conversion as no Christian institutions were engaged in it. He also expressed an apprehension that any anti-conversion law could be misused by the enforcing agencies. To a query, he said he and other leaders were meeting religious and social leaders of various minority communities to build a federation against anti-minority moves by the government. “At present, a lot of things are being spoken about on this matter. Personally, I feel the issue has been blown out of proportion for the advantage of some of the powers that be. As far as the Catholic church is concerned, the matter is very clear. It does not support, and in fact bans, coerced conversions,” he said. Quoting the Bible, he said, “It is never lawful for anyone to force others to embrace the Catholic faith against their conscience. This means if we act contrary to this, it would be against the mind and the law of the Church and thus would certainly be a sin. Even Jesus did not force anyone to follow him.” The Bishop maintained that each citizen of India has the fundamental right to practise and propagate his religion as per Article 25 of the Constitution. This freedom of conscience cannot be taken away by the government, he said. He said that the cannons of Christianity declare forceful conversion a sin and no Christian institution is engaged in such activities. “However, we welcome all those who experience a sincere change of heart. An adult who wishes to receive baptism is to be admitted to baptism, he or she must have manifested the intention to receive baptism, must be adequately instructed in the truths of the faith and in the duties of a Christian, and tested in the Christian life. It is a long process. Even if someone comes asking for baptism, the Bishop may allow or deny it. The Catholic religion allows the marriages of disparity of cult in which both the Catholic and non-baptised party are allowed to practice their religions and respect each other’s freedom. This means a non-Catholic party can marry a Catholic in the church and retain his/her own religion and practice,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/christian-institutions-are-being-targeted/article37146857.ece
24 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Five members of family found dead||Five persons of a family were found dead in Borgal village near Hukkeri in Belagavi district on Saturday. The victims were identified as Gopal Doddappa Hadimani, 46, a former Army man, and his children — Soumya, 19, Swati, 16, Sakshi, 12, and Srujan, 10. The police said Mr. Hadimani left behind a note saying he was upset after his wife, Jayakka, died of black fungus a few months ago. According to the police, he consumed poison after feeding his children food laced with poison. The police also said that in the note, Mr. Hadimani said he had kept aside Rs. 20,000 for the last rites and asked the neighbours to conduct them with the help of the police. A case has been registered. The police also said Mr. Hadimani’s employment after his discharge from the Army was not stable. Govind Karjol, District in-charge Minister, expressed condolences.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-members-of-family-found-dead/article37146850.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Janasamparka Sabha organised||Haphazard parking on congested bylanes, people gathering outside wine shops, rise in petty theft and drug peddling were some of the major concerns raised by the residents of Yalikaval and Sanjay Nagar at the monthly Janasamparka Sabha organised by the police on Saturday. During the interaction at Vyalikaval, residents sought Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant’s intervention to resolve the problem of haphazard parking. “Owners park vehicles outside the house on both sides of narrow congested lanes. This not only blocks traffic movement but also leads to rows among the residents,” said one participant. Residents also complained of people consuming alcohol outside and harassing passersby. Mr. Pant, who was chairing the interaction at Vyalikaval police station directed police officials to look into these issues and resolve them. At a similar Janasamparka Sabha in Sanjay Nagar, residents asked the police to tackle the problem of drug peddling. A resident from Dodda Krishnappa Layout alleged that ganja consumers often gathered in her area. Soumendu Mukherjee, Additional Commissioner of Police, Bengaluru West, chaired the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/janasamparka-sabha-organised/article37146650.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Average southwest monsoon rainfall in Karnataka saw little variation in 5 decades||Karnataka is still seeing rainy days and the October averages may have soared past normal for many parts. But as far as the southwest monsoon (SWM) goes, the State has witnessed a similar pattern over the last five decades, barring minor variations. According to data from the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), the State has recorded a normal SWM from 2019, with +14% in 2019 and +17% in 2020 and -8 % in 2021 (normal rainfall).This, officials said, was due to favourable factors which were impacting the monsoonal winds, in turn bringing moist clouds over Karnataka due to large-scale phenomena such as prevalence of positive IndianOcean Diapole during 2019, La Nina/neutral condition during 2020 and 2021 Rainfall distribution KSNDMC officials admitted that though the State as a whole received normal rainfall, distribution of rainfall plays major role, which could have extreme events such as floods in one part and dry spells in another. “For the SWM 2021, we have 25 districts showing normal rainfall, three districts that have received excess rainfall, and three have deficient,” said an official. Officials admitted that in the recent years, extreme events had been observed more frequently, and efficient planning and preparedness were needed to minimise their affects. Though the rainfall in October this year is higher than normal, such year-to-year variations are not unusual, said J. Srinivasan, distinguished scientist from the Divecha Centre for Climate Change, IISc. Reacting to rain-induced destruction seen in States such as Uttarakhand, Karnataka, and Kerala, he said heavy rainfall leads to landslips in India because of inappropriate development in the hilly regions. “On account of climate change, heavy rainfall (greater than 100 mm/day) has increased by 50% in the last 50 years. These heavy rains will lead to landslips if roads are built on sloping hillsides without provision for the water to flow freely. In many areas, illegal mining has caused landslips during the rainy season,” he added.  Unplanned development T.V. Ramachandra from the Centre for Ecological Sciences, IISc, who was part of the expert committee that looked into landslips in the Western Ghats, said the causal factors and triggering factors of landslips in all regions were similar. “These are ecologically fragile regions and vulnerable to disaster with the unplanned development activities. Unfortunately, the decision makers of today have not understood the implications of unplanned development activities. We need to understand the cost of damage is much higher than the benefits, evident from the recent calamities in Kerala and Uttarakhand. The cost of loss of life and property due to floods and land/mudslips is at least 25 times higher,” he said. He added that unplanned development activities leading to large-scale land cover changes with the loss of native forests had been responsible for global warming. This had led to changes in rainfall pattern which had enhanced the susceptibility of landscape. “The current decision makers need to understand that there is a threshold in every landscape. The government should take up natural capital accounting and valuation of ecosystem services to minimise mismanagement of natural resources with consequences of frequent floods, droughts, landslips, mudslips, spread of vector-borne diseases (with increased temperature), instances of zoonotic diseases (KFD, COVI-19), loss of crop productivity, etc,” he added.  Heavy rains will lead to landslips if roads are built on sloping hillsides without provision for the water to flow freely. In many areas, illegal mining has caused landslips during the rainy season. J. Srinivasan,distinguished scientist from the Divecha Centre for Climate Change, IISc||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/average-southwest-monsoon-rainfall-in-karnataka-saw-little-variation-in-5-decades/article37146675.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Slump in demand hits festive cheer in market||After a devastating second wave of COVID-19 when the government eased restrictions, traders were pinning their hopes on the festive season from Ganesha to Deepavali to recover losses. However, with the price of fuel and essential commodities spiralling, festival cheer remains elusive. Many retailers across sectors said consumption levels are down while others pointed out that it is not as high as they had hoped for. This is because households are tightening their purse strings due to rising costs and festivities are low key, they said. Sajjan Raj Mehta, a cloth merchant in Chickpet, said business volume usually increases by over 150% during the festival season, but this year business levels were lower than usual, leave alone festival swell. “People do not have money in hand. We traders are marginally better off than during the lockdown,” he said. Retailers in the home appliances sector have a similar story. “We do big business during the festive season. People wait to buy home appliances. Discount offers during the season have also become an institution. But this year, we are not seeing any rise in business, despite big discount sales,” said Purushottam, a manager at a leading home appliances chain store. Dasara - Deepavali is the peak season for dry fruit traders who rely on bulk orders from companies and individuals. But business is bad here, too. Idrees Choudhary, a leading dry fruits merchant in Bengaluru said business this season was not even 20% of the usual. “This time of the year, my regular customers such as corporate firms, PR agencies, those in the hospitality sector, etc usually place bulk orders for gifts. Most have not placed any orders this year,” he said. With people cutting down on outings to save costs, the restaurant industry is also going through a lean phase. “The fast food sector is doing ok, but it’s viability is severely challenged by rising costs of LPG cooking gas cylinders, edible oil, vegetables and fuel in general. It’s the fine dining restaurants that have taken the biggest hit. They hasen't recovered since the pandemic,” said Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Regional Hotels' and Restaurants' Federation. Even grocers and street vendors are feeling the pinch. B.P. Raju, who runs a provision store in Vidyaranyapura, said most houses have a fixed expenditure for monthly groceries and won't be able to overshoot it by a large extent. “Most households slashed grocery budgets ever since the pandemic. Now with prices rising, they get a smaller quantity of groceries for the same amount but they are not increasing their budget so we are selling less,” he said.  (This is the final of the    two-part series on how    families are coping with the rise in prices of fuel and    essential commodities.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/slump-in-demand-hits-festive-cheer-in-market/article37146646.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Repartees on reasons for BSY stepping down and more||With all top leaders of Karnataka camping in bypoll-bound constituencies, attacks and counter-attacks continued unabated. Saturday saw former Chief Ministers Siddaramaiah and B.S. Yediyurappa arguing over why the latter had to step down from his post. At a rally in Hangal constituency, Mr. Yediyurappa claimed that he stepped down “voluntarily” because he wanted to make way for others. “I am not one to stick to power. Some people may hesitate to give up the post of a gram panchayat president. But I threw my resignation to the post of Chief Minister without any qualms,” he said, adding that he continued to earn the love of people though he was no longer a Chief Minister. He added that Congress leaders were talking without a thought because they were frustrated over their dwindling popularity and political strength. Countering this in the same constituency at another rally, Mr. Siddaramaiah said that the BJP leader stepped down as Chief Minister under pressure and “out of fear” that Central agencies would be unleashed on him by the Centre if he did not resign as demanded. BJP central leaders had made the man who had “struggled and spent money through Operation Kamala” to bring the party to power shed tears while stepping down, he added. Open challenge At yet another rally, Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had come to power not through blessings of people but by “pleasing the RSS” and challenged him to show what he had done for development in a public debate. Mr. Bommai hit back saying that the former Chief Minister was free to visit any village in Hangal to “witness development”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/repartees-on-reasons-for-bsy-stepping-down-and-more/article37146667.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah accuses BJP Govt. of undermining food security||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Saturday accused the BJP of undermining the National Food Security Act, 2013, through a series of measures since coming to power. In a press release, he said that while the Act empowered citizens to demand food as a matter of right through the public distribution system, there was a steady decline in the quantum of foodgrains made available in the recent years both at the Central and State levels.  “In Karnataka, since 2017, we started giving 7 kg rice, 2 kg wheat, and 1 kg dal per person to eligiblebeneficiaries. But the BJP Government has brought down the total quantum of foodgrains to 5 kg and in some areas it is as low as 2 kg of rice per beneficiary,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said.He added that while the poorest of poor Anthyodaya card holders got rice, wheat, dal, salt, and cooking oil earlier, it was reduced to only rice now. He claimed that the the BJP Government had “copied” provisions of the Food Security Act and Anna Bhagya scheme implemented in Karnataka during his tenure as Chief Minister and announced Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana “as if it was a new scheme”. In Karnataka, the scheme had been merged with Anna Bhagya scheme, he added. The former Chief Minister urged the BJP “not to spread lies in matters concerning at least people’s food”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-accuses-bjp-govt-of-undermining-food-security/article37146671.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many private schools may restart physical classes after Deepavali||Not all schools are ready to open their doors to students from Classes I-V on Monday. Many private schools are likely to restart physical classes after Deepavali, while others are considering delaying it even further. Though the Karnataka Government has allowed managements to resume physical classes for primary school students from October 25, principals - after seeking feedback from parents - have decided to defer the reopening date as families are out of town. Gayatri Devi, principal of Little Flower Public School in Bengaluru, said that they sought the opinion of parents of students in Classes I-V. “Around 78% of the parents responded, and more than half expressed their willingness to send their children back to school. But many said they were travelling or were out of town and would return to Bengaluru after Deepavali. Accordingly, we have decided to start only in the first week of November,” she said.  D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that some schools have decided to reopen later as they need time to make the necessary arrangements to ensure that all the COVID-19 protocol is in place. For most schools, however, it’s a question of logistics. Principal and teachers said that it is not feasible to run both offline or online classes. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, Board of Management, Delhi Public Group of Schools, said that they may not reopen classes till January. “We will not start physical classes till a sufficient number of parents say that they will allow their kids to attend offline classes,” he said. Inadequate staff Mr. Khan said that they do not have adequate staff to continue both modes of teaching and will stick to only online classes for the near future. “Some parents have said that they will send their children back to school only after they are vaccinated. So there is a lot of uncertainty,” said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-private-schools-may-restart-physical-classes-after-deepavali/article37146652.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3 kg of drugs hidden in lehengas seized, 6 held||Over the last three days, Narcotics Control Bureau Bengaluru Zonal Unit officials arrested six people, who were allegedly involved in smuggling commercial quantities of drugs to clients in India and abroad. They are part of two major drug syndicates, said officials. In the first operation, an NCB team (Hyderabad sub-zone), acting on information, seized 3 kg of pseudoephedrine concealed in packets along the fall line of three lehengas. The parcel, which was seized in Hyderabad, was bound for Australia. The contraband was well concealed to avoid detection by enforcement agencies. The sender was identified as a person from Chennai. NCB’s Chennai team apprehended him after two days of prolonged surveillance. He had used a fake address and documents to conceal his identity. In another operation, officers with the NCB, Bengaluru Zonal Unit, intercepted a car with an Andhra Pradesh registration at Devanahalli toll gate and recovered commercial quantities of MDMA pills, methamphetamine and methaqualone. Five people were apprehended, one of whom was a resident of Visakhapatnam, said Amit Ghawate, Zonal Director, NCB Bengaluru. “The other four, from Bihar and Hyderabad, were going towards Hyderabad from Bengaluru,” he added. The NCB tracked down and apprehended their supplier and seized a small quantity of high-grade ganja. The syndicate was procuring a variety of drugs from a supplier based in Bengaluru and selling them to youth at parties and in pubs in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-kg-of-drugs-hidden-in-lehengas-seized-6-held/article37146662.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prizes distributed to meritorious students||Bangalore University Employees House Building Society at its General Body Meeting held on Saturday at Jnanabharathi campus has given cash prizes to meritorious children of members who have excelled in SSLC/PUC examinations. Society president Mahalingaiah distributed the prizes to the students, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prizes-distributed-to-meritorious-students/article37146647.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Relax norms for Rajyotsava’||Kannada organisations have appealed to the State Government to relax norms for celebration of Rajyotsava on November 1 across the State. Founder president of umbrella group Karnataka Swabhimani Sene Basavaraju B.Y., in a letter to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, said that after the outbreak of pandemic Rajyotsava was not allowed to be celebrated last year in a grand manner. He has said that the Government should instruct all the district administrations to allow programmes by Kannada organisations this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relax-norms-for-rajyotsava/article37146670.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees 371 new cases, seven deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 371 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,85,598. Bengaluru Urban reported 193 cases and four deaths. With seven deaths, the toll rose to 38,002. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. Discharges As many as 342 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 29,38,653. The State now has 8,914 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.30%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.88%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-371-new-cases-seven-deaths/article37146655.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parcel cargo train launched||The inaugural special of the first leased Parcel Cargo Express Train (PCET) of Bengaluru Division was launched on Saturday, stated South Western Railways in a press release. The inaugural special will run from Yeshwantpur to Okhla in New Delhi. The PCET is an Indian Railways initiative to lease out an entire train on a round-trip basis for loading parcels for a period of six years. The minimum number of trips required to be operated is two per month. SWR has leased out a PCET to a logistics firm for Rs. 241 crore for the six-year period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parcel-cargo-train-launched/article37146656.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cab driver killed||A cab driver was stabbed to death on Hosakerehalli NICE Road junction on Friday night. The victim, Chandrashekhar, 43, was returning home, when an armed gang stabbed him multiple times and attacked him with a boulder. The police suspect a financial dispute as the reason. Efforts are on to track down the assailants. Passersby saw the body and alerted the police. “The victim was a flower vendor who due to loss in business during lockdown took up cab driving and moved to R.R .Nagar recently,” said a police officer. The Byatarayanapura police have taken up a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cab-driver-killed/article37146660.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Car set ablaze in apartment complex||A high-end car, parked in the basement of an apartment complex in Sadashivnagar, was set on fire on Tuesday night. Based on a plaint filed by the owner of the car - a realtor and businessman - the police have taken up a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/car-set-ablaze-in-apartment-complex/article37146659.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown tomorrow||There will be no power supply on Monday from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. due to maintenance work in the areas serviced from 66/11 KV Kumabalagodu sub-station. According to a press release from BESCOM, West Circle, the areas to be affected are: Bheemanakuppe Village, Vinayakanagar, Rotipark, Fish Factory, Gerupalya Village and Industrial Area, Anchepalya, Hosapalya, Kanminake, Kumbalgodu Industrial Area, Kambipura, Karubele, Pintobare, Thogachaguppe, Gudimavu, Devagere, Devagere Colony, Gangasandra, Anepalya, Doddipalya, Gonipura, Gollahalli, Thippuru, Chinnakurchi, Kenchanapalya and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown-tomorrow/article37146648.ece
24 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hasanamba fest: Darshan for all sought||Members of various organisations have urged the Hassan district administration to allow common people to visit Hasanamba Temple during the Hasanamba festival set to begin on October 28. The administration had announced restrictions on entry into the temple, citing COVID-19. The temple is opened for devotees only during this festival in the year. In order to avoid people gathering in big numbers, the administration had decided to install screens at different locations to live-stream the religious practices at the temple. Only elected representatives and very important persons (VIPs) would be allowed to visit the temple. This move has upset many residents of the city. Representatives of Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal staged a protest in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Hassan on Friday and urged the Deputy Commissioner to allow common people to have darshan of the deity. Leaders of Congress have also urged the administration to allow common people to visit the temple duringthe festival. DC visits temple Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda and other officers, on Saturday, visited Hasanamba temple and discussed the preparations for the festival. The DC directed the officers to take all measures necessary for the smooth conduct of the festival. The temple premises should be decorated with flowers. Prime locations of the city should be illuminated, he said. The SP discussed the security arrangements to be in place. The festival will end on November 6. Assistant Commissioner B.A. Jagadish, Hassan CMC Commissioner R. Krishnamurthy and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hasanamba-fest-darshan-sought-for-all-in-hassan/article37147018.ece
24 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Social Welfare Dept. seeks details of Bangladeshis of some castes||The Social Welfare Department has begun collecting details of migrants from Bangladesh settled in Karnataka. The Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Research Institute, working under the department, has instructed officers to send details of Bangladesh migrants belonging to certain castes so that they could be recommended for inclusion among the Scheduled Castes in the Central list. The institute has sought the details of those belonging to Namashudra, Pod/Poundra, and Rajabamshi castes residing in Karnataka. The instruction was sent to the Deputy Directors of the department in August. In turn, the Deputy Directors wrote to taluk officers, chief officers of urban local bodies, and panchayat development officers in the district to collect data. B.V. Chaitra, Deputy Director of the department in Chikkamagaluru, said she had written to the officers to collect the data. “I am yet to receive details from the officers from urban and rural local bodies. Maybe within a few days, we will compile the data collected and send the same to the department,” she said. The officer has appealed to the police to share information of the migrant people if they had information. Many gram panchayats are said to have reported that there were none from Bangladesh in their villages. However, hundreds of people from north-eastern States have been working in coffee estates of Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, and Kodagu districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/social-welfare-dept-seeks-details-of-bangladeshis-of-some-castes/article37146672.ece
24 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cleanliness drive in hill range||Chikkamagaluru district administration conducted a cleanliness drive at Manikyadhara, part of Chandradrona hill ranges, in Chikkamagaluru taluk on Saturday. Officers of the Revenue, Chikkamagaluru City Municipal Council, Forest Department and others participated in the drive. The staff members collected plastic material, used cloth and other waste at the tourist spot. H.L.Nagaraj, Assistant Commissioner, said people visiting the places should keep them clean. If they continued to litter the tourist places, the administration would have to impose restrictions on tourists. CMC Commissioner B.C.Basavaraj, tahsildar Kantaraj and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cleanliness-drive-in-hill-range/article37147024.ece
24 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Cong. will win both seats’||The Congress has been receiving a good response from the voters in both Sindgi and Hangal Assembly constituencies, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has said. He spoke to presspersons at Kubatur in Sorab taluk on Saturday. In both the constituencies, going for the bypolls, Mr. Siddaramaiah exuded confidence that the Congress candidates would win. The JD(S) had fielded candidates from minority communities to help the BJP. “The BJP in power is misusing office and spending huge money to lure voters. Despite the challenges, the Congress will win both the seats”, he said. The people had been recalling the pro-people programmes launched by the Congress in the State and Centre. They were disappointed with the Narendra Modi-led Union Government and the BJP government in the State. Mr. Narendra Modi had not fulfilled any of the promises he made before the elections. The steep hike in price of essential commodities had left common people in difficulty, he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who had been campaigning for the by-polls, visited Kubatur on Friday night and stayed at former MLA Madhu Bangarappa’s place. On Mr. Madhu Bangarappa’s recent entry into the Congress, Mr. Siddaramaiah, said “He (Madhu) would have a bright future in the Congress. The right man has joined the right party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-will-win-both-seats/article37147025.ece
24 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Joshi: Modi Government has ushered in various reforms||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Union Government had ushered in several reforms with the sole objective of increasing coordination between various government agencies so that infrastructure development gained further momentum. He was inaugurating the TiE-Hubballi Infra Meet organised by the Hubballi chapter of The Indus Entreprenurs on Saturday. The Union Minister claimed that the reforms introduced by Mr. Modi were far more vital and pragmatic when compared to the economic reforms of 1991. “The Gati Shakti master plan, not only funds but also provides necessary technological assistance,” he said. Mr. Joshi admitted that bureaucratic hurdles were still there and many initiatives were stuck due to them. However under Mr. Modi such hurdles were cleared at a faster pace, he said, referring to his own ministry’s reforms with regard to the commercial mining of coal. He said that the present disposition was determined to unsettle the static system. The recent reforms would have a larger impact and facilitate better growth. Abolishing retrospective tax would also have far reaching consequence on foreign direct investment, he said. Responding to a demand during the inaugural session, Mr. Joshi informed that the handing over of HAL airport to Bengaluru International Airport Limited was under consideration for resuming domestic air services. Already Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and himself had a word in this regard with Union Minister for Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia and it would be pursued further. He said Industries Minister Murugesh Niranit would further take up the issue with the Chief Minister. Mr. Nirani revealed that a semi-conductor manufacturing company had shown interest in investing in Karnataka and its proposal would create direct employment to thousands of youths. The Minister said efforts were on to convince the company to invest in Hubballi region, as it would be a win-win situation for both the investor and the people of the region. Chairman and CEO of Aequs Private Limited Arvind Melligeri said that the two clusters that the company was developing in Hubballi and Koppal would attract investment to the tune of Rs. 7,000 crore and generate employment for around 40,000 people. He said the clusters would boost the industrial development of north Karnataka. President of TiE Hubballi Vijesh Saigal and other office-bearers were present. Entrepeneurs from across the region participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/joshi-modi-government-has-ushered-in-various-reforms/article37146847.ece
24 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Ahead of bypolls, leaders line up to pay respects to Chennamma||The birth anniversary of Kittur Chennamma, who had raised a banner of revolt against the British, acquired a special significance in the bypoll-bound Hangal constituency on Saturday, with all leaders dutifully lining up to pay respects to the 18th Century queen. Garlanding the statue of the queen early in the day at Hubballi, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai announced that the State Government would approve action plan worth Rs. 50 crore for Kittur Development Authority, which was constituted in 2011. He also tried to touch an emotional chord by remembering the role of his father and former Chief Minister late S.R. Bommai in getting the statue of Kittur Chennamma installed in Belagavi. Later in the day, the Chief Minister announced in Belagavi district that Bombay Karnataka region would be renamed Kittur Karnataka after approval from the Cabinet. Community angle Chennamma, who fought the British with the help of her close aide Sangolli Rayanna, belonged to the Lingayat Panchamasali community, which is demographically strong in Hangal constituency. And in a constituency where winning margins have been close, every political party appeared keen to show their respect for the icon. Soon after Mr. Bommai, many political leaders, including Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah and the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy paid tributes in Hubballi and Hangal on Saturday. While the State Government has ordered for state celebration of the birth anniversary a few years ago, there was no missing the special interest shown by political leaders this year. The former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar, Congress MLA Prasad Abbayya and others too paid their respects to Chennamma. Manifesto for Hangal Meanwhile, Mr. Bommai, accompanied by the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, released the election manifesto for Hangal constituency at candidate Shivaraj Sajjanar’s residence on Saturday. The BJP has promised various development works, including free residential sites for the poor, better gardens, graveyard development, issual of Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka cards for residents of Hangal, revival of water purification units, among others. The incumbent and the former Chief Ministers have been jointly and rigorously campaigning for the BJP candidate in Hanagal district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ahead-of-bypolls-leaders-line-up-to-pay-respects-to-chennamma/article37146669.ece
24 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Don’t hike medical, dental fees: AIDSO||The All-India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) has alleged that the State Government had completely yielded to pressure from professional colleges with regard to hike in the fee structures of medical and dental courses. In a press release, State secretary of AIDISO Ajay Kamath has said that the Government was completely hand-in-glove with the private management boards in increasing the fee structure of medical and dental colleges every year. “It is highly condemnable,” he has said. He has said that yet again the private management boards of medical and dental colleges had put forward a proposal for increase in fee structure by 25% to 30% before the State Government. “First of all, the proposal for fee hike itself is a very undemocratic and it should be condemned in strong terms. Already during 2020-21, there has been a hike of 15% in private medical and dental colleges. Already medical education has become expensive and such hikes every year will be a dangerous development. This will also affect the healthcare system,” he has said. Mr. Kamath has said that a student who completed his medical education by paying lakhs of rupees, would finally treat his patients as customers. Consequently he would try to recover the money he invested in his education by making his services more commercial, he has said. At a time when common people and students are in distress owing to COVID-19, any further increase will only deprive more students of medical education. “At such a time, the Government should have cancelled the fee hike and increased the scholarships. However instead of mitigating the hardships of the students, the Government was yielding to pressure from private managements.” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-hike-medical-dental-fees-aidso/article37146848.ece
24 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Prosthetic hands to be distributed||The Rotary Club of Seven Hills, Dharwad, in association with Rotary Bangalore South and Rotary Club of Bangalore Centennial, will give away prosthetic hands for free to 100 persons at a camp, to be held in Dharwad on Sunday. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday, club president Pallavi Deshpande said that rotarians were organising the free camp, the first of its kind in the region. It will be held at Saraswati Niketan in Dharwad on Sunday from8 a.m. to 5 p.m. She said that the camp would benefit people who have lost their hands due to accidents or trauma or or disabled by birth. Dr. Pallavi said free below elbow prosthesis would be provided to the over 100 beneficiaries who have already registered for the camp. This apart, others seeking prosthetic hands can walk in directly but would have to appear before a screening committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prosthetic-hands-to-be-distributed/article37146855.ece
24 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||SWR to run two trains with LHB coaches||South-Western Railway will be replacing conventional coaches with Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches, which provide superior passenger comfort for the following special trains, a release said. The conventional rake of Train 06249 / 06250 Yeshwanthpur – Hazrat Nizamuddin – Yeshwanthpur Sampark Kranti Express Special will be replaced with LHB coaches from October 27 at Yeshwanthpur and from October 30 at the Hazrat Nizamuddin end. The services of special trains have also been extended till further orders. Similarly, the rake of Train 02629 / 02630 Yeshwanthpur – Hazrat Nizamuddin - Yeshwanthpur Express Special will be replaced with LHB coaches from October 26 at Yeshwanthpur and from October 29 from Hazrat Nizamuddin. The above mentioned trains will run with a revised composition: two AC 2-tier coaches, five AC 3-tier coaches, six second-class sleeper coaches, two general second-class coaches, two luggage-cum-brake vans with generator, two high-capacity parcel vans, and one pantry car. LHB coaches are far superior to ICF coaches with respect to passenger comfort, safety, speed, corrosion, maintenance, and aesthetics. These coaches are also longer as compared to ICF design resulting into more carrying capacity, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-to-run-two-trains-with-lhb-coaches/article37146851.ece
24 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Transgender community slams VHP||Members of the transgender community condemned the alleged derogatory remarks of the district unit of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) during a protest on October 20 at Kalaburagi and demanded a public apology. Manish, a member of the Sneha Society, addressing presspersons here on Saturday, said that members of the VHP, who were agitating against the Bangladesh violence, shouted slogans comparing the people of Bangladesh with transgenders. Mr. Manish called upon the VHP members to tender an open public apology within two days. failing which he said they would hold a semi-nude protest in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transgender-community-slams-vhp/article37146842.ece
24 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Intoxicated’ man kills wife||A man, allegedly under the influence of alcohol, murdered his wife when she was feeding their baby at Raghavendra Colony locality in Kalaburagi city on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Naseema Begum, 35. According to the police, the accused, identified as Ibrahim, would quarrel with his wife demanding money from her father-in-law. The police have arrested Ibrahim and a case has been registered at women’s police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/intoxicated-man-kills-wife/article37146843.ece
24 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Byndoor govt. ITI will offer 11 new courses: Ashwath Narayan||Minister for Higher Education, Information Technology and Bio-technology, Skill Development and Science and Technology C.N. Ashwath Narayan said on Saturday that the Government Industrial Training Institute (ITI) at Byndoor in Udupi district will offer 11 new courses. Speaking to presspersons at Byndoor, after inspecting civil works at the ITI which is being upgraded in association with Tata Technologies Ltd. under the UDYOGA scheme, the Minister said that of the new courses, the duration of six will be one year and that of the remaining five will be two years. The Minister said that the ITI in the rural area is being upgraded to the internationals standards. Academically the ITI will offer such courses which are in demand by the industry. Hence students will not remain without jobs. The ITI will offer quality education, he said. The Minister lost his cool when an engineer failed to produce the required documents related to the civil works. He instructed him to ensure that there was no compromise in the quality of works. The project should be completed within the time prescribed. There should be no laxity in works, the Minister said. To questions by presspersons, the minister said the Congress is following dynasty politics. “It is a foreign party and not the people’s party,” the Minister said, adding that the BJP wants to wipe out the Congress from the country. The Congress gave an inefficient administration and the party has lost relevance in the country. To another question, the Minister said that students have the options of attending classes either online or offline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/byndoor-govt-iti-will-offer-11-new-courses-ashwath-narayan/article37147008.ece
24 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana mela set to resume rainy season shows from Oct. 27||Mandarthi Sri Durgaparameshwari Dashavatara Yakshagana Mela, the over-a-century-old Yakshagana performing troupe, will resume its rainy season/off-season daily “harake aata” — shows staged for the fulfilment of the wishes of people — at Mandarthi in Udupi district from October 27. The mela will perform during the off-season for the fifth consecutive year. Its performances got delayed this and last year because of COVID-19 restrictions. The mela had resumed its rainy season’s shows last year on September 25. Earlier, it used to commence the shows from mid-June. The managing committee president of Mandarthi Sri Durgaparameshwari Temple H. Dhananjaya Shetty told The Hindu that the mela began performing during the off-season at the temple hall mainly to reduce the waiting period of hosts. Even after having five performing troupes of the mela, shows are booked till 2045, he said. The temple broke the tradition of not performing in the monsoon in 2017 following pressure from devotees who felt that they had to wait for years for the shows. Mr. Shetty said that about 400 persons have deposited their money for hosting the rainy season shows. The shows will go on till the Government gives permission to commence the annual regular “tirugata” (tour) from November to May. The president said that a show of the rainy season will be performed for fulfilling the wishes of two hosts. However, the Ganapathi pooja and “poorva ranga” performances will be performed separately and later artists of two troupes combined will stage a performance. During the pre-COVID period, the mela used to fulfil the vows of about 300 devotees by performing 150 shows in the rainy season. But these performances were reduced further due to delay in the commencement of shows due to the COVID restrictions for two years. Earlier, it wound up its rainy season shows usually on November 1 or 2. After some days of rest, all the five troupes prepare for the annual tour, usually from November 17 or 18. The five troupes with about 250 artists staged 940 shows during their annual “tirugata”. The mela’s second troupe was formed in 1992 and the fifth troupe came into being in 2004. The troupes were increased to reduce the increasing number of bookings and thus, give a chance to the parties to host their shows as early as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yakshagana-mela-set-to-resume-rainy-season-shows-from-oct-27/article37147017.ece
24 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||23 girls and women donate tresses in Mangaluru to help cancer patients||As many as 23 girls and women donated at least 12 inches of their hair for cancer patients at a donation programme here on Saturday. The Fly High Charitable Trust organised the programme in association with Mercy Beauty Academy and Saloon and St. Agnes PU College here. While the youngest donor was an 8-year-old, the eldest was 59 years old. Speaking on the occasion, Mercy Veena D’Souza, beauty therapist and trainer from Mercy Beauty Academy, said she started the hair donation initiative with the Round Table India, Mangaluru, about four years ago. People appreciated this initiative of putting smiles back on the face of cancer patients. Later, she joined hands with the Fly High Charitable Trust to continue the initiative. When some people asked what exactly the donated hair was being used for, she insisted the trust to provide the wigs to needy poor patients in Dakshina Kannada district itself. About 22-25 donations of a minimum of 12 inches length were required to prepare a wig that costs up to Rs. 50,000. With growing awareness about hair donation and its purpose, more donors are coming forward. While affluent cancer patients who have lost hair following chemotherapy could afford a wig, the poor could not and this is where the donated hair was put to use, she said. Recently during Independence Day, the trust donated wigs to four poor patients in Mangaluru. Ms. D’Souza said the beneficiaries were overwhelmed with the gesture, as being without hair, particularly for women, was a difficult thing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/23-girls-and-women-donate-tresses-in-mangaluru-to-help-cancer-patients/article37147007.ece
24 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Shun sedentary lifestyle, junk food to avoid breast cancer: professor||Sedentary lifestyle coupled with consumption of junk food has been the reason for high occurrence of breast cancer among urban women, where one in every 28 is diagnosed with the disease, said K. Sangeetha, Associate Professor in OBG with Srinivas Institute of Medical Sciences, Mukka. Speaking at a awareness programme, organised at St. Agnes PU College here, Dr. Sangeetha said the prevalence of breast cancer among rural women was comparatively less, one in 60, because of their lifestyle. Only about 15% of cancer cases could be attributed to genetic reasons while the rest are acquired from lifestyle, she cautioned. Addressing PU girls, Dr. Sangeetha asked them to shun junk food and develop healthy food habits, including consuming more green vegetables and fruits. They were also in a position to spread awareness about breast cancer, she said, coaxing them to spread the message. Women in the 25-50 age group were the most affected, she said. Dr. Sangeetha said identification of breast cancer at its initial stage could prevent its further spread while the patient would have to be under palliative care once it crosses the fourth stage. Self-diagnosis was the best method where women should check their breasts with their palms by palpating them at least once in a month. If they find lumps in their breasts, they should immediately consult a specialist, she said. Besides examining their armpits, women should also be cautious about nipple discharge and report the same to the doctor. It could be treated and cured, Dr. Sangeetha said urging women not to go for non-evidence based medical system for treatment. The affected need not worry about removal of breast/s as technologies were available to remove cancer tissues/ cells without affecting the surface or skin, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shun-sedentary-lifestyle-junk-food-to-avoid-breast-cancer-professor/article37147004.ece
24 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Sahyadri students receive degrees||Engineering graduates who passed out in 2020 and 2021 received their degrees at the 10th and 11th graduation days of Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management here on Saturday. Raman Madhok, Managing Director of Kahani Designworks Pvt. Ltd., and Suyog Shetty, CEO of Niveus Solutions, presented the degrees. Addressing the students, Mr. Shetty recalled the challenging situation during the last two years. He urged the graduates to have clarity on what they want to achieve and start working on it. Mr. Madhok asked the graduates to seek advice, request feedback, and ask for help to succeed, a release from the college said. Asmath Sharmeen, who got the first rank in Civil Engineering with 13 gold medals, Radhika Nayak M., second rank, and Anuradha P. Annigeri, seventh rank from the MTech discipline of Structural Engineering (Civil Engineering), were felicitated. Rajesha S., Principal, and Manjappa Sarathi, Director, Research and Development and Consultancy spoke, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sahyadri-students-receive-degrees/article37147009.ece
24 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: One death, 46 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported a COVID-19 death and 34 new cases on Saturday. With 37 patients being discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 282. The test positivity rate was at 0.46%. The total deaths in the district was 1,678. Udupi reported 12 new cases on the day. After the discharge of nine patients, the active cases in the district was at 65.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-one-death-46-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article37147011.ece
24 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested on charge of stealing and slaughtering cows||The Karkala Rural Police on Friday arrested one person on charges of stealing cows and slaughtering them and also rescued five cows and three calves from his residence. The police gave the name of the accused as Abdul Rahim, 35, resident of Sankalaria in Mundkur village, Karkala taluk. Sub inspector T.I. Tejaswi, acting on information that cows were being slaughtered for meat, raided his house and took the accused to custody. The accused reportedly told the police that he was engaged in stealing cows from cowsheds of people in Karkala, Nitte, and other places along with elder brothers, Ibrahim and Hasanabba, and nephew Mohammed Rafique. They also used to buy cows from brokers and were slaughtering them without having any licence, the police claimed. Cows so procured were tied to trees in the nearby haadi (private forest). Upon inspection, police rescued five cows worth Rs. 50,000 and three calves worth Rs. 6,000. They also recovered weapons used to prepare meat and 75 kg of meat. The police have registered cases of trespassing and theft under the Indian Penal Code and also under the provisions of the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act as well as Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act against the accused.  The accused reportedly told the police that he was engaged in stealing cows from cowsheds of people in Karkala, Nitte, and other places along with his relatives||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-on-charge-of-stealing-and-slaughtering-cows/article37147005.ece
24 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Prepare 3D tour project of Udupi: DC||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao has asked the Tourism Department officials to develop a 3D tour project of Udupi’s destinations to enable tourists to enjoy a virtual walkthrough of such destinations. Speaking at the district tourism task force committee meeting on Friday. Mr. Rao said that there are many unexplored tourist destinations in the district contrary to the perception that the district has only temples and beach tourism attractions. A 3D tour could be arranged at a major tourist destination in the district to enlighten tourists on the other attractions. He said that 3 acres of land belonging to the Ministry of Ports and Shipping is available near Kaup lighthouse and plans are being made to get that land under the ownership of the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prepare-3d-tour-project-of-udupi-dc/article37147013.ece
24 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||There will be no power supply to Bunder, J.M. Road, and Azezuddin Road in the city on October 25 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Power supply to City Centre Mall area, Navbharat Circle, Kodialbail, district court area will be stopped on October 26 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is for maintenance works.    Vaccination against COVID-19 will be administered at Madhava Krupa School in Manipal on October 24 from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Both the doses will be given. The second dose of Covaxin and both the doses of Covishield will be administered.    Government Polytechnic, Kaup, has extended the last date to apply for first year diploma courses till October 30. Admission is open for Automation and Robotics and Cloud Computing and Big Data courses. Call 9480773870.    The council of Mangaluru City Corporation will hold its monthly meeting on October 30. Mayor Premananda Shetty will preside over the meeting at 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37147010.ece
24 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Adivasis seek HC help on their rehabilitation||Peeved by the delay on the part of the government over their rehabilitation despite a court ruling, the tribals of Hunsur have written to the High Court of Karnataka to issue suitable directions to the State or face contempt proceedings. The letter has been written by Budakattu Krishikara Sangha and Development through Education (DEED). It states that 3,428 tribal families are to be rehabilitated by the State Government as per the Muzaffar Assadi Committee report, which is yet to be implemented. Apart from the two organisations, 1,106 families spread over 22 hamlets have also written to the court seeking its intervention in getting the rehabilitation process implemented. The High Court order was issued in 2009, while it has been nearly 14 years since the interim orders were passed, but the government is yet to initiate any action on the ground, said Mr. Sreekanth of DEED. The report has come out with 34 recommendations, including the allotment of five acres of land to each family displaced from Nagarahole when it was declared a protected area under the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972. As per the HC order, the final report on the suggestions and recommendations for public policy on the rehabilitation of tribals of Nagarahole was submitted in 2014. “It has been seven years since the report was submitted, and it is yet to be implemented by the government,” said Mr. Sreekanth. The final report had stated that a conscious effort should be made by the authorities to ensure that as far as possible, the relocation and rehabilitation is done in a participatory manner taking the people concerned into confidence, particularly when it comes to selection of new sites. It had also suggested that the new site selected should provide the natural surroundings such as forests rather than dry land, and at no point of history should tribals be allowed to sell their property. It had also called for a ban on fragmentation and sub-leasing. Training the tribals sufficiently in farming, extension of soft loans prior to the commencement of the agricultural season, and provision of one tractor to each settlement were some of the other recommendations in the final report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/adivasis-seek-hc-help-on-their-rehabilitation/article37147019.ece
24 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Chitradurga-Chikjajur rly. line in Mysuru division electrified||Freight traffic will receive an impetus following the electrification of the Chitradurga-Chikjajur broad gauge section in the Mysuru division of South Western Railway. The 30.902 km of the electrified track was inspected by the Commissioner of Railway Safety A.K.Rai on Saturday. The electrification will help expedite the bulk transportation of iron ore from Chitradurga-Hosapete area to the ports which are connected to the region. The heavily loaded rakes can be hauled with ease at one-sixth the rate incurred by diesel traction. The inspection also covered Chikjajur Junction station yard. The Chitradurga-Chikjajur stretch is part of the Ballari-Chikjajur Railway Electrification Project (184 km), sanctioned in 2017-18 at a total cost of Rs. 159.34 crore. A speed trial with electric locomotive between Chitradurga and Chikjajur was conducted clocking a speed of 103 kmph and this was followed by Short Circuit Test at Chikjajur railway station, according to Manjunath Kanamadi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager. Accompanying the CRS in the inspection were Manoj Mahajan, Principal Chief Electrical Engineer, South Western Railway, Hubballi; Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, South Western Railway, Mysuru Division; Dinesh Jain, General Manager, Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd.(RVNL); and other senior officials of the SWR and Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd. Mr. Kanamadi said initially, the power supply for the section from Chitradurga to Chikjajur will be fed from 220/25 kV Thalaku Traction Substation (TSS) through Challakere Sub-Sectioning and Paralleling Post (SSP), Balenahalli Sectioning and Paralleling Post (SP), Haliyuru SP, Amrithapura SSP & Chikjajur SP. Concurrently, permanent power supply arrangements are also under execution. There is no Road Over Bridge (ROB) or Road Under Bridge (RUB) in Chitradurga-Chikjajur section and there are three manned Level Crossings (LC) with caution boards for road users. In the territorial jurisdiction of the Mysuru Division, electrification work is also underway on the Mysuru-Chamarajanagar (61 km), Birur-Talguppa (161 km), and Sampige Road-Karajgi BG section (294 km) and they are likely to be completed by the end of 2022. Work on the Mysuru-Hassan-Mangaluru (347 km) and Kadur-Chikkamagaluru (46 km) BG sections will commence soon, according to the officials. The electrified Mysuru-Yeliyuru BG section (of Mysuru-Bengaluru Double Line Section) began operations in 2019. The authorities said the pace of railway electrification, which is environment friendly and reduces pollution, has increased nearly ten times since 2014. With a view to transforming Indian Railways into “Green Railways” and to capture the economic benefits of electric traction in an accelerated manner, Railways has planned to electrify balance routes by December 2023 to achieve 100% electrification of BG routes. This will facilitate elimination of diesel traction resulting in significant reduction in its carbon footprint and environment pollution, the authorities added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chitradurga-chikjajur-railway-line-electrified/article37146854.ece
24 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Inflow to reservoirs up, but KRS is yet to reach FRL||In all, 19 districts in Karnataka have received bountiful rain between October 1 and 23, including those in the Cauvery catchment area, augmenting the inflow into the reservoirs significantly. However, Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) has not reached full reservoir level (FRL) this year so far. The cumulative rainfall from October 1 to 23 in the 11 districts of south interior Karnataka was 213.6 mm as against a normal of 109.6 mm. The rainfall was significantly high in Bengaluru Urban, which received 224.6 mm of rainfall as against a normal of 124.1 mm, Bengaluru Rural (actual 254.9 mm, normal 119.1 mm), Chickballapur (actual 265.1 mm, normal 114.4 mm), and Tumakuru (actual 241.8 mm, normal 107.9 mm). According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), rainfall was “large excess’ in 15 districts, which is defined as 60% above normal rainfall. Parts of the Cauvery catchment area also received large excess rainfall and hence the inflow into the KRS in Mandya district has increased. The inflow to the reservoir on Saturday evening was at the rate of 10,122 cusecs and the water level in the reservoir was hovering at 121.2 feet as against the FRL of 124.8 ft. But it is significant to note that the KRS has not attained the FRL so far this year as the south west monsoon in Kodagu — the major catchment for the Cauvery — was 23% below normal for the period June 1 to September 30 and received only 1,693 mm rainfall. In contrast, the reservoir had attained the FRL by August second week last year and the volume of water flowing into the reservoir was steady and hence the reservoir level hovered above 120 ft till December 12, 2020. But the water level not only failed to reach the FRL feet this year, it had begun to recede and had plummeted to 112 ft by October 1. However, the rain since then has augmented the inflow. At Kabini The water level at Kabini reservoir has also increased and was hovering at 2,282.73 ft on Saturday morning as against the FRL of 2,284 ft due to recent rain in the Wayanad region of Kerala. The cumulative outflow from both the KRS and the Kabini reservoirs as on October 22 was 135 thousand million cubic (tmc) ft, according to the KSNDMCand this does not include water accruing to the rivers due to heavy rain that lashed during the last three weeks downstream of both the dams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inflow-to-reservoirs-up-but-krs-is-yet-to-reach-frl/article37146677.ece
24 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||A saga of more than 100 years||The railway line between Chitradurga and Chikjajur has a history of over 100 years and the works was sanctioned by the Government of India on January 28,1914 though the actual construction work commenced in October 1917. It connected Chikjajur, which was then a station on the Bangalore-Harihar main line and was managed by the Madras & Southern Mahratta Railways Company. It was opened for public transportation on May 6,1921. A new MG line was sanctioned in 1982 between Chitradurga and Rayadurga to provide a rail link between Central Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. The Chitradurga-Challakere Section (34 km) was opened in 1990. However, following the launching of Project-Uni gauge the sanction was revised and a new BG line was constructed between Challakere and Rayadurga. Along with this, the sections Chikjajur-Chitradurga-Challakere-Rayadurga-Ballari got a direct BG link from Bengaluru to Ballari on August 31, 1984. The Bengaluru-Harihar Metre Gauge line (210 miles/336 km) was opened in stages between 1884-1889. While the line from Bengaluru to Gubbi was constructed by the Mysore State Railway (MSR), the work beyond that was undertaken by the Madras & Southern Mahratta Railway Company (M & SMR) under a long-term lease agreement of 45 years. A new MG line was sanctioned in 1982 between Chitradurga and Rayadurga to provide a rail link between Central Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. In 1990, the 34-km Chitradurga-Challakere Metre Gauge line was commissioned. But, following the launching of ‘Project-Uni gauge,’ a new BG line was laid from Challakere to Rayadurga. Along with this, the Chikjajur-Chitradurga-Challakere-Rayadurga-Ballari section got a direct BG link from Bengaluru to Ballari in 1994. With the completion of the statutory inspection by the Commissioner of Rail Safety on Saturday, the entire stretch has been electrified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-saga-of-more-than-100-years/article37147029.ece
24 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Use banners made out of cloth’||Madikeri City Municipal Council Commissioner S.V. Ramdas has called upon people to display banners made out of cloth at functions, events and on the roads as the use of plastic has been banned by the government. At a meeting of traders involved in the business of making banners on Friday, he emphasised the need to maintain the city’s cleanliness and aesthetics. He called upontraders to make only single-use banners. The traders agreed to shift to banners made out of cloth instead of using plastic. In view of the coming Rajyotsava day, Mr. Ramdas said the use of plastic flags on the occasion has also been banned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/use-banners-made-out-of-cloth/article37147033.ece
24 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Hoteliers seek clearance of dues from govt.||The hotel industry in Mysuru, which had suffered a huge hit due to COVID-19 pandemic, has sought the clearance of their long-pending dues from the district administration and other government agencies. The Mysuru district administration, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and Department of Youth Affairs and Sports (DYES) had not cleared their dues towards lodging and catering amounting to more than Rs. 50 lakh that were pending for three to four years, said Mysuru Hotel Owners Association President Narayana Gowda. The bills pertaining to rooms booked by the district administration during the Kannada Sahitya Sammelan in 2017 and during Dasara of 2019 were still pending. Similiarly, the MCC is also yet to pay the bill for catering of food to its election branch. The DYES, which has paid a portion of the pending amount towards rooms booked by the Department, also needs to clear its dues, Mr. Gowda said. While representations to clear the dues have already been submitted to the Mayor of MCC and officials of DYES, Mr. Gowda said the Association representatives were planning to meet Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham shortly and submit an appeal for early clearance of dues. The district administration, however, has not sought rooms for the last two Dasara festivals held in 2020 and 2021 as the government decided to keep the celebrations low-key. “If they had sought rooms this year, we would have put a condition that our dues should be cleared”, Mr. Gowda added. Though the hotel industry was virtually strangulated by the COVID-19 pandemic, with little or no revenue, the recently-concluded Dasara festivities brought smiles on the faces of the hotel and restaurant owners due to a substantial rise in tourists. From the start of Dasara on October 7 to 13, the occupancy rate ranged from 50 per cent to 60 per cent with tourists booking accommodation in advance. The rate between October 14 and 17 jumped to 90 per cent. Though the enquiry for booking after October 18 remained reasonably good, the occupancy rate was around 50 per cent between October 18 and 24. During earlier Dasara festivals when Ahara Mela was an integral part, restaurants were reporting a good business only on the last two days – Ayudha Pooja and Vijayadashami. With no food festival this year,’restaurants reported a good footfall, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hoteliers-seek-clearance-of-dues-from-govt/article37147027.ece
24 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Water supply scheme revived||A multi-village drinking water supply scheme for Doddakavalande and 55 other villages in Nanjangud taluk has been revived. The foundation stone for reviving the Rs. 9 crore project of the Rural Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Department was laid by Nanjangud MLA B. Harshavardhan at a programme in Nanjangud on Friday. The project is scheduled for completion in the next eight months. Though the foundation for the project was originally laid in 2008, work could not be started. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Harshavardhan said the people in the villages were facing a lot of drinking water problems. He said he used to see women walking long distances, carrying pots, to collect drinking water. Hence, he said he decided to find a permanent solution to ensure drinking water to the residents of the villages in Nanjangud. Mr. Harshavardhan said a Detailed Project Report (DPR) had been prepared for filling up all the tanks in Kavalande area of Nanjangud taluk. The cost of the project is Rs. 70 crore, he said while expressing confidence of securing administrative approval for the project soon. By taking up projects to fill up tanks, Mr. Harshavardhan hoped to see greenery enveloping Nanjangud region. CM apprised He said he and Chamarajanagar MP V. Srinivas Prasad had met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai during the recent Dasara festivities in Mysuru and apprised him of the need for giving early approval for the Rs. 70 crore project for filling up of tanks in Kavalande area. “He has responded positively to our request to approve the project. Soon, we will get administrative approval”, Mr. Harshavardhan said. The MLA also said that Mr. Bommai will lay the foundation stone for the Nugu Lift Irrigation Project, besides inaugurating the work on a silver chariot at Srikanteshwara Temple and construction of a guest house complex with 75 rooms in Nanjangud. Mr. Harshavardhan claimed that Rs. 500 crore had been spent on developmental works in his constituency out of which Rs. 300 crore had been spent on irrigation works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-supply-scheme-revived/article37147030.ece
24 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Siddaramaiah is exceeding his brief’||Former Minister and BJP MP representing Chamarajanagar V. Srinivas Prasad has accused former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah of exceeding his brief as Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly and resorting to the use of derogatory language against the ruling party. Fielding reporters’ queries on the “low-level” of debate over the upcoming bypolls to Hangal and Sindgi, with leaders of all parties levelling personal allegations against their political rivals, Mr. Prasad said the Opposition’s responsibility was to highlight the failures of the Government in a democratic setup. Without naming Mr. Siddaramaiah, Mr. Prasad said the Leader of the Opposition was exceeding his brief by speaking “impulsively and senselessly”. “Under such circumstances, thereactions from the ruling party will also be strong. Who can tolerate their (Opposition leaders’) speeches? It naturally requires a strong reaction,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-is-exceeding-his-brief/article37147034.ece
24 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Develop tourist spots in Yadgir, says Ragapriya||R. Ragapriya, Deputy Commissioner, has directed officials of the Tourism Department to develop tourist spots in the district. She was addressing a meeting in Yadgir on Saturday. Dr. Ragapriya, who also listed the spots which can be developed, said that the modernisation and protection work of the historical fort in Yadgir city should be completed without any delay. “The Daba Dabe waterfalls near Gurmitkal, the Hattikuni dam in Hattikuni village, the Gavisiddeshwar temple in Chintanahalli village, the bird sanctuary in Bonhal village, ancient houses in Rajankollur village, the Basavasagar reservoir in Narayanapur, the historical Venugopal Swamy temple in Surpur, the Mouneshwar temple in Tintani village, the sleeping Buddha statue at Shahpur, and the Mylaralingeshwar temple in Myalapur are some key spots, Officials should initiate development works to attract visitors,” Dr. Ragapriya said. Officials said that the work of Yatrinivas and CC road near the Mylaralingeshwar temple in Mylapur is almost completed. Basic facilities, establishment of solar lights, seats, and statues of the animals have been set up in Gavisiddeshwar temple in Chintanahalli village, they said at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/develop-tourist-spots-in-yadgir-says-ragapriya/article37146853.ece
24 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Rani Chennamma’s birth anniversary celebrated||The great warrior of North Karnataka and queen of Kittur Rani Chennamma was remembered for her contribution to the nation’s fight against British rule as her birth anniversary was celebrated in Yadgir on Saturday. Venkatareddy Mudnal, MLA, who inaugurated the programme organised by the district administration, zilla panchayat, Kannada and Culture Department, CMC Yadgir and other departments jointly, said, “Rani Chennamma, who was the first Indian ruler to lead an armed rebellion against the British East India Company, will be in the hearts of thousands of people for her immense daring to fight against the British and defeat them in the first war. However, she died after the second war under captivity of the British. But she is still remembered for leading the revolt against British rule in India.” Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya said that Rani Chennamma was “Kannadati”. “She was a symbol of dignity and self-respect of women and she would be a model to women in all times,” Dr. Ragapriya said. Subhashchandra Koulagi, principal of the government degree college, gave a special lecture on the life, courage and achievements of the great Indian warrior. Dr. Koulagi said that Rani Chennamma was fully prepared before she became the queen of Kittur. “She was an expert in horse riding and using weapons. She fought against the British with great courage to protect the motherland. Her name will remain in Indian history.” Vilas Patil, chairman of Yadgir CMC, Prashant Hanagandi, Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir sub-division, Kotesh Marabanalli, Deputy Director of Kannada and Culture Department, Siddappa Hotti, president of District Kannada Sahitya Parishat, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rani-chennammas-birth-anniversary-celebrated/article37146859.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Linking donors and patients||The platform has put all digital privacy measures in place to keep the donors and the receivers’ information safe. Starting from Manipal, the team envisions to spread it across the nation and to implement a blood delivery system. Speaking at the launch, Pro Chancellor of MAHE H. S. Ballal said that the initiative will go to a long way in meeting the blood shortage in the country. Vice-Chancellor M.D. Venkatesh said that the platform will make a huge difference in meeting the demand for blood in the country. A registration form is available on the site which can be filled by donors. This information is carefully handled by the team, making sure no privacy breach occurs. When a request is received, the donor compatible with the type of the patient is notified. If no donor is found, then a search for live donors is initiated. The team of Sociio Ichor consisted Manorath Khanna, Mohammed Dilshaad Uzair, Abhishek Gupta, Pratik Shewkani, Amulya Kollipara, Insha Manowar, Nivedita Singh, and Yash Aryan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/linking-donors-and-patients/article37147015.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Honouring the queen||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/honouring-the-queen/article37146845.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Udupi  Admar Mutt: Yakshagana Drona Prathapa, Rajangana, 7.30 p.m. Vitla  Siribagilu Venkappaiah Samskritika Prathisthana: Seer of Edneer Mutt Sachidananda Bharati inaugurates ‘talamaddale sapthaha’, talamaddale Satya Harishchandra, Bhagavathi temple, 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article37147012.ece
24 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Elachi tainted with chemicals||Large-scale chemical colouring of cardamom was exposed after the Spices Board of India and the Food Safety Department conducted inspections at dryer units at Rajakkad and Kunthunkal in Idukki recently. Officials say it poses threat to export prospects in addition to health hazards. The officials seized around 1.5 tonnes of artificially coloured cardamom in the drive named Operation Elachi and a fine of Rs. 1 lakh was imposed on the dryer units. The officials also destroyed around 100 kg of coloured cardamom found detrimental to health at two dryer units at Rajakkad. Around a 1,000 kg of cardamom artificially coloured were also seized from a dyer unit near Kunthunkal. Legal action will be taken against those who run the dryer units, they say. Cardamom is chemically coloured green to give an impression of better quality so that it will fetch high price in auctions. The quality of the best graded cardamom is decided on colour, shape, and size. Operation Elachi follows the recent seizure of large quantities of cardamom with chemical ingredients from the Bisonvalley area. A.K. Vijayan, former head of the crop protection unit at the Indian Cardamom Research Institute, says chemical colouring poses a threat now, while it was the application of red-labelled chemical pesticides earlier. The process is done in dryer units. It will harm the export prospects as colour is directly applied and can be easily detected during quality checks, resulting in denial of orders. Owner of a dryer unit at Peerumade, on condition of anonymity, says those who bring green cardamom to the units seek to add colour to the produce. If it is not done, they will take it to other units where it is done. It will create an impression that the dryer unit which does not do colouring is not properly drying cardamom and the quality is poor there. Those running the dryer units are forced to heed to the demand, he says. An official at the Food Safety Department says the inspections will continue and those doing artificial colouring will be penalised. Operation Elachi was led by Ranganathan Iyer, Deputy Director, Spices Board, and N. Shamsia and Anmary Johnson, officials of the Food Safety Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elachi-tainted-with-chemicals/article37146949.ece
24 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Mullaperiyar: T.N. issues first warning||Tamil Nadu on Saturday issued the first warning to Kerala with the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam reaching 136 ft. The water level rose from 135.50 ft at 7 a.m. to reach 136 ft at 6 p.m. The warning was issued by the Chief Engineer of the Tamil Nadu Public Works Department. The first alert will be issued when the water level reaches 140 ft. The water has been rising for the past few days. While Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 2,150 cfs (cubic feet per second), the inflow was at 3,608 cfs. The maximum storage level is 142 ft. Meanwhile, the water level receded in the Idukki reservoir from 2,398.20 ft at 7 a.m. to 2,398.16 ft at 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mullaperiyar-tn-issues-first-warning/article37146951.ece
24 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||College closed after suspected food poisoning||The College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Pookode, under the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University was closed on Saturday following suspected food poisoning among students. As many as 15 students and four cooks of the ladies hostel of the college showed symptoms of food poisoning on Friday morning and they were provided medical treatment, Koshy John, Dean of the college, told The Hindu. They were discharged later. The hospital authorities asked college to super-chlorinate water resources to the college and hostels. Hence, the college will remain closed till October 31, but classes for postgraduate students will continue, Dr. John said. The health authorities had collected water samples and the source of poisoning could be ascertained only after test results, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/college-closed-after-suspected-food-poisoning/article37146928.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CSML to curb haphazard parking on smart roads||Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) is planning to rope in educational institutions and others with open spaces in the vicinity of smart roads which could be spared for use as pay-and-park facilities, after regular working hours, official sources said. While CSML can ready such spaces for parking by laying tiles and installing lights, such institutions will benefit from parking fee collected from motorists. It will help prevent haphazard and often obstructive parking on smart roads that the agency built after renovating carriageways, footpaths, drains, and medians. Display boards mentioning availability of vacant parking slots at such facilities will be put up to help motorists. Such a system is any day cheaper than multi-tier parking lots which entail huge expense, take years to build, and leave substantial carbon footprint, the sources added. By streamlining parking beside smart roads, CSML aims to free Broadway Market and other commercial streets also of parked vehicles that stifle free movement of shoppers. Parking curbs on SM Street, Kozhikode, resulted in higher footfall in shops, CSML sources said. Encroachments Similarly, the possibility of planting trees and installing planter boxes on renovated footpaths is being considered. The aim is to prevent vendors who have encroached on footpaths that were recently done up by CSML. The help of the Kochi Corporation and the police will be sought to weed out encroachers from public spaces, a senior official of the agency said. Dozens of such vendors have encroached on the neatly paved footpath of Abraham Madamakkal Road that links High Court Junction and the first Goshree Bridge. A densely populated city like Kochi which has very limited public spaces and even lesser number of wide roads, vis-a-vis cities like Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode, cannot afford to tolerate encroachers. CSML will also shortly ready dedicated cycle lanes on smart roads, having analysed traffic patterns through such roads and temporary lanes painted green, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/csml-to-curb-haphazard-parking-on-smart-roads/article37146930.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Now, tap on ‘Ente Jilla’ for information on govt. offices||Browsing the web for the contact number or location of a government office while on the road can leave one frustrated. The search engine may throw up a wrong or non-existent number and the location of the office on the online map may not be accurate. This dilemma stands addressed to a great extent, thanks to the ‘Ente Jilla’ mobile app developed and rolled out by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) in August. The app facilitates easy access of the contact number, location, and e-mail address of every government office in the State. One can choose the district, and the app seamlessly guides through various government offices, department-wise. On selecting the office, one can make a call, locate it on the map, write a review or send an email, all from the same interface. The services available from each office are also listed alongside. “The app has listed all 1,250 government offices in Ernakulam district. The app is estimated to have been downloaded by thousands, going by the conservative estimate of at least one officer from all the offices using the app, coupled with the downloads by the public. We are also receiving on an average 300-400 reviews on the app daily,” said George Eapen, Assistant District Informatics Officer, NIC, Ernakulam. Corrective measures Not all reviews are on glowing terms, though. There have been instances where people have complained about a number not working or the app even providing a wrong number. In such cases, the NIC immediately corrects the contact information in consultation with the office concerned. Critical reviews about the non-responsiveness or the negative attitude of officers are also aplenty. “The reviews are daily monitored by a team led by an Assistant Collector. The officers concerned are contacted and asked to make amends based on these critical reviews. Steps are taken to ensure that no complaint is repeated again,” said Mr. Eapen. The ratings and reviews about every office by the citizens are open to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-tap-on-ente-jilla-for-information-on-govt-offices/article37146941.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Seven grama panchayats in district lagging behind in waste management||Seven grama panchayats in Ernakulam have not yet stepped up their capabilities in ensuring doorstep collection of non-biodegradable waste from households and commercial establishments despite several directives from the Department of Local Self Government. The erring local bodies include Karukutty, Thuravur, Malayatoor-Neeleswaram, Parakkadavu, Chellanam, Kumbalam, and Mazhuvannoor. The Department of Local Self Governments had carried out multiple rounds of evaluation since April this year on the performance of the local bodies in complying with the provisions under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. Five grama panchayats that had figured in the category of local bodies that had not improved their performance in the previous round of assessment were found to have made some progress. They are Mudakuzha, Koovapady, Vengola, Keerampara, and Kizhakkambalam. Chellanam panchayat has not yet set up a material collection facility to store non-biodegradable waste collected from households and other institutions owing to Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) regulations, according to officials associated with the evaluation process. Mazhuvannoor had set up Haritha Karma Sena to collect waste, but its overall coverage has not yet improved. The local bodies had attributed the delay in improving the waste collection process to the pandemic situation. However, the State Government has made it clear that the erring local bodies would have no other choice but to ensure stringent compliance of norms prescribed under the Solid Waste Management Rules. It had also recalled that several other local bodies had stepped up the collection process since April. Immediate plans The secretaries of the erring local bodies have been told to come up with immediate plans to carry out the doorstep collection of non-biodegradable waste. The grama panchayats should also identify space for setting up the material collection facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-grama-panchayats-in-district-lagging-behind-in-waste-management/article37146939.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Small enterprises seek land allocation in industrial areas||Owners of small enterprises in industrial development areas and industrial estates in Kerala have appealed to the State Government to endow them with total ownership of the land even as the Government has promised the industrialists a renewed land allotment policy. Kerala State Small Industries Association president M. Khalid said a State committee meeting of the association renewed its request to the Government. He said the Government had said it was working on a new land allotment policy for industrial units in the specified areas. The request is that the Government should transfer the ownership to up and running enterprises which had been allotted plots of land in industrial areas and estates under the Government Order of April 5, 1969, under the hire purchase scheme. Mr. Khalid said the 1969 order had provisions for transfer of ownership of the plots once the money under the higher purchase scheme was completely paid up. The agreement between the Government and the entrepreneurs for allotment of plots under the scheme too made the conditions clear, he added. However, the Government and the Industries Department had not come forward to transfer the ownership of the land, he said. While the Government stance so far was a violation of the existing agreement, the situation would prevent new entrepreneurs from entering the designated industrial areas, said the association. The situation could also be reflected in the Ease of Doing Business ratings of the State. Mr. Khalid also appealed to the Industries Department to make the new land allotment policy attractive to investors. According to data from the Industries Department, there are six designated industrial entrepreneurial areas that include Edayar, Kalamassery, Vazhakkulam, Aluva and Angamaly. These areas extend over 838 acres, in which the total allotted area is 751 acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/small-enterprises-seek-land-allocation-in-industrial-areas/article37146942.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Milma central union to lend a helping hand to dairy farmers||The Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union comprising the districts of Thrissur, Ernakulam, Kottayam, and Idukki has decided to lend a helping hand to dairy farmers and primary milk cooperative societies hit by heavy rain and flooding in several areas of these districts. Ex-gratia payment Milma Ernakulam region Chairman John Theruvath said the union had decided to give an ex-gratia payment of Rs. 25,000 to each of the families of dairy farmers who lost their lives in rain-related calamities early this week. Farmers who lost cows that were not insured will be paid Rs. 20,000 each. Those who had their cowsheds damaged in the rain and winds will get Rs. 20,000 each. Farmers who had their cattle feed and automatic milk collection units damaged will get Rs. 10,000 each. Mr. Theruvath said societies that could supply milk collected to the central Milma unit would get the actual price of milk for the entire quantity. He said as many as 933 dairy cooperatives in the Milma central region and 180 societies in Kottayam district suffered the most due to heavy rain, flooding and landslips. Taking stock The cooperative union was taking stock of the situation, and the immediate step was to give a helping hand to the farmers who had suffered the worst from the weather conditions, he added. Milk production had not dipped significantly in the region due to the heavy rain, said Mr. Theruvath. Collection The total collection stands at around four lakh litres per day in the four central districts, while the total sales hovered around three lakh litres. The rest of the milk procured went into making milk powder and other value-added products.  Milk production has not dipped significantly in the region due to heavy rain John Theruvath ERCMPU chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-union-to-help-rain-hit-farmers/article37146934.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Screening in cinemas from Wednesday onwards||The screening of Daniel Craig’s last James Bond movie No Time to Die and Venom: Let There Be Carnage , starring Tom Hardy, from Wednesday onwards will mark the reopening of cinemas across the State after remaining shut following the second wave of COVID-19 in April. The cinema theatres will reopen on Monday as decided at a meeting of film trade bodies with Saji Cherian, Minister for Cinema, on Friday. “The screening will start on Wednesday, as we need at least two days of time for the preparatory work,” said K. Vijayakumar, president, Film Exhibitors United Organisation of Kerala (FEUOK), here on Saturday. Actor Sivakarthikeyan’s Doctor will release on Thursday. Joju George’s Star will be the first Malayalam movie to reach the cinemas after the reopening. It would be screened from Friday onwards. Actor Rajinikanth’s Deepavali release Annaatthe will hit the theatres on November 4. Dulquer Salman’s Kurup will be the first major release in Malayalam to reach the theatres, on November 12, followed by Suresh Gopi’s Kaaval on November 24. The State Government had granted permission to reopen the theatres with 50% occupancy. Only those who have got two doses of vaccine would be allowed entry into the theatres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/screening-in-cinemas-from-wednesday/article37146908.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Expert blames data crunch for poor flood forecast||The non-availability of real-time rainfall data for sufficient number of locations has been a major limitation for an effective forecast of floods in Kerala, according to Sharad Chandra, Director, Flood Forecast Monitoring, Central Water Commission (CWC). “Accuracy of rainfall forecast is also a challenge, as rainfall and floods have a direct cause and effect relationship. Weather radar received rainfall data can further improve the performance of flood forecasting models,” Mr. Chandra told The Hindu in an e-mail interview. The CWC’s Director of Flood Forecast Monitoring pointed out that Kerala has a network consisting of a large number of small storage capacity reservoirs having lesser time of concentration. “So, integrated operation of reservoirs particularly from flood moderation point of view is a real challenge,” he said. On the reasons behind the latest episode of flash floods in Kerala, Mr. Chandra said that the latest episode of flash floods in the State was due to excessive rainfall caused by formation of low-pressure area over east-central and adjoining south-east Arabian sea off Lakshadweep area and its movement to east-south-eastwards as low-pressure area towards Kerala coast. “Widespread extremely heavy to very heavy rainfall that occurred on October 16 in most parts of Central and South Kerala led to rapid rise in water levels of most of the west flowing rivers in that region,” he said.  Mr. Chandra said that the CWC had issued a special flood advisory on October 12 and 16 for Kerala based on a heavy rainfall forecast from the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). Stating that there has been a paradigm shift in the concept of flood management from flood control to flood risk management, Mr. Chandra said that various land use can be regulated in designated zones with associated risk factors depending upon the different recurrence/return period of flood. “Plinth level of all important infrastructures should be above 1 in 100 years return period flood level. Flood plain zoning has been identified as the very first step to be adopted for reducing the flood risks considerably. Awareness about the disaster resilience structures as well as habits is the need of hour,” he said.  Full interview: https://www.thehindu.com/ news/national/kerala/ kerala-flash-floods-were- due-to-excessive-rainfall- says-expert/ article37136558.ece   Flood plain zoning identified as the first step for reducing flood risks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expert-blames-data-crunch-for-poor-flood-forecast/article37146952.ece
24 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||36 Navy personnel set to ride the waves||Saturday saw brisk activity at the Southern Naval Command (SNC) here with 36 personnel, including eight women, readying six Indian Naval Sailing Vessels (INSVs) for the 700-km Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav offshore sailing regatta to Goa from Sunday. In the group are members of an all-women team that circumnavigated the globe in one such vessel in 2017 and have fixed their eyes on doing it solo in a year’s time.  Powered by wind, they intend to cover the distance in fewer than five days. The regatta, under the aegis of the Indian Naval Sailing Association (INSA), is aimed at fostering adventure and ocean sailing. Among the eight women are Lt. Cdr. Varthika Joshi and Lt. Cdr. Dilna Devadas, a native of Kozhikode, who will navigate sailing vessels, 40 ft and 56 ft long, in the regatta. Equal task  “The women in each vessel will have to partake in all tasks that men do, including hoisting of sails and repairing electrical parts or the engine, if need arose,” says Lt Cdr Dilna. Among the six vessels, Mhadei has done solo circumnavigation ‘Sagar Parikrama’ under Capt. Dilip Donde in 2010 and Cdr. Abhilash Tomy in 2013. Tarini has done circumnavigation of the globe ‘Navika Sagar Parikrama’ in 2017 with an all-women officers’ crew. The vessels were made in India, at yards in Goa and Puducherry. Their engines will be switched on only for emergency. Another participant Cdr. Deepak Raj spoke of how he has so far covered over 15,000 km in sailing vessels, including a Cape Town-Rio-Kochi journey in 2016. “Circumnavigating the globe solo will be a challenging task, what with the participant not having any human contact for about eight months.” Indian Navy’s guard ships and aircraft will patrol the seas to ensure that there is no threat of harm by pirates, says his colleague Cdr. K.R. Binoy. “The personnel will brave the elements, especially the wind and the currents. Having to cook one’s food, each participant will have to do multiple tasks. This will make the regatta a platform to identify trainers,” he says. Mhadei, Tarini, Bulbul, Neelkanth, Kadalpura, and Hariyal are the INSVs in the regatta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/36-navy-personnel-set-to-ride-the-waves/article37146954.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vypeen gears up for folklore festival from Dec. 28||The Vypeen Folklore Fest that will see the participation of 500 artistes will be held from December 28 to 31 at different locales in the region, providing much-needed impetus to tourism and art sectors hit by the pandemic situation. The fest could make Vypeen a locale for folk arts and provide employment to regional artistes while ushering in hope for tourism stakeholders affected by the lockdown and related curbs. It would boost beach and village tourism in the region and take those concepts to a different level, said K.N. Unnikrishnan, MLA, who is the chairman of the organising committee of the event. The fest, which will kick off on December 28 with a ghazal concert, will conclude with a display of fireworks on New Year’s Eve. Prominent artistes from across Kerala have been invited to stage programmes. Kerala Tourism, Kerala Folklore Academy, and the Cooperation and Culture Departments had extended support for the fest, he added. The venues include Puthuvype, Valappu, Kuzhippilly, Cherai and Munambam beaches and different halls and public spaces in Vypeen. Floats and exhibits will be displayed at a folklore rally that will pass through the region while 101 graffiti works will be painted on walls across the island. It would be the longest graffiti art display in Kerala, featuring the State’s art forms. The beaches will also turn into venues for sand sculpting and kite flying for children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vypeen-gears-up-for-folklore-festival-from-dec-28/article37146933.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held in stabbing case||The Ernakulam Rural police on Saturday arrested two persons on the charge of stabbing a youth at Kalady last week. The arrested were identified as Jino Kariyakkaad, 24, of Puthiyedam and Pushparaj Kizhakkepurath, 38, of Chovvara. Kuzhiparambil Reji of Kanjoor was attacked by the accused while he was riding his motorcycle on Thursday around 11 a.m. The victim, who was seriously injured, remains under treatment at the Kottayam Medical College. The police said the attack was the result of a grudge against the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-in-stabbing-case/article37146946.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held on charge of sexually abusing minor||The Kalloorkkad police on Saturday arrested a man on the charge of sexually abusing a minor after befriending her through social media. The 33-year-old accused allegedly spiked soft drinks with alcohol and tricked the victim into drinking it before sexually abusing her. He had been absconding since then. The accused had another case against him in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-sexually-abusing-minor/article37146945.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two die in collision by 3 two-wheelers||Two persons died and four sustained injuries after three two-wheelers were involved in a freak collision at Kadavanthara shortly after Friday midnight. The deceased were identified as Aneesh, 26, of Malappuram and Edward, 47, of Kochi. The injured were identified as Aaron, Thomas, Joseph, and Ananthu. Two motorcycles and a scooter were involved in the crash and one motorcycle had two riding pillion. One motorcycle and the scooter were going in one direction when the other motorcycle came from the opposite direction and crashed head on with the other two vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-die-in-collision-by-3-two-wheelers/article37146947.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ED probe into land deal welcomed||The Archdiocesan Movement for Transparency (AMT), a union of laymen, priests, and religious in the Ernakulam-Angamaly Syrian Archdiocese pressing for more transparency in church administration and functioning of the hierarchy, welcomed the move by the Enforcement Directorate to probe if there was a case of money laundering in a land deal done by the archdiocesan authorities in the second half of 2017. ‘Clear indication’ The movement leaders, Mathew Karondukadavil, Riju Kanjukkaran, and Shaiju Antony, claimed that ED move was a clear indication of the possibility of money laundering in the land deal. They also said that the probe followed pursuit of the case by AMT through Pappachan Athappally, who had filed a complaint with the Kochi police, which was not properly looked into. He was then forced to seek further inquiries in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-probe-into-land-deal-welcomed/article37146935.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Coast Guard rescues fishers||Two crew members of the fishing vessel Sijumon-1, who were injured after being thrown overboard in a collision with the merchant vessel Navios Venus at midnight on Friday off Vizhinjam, were evacuated to the Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, by a pair of Indian Coast Guard ships. They were earlier provided care by the medical team of the Coast Guard station in Vizhinjam. The rest of the 15 crew members of the fishing boat were safely brought back to Colachel, said a Coast Guard press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coast-guard-rescues-fishers/article37146915.ece
24 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||ED probe into Church land row begins||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has started its probe into the land sale row involving Cardinal George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church and head of the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese, in connection with a series of land deals that reportedly resulted in financial losses for the archdiocese. The ED is probing whether money laundering was involved in the case related to the efforts by the archdiocese to settle a loan of around Rs. 60 crore by selling three acres in its possession in Kochi. The Kerala High Court had dismissed a petition filed by the cardinal to quash the cases related to the land deal registered by the Kochi City police. The archdiocese did not receive the entire money it was to have received as proceeds from the sale even a year-and-a-half after the transactions. Out of Rs. 27 crore it was to receive, the archdiocese had got only Rs. 9 crore. Fine of Rs. 3.5 crore The Income Tax Department had imposed an additional fine of Rs. 3.5 crore on the archdiocese based on the inference that the price shown in the land documents was far lower than the market rate. The department had slapped a penalty to the tune of Rs. 2.5 crore earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-probe-into-church-land-row-begins/article37146986.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man gets 25-month jail||The Kothamangalam Judicial First Class Magistrate has sentenced a person to 25 months of imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 30,000 after he was convicted of threatening doctors and employees, besides brandishing weapons and creating a terror-like situation at the Kothamangalam taluk hospital. In December 2020 The convict was identified as Suresh, 46, of Malayankeezhu. He was also ordered to pay another Rs. 16,356 for the damage to property suffered by the hospital. The incident occurred on a night in December 2020 at the casualty section of the hospital. The Kothamangalam police had arrested him shortly thereafter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-gets-25-month-jail-for-threatening-hospital-staff/article37146937.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police file FIR in metropolitan’s death||The Ernakulam Town North police have registered a First Information Report (FIR) for murder and criminal conspiracy against the leaders of the Malankara Orthodox Church in connection with the death of Metropolitan Mathews Mar Athanasios, who reportedly fell from a train in 2018. This was based on the directive by a court to investigate the death following an allegation by an individual that the death was a murder. The Orthodox Church dubbed it as an attempt to tarnish its image as part of the ongoing feud with the rival Jacobite Church. They would move the High Court on Monday to get the FIR quashed. The FIR arraigned Catholicos of the Malankara Orthodox Church, Mathew Mar Severios, Geevarghese Mar Yulios, Metropolitan of Ahmadabad diocese, and Biju Oommen, secretary of the church, as accused. It has been registered under IPC Section 302 (murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). A spokesperson for the Orthodox Church said that the allegations made by the petitioner were absurd. The spokesperson said that none of the accused in the FIR were on the said train. He said the police had investigated the death in 2018 and found it to be an accident and alleged the petitioner to be from the rival faction. Thomas Mar Athanasios, 80, had died after reportedly falling off a train at Pullepady, Ernakulam, in the early hours of August 24, 2018. The police had at that time concluded that the Bishop was diabetic and that he might have fallen after he felt uneasiness while at the door. The possibility of the door slamming against him, leading to his fall, even as he was waiting to alight from the train was also looked into.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-register-fir-in-metropolitans-death/article37146944.ece
24 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||649 new cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 649 new cases of COVID-19 and 274 recoveries on Saturday. Of the new cases 644 contracted the virus through contact. Five health workers are among the infected. The district has 17,922 persons under observation. While 1,671 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 3,96,960 primary and 21,462 secondary contacts of cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 10.57%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/649-new-cases-in-kollam/article37146980.ece
24 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Memorial meet of freedom fighter||Ramesh Chennithala, MLA, inaugurated the 17th memorial meeting of the late freedom fighter and Dalit leader A. Pachan at the Kollam Pubic Library Saraswathy Hall here on Saturday. CPI(M) leader P.K. Gurudasan handed over the A. Pachan Award to writer S. Sudheesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/memorial-meet-of-freedom-fighter/article37146978.ece
24 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Scheme for fisherwomen groups||Society for Assistance to Fisherwomen (SAF) under the Fisheries Department has invited applications from fisherwomen groups to start enterprise units under Theeramythri project. Seventy five percent of the project cost will be grant, 20% bank loan and 5% beneficiary contribution. Application forms are available at the offices of SAF and Matsyabhavan. Last date for accepting applications is November 2. Call 9633076431, 9745403570 or 9895332871 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scheme-for-fisherwomen-groups/article37146979.ece
24 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Wild fruit tree to take root in farmlands||Just as the monsoon sets in over the southern Western Ghats, Kerala usually witnesses a profusion of a seasonal fruit in its tropical wild. When it ripens, the fruit sets off a race among the wildlife, from tuskers to tortoises, to enjoy its protein-rich yield. Called Moottilpazham, this plentiful wild fruit is soon set to make its way to our gardens as well as diet, thanks to an initiative by the Kerala Forest Department. Release next week An 11-minute documentary film that propagates the lesser-known tale of this fruit and its potential for cultivation is slated for a release next week. According to G. Prasad, Assistant Conservator of Forest (Social Forestry), who conceptualised the movie, Moottilpazham is endemic to the southern region of the Western Ghats that extends from South Canara to Kanyakumari. “The tree, Baccaurea courtallensis, is a member of Euphorbiaceae family and the fruit derives its name from the way it bunches up at the base of the tree and even touches the ground. It blooms in February and March while the fruit matures between June to August,” he explained. Feast for the eyes too Major nutritional parameters such as carbohydrates, protein, fibre and vitamin C of this underutilised species have been analysed with the help of scientists at the Kerala Forest Research Institute. The fruit possesses a nutritional value comparable to or even higher than fruits such as mango or gooseberry. Further research is on to analyse its genetic structure. The documentary, according to Mr. Prasad, is the result of a research that began in 2009. The tree, which is a treat to watch when in full bloom, also bears ornamental value and is believed to have inspired some of the finery in the traditional art form of Theyyam. “At least a couple of farmers in Adimaly have realised its potential as an alternative food source and began its cultivation on a commercial scale. Our attempt is to promote this fruit with medicinal qualities as a new source of enriching our food basket and help its domestication,” added the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wild-fruit-tree-to-take-root-in-farmlands/article37146973.ece
24 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Deadline set for report on damaged houses||Revenue Minister K. Rajan here on Saturday directed the deputy collectors and tahsildars in Kottayam to submit reports on the damage sustained to houses in the district during the recent rain-related incidents by October 26. Reviewing the progress of the flood relief works in Kottayam, the Minister asked the officials to come up with accurate figures of the damage caused in each village. He asked the tahsildars to keep details of losses in their respective taluks. To expedite the process, the Minister directed the District Collector to deploy officers from other locations to assess the damage in areas such as Koottickal that suffered extensive damage. Preliminary reports suggested that 59 roads in the district were damaged in the floods last week causing a cumulative loss of Rs. 31.08 crore. Sixteen bridges too were damaged, and the loss was estimated at Rs. 6.35 crore. KSEB losses The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) incurred a loss of Rs. 3.98 crore in the floods. The Pala circle, which comprises the worst-affected areas such as Koottickal, Erattupetta, Poonjar, Mundakkayam, Erumely, Parathodu, and Kanjirappally, suffered a loss of Rs. 3.20 crore while the loss in Kottayam circle was around Rs. 78 lakh. According to authorities, 1,04,809 consumers were affected by power-related problems in the landslip and floods. While 853 transformers were damaged, 185 high-tension posts, and 241 low-tension poles were uprooted or broken. The high-tension power lines in 10 km and low-tension lines in 15.5 km were damaged. At Meenachil To expedite relief distribution to the disaster-struck areas in Meenachil, Minister for Cooperation V.N. Vasavan directed departments to submit within a week a detailed report of the losses. Addressing a meeting here on Saturday to discuss the situation in Meenachil, the Minister said the Public Works Department had already submitted a report. Mani C. Kappan and Sebastian Kulathungal, MLAs, and District Collector P.K. Jayasree were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/deadline-set-for-report-on-damaged-houses/article37146982.ece
24 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Clash at MG varsity: AISF leaders booked||The row over an alleged attack of a woman leader of the All India Students Federation (AISF) by Students Federation of India (SFI) activists during a clash at Mahatma Gandhi University took a new turn on Saturday with the police booking a few AISF leaders under the same charges. While three AISF workers were charged with outraging the modesty of woman, based on a complaint filed by an SFI woman leader, cases were registered against four others under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act for making castiest remarks about the university union chairman, an SFI leader. Earlier, the police had registered a case against 10 SFI workers on the same charge on a complaint filed by the woman AISF leader. While cases charged for outraging the modesty of woman will be probed by the Station House Officer, Gandhinagar, the cases registered under the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act will be investigated by the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Kottayam. AISF response The AISF leadership said the counter-cases filed by the SFI were part of an attempt to scuttle the probe against its leaders. A clash had broken out between the two Left wing students’ organisations during the election of students’ representatives to the Mahatma Gandhi University Senate a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clash-at-mg-varsity-aisf-leaders-booked/article37146955.ece
24 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Police file case against KSRTC driver||About a week after he allegedly drove a public transport bus into the floodwaters and risked the lives of passengers on board, the police have booked a case against Jayadeep Sebastian, a driver with the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), for damaging public property. Prasad Abraham, Station House Officer, Erattupetta, said a case had been registered against Mr. Sebastian under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. The case follows a complaint by the KSRTC. The police will verify the video footage of Mr. Sebastian driving the bus into the floodwaters on the road in front of St. Mary’s Church, Poonjar. They will assess the damage to the vehicle. The bus, which was heading to Erattupetta, got stuck in the water and the passengers were rescued by the local people. Suspended Mr. Sebastian, of the Erattupetta depot of the KSRTC, was immediately suspended while the Motor Vehicle Department initiated proceedings to cancel his driving licence. He came up with videos on social media, flaying authorities for initiating action against him for trying to save passengers’ lives. In one video, Mr. Sebastian claimed that he had driven into the water with the permission of the conductor and the passengers, but the vehicle got stuck in a heavy gush of water. He then drove the vehicle to the church and parked it near its compound wall, thus enabling the rescue of people on board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-filed-against-ksrtc-driver/article37146981.ece
24 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Students allege victimisation by CU||The 2019-22 batch undergraduate students of Calicut University (CU) have accused the varsity authorities of forcing them to write examinations of four semesters, including internal and practical exams, in a span of just five months. Though students under the banner Voice of CU, a WhatsApp collective, approached the Kerala High Court highlighting the issue, it failed to bring about any positive result. Voice of CU representatives Abhiram M.P., Gopikrishna R., Amal Manoj S., and Abhinav K. told the media here on Saturday that the varsity and its affiliated colleges had failed to ensure proper conduct of online classes, exams, and valuation and timely publication of results on the basis of the academic calender, thus victimising students. “We do not know which semester we are in at present. We are attending classes for the fifth semester, but we are yet to appear for the third semester exams. Besides, teachers have been unable to complete the syllabus for most papers through online sessions, which makes us incompetent to appear for exams,” said Abhinav. Amal Manoj pointed out that several students had quit courses and migrated to other universities. “Many did not have the required gadgets or sometimes proper net connectivity, due to which they could not attend online classes. But they too have to appear for exams,” he said. Gopikrishna said the university was yet to publish the results of the first semester exams, while the answer scripts of the second semester exams had not been evaluated. “In such a scenario, how can the varsity hold exams for four semesters and publish results in time?” he asked. He also said that students lacked practical knowledge in their respective subjects, leaving them ineligible for employment. According to Abhiram, students and teachers are going through severe mental stress owing to indiscipline on the part of the varsity, which has postponed exams several times. The students have demanded that the varsity cancel the third and fourth semester exams based on UGC guidelines. They also fear that valuation without false numbers will lead to victimisation of those who raised voice against the varsity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-allege-victimisation-by-varsity/article37146927.ece
24 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||School buses skip mandatory check-ups||Despite frequent reminders from the authorities, only 25 educational institution vehicles have so far secured the mandatory fitness certificate from the Kozhikode Regional Transport Office (RTO) to conduct services in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol after school reopening. On Saturday, no vehicle was brought to the Chevayur testing ground for checking, though officials were present at the spot with all arrangements in place. According to Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) officials, there were over 300 educational institution vehicles, apart from contract carriages, which were in service in Kozhikode two years ago. However, the pandemic crisis affected the continuation of the services, they said. An Assistant Motor Vehicle Inspector said the school managements’ decision to seek the support of parents to personally manage pick and drop services was the main reason for laxity in presenting educational institution vehicles for fitness check-up. The stringent COVID-19 protocol, which insists on limited number of passengers in vehicles, is also cited as another reason for cold-shouldering fitness check-up, he added. Similarly, owners of contract carriages are reluctant to present their vehicles for the annual fitness inspection ahead of school reopening. According to them, daily services in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol is hardly a viable option. MVD officials said the usual pre-monsoon check-up of educational institution vehicles was also not done in 2021 owing to the closure of schools following the COVID-19 outbreak. The practice was to issue ‘Checked’ stickers to all screened vehicles, they pointed out. Meanwhile, representatives of some school managements said the condition of their vehicles was unsatisfactory, as they were not in use for months. Repairing them is expensive, which is not a feasible option at present, they claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-buses-skip-mandatory-check-ups/article37146919.ece
24 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||US-based firm at UL Cyberpark expands its reach||Turning the COVID-19 crisis into an opportunity, the India Development Centre of California-based Information Technology firm Retailcloud, which began operations at the Kozhikode UL Cyberpark with just five persons three years ago, now employs as many as 25 skilled IT professionals. Kevin Colaco, the company’s founder and chief executive officer, said that 20 more professionals would soon join the UL Cyberpark team. The support and services received from the UL Cyberpark were instrumental in the growth of Retailcloud, a press release said here on Saturday. The choice of the UL Cyberpark by the company for its India Development Centre has turned fruitful. No lay-offs Even during the pandemic crisis, the team tried to expand through the work-from-home option without excluding anyone, Mr. Colaco said. The growth of the company has also given fresh hopes to retail and restaurant sectors for overcoming the slump caused by the pandemic, through its cloud-based IT solutions to enhance business. Retailcloud’s clientele includes over 25 professional sports teams, high-profile events like Grammys, and notable fashion brands. Retailcloud is a cloud-based retail point of sale solution for Android and Windows that provides business of all sizes access to tablet, windows and phone solutions with the help of integrated Application Program Interface (API) to Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and e-commerce systems, the release added.  Retailcloud’s clientele includes over 25 professional sports teams, high-profile events, and notable fashion brands||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/us-based-firm-at-ul-cyberpark-expands-its-reach/article37146910.ece
24 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Theatre in Kozhikode to come alive with short play festival||Kozhikode is known for its theatre culture too and now “Theatre Culture” is taking the first step to wake up Kozhikode’s theatre circuit from its one-and-a-half-year-long slumber in the wake of COVID-19. “Theatre Culture”, a recently formed collective of theatre groups in the district, is organising “Shanthanorma,” a two-day festival of short plays in the city in December as its first venture. The festival named after late theatre and film director A.Shanthakumar, will be held at Kozhikode Town Hall on December 3 and 4. “Its been a long time since most of us were on a stage. We realised that we ourselves have to do something to bring us out of this phase,” said Baiju Merikunnu, chairman of the organising committee. The organising committee was formed recently with this purpose with Kareem Das as festival director, Satheesh K. Satheesh and V.M. Ajitha as vice chairpersons, Shaji Poloor as convenor, Kala Rani and Shibu Palazhi as joint convenors and Sanjay Mathew as treasurer. The festival will feature one play each from the theatre groups that are currently part of the collective, such as Manchadikkuru, Edakkad Nataka Gramam, Natakam Pookkunna Kaadu, Repertory Theatre, and Theatre Lovers. Besides, there will be three plays from other groups as well. The plays will be of a maximum of 30 minutes duration. “The theatre groups are pitching in to organise this festival through crowd funding. There will also be tickets,” said Baiju Merikkunnu, adding that each group would work on a meagre remuneration. The three plays from outside the collective will be selected through screening, for which entries may be sent tosceeningteamtck @gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/theatre-in-kozhikode-to-come-alive-with-short-play-festival/article37146912.ece
24 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sustrai conquers the floor with elan||Can a wheelchair-bound person burn up the dance floor? Believe it, here is a team of girls from the city who devote their time and energy to fulfill this noble cause. Their passion is to make differently abled men and women to be part of the professional dancers’ team after proper training and build their confidence to enjoy the pleasure of art through public performances. ‘Sustrai’ is the name they have given to their unique initiative through which they proclaim that they are really ‘thieves’ who want to steal the show with some fresh steps in the art. It was in 2019 that three girls — M. Ambili, Haritha Haridas, and Soorya Gokul — decided to join hands for the novel concept. A three-day carnival of multi-entertainment events organised in 2019 at the Institute of Palliative Medicine in Kozhikode for mobilising funds for palliative care patients ignited their thoughts of proceeding with the idea. Soon after the fest, they came up with three experimental performances, including two online events, which gave opening for many differently abled persons to be part of professional dance performances. Remya Ganesh, a differently abled girl from Kozhikode, was the first who teamed up with Sustrai’s maiden performance. “The dream of any differently abled person is to move the body the way their mind commands. At Sustrai, we welcome them as our team members and train them to explore their talent the way they can and take part in theme-based performances. This is truly a kind of art therapy which bolsters their confidence level,” says Ambili, a professional dancer and one of the prime movers of the initiative. A postgraduate in social work, Ambili also feels that the project really fits her dream of doing something innovative for the ignored sections. The team members, including Haritha Haridas, a lawyer by profession, and Soorya Gokul, an engineering student, hope to take the project forward by adding more creative elements to it and increasing the number of participants. An exclusive coaching centre for differently abled dancers is their dream with the support of like-minded people. These professional danseuses who are also trained in different art forms say they have been eagerly waiting for the end of the pandemic situation, as it has been spoiling their public performance plans. “Now, we address the void by choreographing online performances with our special team members,” they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sustrai-conquers-the-floor-with-elan/article37146921.ece
24 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Feroke-Karuvanthiruthy road to be a reality soon||Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said that the land acquisition process for the road from the rail overbridge at Feroke to Karuvanthiruthy bridge will begin soon. Around 2.5 hectares in Karuvanthiruthy are being acquired for the construction of the road, which is estimated to cost Rs. 60 crore. Of this, Rs. 2.99 crore has already been sanctioned from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for land acquisition. With work on the rail overbridge nearing completion, the project will bring about substantial development in the region, the Minister said. After the Kadalundikadavu and Karuvanthiruthy bridges were renovated on the coastal road connecting Kozhikode and Malappuram districts, traffic on Feroke-Karuvanthiruthy road increased manifold. The road has several twists and turns, which did not discourage motorists. However, the lowness of the railway underpass at Feroke prevented tall vehicles from passing through. Hence, a new road is being constructed from the Feroke railway overbridge to Karuvanthiruthy bridge, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/feroke-karuvanthiruthy-road-to-be-a-reality-soon/article37146911.ece
24 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||MYL office bearers re-elected||Panakkad Sayyid Munavvarali Shihab Thangal and P.K. Firos were re-elected president and general secretary of the Muslim Youth League (MYL), an affiliate of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) at a meeting of the State council of the organisation here on Saturday. Mujeeb Katreri, Faisal Bafaki Thangal, Ashraf Edaneer, K.A. Mahin (vice presidents), C.K. Muhammadali, Nasir Karyara, Gafoor Kolkalathil and T.P.M. Jishan (secretaries) are the other office bearers of the MYL. The new office bearers were elected by the State council meeting held at League House. Inaugurating the meeting, IUML national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty said that it was imperative that the youth make a strong intervention in politics when fascism was engulfing the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/myl-office-bearers-re-elected/article37146913.ece
24 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||ULCCS awards presented||Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS) on Saturday presented awards to 28 children of workers and employees of the cooperative society for excellence in Plus Two examinations. ULCCS chairman Ramesan Paleri gave away the awards at a ceremony held at the Iringal Sargalaya Arts and Crafts Village. The prizes include a medal, certificate, and cash award. The cash award is Rs. 10,000 for the first rank, Rs. 8,000 for the second rank, and Rs. 6,000 for the third rank. R. Meenakshi, who scored 1,199 marks out of 1,200, was presented with a memento.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ulccs-awards-presented/article37146922.ece
24 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Cong offers tax-free petrol in protest against price hike||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president Kodikkunnil Suresh blamed both the Union and the State governments for the spiralling prices of petrol and diesel. He said both the Centre and the State were unleashing “tax terror”. He was speaking after inaugurating a symbolic tax-free Neeti petrol pump set up by the District Congress Committee (DCC) here on Saturday. The tax-free pump, done in protest against the increasing prices of petrol and diesel, offered petrol for Rs. 44.52 a litre. DCC president V.S. Joy presided over the function. KPCC general secretaries Aryadan Shoukath, Alipatta Jameela, E. Mohammed Kunhi, K.P. Abdul Majeed, Sakeer Pullara, and P.C.A. Noor spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-offers-tax-free-petrol-in-protest-against-price-hike/article37146925.ece
24 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Homoeo medicine against COVID for 6 lakh students||The Department of Homeopathy will distribute its medicine against COVID-19 among nearly six lakh students in 1,222 schools in the district. The medicine will be given away from October 25 to 27 through 112 special kiosks ahead of the school reopening in the State. The Homeopathy Department will distribute tiny pills of Arsenicum Album 30 as part of a directive by the Central government’s AYUSH department. The medicine in strips of three tablets will be free for students aged between five and 17 years. However, there will be no compulsion for consumption of the homeo pills. Officials said here on Saturday that parents of the students would have to give a consent letter. Students can register athttps://ahims.kerala.gov.infor getting the homeo medicine. Teachers will also be given the tablets if they ask for it. Distribution The medicine distribution will take place from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday through panchayat level homeo hospitals. Leaflets about the use of the medicine will also be given to children. Special kiosks will be set up in places without a government homeo hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/homeo-medicine-against-covid-for-students/article37146914.ece
24 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Reception accorded to new KPCC secretaries||The District Congress Committee here on Saturday accorded a reception to Aryadan Shoukath and Alipatta Jameela, the newly elected KPCC general secretaries from the district. KPCC working president Kodikkunnil Suresh inaugurated the reception. He said Ms. Jameela’s elevation to general secretary was a testimony to the party’s consideration for the district. DCC president V.S. Joy presided. A.P. Anil Kumar, MLA, former DCC president E. Mohammed Kunhi, and UDF district convener P.T. Ajay Mohan spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reception-accorded-to-new-kpcc-secretaries/article37146926.ece
24 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Mullanezhi, Ayyappan remembered||The Purogamana Kala Sahithya Sangham (Pukasa) commemorated Malayalam poets Mullanezhi and A. Ayyappan here on Saturday. Inaugurating the function, writer Unni Amapparayil said both poets had etched their marks in Malayalam poetry in spite of their contrasting living styles. A. Babu presided. Poet Manambur Rajanbabu, E.N. Sheeja, Daisy Madathisseri, A. Sreedharan, K.P. Balan, Usha Shivaraman, Anil K. Karuppan, V.R. Pramod, and K.V. Sivaraman spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ayyappan-mullanezhi-remembered/article37146923.ece
24 October 2021||P ALAKKAD,KERALA||Shop gutted after lightning strikes||A fancy-cum-stationery shop on Post Office Road at Shoranur was gutted after it was struck by lightning on Friday night. The shop owned by Joshi Veerampulli had toys, crockery and gift items also. The loss is estimated to be about Rs. 25 lakh. The lightning struck the shop around 2.30 a.m. and the fire was noticed by those working in newspaper distribution. Police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel doused the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shop-gutted-after-lightning-strikes/article37147067.ece
24 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Child rights panel convenes meet||The State Commission for Protection of Child Rights convened a meeting of various stakeholders here on Saturday ahead of the reopening of schools. Presenting the subject, commission member C. Vijayakumar asked the officials to inspect all school buildings and their environments before school reopening. The meeting discussed various issues faced by school children, including their travel, drinking water facility and mental health. Stress was laid on how to maintain COVID-19 protocol on school campuses. District Collector Mrunmai Joshi presided over the meeting. Additional District Magistrate K. Manikandan, District Child Protection Officer S. Subha, Child Rights Commission senior technical officer Alfred George and several senior officials from the district took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-rights-panel-convenes-meet/article37147068.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Parking lot finally gets ready||After several months of delay, the city Corporation's multi-level parking lot at its main office in Palayam has become operational, following the completion of a trial run. The Corporation officials have now begun parking their vehicles in the parking lot. But, it will opened to the public only after the fixing of rates, although there are plans to open it for free temporarily to the public until the rates are fixed. “It was handed over finally after test runs last week. The staff will be able to use the parking lot free of cost, but rates will have to be fixed for the public. It has to be fixed by the standing committee and later ratified in the council. We have an annual maintenance contract with the Tamil Nadu-based company, which constructed the parking lot. Kudumbashree will probably be handed over the responsibility of running it,” said a Corporation official. The electrical inspectorate had issued a no objection certificate early in September after carrying out checks. The Fire Department had also issued an NOC. The multi-level parking lot had a formal inauguration in October last year, around a year after the construction works had started under the city Corporation’s Smart City projects. The structure of the parking lot inside the Corporation premises was completed by December 2019. But the work on the fire safety equipment and testing had remained pending. The opening of the parking lot was further delayed after the inspectorate said that fire exit stairs need to be added to the structure. This also led to cost over-runs. Errors in the estimates prepared by the project consultant KITCO had led to a total cost escalation of more than Rs. 1 crore in the parking lot projects at Palayam and Putharikkandam. Executed under the Union government’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme, the parking lot was completed at a cost of Rs. 5.64 crore. Out of this, 50% of the cost was borne by the city Corporation, 30% by the Central Government and 20% by the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parking-lot-finally-gets-ready/article37147102.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Elevated NH to be open by May||The elevated highway at Kazhakuttam will be completed in May next year and opened to traffic, Minister for Public Works P. A. Mohamed Riyas has said. Mr. Riyas, who visited Kazhakuttam to inspect the construction of the four-lane structure on Saturday, said 73% of the work is over. The elevated highway project extends over a total distance of 2.71 km from Kazhakutttam. Of this, work on 1.6 km has been completed, according to Mr. Riyas. At present, work is progressing on fixing the pier caps and girders on the stretch from Kazhakuttam to Mission Hospital. Constructed at a cost of approximately Rs. 200 crore, the project also features three underpasses. Around 250 workers are currently involved in the construction, the Minister said. The Public Works Department views the elevated highway project as a priority among the road projects in the State capital. The department hopes that it can be completed in a time-bound manner, the Minister said. Soon after the LDF Government came to power for a second term, the department had convened a meeting of the officials concerned and finalised a time-frame for completing the work. The National Highway Authority of India has also agreed to consider the request that meetings be held every month, the Minister said. He added that he planned to meet Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari seeking time-bound repairs on national highways. The Minister also held a meeting attended by Kadakampally Surendran, MLA, officials of the PWD, NHAI and Technopark and the local ward councillors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elevated-nh-to-be-open-by-may/article37147108.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Widespread rain from Monday||Kerala can expect widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls accompanied by lightning from Monday to Wednesday due to a cyclonic circulation which formed over coastal south Tamil Nadu now persisting near the Lakshadweep region, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has urged the public to take precautions as strong winds are likely till Wednesday. DDMA control room Branches of trees in private properties should be pruned. Advertisement boards and hoardings should be properly secured. People residing in unsound structures or houses with faulty roofs should contact the control room of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) concerned on 1077. Snapped overhead power cables and damaged electric poles should be brought to the notice of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) on the control room number 1912. The DDMA control room also can be contacted for the purpose. Strong winds can cause damage by uprooting trees or snapping their branches. Standing under trees or parking vehicles under them should be avoided during heavy rainfall and winds, the KSDMA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/widespread-rain-from-monday/article37146962.ece
24 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala Govt. trying to contain fallout of ‘forced’ adoption||The State Government on Saturday appeared to scramble to contain the social and political fallout of the so-called ‘forced’ adoption case. It has sought legal opinion to move court to cancel the child’s adoption and return the infant to its biological mother. The police would investigate the questionable adoption process and the alleged falsification of the infant’s birth certificate to erase its true identity. They have already brought the child’s grandfather, a CPI(M) leader, under the ambit of its probe. The compelling account of a young and unmarried mother’s futile search for her child “forcibly taken away from her three days after birth and given up for adoption’’ via the Child Welfare Council (CWC) has resonated strongly among the public. ‘An immense tragedy’ CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat, who championed the case of the mother, said in New Delhi: “It is a tragedy of immense proportion. What transpired was totally wrong as far as morality and human rights are concerned. The mother needs to get her child back.” CPI(M) State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan expressed solidarity with the mother. He denied that immorality and nepotism from party members had caused the tragedy. K. Muraleedharan, MP, said the incident was an indelible blot on the CPI(M). At least five persons, including a police officer, were injured when BJP workers attempted to storm the CWC office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-govt-trying-to-contain-fallout-of-forced-adoption/article37146950.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU obtains UGC nod for distance courses||Kerala University (KU) has obtained approval from the University Grants Commission (UGC) to continue its open and distance learning (ODL) programmes for the new academic year. UGC’s Distance Education Bureau (DEB) recently completed the scrutiny of the application submitted by the university to grant its School of Distance Education (SDE) recognition for 10 undergraduate and postgraduate courses each. R. Vasanthagopal, director of the SDE, the apex body, has currently permitted UG and PG courses in English, Malayalam, Hindi, Sociology, Political Sciences, History, Economics, Commerce and Library Science in addition to BBA and a Master’s degree in Public Administration, sources said here. Relief for aspirants While the admission process for these courses will commence on November 1, approval is awaited for five more courses – B.Sc. programmes in Mathematics and Computer Science, M.Sc. programmes in Mathematics and Computer Science and BCA. The university hopes to commence the programmes by January 15. Kerala University and Calicut University have currently obtained permission for their distance education programmes. Immense relief The approvals have brought immense relief for higher education aspirants who raised concerns over the inability of Sree Narayana Guru Open University (SNGOU) in obtaining approval for its ODL courses. Nonetheless, the adverse circumstances that prevented the SDE from seeking approval for its popular MBA programmes have come as a blow for many aspirants. The programme had attracted nearly 500 students last year. According to Dr. Vasanthagopal, recent regulations mandated approval by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) in addition to the requisite one by DEB for offering MBA as a ODL programme. “Given the small window that was available for obtaining the approvals after the Government had permitted universities other than SNGOU to offer ODL courses this year, it appeared unfeasible to commence the programme in time for the next academic year,” he said. Further details regarding the courses and application are available onwww.ideku.net.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-obtains-ugc-nod-for-distance-courses/article37147104.ece
24 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||District panels for building permit extension||District-level committees will be formed to reduce the delay in extension of validity of building permits that have completed ten years, Minister for Local Self-Governments (LSG) M.V.Govindan has said. For this purpose, changes will be made in the building rules. At present, a five-member committee consisting of the LSG Principal Secretary and the Chief Town Planner used to consider applications for extension of validity. Changes are being brought in to this arrangement as many have been facing difficulties due to delay in the extension of validity. The move is also part of the Government’s stated policy to promote investments and entrepreneurship, said the Minister. The district committees will consist of the District Town Planner, Executive Engineer of the district panchayat, and the secretary and engineer of the respective local body. Decisions on applications submitted to these committees have to be made within 30 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-panels-for-building-permit-extension/article37147103.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Circular on tuition draws teachers’ wrath||The teaching community has taken umbrage at a circular issued by the Director of Collegiate Education that warns teachers of government and aided colleges against working part-time in private tutorials. Teachers’ organisations aligned to both the ruling and Opposition fronts have firmly denied the prevalence of any such practice in the State. They feel that the circular could stereotype the entire community and create a wrong impression that its members prioritise wealth over ethics. ‘Punishment transfer’ A section finds fault with a ‘punishment transfer’ order for Chandramohan K.T., Associate Professor at Government Brennen College, Thalassery, following an anonymous letter, despite an inquiry finding no grounds for action against him. Terming the diktat unwarranted as stringent laws are already in place, Association of Kerala Government College Teachers (AKGCT) general secretary Sathyan M. says it has brought teachers under a cloud of suspicion. “College teachers, who are already burdened with academic and administrative activities, seldom find time for personal pursuits, let alone working part-time in tutorials. We may find retired teachers who coach students, but it is wrong to suspect serving employees,” he says. Semester system The United Democratic Front-aligned Government College Teachers’ Organisation agrees with the stance. Questioning the need for such a circular, its president K. Anil Kumar claims that no teacher engages in private tuition. Since the introduction of the semester system in colleges, not many students rely on tuition classes since the syllabi have considerably decreased. The All Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association and Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association, backed by the CPI(M) and Congress respectively, maintain out that none of their members engage in unethical practices that violate the Kerala Service Rules. Sources privy to the transfer of Mr. Chandramohan, who is also a Kannur University Syndicate member, to the Government College for Women, Malappuram, say he used to work with a tutorial for 10 years prior to him entering government service in 2006. The Higher Education Department, which had conducted an inquiry in 2015, found no evidence that corroborated the complaint made by an unknown person against him. He has now appealed against the transfer, a source say. The Save University Campaign Committee says the action has been taken on the basis of its complaint made to the Governor against alleged attempts to protect teachers who floute rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/circular-on-tuition-draws-teachers-wrath/article37146959.ece
24 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Campaign on Victers before school reopening||An interview with Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty will kick off an elaborate promotional campaign on the KITE Victers channel ahead of school reopening. The interview will be telecast at 6.30 p.m. on Sunday. Aparna Prabhakar, who used to be a Plus Two student at Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Cotton Hill, has interviewed the Minister. Along with First Bell classes, awareness posters will be telecast. A programme, Thirike Schoolilekku, in which students and parents can share their happiness at school reopening will be telecast every day at 6.30 p.m. Experiences of students during lockdown and experts’ opinions have been included. Sharing experiences Students, teachers, and parents will also get an opportunity to share their experiences with Victers through videos less than three minutes in duration. These can be sent to district offices of KITE till Monday. Stars and artistes will also interact with students in the coming week on Victers, a statement from KITE said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-on-victers-before-school-reopening/article37147096.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fraud: Pune man held||A special team of the Thiruvananthapuram City police has apprehended a Pune resident from his home town for allegedly defrauding a city resident of Rs. 10 lakh through a bogus advertisement on an e-commerce platform. Shailesh Shivram Shinde, 40, who works in a multinational IT firm, has been arrested by the City Cyber Crime police in connection with a complaint by a Vallakadavu native. The accused allegedly listed a variety of high-end electronic goods including smart watch, smart phones and laptops on online marketplace Quikr at discount rates. He also promised to return the paid amount as cashback at the time of delivery. Falling for the accused’s trap, the complainant transferred Rs. 10 lakh for orders he placed on the portal. . He is suspected to have duped more people in similar fashion. He has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fraud-pune-man-held/article37147098.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three held for assault||The Fort police arrested three youths for an alleged attempt to murder a fellow resident at Karimadom colony on Saturday. The accused were identified as Anas, 25, Ashiq, 24, and Sanoj, 23, all hailing from the colony, They have been accused of attacking and grievously injuring Santhosh, who hails from the same locality, using a concrete block following an argument on October 15. They were absconding since the incident. The prime accused, Anas, has been involved in multiple cases reported from Chala market and Karimadom colony. They have been remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-for-assault/article37147099.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,221 new COVID cases||The active COVID-19 caseload fell to 9,749 in the district on Saturday when 1,221 fresh cases and 1,431 recoveries were recorded. The test positivity rate stood at 11.6%. The district administration has currently placed 44,064 people in quarantine as part of its pandemic management efforts. The death toll stood at 4,508. District Collector Navjot Khosa declared a micro-containment zone in Aishwarya Nagar Residents Association in Edavacode ward of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. Thinavila ward of Kadakkaroor grama panchayat; Kudappankunnu ward of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Puravoor, Pavoorkkonam, Kizhuvilam and Chumaduthangi wards of Kizhuvilam grama panchayat have been excluded from the list of containment zones. The existing micro-containment zones in Ananda Nilayam Orphanage in Kuriathy ward of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, and Kannamkuzhi area of Narayanapuram ward of Neyyattinkara Municipality have been withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1221-new-covid-cases/article37147106.ece
24 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trains to be regulated||Train 07230 Secunderabad Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central Daily (Sabari) special train leaving Secunderabad Junction on October 26 and November 9 will be regulated for 45 minutes at Kottayam on October 27 and November 10 to facilitate construction of limited use subway in the Kottayam-Chingavanam section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trains-to-be-regulated/article37147110.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held for sexual abuse||The Cantonment police have arrested a 30-year old man for alleged sexual abuse of a woman in Palayam. The accused, identified as Titus of Puthiyathura, allegedly subjected the victim to sexual harassment when she was passing by the Saphalyam Complex around 4 p.m. on Friday. He is known to have been involved in cases of similar nature in the past, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-sexual-abuse/article37147100.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||60 kg of ganja seized, one held||Excise officials seized a large cache of 60 kg of ganja from a chicken farm in Nedumangad on Saturday. One person was also apprehended in connection with the case. A team led by State Excise Enforcement Squad Circle Inspector T. Anikumar apprehended Akbar Shah of Azhikode in Nedumangad following the raid that was conducted in the farm situated in Manalimukku of Nellanad, soruces said. Misled relative The farm is owned by one of Akbar’s relative whom he purportedly misled by claiming that the three-odd sacks that contained the contraband were filled with saw dust, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/60-kg-of-ganja-seized-one-held/article37146977.ece
24 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||8,909 more test positive in the State||The State on Saturday logged 8,909 new cases of COVID-19 when 86,111 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The active case pool declined to 80,555 with 8,780 persons reported to have recovered from the disease. According to the Health Department, only 9.8% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals such as COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres. 464 deaths The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 28,229 with the State adding 464 deaths to the official list on Saturday. These include 65 deaths which occurred in the past few days, 257 undeclared deaths of the period before June 2021 and 142 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. Current ICU occupancy in both public and private hospitals has declined sharply to 1,228. The number of patients requiring ventilator support also came down below 500, to 492. On Saturday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 725. The total number of persons currently admitted with moderate or severe COVID in hospitals has declined to 8,775. The cumulative case burden ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 49,06,793 cases.  Among districts, Ernakulam has the highest number of new cases at 1,233, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 1,221, Thrissur 1,105, Kozhikode 914, Kollam 649, Idukki 592, Kottayam 592, Pathanamthitta 544, Malappuram 436, Kannur 410, Palakkad 397, Alappuzha 388, Wayanad 270 and Kasaragod 158.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/8909-more-test-positive-in-the-state/article37146957.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 27.37 crore sanctioned for MCH works||The government has accorded administrative sanction to development works worth Rs. 27.37 crore in the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here. In a statement issued on Friday, Health Minister Veena George said the planned activities were part of the Rs. 717-crore expansion project finalised in the master plan. The sanction was accorded for various works including three anesthesia work stations, portable ecocardiography system, heart lung machine, urea breath analyser and ventilators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-2737-crore-sanctioned-for-mch-works/article37147095.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bomb attack: two more held||The City police on Saturday recorded the arrests of two more persons in connection with the recent crackdown on a drug trafficking racket that targeted police personnel with a country bomb. The Karamana police have arrested Rakesh Krishna, 21, of Keezharannoor in Karamana and Akash, 20, of Karakkamandapam. While two people including a juvenile had been apprehended during the raid in a lodge in Killipalam on October 19, two others had managed to evade arrest. While Rakesh is alleged to have been directly involved in the case, Akash has been accused of abetting the duo’s escape and providing them safe refuge. Efforts were on to nab the fourth member of the gang, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bomb-attack-two-more-held/article37147097.ece
24 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Press Club office-bearers elected||M. Radhakrishnan and Rajesh Rajendran have been elected president and secretary respectively of the Thiruvananthapuram Press Club. A press note issued here today said Biju Gopinath was elected treasurer in the elections held to the governing committee for the year 2021-22 on Saturday. Lakshmi Mohan and Honey H. were elected vice president and joint secretary respectively. Those elected to the managing committee were Aji Budhannoor, Muzafar A.V., T.B. Lal, Sajith Vazhayila, Ramachandran Nair (Manoj), and T. Sivajikumar. Razak Kalathingal was earlier elected unopposed to the welfare committee of the Club. The counting of votes was held after the polling that ended at 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/press-club-office-bearers-elected/article37147105.ece
24 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Coast Guard rescues two fishers||Two crew members of a fishing vessel that collided with a merchant ship off the coast of Vizhinjam were rescued by the Indian Coast Guard in the early hours of Saturday. On receiving information about the mid sea collision between merchant vessel Navious Venus and fishing boat Sijumon-01, the Coast Guard station at Vizhinjam despatched the ship C-427 and rescued the two fishers hailing from Kolachel who were injured after being thrown overboard by the impact. They were given first aid and medical assistance on board the rescue vessel and later shifted to the Medical College hospital. The fishing boat was later escorted by other fishing boats to the Kolachel harbour with the remaining 15 crew, a press note issued by the Coast Guard said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coast-guard-rescues-two-fishers/article37147109.ece
24 October 2021||THIURVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govindan holds talks with Union Minister||Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan on Saturday discussed various developmental issues of the State at a meeting with Union Minister of State (with Independent Charge) of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govindan-holds-talks-with-union-minister/article37146960.ece
24 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Radio wireless system back in action||A radio wireless network system, which was installed more than a decade ago (in 2009) in all district headquarters in the State but abandoned later due to poor range and lack of proper maintenance, has been rejuvenated to effectively coordinate rescue operations even in adverse weather conditions. Shibu George, an employee of DEOC (District Emergency Operation Centre), Thrissur, who is doing his research in disaster management, redeveloped the system, with upgrades, which can make disaster management faster and effective, during calamities. Now, all the seven Taluks in Thrissur district are connected to the Collectorate through the radio system. “The radio wireless system will function even when the mobile network and even satellite phone connection develop snag in adverse weather conditions. The system was effectively used in the district to coordinate relief operations during the floods last week,” says Mr. George. Shibu George, who is doing his PhD in ‘Modern Applications in Disaster Management based on Kerala Floods-2018’, happened to stumble upon the novel idea quite accidental. He noticed the repeater lying abandoned in the Thrissur Collectorate control room. A repeater is an automated radio station that extends the range of communications. It consists of a receiver tuned to one frequency and transmitter tuned to another frequency, linked together with a controller device. When the receiver receives a signal, the controller activates the transmitter, which then simultaneously retransmits the received signal. A repeater is usually installed on top of a tall building or on a mountain, and is equipped with an efficient antenna system, so it can receive weak signals and have wide transmission coverage. Mr. George, a Ham Radio licence holder, sought the help of C.S. Sarath Chandran, radio officer, and the duo, with permission from the then Thrissur District Collector S. Shanavas, made the repeater functional. They installed it at the top of the Vilangan hillock. Powerful dipole antennas were connected to it to make it more efficient. To put this to the test, Shibu and his colleague M.A. Ansil went to high seas (40 km off the shore) near Azhikode and assessed the signal capacity. “The system can work in any emergency situation. It can track fishers in high seas, when their boat meets with an accident or fish workers get injured.” Recently, a mobile message from a boat ‘Mother Theresa’ in the high seas was communicated to the DEOC by Azhikkode police that a fish worker got injured. Within minutes, the boat concerned was contacted through wireless and its GPS location identified, and this location was intimated to the coastal police boat, which could easily reach them. “If the DEOC gets the official nod to use the Marine Frequency used by the fishers, it can easily get connected with the boats in distress in the high seas. If the 18 cycle centres in the coastal villages of the State can also link with the system, it will be a great step forward in coastal security management, ” Mr. George points out. During the previous floods, the Peringalkuthu dam area was isolated. The telephone links and satellite connection weakened due to cloudy skies. If a radio wireless system is installed in such risky areas, it will then be a remedy for the signal problem. During the great flood of 2018, rescue operations were seriously hit with the absence of network mechanisms. Minimum cost As all the district quarters already have the system, rejuvenation will require just minimum cost. Total expenditure incurred for repairing and installing the repeater and connecting all the seven taluks in Thrissur district with the Vilangan hillock was only less than Rs. 70,000, he notes. “If the emergency departments such as Revenue, Police and Forest are connected to the radio wireless system with a common frequency, it will take our disaster management system to another level,” he points out.  A radio system was installed more than a decade ago in 2009 in all district headquarters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/radio-wireless-system-is-back-in-action/article37146976.ece
24 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU’s Wheel Hoe Weeder gets patent||Wheel Hoe Weeder (WHW), designed and developed by the Department of Agronomy, College of Agriculture, Vellayani, under the Kerala Agricultural University, received patent by Government of India for 10 years from July 2021. Wheel Hoe Weeder is a manually operated push-type machine with a wheel and weeding blade for weeding. The machinery can easily be operated for weeding in inter row spaces of row-planted crops. The long handle lets the operator to avoid bending over to pull out the weeds. An operator using the machinery with weeding blade of sweep size 20 cm attached to it can weed an area of 0.015 ha (3.7 cents) in an hour in loamy soil. The machinery is operated by pushing action through force exerted by the operator on the handlebar with grips. Control The design provides the operator with more direct and accurate control over the machinery. Wheel Hoe Weeder has been developed as a part of doctoral/postgraduate research programme of Seethal Rose Chacko, Dhanu Unnikrishnan, Krishnasree R.K., and Anitrosa Innazent under the guidance of Dr. Sheeja K. Raj, Dr. Jacob D. and Dr. Shalini Pillai P., Department of Agronomy, College of Agriculture, Vellayani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kaus-wheel-hoe-weeder-gets-patent/article37147114.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back on track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-on-track/article37146917.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Correction||In the news item, “Three office-bearers of Press Club replaced”, carried on Page 3 of the Kochi edition on Saturday, the name of the stand-in treasurer was mistakenly mentioned as Beena Rani. It should have been Jeena Paul. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/correction/article37146936.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In deep waters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-deep-waters/article37146932.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Stage set for contest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stage-set-for-contest/article37146975.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A showpiece now||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-showpiece-now/article37146985.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Arms on show||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arms-on-show/article37147116.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||All for art||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-for-art/article37147118.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a speedy probe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-a-speedy-probe/article37147071.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ban on online gaming challenged in court||The Karnataka High Court will hear on October 27 a batch of petitions filed by the All-India Gaming Federation and individual online gaming operators questioning the legality of several provisions of the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Act, 2021, which prohibits and criminalises the playing of games of skill, including online games, by risking money or otherwise. Justice Krishna S. Dixit, before whom the petition filed by the federation (a not-for-profit society) came up for hearing on Friday, said the interim plea for stay of the operation of the new law would be considered on October 27 along with other petitions. The other petitions have been filed by Galactus Funware Technology Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru; Play Games 24X7 Pct Ltd., Mumbai; Head Digital Works Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad; Gameskraft Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru; and Junglee Games India Pvt Ltd., New Delhi. Pointing out that it was settled law that games of skill (involving risking of money or otherwise) did not amount to wagering or betting as interpreted by the apex court, and therefore the State could not prohibit such activities, the federation contended that the amendments made to the Police Act “unlawfully prohibit the lawful and legitimate business of the members of the federation in providing games of skill”. Stating that the marquee investors had invested over Rs. 3,000 crore in the members of the federation who were based out of Karnataka, it pointed out in the petition that these members employed more than 1,200 individuals in the State. There were over 400 start-ups, valued at $885 million, in the online gaming space, and out of this around 71 start-ups were registered in Bengaluru. It was estimated that around 40,000 new jobs would be created by 2022 in this sector, it was claimed in the petition. The criminalisation of the games of skill would affect the investments made by the members and the livelihood of the employees, it said. The petition said members of the federation offered games such as poker, chess, rummy, fantasy sports (including cricket, football and basketball), casual games and e-sports, all of which were games of skill, and none of them involved wagering and gambling, and games of skill did not fall foul of the Police Act prior to the new law. Pointing out that it was settled law that games of skill (involving risking of money or otherwise) did not amount to wagering or betting as interpreted by the apex court, and therefore the State could not prohibit such activities, the federation contended that the amendments made to the Police Act “unlawfully prohibit the lawful and legitimate business of the members of the federation in providing games of skill”. Stating that the marquee investors had invested over Rs. 3,000 crore in the members of the federation who were based out of Karnataka, it pointed out in the petition that these members employed more than 1,200 individuals in Karnataka. There were over 400 start-ups in India, valued at US $885 million in the online gaming space, and out of this around 71 online gaming start-ups were registered in Bengaluru and it was estimated that around 40,000 new jobs would be created by 2022 in this sector, it was claimed in the petition. The criminalisation of the games of skill (whether for stakes or not) was going to affect not only the investments made by the members the federation, but the livelihood of the employees who were dependant on this business for their income, it was claimed in the petition. That apart, the petitioner said, a large number of professional players who depended on playing games of skill and organising such games of skill for their livelihood would also be impacted from the ban. “The playing of games of skill, is also a form of speech and expression. The amending Act, by imposing unreasonable fetters on this freedom of speech and expression is violative of Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and is not protected under Article 19(2),” the petition contended. Stating that a large number of members of the federation carried out their operations across the country by availing information technology services from Bengaluru, it was claimed in the petition that online gaming operators across the country would be impacted in case of ban imposed in Karnataka. It was clarified in the petition that members of the federation offered games such as poker, chess, rummy, fantasy sports (including fantasy cricket, football and basketball), casual games and e-sports, all of which were games of skill, and none of these games involved wagering and gambling, and games of skill did not fall foul of the Police Act prior to the new law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ban-on-online-gaming-challenged-in-court/article37146198.ece
24 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 5 crore COVID-19 tests in Karnataka||The State reached another milestone during the pandemic with COVID-19 tests breaching the five crore mark on Saturday. Despite the decline in new cases since the last two months, the State has been conducting an average of one lakh tests daily. With 1,20,073 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the total number of tests stood at 5,00,31,061 on Saturday. With this, Karnataka is one of the two States that rank third in the country --- after Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra --- that have tested 8.2 crore and 6.2 crore samples, respectively. While Tamil Nadu has also done over five crore tests, Bihar and Kerala follow with 4.9 crore and 3.7 crore tests, respectively. From an average 80 tests a day in March last year when the pandemic hit Karnataka, the State tested a total of over one crore samples till November 21, 2020. Subsequently, another one crore samples were tested in four months and on March 17, 2021 the total number of tests breached the two crore mark. By June 3, the total tests crossed three crore and four crore by August 10. Following this, it took 73 days for the State to add another crore tests. Over 81% of the total 5,00,31,061 tests conducted till date have been done using Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) method. Districts under pressure In August when restrictions were eased, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had made it clear that restrictions would have to be re-imposed and school reopening would have to be put off in districts where the test positivity rate rose above 2%. Following this, district authorities were compelled to conduct more tests to keep the TPR under 2%. Although a target of 1.5 lakh had been fixed, the number of daily tests had reduced in September, ranging between 79,000 and 1.6 lakh. Health officials said this was mainly because people were hesitant to get tested now, especially when they did not have any symptoms. Recommending a total daily target of 1.1 lakh till November, the TAC suggested that 50,000 tests should be done daily in Bengaluru and 60,000 in the rest of Karnataka. Half of the 60,000 tests should be in border districts, the TAC recommended. Now, despite a decline in new cases, daily tests have remained around one lakh as per the revised testing targets. V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka and member of State’s COVID-19 TAC, said it was important for the State to sustain the same level of testing irrespective of the daily caseload at least till December. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing, said there was a huge hesitancy among people to get tested now. “But all symptomatics and their families should be tested because family clusters and breakthrough infections are being reported,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-5-crore-covid-19-tests-in-karnataka/article37146200.ece
24 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 6 lakh people yet to be vaccinated in Chittoor||Medical and health officials are facing an uphill task in their attempts to inoculate the entire target group of people in Chittoor district for COVID-19 as many people are unwilling to take the vaccine over baseless fears. During the second wave of the pandemic earlier this year, Chittoor district witnessed heavy casualties between May and July, in addition to an unprecedented number of positive cases. According to immunisation officials, as of October 22, 43,79,632 people were vaccinated, out of which 16,51,289 had received both the doses. Immunisation Officer (Chittoor district) Dr. Hanumantha Rao told The Hindu that according to information from the Central agencies, around six lakh people are yet to take even a single dose of the vaccine in Chittoor district. “Medical teams are working overtime all over the district, covering all villages, municipalities and corporations, to coax the target group (aged above 18 years) into getting the vaccine immediately. Deputy Medical and Health Officer P. Ravi Raju said that awareness camps to sensitise the unvaccinated population are being conducted. “The COVID task force teams are visiting all the villages and conducting door-to-door surveys. We have found that a sizable number of people, all aged over 18, are reluctant to get vaccinated,” he said. Vaccine hesitancy The Deputy DMHO said that a vast majority of the reluctant group was from the rural side. “They continue to express serious doubts about the efficacy of the vaccination, besides fearing that it might lead to severe health complications. This is absolutely wrong. Of all the casualties which took place due to Covid in Chittoor district so far, close to 99 percent were those who had not been vaccinated even once, while a negligible number of cases were from those who took a single dose that too during the incubation period,” Dr. Ravi Raju said. The medical officer deplored that those who had not taken the vaccination would form a very potential threat to spread the virus in case of a third wave. “This segment could also spread the virus among the vaccinated population. Though the vaccinated population would be safe for a year, the efficacy of the vaccine would slowly start coming down. As such, they too could become vulnerable to COVID-19 once again, although with a greatly reduced risk of any complications. This is not possible for those who have not received a single dose of vaccine,” he said. The official said that the government had given top priority for vaccination to the elderly, followed by the middle-aged group, and lastly for those aged above 18 years. At the same time, it gave priority to those with co-morbidities such as cardiac disease, diabetes, and lung ailments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-6-lakh-people-yet-to-be-vaccinated-in-chittoor/article37147063.ece
24 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Newlywed dies after SUV stranded in flood waters||A newly-wed woman died and a five-year-old child is critical after an SUV carrying a six-member marriage party from Raichur in Karnataka was caught in the floodwaters below a railway underbridge in Tirupati in the early hours of Saturday. According to the area police in Tirupati, the marriage party consisting of a newly-wed couple, their parents and relatives was proceeding to Tirumala for darshan of Lord Venkateswara. After reaching Tirupati, the driver of the SUV had to pass through the railway underbridge at West Church zone, which was flooded following heavy rain on Friday night. Unmindful of the danger, the driver entered the waters, and the SUV stopped midway and was caught completely beneath the waters. While Sandhya (24) died to asphyxiation inside the vehicle, six others, including the driver, could save themselves by exiting from the vehicle. However, a five-year-old girl who gulped the rainwater in profusion was rushed to the SVRR Hospital and her condition ias said to be serious. The University police registered a case and took up further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/newlywed-dies-after-suv-caught-in-flood-waters/article37146201.ece
24 October 2021||DEVIPATNAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector promises to provide all facilities in R&R colonies||District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran has promised to provide infrastructure and renovate the existing facilities in the Polavaram Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) colonies. Twenty-three R&R colonies have been built in the district to rehabilitate people of 63 habitations in the Rampachodavaram revenue division. The rehabilitation exercise is still in progress due to delay in releasing compensation. On Saturday, Mr. Hari Kiran, Polavaram Project R&R Commissioner O. Anand, and ITDA-Rampachodavaram Project Officer C.V. Praveen Adithya inspected the R&R colonies – Indukuru I, Peddabheempalli I & II – and received petitions from the project affected families. Later, addressing the media, Mr. Hari Kiran said a special grievance register was being maintained in all the colonies to redress them. “As on date, at least 150 issues have been raised in Indukuru-1 colony. All of them will be solved by the contractors. The government will provide every facility, including burial ground, school buildings, roads, and drainage system,” the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-promises-to-provide-all-facilities-in-rr-colonies/article37147053.ece
24 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MLA Nagarjuna takes out padayatra||A groundswell of public outrage marked the third day of protests against the alleged derogatory remarks made against Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. At Vemuru, MLA Meruga Ngarjuna led about 5,000 protestors and took out a padayatra from Vemuru to Vaikunthapuram. “This protest has been taken out by the people who had come out spontaneously protesting against the unparliamentary language used by the opposition parties against the Chief Minister.” said Mr. Nagarjuna. Leaders and MLAs across the district took out protest rallies on the third day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mla-nagarjuna-takes-out-padayatra/article37147135.ece
24 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu’s protest a drama, says Kannababu||Terming TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu’s 36-hour protest as a drama, Minister for Agriculture K. Kannababu on Saturday came down heavily on the opposition party leader for “backing the filthy language” used by party spokesperson K. Pattabhiram against the Chief Minister, and questioned if he would use the same abusive language during his Delhi tour. Addressing the media at the party central office here, Mr. Kannababu flayed Mr. Naidu for demanding a CBI inquiry into the attack on the TDP central office. He reminded that it was Mr. Naidu who didn’t allow the CBI to enter the State during the Telugu Desam Party term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidus-protest-a-drama-says-kannababu/article37147044.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||World’s biggest cricket bat unveiled||Former India captain and now Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) president Mohd. Azharuddin unveiled what is certified by the Guinness Book of World Records to be the biggest cricket bat, designed by beverage giant Pernod Ricard India (P) Ltd., on the Tank Bund in Hyderabad on Saturday. The bat measures 56.10 feet, weighs nine tonnes and is made of poplar wood. This was to convey best wishes to the Indian cricket team and bring back the T-20 World Cup in Dubai. The bat unveiled in the presence of principal secretary, MA&UD and commissioner, I & PR, Arvind Kumar and principal secretary, I&C and IT, Jayesh Ranjan, was fabricated by the BSL and took almost a month to complete. “I feel proud to be part of this campaign and more so because Hyderabad is leading the way in conveying the best wishes to the Indian team in the T-20 World Cup,” Azhar said. “This is a superb effort and I am really glad to be part of this,” the HCA chief said while signing on the huge bat. “I think the India-Pakistan match tomorrow will be a very good match but I have a strong feeling that the Virat Kohli-led team will cross the line and win the World Cup given the kind of form it is in,” he added. He also appealed to the authorities to install the bat later at Uppal Stadium at a suitable location for the benefit of other cricket lovers. Mr. Arvind Kumar said it was a huge honour for Hyderabad to have this kind of a bat to express solidarity with the Indian team. “Deepavali celebrations have begun early in the city with this unveiling,” he said. Mr. Jayesh Ranjan hoped fans would respond in huge numbers to lend support to India’s campaign. “I sincerely hope we will have bigger celebrations after India wins the World Cup next month,” he said. “We dedicate this bat to the Indian team that will be on display at this place till the World Cup concludes,” zonal head South India, Pernod Ricard India (P) Ltd, Udit Dugar said. Regional head, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, Gopal Akotkar was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/worlds-biggest-cricket-bat-unveiled/article37146191.ece
24 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||KTR charges BJP’s Etela of meeting TPCC chief Revanth||Reiterating his earlier charges of collusion between the Congress and the BJP, the TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao has alleged that Congress chief A. Revanth Reddy and BJP leader Etala Rajender had met at Golconda resorts. “If they deny the meeting I am willing to release the pictures,” he said adding what more evidence one needs of their collusion with the sole purpose of defeating the TRS in Huzurabad. However, he clarified that there was no snooping on them but some fans of TRS government had clicked the pictures of their meeting. Their understanding is so deep that Congress despite its decent presence will lose deposit in the bypoll, he claimed, and later Mr. Rajender will join the Congress party. “But we are comfortably winning Huzurabad despite the shady deals,” he clarified. ‘India in Gujratis’ hands’ Rejecting the allegations of family rule in Telangana and criticising the BJP leaders for ‘abusing’ Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao and the family, he asked should the TRS too stoop down to the level of saying Gujaratis have taken over India. “That is the narrative in India now and should we also abuse them like the BJP is doing in Telangana,” he asked. On the TRS targeting the rising fuel prices in its election campaign, he said we want to remind people how Mr. Modi had targetted the UPA government over rising prices and promised succour to the people if the BJP was voted to power. “Fuel prices are almost doubled,” he said and ridiculed the BJP leaders’ advice to the State governments to reduce their taxes. “So Mr. Modi will increase the prices and we should decrease. What kind of logic is this,” he asked||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ktr-charges-bjps-etela-of-meeting-tpcc-chief-revanth/article37147041.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 TRS MLAs in touch with us: Shabbir Ali||TPCC Political Affairs Committee convener Shabbir Ali has claimed that at least 15 TRS MLAs are in touch with the Congress. Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao should focus on setting his party right rather than peeping into the affairs of other parties, he said. Mr. Shabbir Ali was reacting to Mr. Rao’s controversial comments that Gandhi Bhavan has become a haven for Godse, indirectly referring to TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy. Condemning the remarks against Mr. Reddy, Mr. Ali said the man who killed Gandhiji was Nathuram Godse and people who disobey Gandhiji’s ideology are Godse’s followers. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his son K.T. Rama Rao are sitting on an empire built on mountain of lies and they should be considered as top followers of Godse, he said. Mr. Ali ridiculed Mr. Rao’s allegation on Congress-BJP alliance and said the entire world knows that Congress alone is fighting the BJP in every nook and corner of the country, including Telangana. “But it’s the TRS that has been supporting BJP since 2014, right from demonetisation to three new controversial farm laws. TRS MPs voted for BJP candidates in the elections of President, Vice-President and Deputy Chairman of Rajya Sabha. It supported BJP on CAA, NRC, Triple Talaq Bill, NIA Amendment Act and other controversial laws of Modi government,” he said. Hetero money In a separate statement, Congress leader Bandi Sudhakar said KCR should explain the source of tonnes of money being spent by the party in Huzurabad. The recent raids on Hetero Pharmacy and the confiscation of huge money there are being linked to TRS by all and Mr. Rao should clarify the rumours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-trs-mlas-in-touch-with-us-says-shabbir-ali/article37146868.ece
24 October 2021||Kadapa,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSR family did nothing to develop Rayalaseema’||Though the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s family had enjoyed political power for five decades, and despite two Chief Ministers hailing from Kadapa district, the backwardness of the Rayalaseema region was very much visible, Union Minister of State for Fisheries L. Murugan said on Saturday. Mr. Murugan was addressing an election meeting at Badvel. The Union Minister said it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi who had ushered in revolutionary development in Andhra Pradesh. Despite the tall claims of the YSRCP government, the Badvel region had no degree college so far, he said. “If elected in the by-election, BJP candidate P. Suresh will have all the support of the Central government. It is for the people of Badvel to decide whether they want liquor or development,” Mr. Murugan said. Dig at YSRCP BJP national secretary Kanna Lakshminarayana said the YSRCP rule had proved to be oppressive. BJP State president Somu Veerraju alleged that the YSRCP MLAs and cadre were involved in land grabbing and corruption. “The BJP-led NDA government at the Centre is known for its corruption-free administration,” Mr. Veerraju said, and alleged that Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy only knew how to rig the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-family-draws-flak/article37146663.ece
24 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||27 held, jaggery wash destroyed||East Godavari SP M. Ravindranath Babu has said that 27 persons have been arrested in connection with the production of ID liquor during raids jointly conducted by the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) across the district on Saturday. The police destroyed 37,100 litres of jaggery wash during the raid and registered 36 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/27-held-jaggery-wash-destroyed/article37147084.ece
24 October 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Measures stepped up to combat KFD in Wayanad||The Health department has intensified measures to combat the Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) or monkey fever in Wayanad district. As a part of it, a vaccination drive began on Saturday in Thirunelly grama panchayat, where the largest number of KFD cases had been reported in the past two consecutive years. According to the data available with the Health department, four KFD cases have been reported in the district this year so far. Three persons died of the disease and 29 KFD cases were reported in the district last year. As the viral disease, transmitted to humans through a species of ticks found on monkeys, had been mainly reported from hamlets adjacent to forest on the Kerala-Karnataka border, the public in the areas should be vigilant, especially during the peak period from November to April, Savan Sara Mathew, district surveillance officer (non COVID-19), said. If the public found any carcass of monkeys in forest areas, it should be reported to Health, Forest, or Animal Husbandry department officials, Dr. Savan said. People on the fringes of forests should use personal protection measures before entering the forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/measures-stepped-up-to-combat-kfd-in-wayanad/article37146189.ece
24 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe into Syro-Malabar Church land row begins||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has started its probe into the land sale row involving Cardinal George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church and head of the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese, in connection with a series of land deals that reportedly resulted in financial losses for the archdiocese. The ED is probing whether money laundering was involved in the case related to the efforts by the archdiocese to settle a loan of around Rs. 60 crore by selling three acres in its possession in Kochi. The Kerala High Court had dismissed a petition filed by the cardinal to quash the cases related to the land deal registered by the Kochi City police. The archdiocese did not receive the entire money it was to have received as proceeds from the sale even a year-and-a-half after the transactions. Out of Rs. 27 crore it was to receive, the archdiocese had got only Rs. 9 crore. Fine of Rs. 3.5 crore The Income Tax Department had imposed an additional fine of Rs. 3.5 crore on the archdiocese based on the inference that the price shown in the land documents was far lower than the market rate. The department had slapped a penalty to the tune of Rs. 2.5 crore earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-into-syro-malabar-church-land-row-begins/article37146202.ece
24 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain in Kerala triggers fear of another round of floods||At least three landslips were reported in Pathanamthitta and Kottayam on Saturday as heavy rain lashed the eastern high ranges of the districts, raising fears of yet another flood in central Travancore. The landslips were reported from Kurumanmuzhi, near Ranni, and from an isolated location near Asambani at Mundakkayam on the forest fringe, where floodwaters entered a few houses. The third one was reported from inside the Sabarimala forest. In Pathanamthitta, the Angamoozhy-Kottamonpara bridge was completely submerged by floodwaters, while there were reports of a house and a few vehicles being washed away by the heavy gush of water. The landslip was expected to trigger a rise in the water level of the Pampa. The downpour, which started in the afternoon, caused a sharp rise in the water level of the Manimalayar in Kottayam. The heavy gush of run-off water from the upper reaches inundated the Mundakkayam causeway, leading to traffic disruptions. Taking note of the situation, shopkeepers along the Kanjirappally-Mannarakayam road began shifting their stocks to safer locations by evening. The rain affected the relief operations at Koottickal village, which had suffered widespread damage during the heavy rain last week. Majority of canals across the Mundakkayam, Kanjirappally and Erumely regions overflowed, inundating several houses on their banks. In view of the warning of more rain, authorities maintained a strict vigil across the region. Two gates closed Earlier in the day, the discharge of excess water from reservoirs to the Pampa had been brought down considerably with the closing of the two gates of the Pampa dam. Live water storage in the dam, which had touched 94% earlier this week, was brought down to 74%. The shutters of the Kakki-Anathodu dam, meanwhile, were lowered further to 30 cm from 60 cm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-in-kerala-triggers-fear-of-another-round-of-floods/article37146204.ece
24 October 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aquaculturists upbeat as prices stabilise||After a slump in the wake of COVID-induced economic crisis, the prices of shrimps have now recovered bringing cheers to farmers in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh. All aqua farms in the coastal region are active with farmers gearing up to make good of the favourable situation to maximise returns. They mainly cultivate pacific white-leg shrimp ((Litopenaeus Vannamei) in the districts of SPSR Nellore and Prakasam to cater to the demand for the produce in the USA as also European countries. Now the prices have stabilised giving them the courage to go for cultivation of shrimp in a big way. “There has been a jump of over Rs. 100 per kg in the rates now. A count of 30 fetched a price of Rs. 530 per kg, 40-count Rs. 430 per kg, 50-count Rs. 360,” says a shrimp farmer from Tangutur Ramesh Reddy. Meanwhile, conscious of cutting costs to maximise returns, a progressive farmer K. Nishant Reddy urges fellow shrimp farmers to adopt intensive production method to stay in contention even when other production factors remained unfavourable. Overseeing the water quality in his farm at Koduru, near T.P.Guduru mandal, the GenX farmer says the aqua farmers could make big gains “by growing shrimp in Biofloc at higher stocking densities of 200 pieces/m2 and achieving an average harvest volume of 4 kg per m2”. By doing so, shrimp farmers could achieve a production of 160 tonnes of shrimp in one hectare per year. They could harvest shrimp four times in a year by going in for ‘biofloc nursery’, explains the shrimp farmer. Bioflocs are aggregates of algae, bacteria, protozoans and other kinds of particulate organic matter which helps the farmers to meet about 20% of the feed cost on their own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aquaculturists-upbeat-as-prices-stabilise/article37147061.ece
24 October 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI opposes TDP’s demand for President’s Rule in A.P.||Even as condemning the attack on offices of the Opposition Telugu Desam Party in the State, Communist Party of India(CPI) State Secretary K.Ramakrishna on Saturday disapproved the TDP’s demand for imposition of President’s Rule in the State. Addressing mediapersons here, Mr. Ramakrishna accused the police of acting in a “partisan manner” and putting into trouble activists of opposition parties by foisting cases on them and allowing YSRCP activists, who took law into their hands, to go scotfree. However, it was wrong on the part of TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu to press for the Centre’s intervention, he said. Recalling that the TDP had been a victim of alleged misuse of Article 356 of the Constitution by the ruling party at the Centre in the past, he added that the Left parties had joined hands with the TDP back then for restoration of the NTR government. In the same vein, the TDP should fight against the ruling YSRCP in “people’s court” instead of knocking at the doors of the Centre, he opined. He said it was unfortunate that police filed cases under the provisions of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act even against Dalits, whose rights had to be protected under the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-opposes-tdps-demand-for-presidents-rule-in-ap/article37147065.ece
24 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco growers jittery as panel on tax policy formed||Farmers in the traditional tobacco growing areas of Prakasam and Nellore districts are up in arms against the formation of an expert panel by the Centre to chalk out a new tax policy on the sale of cigarettes. Farmers coming under the Southern Black Soil (SBS) and Southern Light Soil (SLS) auction platforms took stock of the situation arising out of the setting up of an expert panel headed by a senior Health Ministry official to look into the current tax structure on various forms of tobacco and come up with new tax rates with a view to discourage cigarette consumption, ahead of the preparation of the Union Budget. The tobacco growers in the drought-prone region have demanded representation for them in the panel to voice their concerns while finalising the policy, as they grow the crop with no other economic alternatives. Livelihood of not only the farmers but also farm workers and labourers who process the produce was at stake, they cautioned. “Ground realities should be taken into account while framing the policy as there would be a risk of cigarettes being smuggled into the State in the wake of already high taxes, thus forcing the legal tobacco sector to bear the brunt,” says a group of farmers coming under Ongole-II auction platform. The crop is grown under stringent regulations by the Tobacco Board. Over a period, the crop size has been reduced from about 230 million kg in the State to 130 million kg now, resulting in a steady fall in the per-barn quota for each farmer and depriving the economies of scale that would help them compete in the global market, the farmers explain. “Going by past experiences, the Centre should take note that the high taxes have not resulted in reduced consumption of cigarettes. On the other hand, cigarettes smuggled from abroad into the country have only increased as retailers encourage sales of non-tax paid cigarettes in view of higher trade margins,” explains another farmer V.V. Prasad. According to industry sources, every one in four cigarettes consumed in the country is illegal (non-tax paid). Over 25 billion illegal cigarettes which made their way into the country, especially from South-east Asian countries are consumed, sources said. “I am now perplexed whether to grow the crop or not in view of the high taxes in force and uncertainty over the demand for the produce due to anti-farmer tax regimes,” another farmer Ch. Ranga Rao said while referring to the 28% GST, compensation cess, Excise Duty and National Calamity Contingent Duty imposed by the Centre to mop up an annual revenue of Rs. 53,750 crore. “We are already suffering because of the reduced demand for legal cigarettes from people as many of them prefer the international tax-evading brands as they are cheaper when compared to the locally available sticks which enter the market after having paid high taxes to the government,” said B. Ramanjaneyulu, a farmer, adding that the legal industry had already been over-taxed. Moreover, the smuggled cigarettes do not carry the mandatory pictorial health warnings, thus posing the risk of gullible youth believing that they were safe for consumption. “I could not raise tobacco seedlings in time in view of the dry spell after the rains induced by Cyclone Gulab last month,” added another farmer T. Ramanaiah who shares the concerns of his fellow farmers in Kandukur over the non-arrival of North-east monsoon rains even during the fag-end of October. The State government should take note that constant increase in tax rates has rendered the legal industry unable to counter the growing illegal cigarette menace and affected the farmers who raised the crop overcoming various hurdles, including weather and pests, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-growers-jittery-as-panel-on-tax-policy-formed/article37147043.ece
24 October 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||90% of targeted group covered in Prakasam||Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer P. Ratnavalli said more than 90% of the targeted group was covered under the vaccination programme in the district while overseeing a door-to-door survey conducted by volunteers. While the coverage has been 100% among health and other frontline workers, it has been over 75% in the age group of 18 to 44 and 98% among those aged above 45, she said. So far, 35.26 lakh doses of vaccine had been administered in the district. In 1,058 village secretariats, the coverage has been 100% in 150 village secretariats and over 90% in rest of them. “We are making all out efforts to reach every leftover person,” she said. In SPSR Nellore district, over 12.13 lakh persons have been provided with two doses of vaccine, according to DMHO S. Rajyalakshmi. As many as 19.28 lakh persons have been given one dose of the vaccine and 100% coverage has been achieved in case of 252 of the 961 village secretariats in the district. Meanwhile, one person succumbed to COVID in Prakasam and 39 new cases were logged in South Coastal Andhra in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/90-of-targeted-group-covered-in-prakasam/article37147066.ece
24 October 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RUDA begins online approvals||Rajamahendravaram Urban Development Authority (RUDA) Chairperson M. Sharmila Reddy on Saturday launched the online services to grant permissions for house construction and layouts . They are available on apdpms.ap.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ruda-begins-online-approvals/article37147085.ece
24 October 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Padma: ‘Disha’ protects women from cybercrime||Andhra Pradesh Women’s Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma on Saturday claimed that the Disha police system would protect women from cybercrime which was on the rise across the country. She was addressing girl students of Adikavi Nannaya University (AKNU) here during an awareness programme on the Disha police system, 'Disha-Nirdhesham', to guide the girls on the services being offered by the State police in the event of any problem. AKNU Vice-Chancellor M. Jagannadha Rao thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for launching the Disha police system from the university campus in 2020. 78% downloads Prof. Rao claimed that 78% of girl students of the university and its affiliated colleges had downloaded the Disha app. The university had 33,377 girl students enrolled in 401 colleges, including campus colleges, in Rajamahendravaram and Kakinada. Ms. Padma and Prof. Rao reviewed the functioning of the Internal Complaints Committee which receives grievances and complaints from the girls and women staff. Registrar T. Ashok, Women Cell Co-ordinator K. Nookaratnam and other teaching staff were present. Meanwhile, Ms. Padma has criticised the verbal attack on Home Minister M. Sucharitha by the TDP leaders, including Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/disha-protects-women-from-cybercrime/article37147064.ece
24 October 2021||RAMPACHODAVARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Speed up rehabilitation exercise, officials told||District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran on Saturday directed the officials to speed up the grant of the land-to-land component and rehabilitation exercise in the 53 habitations being affected by the Polavaram irrigation project in the East Godavari Agency. A high-level meeting was convened here to prepare an action plan to speed up the pending works and construction of the Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) colonies. Mr. Hari Kiran directed the Rampachodavaram and Chintoor ITDA authorities to submit a report on the status of the R&R exercise. On rehabilitation of families from Kondamodalu village of Devipatnam mandal, Mr. Hari Kiran said the government had cleared the problem pertaining to the 426 acres of land belonging to the village. Addressing the officials and sarpanches who represented the submerged habitations, Araku MP G. Madhavi promised to take up with the Central authorities the issues pertaining to Resettlement and Rehabilitation. A Project Level Monitoring Committee, comprising sarpanches of all the submerged panchayats, was aksed to identify the issues and submit a report to the State government. ZP Chairman V. Venu Gopal, ITDA Rampachodavaram Project Officer C.V. Praveen Adithya, ITDA Chintoor PO A. Venkata Ramana, and Polavaram R&R Commissioner O. Anand were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speed-up-rehabilitation-exercise-officials-told/article37147054.ece
24 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala child separation case: parents go on fast||A day after the government ordered a department-level probe into a woman’s complaint of forcible separation from her child and seeking its return, the State Adoption Resource Agency filed a petition in court on her demand and to apprise the court of the departmental probe under way. Minister for Women and Child Development Veena George, who is also the vice president of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare, told mediapersons on Saturday that the adoption procedures of the child thought to belong to Anupama S. Chandran were in the final stages at the family court at Vanchiyoor. Following legal advice, the department decided to intervene before the final order was passed by the court. The Minister said the department had acted immediately and approached the court for her to get the child back. The government pleader had been tasked with informing the court about the latest situation. Ms. George reiterated that a report on all procedures, including the timeline, from the time the child had been received at the council was sought. Probe to identify lapses The Minister, who spoke to Anupama in the morning, said a probe had been ordered to ascertain if any lapses had occurred and prevent any repeats. The child, she said, was in foster care with adoptive parents who had registered on the Central Adoption Resource Agency portal, and the adoption proceedings were court-monitored. The case was rare and complicated, she admitted, adding that the government was doing what was needed for the child to be reunited with its mother. Meanwhile, Anupama and her partner Ajith Kumar staged a hunger strike in front of the Secretariat in the morning seeking the return of her child and action against those who she alleged failed to act in time on her complaint. Anupama expressed her happiness at the probe into her complaint and the support she was receiving, but also wished that she had received help when she had asked for it from various quarters, including the Communist Party of India (Marxist). On the government decision to inform the court, Anupama said she was finally hopeful that she would get her child back. To move High Court Anupama and Ajith Kumar said they were in touch with a lawyer, and planned to move the High Court. Anupama had alleged that her father P.S. Jayachandran had taken away her newborn just days after she gave birth in October last year and abandoned in the Ammathottil cradle of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare. The Kerala Women’s Commission will extend all legal support to Anupama if needed in the case, panel chairperson P. Satheedevi said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-child-separation-case-parents-stage-a-stir/article37146205.ece
24 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delivering the joy of reading books||“Children who start reading early understand situations better and they are able to analyse the pros and cons as well,” says M. Satish Babu, a techie who has embarked on a mission to inculcate reading habit among children by distributing free magazines, comics and books of other genres to schools and libraries in Andhra Pradesh and a few other States. His belief that books build personality and that one becomes what one reads spurred him to initiate the books-distribution drive and help children discover their own self and enhance their social, emotional and creative development. Founder and Managing Director of a software company, Tech Mark Training India, and Managing Trustee of HODU Education and Health Charitable Trust, a CSR initiative of Tech-Mark, Mr. Satish Babu is supplying 1 million magazines and comic books worth around Rs. 12 crore to children of government schools in Andhra Pradesh. The techie collaborated with MagazineLiteracy.org, a US-based NGO that supplies new and recycled magazines and comic books to millions of young readers across many countries, to deliver the joy of reading, especially among the under-served children in economically backward sections. Sharing videos of the massive warehouse of the NGO in the U.S., Mr. Satish Babu talks about his plans to create similar facility in the State to make the book-distribution activity a continuous process. Amidst making arrangements for the consignments of books to reach the State, he is parallelly reaching out to local libraries, offering them boxes full of books free of cost. He recently visited the Sarvottama Grandhalayam near Benz Circle with cartons of books that would find a place of pride in the renovated library building. Established in 1987, the place has been given a facelift. “Besides our own collection, we have donors coming in with books of different categories at regular intervals and it feels good to see that people still care to preserve books in this technology-driven era and are ready to walk that extra mile to promote reading habit,” said Raavi Sarada, secretary of Andhra Pradesh Library Association, who runs the grandhalayam. Mr. Satish Babu has assured Ms. Sarada that he would continue to bring stocks of books and complete the children's section in the library. “The idea is to reach out to small towns where children do not have access and thus no exposure to the world cultures,” said Mr. Satish Babu. He has also despatched stocks of books to a few libraries in Uttar Pradesh and Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delivering-the-joy-of-reading-books/article37146234.ece
24 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP alleges violation of model code by Peddireddi||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has sought action against Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy and other YSRCP leaders for allegedly influencing the anganwadi teachers and village volunteers to support the ruling party candidate in the Badvel by-election. In separate letters to Chief Electoral Officer of Andhra Pradesh K. Vijayanand and Badvel Assembly constituency Returning Officer Ketan Garg on Saturday, Mr. Veerraju wanted that YSRCP candidate D. Sudha be disqualified for violation of the Model Code of Conduct by Mr. Ramachandra Reddy. He alleged that Mr. Ramachandra Reddy had conducted the meeting and insisted that the teachers and volunteers vote for the YSRCP candidate. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy had also allegedly pressurised the village volunteers to support the YSRCP candidate and directed them to coordinate with the people and make them cast their vote in favour of the YSRCP. The Minister had indirectly warned that action would be taken against persons who did not support the ruling party, Mr. Veerraju alleged. He also alleged that the local police following the Minister were keeping silent over the violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-alleges-violation-of-model-code-by-peddireddi/article37147060.ece
24 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No plans to remove contract staff, says APSCHE chief||Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) K. Hemachandra Reddy on Saturday said the government was committed to paying minimum time scale to university teachers. At a press conference, Mr. Reddy said there was a delay caused owing to confusion in implementation of G.O. 24 issued by the TDP government in the past. The YRSCP government, through G.O. 40, wanted to take up the cause of contract employees, he said. Mr. Reddy said the issue was being discussed by Group of Ministers and the government was committed to payment of minimum time-scale salaries. He said there was no truth in reports that minimum time scale salaries were being paid only in junior and degree colleges, while employees in universities were denied the same. Absence of a proper policy on appointments in universities in the past led to the existing chaos, he said some posts were sanctioned posts while others were self-financed ones. “There is no clarity on the exact number of ‘sanctioned’ and ‘self-financed’ posts in the 2,100 contract posts available in the 16 universities across the State,” he said. Mr. Reddy said the government, with the approval of the Finance Department, would implement a proper policy and make the appointment as per a roster system. Special Chief Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Satish Chandra said some employees had approached the court on the minimum time scale issue resulting in delay in appointments. He said there were no plans to remove contract employees and advised them not to believe rumours. He said in April next year, the govenrment would fill 2,000 Assistant Professor posts through the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-plans-to-remove-contract-staff-says-apsche-chief/article37147136.ece
24 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All districts report fewer than 100 COVID-19 infections||The State reported six more COVID-19 deaths and 396 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulative toll to 14,339 and tally to 20,63,177. The number of active cases came down to 5,222 as 566 patients recovered in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 20,43,616  and 99.05% respectively. The daily positivity rate of the 40,855 samples tested was 0.97%, the lowest in the past seven months. Krishna reported two deaths in the past day, while Guntur, Prakasam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari reported one each. All the districts reported less than a hundred infections in the past day. Chittoor reported 94 infections, while Guntur reported 61 and Krishna reported 56. They are followed by Visakhapatnam (34), East Godavari (33), West Godavari (32), Prakasam (20), Nellore (19), Srikakulam (15), Vizianagaram (12), Kadapa (11), Anantapur (5) and Kurnool (4).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-districts-report-fewer-than-100-covid-19-infections/article37147046.ece
24 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police officers condemn TDP leaders’ comments on DGP||Members of the Andhra Pradesh Police Officers’ Association (APPOA) have condemned the comments of TDP national president and Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu on Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang and other officers. Addressing the media here on Saturday, the members said it was unfortunate that the police officers were insulted and humiliated during the Police Martyrs’ Commemoration Week. Thousands of police personnel had laid down their lives in the line of duty while countering the Maoist attacks, guarding the VIPs, fighting COVID-19 and fighting the anti-social elements, smugglers and criminals, said APPOA State president J. Srinivas Rao. Instead of recalling the sacrifices made by the police martyrs, the TDP leaders had made objectionable comments on the DGP, said association honorary president N. Chandrashekar and adviser Y. Sri Hari. Association Vijayawada president M. Somaiah criticised the TDP cadre for “attacking” police officer G. Sakru Naik, who was on spotter duty at the TDP State office, and appealed to the opposition leaders to participate in the commemoration week and pay tributes to those who had sacrificed their lives for the maintenance of law and order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-officers-condemn-tdp-leaders-comments-on-dgp/article37147057.ece
24 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank assistant manager arrested in FDR case||The Central Crime Station (CCS) police on Saturday arrested Indian Overseas Bank (IOB), Bhavanipuram, assistant manager B. Mrudula in the FDR case. Following a complaint that Rs. 9.6 crore deposited in the bank was allegedly swindled, the Vijayawada City Police registered a case and arrested bank manager G. Sandeep Kumar and another person, P. Yohan Raju, in the case. Recovered cash With police tracing the role of the assistant manager, police arrested Ms. Mrudula and recovered Rs. 15 lakh from her, the police said. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bank-assistant-manager-arrested-in-fdr-case/article37147132.ece
24 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu decries arrest of TDP leader Mahadev||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday condemned the arrest of his party State secretary G. Sandeep Mahadev, and termed it “unlawful and uncalled for.” In a statement, Mr. Naidu alleged that Mr. Mahadev was “whisked off and being taken around places” without revealing his whereabouts to his family members. “He is being harassed for posting a comment on the social media,” Mr. Naiud said. The TDP president slammed the police for not taking any action so far against the “YSRCP goons,” who, armed with deadly weapons, had attacked the TDP central office located at a stone’s throw from the DGP office in Mangalagiri recently. “But cases are being filed against TDP social media activists on flimsy grounds,” he alleged. ‘Supreme Court observation’ Mr. Naidu pointed to the Supreme Court’s observation that a person cannot be arrested based on a social media post criticising the government, and reminded that the apex court had also warned the police in this regard. Mr. Naidu warned Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of serious repercussions if the police did not stop harassing Mr. Mahadev.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-decries-arrest-of-tdp-leader-mahadev/article37147058.ece
24 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu lowered his stature: Chinta||Former MP Chinta Mohan has said TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu lowered his stature by backing the comments made by his party spokesman K. Pattabhiram on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Addressing mediapersons at Eluruon Saturday, Mr. Mohan said the YSRCP had also tarnished its own image by making their own interpretation of Mr. Pattabhiram’s alleged abusive language. He said it was time a leader from the Kapu community was made the Chief Minister in 2024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-lowered-his-stature-chinta/article37146232.ece
24 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Reach out to those not vaccinated so far’||Krishna Collector J. Nivas has said that about 6.84 lakh people in the district are yet to take at least one dose of the vaccine against COVID-19 so far. In a review meeting on Saturday, Mr. Nivas asked the officials concerned to speed up the vaccination process and reach out to the persons who are yet to get vaccinated. He said of the 6.84 lakh people who are yet to receive a dose of vaccine 3.95 lakh belong to 18-44 age group and 2.89 lakh belong to 45+ age group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reach-out-to-those-not-vaccinated-so-far/article37147133.ece
24 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Shortest film’ finds place in Limca Book of Records||City-based artist and film-maker Pamarti Sivanaga Rao's film The Farmer has been recognised by the Limca Book of Records (2020-22) as the “shortest film”. The duration of the film is nine seconds including the three-second censor certificate display and features teleserial actor Chandalavada Hari Krishna. Explaining the concept of the film Mr. Sivanaga Rao said that the film shows the plight of farmers who couldn't get proper price for their produce. “A farmer attempting to commit suicide observes the MRP on the pesticide bottle and decides to put an MRP for his produce,” Mr. Rao said explaining the film. The film produced under Siva Art Creations banner was screened in five theatres on February 7, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shortest-film-finds-place-in-limca-book-of-records/article37146230.ece
24 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contempt notice to Piduguralla police||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Saturday issued contempt notice to the Piduguralla town police for allegedly arresting D. Ramakrishna, State secretary of Telugu Yuvatha, in spite of a stay on his detention being in force. A petition was filed on his behalf by advocates N. Srinivasa Rao and Muppalla Balakrishna. They argued that Mr. Ramakrishna was detained by the police allegedly at the behest of some ruling party leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/contempt-notice-to-piduguralla-police/article37147047.ece
24 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lakshmisha is new GVMC Commissioner||The State government transferred three IAS officers on Saturday. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana Gummalla was posted as Director of Industries in place of J.V.N. Subrahmanyam, who had been appointed as Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the A.P. Industrial Infrastructure Corporation. East Godavari district Joint Collector (Rythu Bharosa and Revenue) G. Lakshmisha was posted as GVMC Commissioner. East Godavari district Joint Collector (Village and Ward Secretariats) Kirthi Chekuri was given full additional charge as Joint Collector (RB&R).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lakshmisha-is-new-gvmc-commissioner/article37147049.ece
24 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||PIL filed against ‘Mahila Police’ system||A PIL challenging assigning of 15 responsibilities of the Police Department to the village and ward ‘mahila samrakshana karyadarsis’ (women protection secretaries) was filed in the A.P. High Court by an unemployed man, A. Umamaheswara Rao, of Visakhapatnam. His lawyer Y. Balaji stated that substitution of the designation of the secretaries as ‘Mahila Police’ was violative of the CrPC provisionsand Sections 1, 6, 11 and 21 of A.P. District Police Act, 1859.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pil-filed-against-mahila-police-system/article37147050.ece
24 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Katragadda Babu dead||Telugu Desam Party leader Katragadda Nagamalleswara Rao (Babu) died of heart attack at his residence in Labbipet here on Saturday. MP Kesineni Srinivas and others paid tributes to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/katragadda-babu-dead/article37146231.ece
24 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Arrest those involved in attacks on TDP offices’||Former MLA and Telugu Desam Party(TDP) Parliamentary Constituency president Palla Srinivasa Rao demanded the arrest of persons who had attacked the party offices on October 20 and also wanted to know why the State government has not taken any action even after three days. He said that the party would protest before the Police Commissioner’s office, if the accused were not arrested. He was addressing a press conference at the party office here on Saturday. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that before coming to Visakhapatnam, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should answer a few questions. He alleged that the YSR Congress Party was renaming projects which were initiated by the TDP and are inaugurating them to take credit. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said Mr. Jagan should inform how many government properties in the city have been mortgaged and for what purpose. The Chief Minister should also answer how would the government get back those mortgaged properties, he added. Quarry activity Questioning the move of quarrying the Rushikonda Hill, he questioned what was the need to do it. He asked whether the government was truly constructing a tourism project or the Chief Minister’s camp office. “Rushikonda Hill is a very well known tourist place for people of Visakhapatnam. People are now concerned as the entire hill is being destroyed. When there are so many hills in Visakhapatnam, what was the need to target Rushikonda Hill alone?” he questioned. The TDP leader demanded that Mr. Jagan address a press conference after coming to Visakhapatnam and answer all the questions first. Meanwhile, former MLA Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy criticised Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana and DGP Gowtham Sawang. He alleged that Mr. Satyanarayana had secured the MP ticket by giving about Rs. 100 crore to the party leadership and has been involved in land grabbing and constructing buildings in an unauthorised manner in many parts of the city. He criticised Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy over his comments against TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu. MLC D. Rama Rao, TDP floor leader of GVMC Peela Srinivasa Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrest-those-involved-in-attacks-on-tdp-offices/article37147139.ece
24 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Prepare list of cyclone-hit ryots’||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao took stock of the situation of agriculture losses caused in the district due to Cyclone Gulab in September. He took part in the District Level Agricultural Advisory Meeting which was held at the Collectorate here on Saturday. Speaking during the meeting, he said that to compensate the farmers who have lost in both agriculture and horticulture, the officials should prepare the list and publish the names at the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs). He also directed the officials to ensure there is no dearth of fertilizers in the RBKs. He said that officials should bring to the notice of Agriculture Minister and district in-charge Minister K. Kannababu, so that it can be resolved. He also said that officials need to create more awareness regarding horticulture crops. District Collector A Mallikarjuna said that crops in around 1,844 hectares were damaged due to Cyclone Gulab in the district. He also informed that already the list of farmers who suffered loses were placed at the RBKs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prepare-list-of-cyclone-hit-ryots/article37147144.ece
24 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR Congress activists form human chain||Activists from the YSR Congress Party staged a protest at Isukathota Junction here on Saturday. They formed a human chain and burnt the effigy of Telugu Desam Party (TDP) spokesperson K. Pattabhiram. The members also raised slogans against TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu. Meanshile, YSRCP leaders A. Vijaya Nirmala, K.K. Raju, Deputy Mayor J. Sridhar and others have ended their 48-hour fast, as part of ‘Jana Aagraha Deeksha’, which they organised against the TDP over the issue of derogatory comments made by Mr. Pattabhiram against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao visited several ‘deeksha’ camps including at Isukathota, where VMRDA Chairperson A Vijaya Niramla staged the protest. The YSR Congress Party leaders demanded an apology from Mr Naidu to the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-congress-activists-form-human-chain/article37147142.ece
24 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM giving importance to women’s welfare’||Minister for Women and Child Welfare T. Vanitha conducted a review meet with officials from various departments over the welfare activities at ZP Hall here on Saturday. Ms. Vanitha said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has been giving utmost priority to welfare of women. She said that the State government has provided about 70 lakhs sanitary napkins to girls in the name ‘Sweccha’ in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-giving-importance-to-womens-welfare/article37147143.ece
24 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire and flooding reported onboard INS Ranvijay||An incident of fire and flooding was reported onboard the Indian Navy’s destroyer, INS Ranvijay, here on Saturday. The Eastern Naval Command (ENC) officials confirmed the incident in a release on Saturday night. The officials said that the incident occurred at around 5.30 p.m. and the situation was brought under control by naval teams. According to the officials, four sailors suffered burns during the fire-fighting process and were shifted to naval hospital, INHS Kalyani, where they are undergoing treatment. Officials also stated that the ship had recently returned from an exercise at sea and was berthed alongside at the Visakhapatnam Naval Harbour. A Board of Inquiry has been ordered to investigate the cause of the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-and-flooding-reported-onboard-ins-ranvijay/article37147145.ece
24 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Property Expo poster released||The real estate business is regaining momentum and business is getting back onto to the rails, said Manmaya Pandab, Deputy General Manager, State Bank of India. He was addressing the media here on Saturday, after launching the poster and brochure for the seventh edition of Property Expo that is organised by the Confederation of Real Estate Developer's Associations of India(CREDAI). The property expo this time will be held from December 24 to 26 at Gadiraju Palace and Convention Hall, Beach Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/property-expo-poster-released/article37147146.ece
24 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 34 new cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 34 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,57,976. For the fifth day in a row, no COVID-19 death was reported from the district and the toll stands at 1,094. As many as 30 persons who were undergoing treatment at hospitals or were under home isolation have recovered. This increases the number of recoveries to 1,56,109. The number of active cases stand at 773.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-34-new-cases/article37147140.ece
24 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram ZP vice chief dies at 30||Vizianagaram Zilla Parishad vice-chairperson-2 Ambati Anil Kumar reportedly died of heart attack in early hours of Saturday. He was 30 and unmarried. Anil was elected as ZPTC member from Saluru. He was a close relative of Saluru MLA Pedika Rajannadora. His sudden death shocked YSRCP leaders as he was active till Friday and participated in many meetings of the party. In a press release, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock over his sudden death. Vizianagaram Zilla Parishad chairperson Majji Srinivasa Rao and other YSRCP leaders consoled family members of Anil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizianagaram-zp-vice-chief-dies-at-30/article37147055.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Growing menace||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/growing-menace/article37147138.ece
24 October 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Lorry hits bike: RMP, 2 children killed||A rural medical practitioner (RMP) and his two children were killed after the bike they were travelling on was knocked down by a speeding coal-laden lorry near the Bhadradri Thermal Power Station (BTPS) construction site in Manuguru mandal on Saturday. Krishna, 38, of Thummalagudem village was on his way to Manuguru on his motorcycle with his daughter and son riding pillion on the two-wheeler when the lorry carrying coal rammed into their bike on the Karakagudem-Manuguru road near the BTPS late in the afternoon, sources said. Daughter succumbs later Death was instant for Krishna and his son as both were mowed down by the lorry. Krishna’s daughter fell off the bike and suffered grievous injuries. She was rushed to a hospital in Manuguru, where she succumbed to injuries later in the day, sources added. Case registered The Manuguru police registered a case on Saturday and are on the lookout for the lorry driver, who is absconding now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lorry-hits-bike-rmp-children-killed/article37146900.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Next generation AI is here||Imagine a robot or an AI assistant giving you a nudge before you add more salt to your food, plan your next family outing or guide a doctor in a complex surgery. The next generation AI is well and truly here with ‘Ego4D’, a project initiated by Facebook AI in collaboration with Facebook Reality Labs Research (FRL Research) and other institutes from UK, Italy, Japan, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, and the United States. International Institute of Information Technology (IIIT)-Hyderabad is the only Indian institute in the global consortium of 13 universities and labs participating in this ambitious programme. In November, a mammoth and unique dataset comprising over 2,200 hours of first-person videos in the wild, of over 700 participants engaged in routine, everyday activities will be unveiled. Video footage The dataset comprises video footage from a first person’s perspective. “These videos show the world from the centre of the action, rather than the sidelines,” said lead research scientist, Facebook AI Kristen Grauman. The footage has been collected via head-mounted devices combined with other egocentric sensors to track the wearer’s gaze and capture the interactions. By recognising the location, scene of activity and social relationships, these devices could be trained to not only automatically understand what the wearer is looking at, attending to, or even manipulating, but also the context of the social situation itself. Information Technology (IIIT)-Hyderabad had collected data from over 130 participants spread across 25 locations in the country for this project. “Initially, we wanted to have a team travelling and collect the data but due to the pandemic, we used multiple local teams training people over videos and sending cameras,” explained Center for Visual Information Technology’s C.V. Jawahar. Participants recorded activities of cooks, carpenters, painters, electricians and farmers. “This is not a scripted activity but video footage taken even as each individual went about the daily tasks in a normal setting,” said Prof. Jawahar. Pushing the envelope While computer vision always had the potential for assistive technologies to improve the quality of life, this dataset could help push the envelope even further. For instance, a wearable device with first-person vision can help someone with visual impairment or it can help reinforce memory for those showing early signs of dementia or memory disorders. In education, it can learning experience to a whole new level. “The first-person view is especially important in training where an instructor may not have the same perspective as you. It can prod you in the right direction if you miss a step, it can remind you. If you’re doing well, it can encourage you and even while conducting surgeries, it can provide additional cues to the surgeon wearing the device,” remarked Prof. Jawahar. Ego4D has five benchmarks: Episodic memory - Like if you have misplaced your keys, you could ask your AI assistant to retrace your day in order to locate them. Forecasting - AI can understand what you are doing, anticipate your next move and guide you, like stopping you before you put more salt while cooking. Hand and object manipulation - AI learns how hands interact with objects and can instruct in using chopsticks. Audio-visual diarization - if you stepped out of a meeting, you could ask the AI what the team lead announced after you left. Social interaction - AI can help you better hear the person in a noisy restaurant. Facebook AI also envisions its applications in a futuristic like scenario – a ‘metaverse’, where physical reality, AR, and VR converge. “It could know your favourite coffee mug or guide your itinerary for your next family trip. We are working on assistant-inspired research prototypes to do that,” said Mr. Grauman. “Ego4D dataset will take computer vision higher by another couple of notches,” added Information Technology (IIIT)-Hyderabad director P J Narayanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/next-generation-ai-is-here/article37146874.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Claims over ‘podu’ lands to be accepted for a month from Nov. 8||The State government has decided to accept applications in a month’s window from November 8 to December 8 from the tribal communities and others cultivating the forest lands to examine and settle the claims of those cultivating the forest lands. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on ‘podu’ (forest) lands here on Saturday. He directed the authorities concerned to hold preparatory meetings by November 8 and form ‘grama’ (village) committees under the Recognition of Forest Rights (RoFR) Act. It was decided to appoint a nodal officer for every two-three villages and the Revenue Divisional Officers (RDOs) at sub-division level and District Collectors at district level to supervise the exercise. The Chief Minister stated that encroachment of 87% of forest (podu) lands was found in 12 districts such as Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Kumram Bheem-Asifabad, Mahabubabad, Mulugu, Adilabad, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, Kamareddy, Khammam, Nirmal, Warangal, Nalgonda and Nizamabad. The Chief Minister directed the District Collectors to convene all-party meetings in the presence of MLAs, MPs, Zilla Parishad chairpersons, Mandal Parishad presidents and ZPTC members in all districts for protection of forest lands and to resolve issues over ‘podu’ lands. He suggested that sarpanches and other elected representatives be encouraged to take the protection of forest lands as a responsibility. He also wanted the Collectors to provide rights under RoFR to all those who are cultivating podu lands already and bring a consensus in the all-party meetings that not even an inch of forest land would be allowed to be encroached henceforth. The Chief Minister directed the Collectors to adopt the strategy of protecting forest lands while resolving the issue of podu lands to help the tribal communities depending on forest and act tough against those indulging in degrading forests. Meanwhile, the State government has decided to stop benefits such as Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima and 24×7 free power to farmers who are found to be cultivating the contraband ‘ganja’ (cannabis) in their lands. The ‘pattas’ (titles of rights) given under the Recognition of Forest Rights (RoFR) Act too would be revoked in case it is raised in the forest lands. Apart from stopping the benefits and cancelling the rights given under RoFR, action would also be initiated against the farmers indulging in the illegal activity under appropriate acts. The Chief Minister also wanted the authorities to stop completely making ‘gudumba’ (illicit brew) and rehabilitate those indulging in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/claims-over-podu-lands-to-be-accepted-for-a-month-from-nov-8/article37146889.ece
24 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SC panel warns Shadnagar ex-ACP for contempt of court||The question remains unanswered. Not even a single question was given a straight answer. Every time the question is being evaded. Don’t evade the question. These were some of the comments made by the Supreme Court-appointed Justice Sirpurkar commission while taking the deposition of the then Assistant Commissioner of Police (Shadnagar Division) Vasam Surender on Saturday. Mr. Surender was questioned why he did not state anything about the ages of the accused, collection of Aadhaar card copies in his affidavit before the commission and why the accused were not produced before the Judicial Magistrate while praying for police custody. He was also questioned about the ages and juvenility of the accused before NHRC, in his case diary and affidavit. “As I never entertained any doubt about the ages of the accused during the investigation, it was not mentioned in the affidavit. Their parents also did not tell that they were minors while collecting the government-issued death certificates,” he said. “You are resigning from several of your statements before NHRC despite having your signatures on it,” the panel commented. Mr. Surender told the panel that the NHRC officials had threatened him that their report would be referred to the Central Bureau of Investigation if he did not sign on them. “Because of that fear I did not state about their threats which forced me to sign on the statements. Even in my affidavit before the commission I did not mention anything,” he said. Further, he was asked whether the potency tests were conducted on the accused after medical examination. “Doctors conduct the tests. I do not know,” he replied. They asked if the relatives of the accused were permitted to meet them while they were at Shadnagar police station on November 29, 2019. The officer said ‘Yes’. “Did you record their (relatives) statements to know the accused whereabouts on November 27 and 28 in 2019,” the panel questioned. Mr. Surender said that he did not, as it would not aid his investigation. “Don’t busy yourself with the unnecessary conversations when the court is speaking. Mind you, we can proceed against you for contempt of court. We will take stern action if this continues,” Chairman of the commission Justice V.S. Sirpurkar commented when they observed that Mr. Surender was trying to give ‘irrelevant’ answers to the questions posed by them. Later the officer was also asked whether he gave a requisition to the DCP Shamshabad for issuance of six long-range weapons for the escort party of the accused. “Yes,” he replied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sc-panel-warns-shadnagar-ex-acp-for-contempt-of-court/article37146903.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No signs of genetic inbreeding in captive-bred pygmy hogs: CCMB||Pygmy hogs are among the rare and endangered animals listed by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and the Indian Wildlife Protection Act. The present population is estimated to be less than 300 in wild and the original population may be less than 50 and restricted to Manas National Park in Assam. The Pygmy Hog Conservation Program (PHCP), a collaborative project with Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust, IUCN/SSC Wild Pig Specialist Group, Assam forest department and Ministry of Environment and Forests, EcoSystems-India and Aaranyak took up a project to save this species from extinction by breeding the animals in captivity. Since 1996, over 500 animals were bred and 142 were released into the wild as part of the conservation program. However, all these captive individuals were offspring of seven wild caught individuals. CSIR-CCMB-LaCONES (Laboratory for Conservation of Endangered Species) and PHCP collaborated to examine reproductive and genetic fitness of these captive bred individuals to check for genetic diversity. A research group headed by G. Umapathy studied genetic changes in 36 captive-bred pygmy hogs across eight consecutive generations for genetic diversity and reproductive success to account for any fitness loss. The study found no signs of genetic inbreeding between individuals across different generations. “This was possible due to strict scientific conservation breeding protocol of carefully selected mating pairs sharing the lowest kinship between them. But recent generations showed slightly increased relatedness so, we recommend introduction of a few wild individuals to the breeding pool,” said Dr. Umapathy. “This proves it is possible to avoid genetic inbreeding in a small captive population,” said PHCP & EcoSystems-India’s Goutam Narayan. “This is the first such study to understand genetics effect of long-term captive breeding of endangered animals,” said CCMB director Vinay K. Nandicoori.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-signs-of-genetic-inbreeding-in-captive-bred-pygmy-hogs-ccmb/article37146876.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wisdom behind decision questioned||Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao’s proposal to accord “podu” rights over forest lands has evoked consternation among forest and wildlife activists, who vouch that the decision would only lead to more drastic deforestation in future. Mr. Rao, during his address in the recent monsoon session of the Legislative Assembly, promised regularisation of up to 10 lakh acres of forest land which is encroached by tribals and others for cultivation. On Saturday, he conducted a day-long review meeting during which issues pertaining to ‘Podu’ rights have been discussed. Claims for ‘Podu’ lands should be received from the tribal cultivators from November 8 to December 8, Mr. Rao directed. Wildlife activist and founder of the NGO ‘Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society’ Imran Siddiqui calls the announcement a “misuse of Forest Rights Act”. “Under the Forest Rights Act, only encroachments up to December 13, 2005 may be regularised. In 2019, the Supreme Court had ordered eviction of all the rejected claimants from the forest lands, which is yet to be done,” Mr. Siddiqui said. Forest officials pleading anonymity liken the move to rewarding a crime. Reminding the widespread destruction of forests post the enactment of the Forest Rights Act, they say the same would repeat if the Chief Minister’s idea is to be implemented now. “People started felling forests assuming that the land would be regularised in future. If fresh rights are granted now, it will only lead to more destruction,” an official remarked. State governments have the authority to regularise only encroachments prior to 1980, and any violators later should be punished. ‘Centre’s purview’ Retired forest officer Rama Krishna Rao says all the forest related acts are within the purview of Central government and State does not have any right to alienate even an inch of forest land. “The proposal to accord more rights now will not hold any water, when the wisdom behind Forest Rights Act itself is being questioned,” he opines. P. Veerabhadra Rao, another forest and wildlife activist and advocate, calls the move politically motivated, rather than intended to benefit the tribal population. “This announcement has the political and real estate lobby behind it. Big sharks and middlemen instigate the landless poor to fell forests so that they can reap the benefits. Does the government intend that tribals should for ever be confined to forest fringes as poor cultivators? Shouldn’t they get any share of the development pie?” Mr.Veerabhadra Rao questions. Already several lakhs of acres of forest land has been diverted for the purpose of railway lines, roads, mines, and other projects, besides agriculture, and the State cannot afford to forgo the remaining wilderness, as it could have disastrous consequences for the environment, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wisdom-behind-decision-questioned/article37146892.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 300 attend OMICS 2021||CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, with Proteomics Society of India (PSI) co-organised OMICS 2021, an international meeting themed on ‘Omics redefining modern biology’ in the last three days that ended on Saturday. The meeting discussed tools in genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, lipidomics, and metabolomics to study genomes, RNA, protein, lipid and metabolite expression profiles on a large scale. These technologies aid life scientists to address finer details of a living cell’s structure and functioning. This has promising applications in healthcare, agriculture and animal biotechnology. About 35 subject experts across eight countries from academia and industry participated in the discussions with around 300 attendees over the three days. “PSI has always prioritised education of young scientists in India to keep them updated with the fast-evolving technologies in the field of proteomics,” said PSI president Dr. Subhra Chakraborty. Organisers also developed a series of podcasts for general public to appreciate the power of ‘Omics’ technologies. “India is well beyond its infancy in its capabilities in various omics technologies. The number of facilities and trained human resources in the country has grown manifold in the last two decades. It is now collaborating with international projects like the Human Proteome Project. The coming years will be an exciting time to be in the field,” said convenor of OMICS 2021 and principal scientist of CSIR-CCMB Dr. Swasti Raychaudhuri. “The first meeting of PSI had happened at CSIR-CCMB, 13 years ago. It is a great pleasure for us to host the meeting and bring international experts together on one platform again this year,” said CCMB director Dr. Vinay K. Nandicoori.  PSI has always prioritised education of young scientists in India to keep them updated with the fast-evolving technologies in the field of proteomics. Dr. Subhra Chakraborty PSI president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-300-attend-omics-2021/article37146879.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mayor, officials inspect landfill||Special Chief Secretary, Municipal Administration & Urban Development, Arvind Kumar announced that one more waste-to-energy plant will be developed at the Jawaharnagar landfill, in order to reduce the burden of waste generated from the city. Development of the plant may take up to 18 months’ time after environmental clearance, which is expected in November, he said, after inspecting the dump yard on Saturday along with GHMC Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi, Mayor of Jawaharnagar Municipal Corporation M. Kavya, Chairperson of the Dammaiguada Municipality Praneetha, GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar and others. The inspection was undertaken upon instructions by MA&UD Minister K.T. Rama Rao, who received a complaint from Ms. Praneetha on social media, about the unbearable stench emanating from the garbage dump. Already a waste-to-energy plant of 20 mW exists at the solid waste management site managed by the Ramky Enviro Engineers Limited, but the amount of waste generated by the city is way higher than the requirement at the plant. Meanwhile, temporary measures will be initiated to curb the stench, by spraying with drones, and covering the open piles of garbage, it said. Mayor Vijayalakshmi said the site will be revisited in a fortnight to ensure that the measures are in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mayor-officials-inspect-landfill/article37146886.ece
24 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sharmila questions TRS on KG to PG free education scheme||Chief of YSR Telangana Party Y.S. Sharmila made controversial comments on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao comparing the governance to raising donkeys and accused him of sleeping in the farm house, leaving people in the lurch. On the fourth day of her padayatra on Saturday, she walked for 12.1 kms from Poshettyguda to Nagaram in Maheshwaram mandal. During her interaction with the people, she asked whether they were happy with the government that has cheated people on KG to PG free education, unemployment dole, rising fuel prices. According to a statement from the party, some youngsters couldn’t control their tears while explaining how they had become a burden on the parents without any jobs. They allegedly complained that double bed room houses just remained a promise while pensions are denied on one pretext or the other. Reacting to people's woes, Ms. Sharmila alleged that except KCR’s family, no one in the State is happy. The Chief Minister made money in the name of irrigation projects and he is spending entire State’s money and resources on few constituencies. She said Mr. Rao should explain how much the State government is drawing from the rising fuel prices, instead of just blaming the Centre. She said YS Rajashekhar Reddy government constructed 46 lakh houses in just five years and brought Arogyasri, bringing corporate hospital treatment to poor people. She promised free education and free medical facility to all if voted to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sharmila-questions-trs-on-kg-to-pg-free-education-scheme/article37146894.ece
24 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Is meeting Eatala in presence of thousands of people a secret?’||TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy has made light of Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s comments on the ‘secret’ meeting between him and BJP leader Eatala Rajender, and said it was in the presence of thousands of people at an engagement ceremony. Mr. Reddy, who held roadshows in Huzurabad in support of party candidate Balmuri Venkat, said Eatala had also met leaders of all the parties in the engagement ceremony of Congress leader Vem Narender Reddy’s son. “It was an open meeting in the presence of thousands of people and I do not understand what’s the secrecy in KTR claim.” Speaking at the roadshow in Veenavanka, he asked Mr. Rao to explain who has arranged the helicopter for Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy to meet Mr. Eatala Rajender. Was it not the contractor close to the TRS leadership?, he asked. The Congress chief said Huzurabad elections are being held to satisfy the ego of Eatala and Mr. Rao and that people have not asked for it. “They both ate in the same plate and slept on the same cot, and due to some financial differences, they fell out,” he said, and asked if Mr. Rajender ever fought with Mr. Rao on unemployment issues or farmers grievances. He said both the TRS and BJP are equally responsible and are benefiting from the huge fuel prices but are blaming each other to mislead people. Both BJP and TRS are sailing together and the relations between Prime Minister Modi and KCR were well-known to all, he said. Rejecting the comments that Congress had delayed announcement of the candidate, he said they took sometime to finalise a good candidate after one of the existing leaders deceived the party and left. “Venkat has arrived late but he is strong enough to give his best push,” he said. He alleged that the Chief Minister is giving Rs. 2,000 pension while denying Rs. 50,000 job to youngsters in the same family. “You are not beggars to take Rs. 2,000 when you deserve Rs. 50,000,” he told women and asked them to raise this question when the TRS leaders seek votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/is-meeting-eatala-in-presence-of-thousands-of-people-a-secret/article37146896.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||14 students from TSTWREI make it to forensic sciences varsity||For the first time, 14 students of Telangana social and tribal welfare residential educational institutions created a record of sorts by securing admission in National Forensic Sciences University in Gujarat. Terming it as a truly defining moment in the career path of first generation learners from the most-deprived sections of the society, secretary of TSWREI and TTWREI societies Ronald Rose said that of the 14 students, 10 are from social welfare and the remaining four from tribal welfare residential educational institutions. These selected students will pursue M.Tech (Cyber Security) five-year integrated course at National Forensic Sciences University. Poor marginalised backgrounds and corona pandemic didn’t deter the students’ determination to succeed in academics and choose a stellar career for themselves. “In recent years, TSWREIS and TTWREIS students have been seeking new paths in their endeavour to become confident and skilful global professionals,” said Mr. Rose. Thanks to Telangana government for opening up a plethora of opportunities and top-class coaching camps and career guidance cells for students in higher education and helping them to secure seats in top-notch universities across India and making them reach great positions in life, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/14-students-from-tstwrei-make-it-to-forensic-sciences-varsity/article37146881.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bathukamma in Dubai||On Saturday, Dubai’s Burj Khalifa witnessed a unique show that celebrated Telangana’s Bathukamma. The show was live across various platforms around the globe at 9:30 p.m. Telangana Jagruthi made arrangements to play the Bathukamma documentary on the big screen for invited delegates and separately for the local people. The screening featured the map of India, map of Telangana, CM KCR, Bathukamma flowers, with Alipoola Vennela playing in the background. Slogans of Jai Hind, Jai Telangana, and Jai KCR echoed with tears of joy and pride among viewers. MP Suresh Reddy, RTC chairman MLA Bajireddy, PUC chairman MLA Jeevan Reddy, MLAs Shakeel, Ganesh Gupta, Dr. Sanjay were joined by MLC Kavitha, who witnessed the historical moment. The screening was also attended by several dignitaries from the UAE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bathukamma-in-dubai/article37146880.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Strive to create legal awareness: judge||Every citizen can avail services of the Legal Services Authority (LSA) and all stakeholders should strive to create legal awareness among the general public, said Karimnagar District Principal Sessions Judge M.G. Priyadarshini. Speaking at the inaugural function of a seminar on ‘Legal Awareness’ at Sircilla on Saturday, he explained about the National Legal Services Authority (NLSA). Lok Adalats were part of the services rendered by the NLSA and people should utilise them to solve their litigation without incurring any expenses, the judge said. Rajanna Sircilla Ninth Additional District Sessions Judge M. Johnson, SP Rahul Hegde and others took part in the seminar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/strive-to-create-legal-awareness-judge/article37147090.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 207 new COVID cases, 2 deaths||Telangana recorded 207 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 6,70,139. While 42,108 samples were examined, results of 1,595 were awaited. Two more COVID patients have died. The new cases include 38 from GHMC, 22 from Karimnagar, 17 from Rangareddy, 15 from Khammam, and 13 from Mancherial. No infection was detected in seven districts. From March 2, 2020, to October 23 this year, 2.72 crore samples were tested and 6,70,139 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 3,984 were active cases, 6,62,209 have recovered, and 3,946 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-207-new-covid-cases-2-deaths/article37146878.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||4.9 kgs of mephedrone seized by Excise teams||A raid conducted in a flat at Kukatpally led to the seizure of 4.9 kg of mephedrone by the Telangana Prohibition and Excise department on Saturday. They caught a youngster C Prashant Reddy (24), who allegedly supplied mephedrone to people and provided space in a flat to consume it. Upon questioning, he said that a person by name Kanna Reddy supplied it to him. Posing as customers, the DTF team spoke to Kanna Reddy and further conducted raids and seized 4.9 kgs of the substance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/49-kgs-of-mephedrone-seized-by-excise-teams/article37146885.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Dispose of pending Dharani applications’||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has asked the District Collectors to accelerate the disposal of pending applications pertaining to land transactions over the next one week. In a meeting with District Collectors held here on Saturday, the Chief Secretary took stock of the progress made in the implementation of Dharani. Complimenting the Collectors and other senior officials over the successful implementation of Dharani, Mr. Somesh Kumar said Dharani was a landmark initiative of the State government and many States were trying to implement similar initiative. The CS stated that more than 10.35 lakh slots were booked in Dharani since its launch. The government had been constantly working to accelerate the disposal of applications and make the process easier, he added. Collectors of Suryapet, RR, Siddipet, Nalgonda and Medak shared their experiences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dispose-of-pending-dharani-applications/article37146899.ece
24 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||100% scholarship for poor girl students at Dhruva||Dhruva College of Management will provide 100% scholarship to girls and boys coming from economically and socially poor backgrounds. The details of the scholarship can be had on 040-30162000 or on www.dhruva.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/100-scholarship-for-poor-girl-students-at-dhruva/article37147091.ece
24 October 2021||JAMMIKUNTA (Karimnagar district),TELANGANA||‘Implement Dalit Bandhu across State immediately’||He was dropped from the Council of Ministers nearly five months ago. A month later, he resigned as MLA. Yet, for considerable number of people, he is still their leader and public representative. Groups of people and individuals waiting at his house with representations for different reliefs indicate this. The way they throng to come closer to him or shake hands (some standing with folded hands wishing him good luck) with him shows his followers are not wrong in describing him as ‘people’s man’. Without a break he has been touring every nook and corner of the constituency, which he knows like the back of his hand, seeking his re-election. Having been elected MLA six times in past 17 years, he is adept at winning voters’ mind. But this time, he is challenging TRS supremo and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who was once his own leader, and that too without the support of most of his second rung leaders. Vigorous canvassing from dawn to dusk and eloquent speeches seem to have weakened him physically. But Mr. Rajender of BJP is more strong psychologically and exudes confidence that none can stop his victory. Why did you fall out with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao? An Indian citizen has the right to join any political party, except the banned ones. But the Chief Minister is dictating that people availing benefits of government schemes should follow his personal politics. This is violation of fundamental right by the Chief Minister himself. What about the TRS allegations that you illegally acquired assigned lands of others and you quit when questioned? This is ridiculous. They themselves don’t have clarity about my alleged mistakes and are resorting to all types of accusations. Once they said land scam, again said that I aspired for the Chief Minister’s post, later they charged that I am thinking and acting independently. I didn’t leave the party but Mr. Rao himself sent me out. They could not take any action over land charges. Weakening a person by mudslinging, branding him as culprit and crushing him is their strategy. That did not work with me. You repeatedly said that any person with self respect cannot work with Mr. Rao? Can you elaborate? Mr. Rao can not accept the fact that others too have the ability to think and are humans beings. He feels that he is here to stay in power permanently. He does not consult even his Cabinet colleagues. Ministers cannot take decisions even on small matters. For example, we went to Pragati Bhavan to meet the Chief Minister only to be told that we don’t have an appointment. Public representatives are on duty 24x7. Why prior appointment for them to meet the Chief Minister? He does not meet people. Did he ever conduct something like ‘Praja Darbar’ to know people’s grievances? TRS leaders say that Dalit Bandhu was stopped in Huzurabad due to your party’s representation. That is wrong. Mr. Rao does not have the ability to implement Dalit Bandhu. They claim it is a project involving nearly two lakh crores of rupees. Normally for such scheme involving huge amount, budget is allocated and the policy is discussed in Assembly. Without all this, they decided and allocated Rs. 2,000 crore accrued through sale of Kokapet lands to Huzurabad. Even after 70 days of announcing it, they did not finalise the terms and conditions for the scheme. I demand the government to implement Dalit Bandhu in Huzurabad and across the State before this month-end. It is said you met TRS political rivals - triggering differences and creating suspicions about your loyalty. Is meeting other politicians a crime? Politicians should not be narrow-minded in their thinking. When Congress party was in power, as opposition party leaders, we used to met their Ministers and Chief Ministers to represent the problems of people.  Normally for a scheme involving huge amount, budget is allocated and the policy is discussed in Assembly. Eatala Rajender, BJP Huzurabad candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/implement-dalit-bandhu-across-state-immediately/article37146891.ece
24 October 2021||JAMMIKUNTA (Karimnagar District),TELANGANA||War of words continues between TRS and BJP||War of words continued in the campaign for Huzurabad by-poll on Saturday with TRS and BJP leaders accusing one another of adopting policies against public interest. Gangula Kamalakar, who joined back canvassing for TRS nominee Gellu Srinivas Yadav, visited different wards in Huzurabad town. Indiscriminate privatisation by the BJP-led Union government is pushing the economy towards crisis, the Minister charged. “Centre is not returning even half of the taxes taken from State. On the other hand, BJP leaders are silent as prices of diesel, petrol and LPG are going up with each passing day,” he said at an election meeting. He asked why cannot the BJP leaders announce a single rupee fund for the development of Huzurabad instead of targetting Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with baseless allegations. Describing Huzurabad as fortress of TRS and predicting that its nominee would win with massive majority, the Minister said every section came forward to support TRS candidate. Karimnagar MP and BJP State chief Bandi Sanjay said his party workers had been fighting for the cause of people decades before TRS was born. “BJP workers have a history of facing Maoists, risking their lives. Now we are coming to fight exploitation by TRS,” he said at an election meeting in Jammikunta. Making a blistering attack on TRS leader, Mr. Sanjay charged that TRS leaders are planning to distribute Rs. 20,000 for one vote in the by-poll. “Looks like their leaders are keeping Rs. 15,000 of that amount and passing on remaining amount to common man. Even those notes could be fake,” he said. If the KCR government slashes the tax on petrol, each litre would be available for people for Rs. 61 only, the MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/war-of-words-continues-between-trs-and-bjp/article37146898.ece
24 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Padayatras are a drama to loot State resources’||For former Chairman of State Legislative Council, Gutha Sukender Reddy, Telangana is making rapid strides in various sectors since the achievement of statehood seven years ago, but several forces are continuing to act against it. “It is unfortunate. They do not want Telangana to progress, they are unable to tolerate, hence they are conspiring against the government,” he said, aiming his pointed criticism at the State units of BJP, Congress and the latest entrant, YSRTP. Speaking to media persons at his residence here on Saturday, Mr. Reddy, who is currently waiting for a post since his MLC tenure ended in June, observed that YSRTP is only new because of its name, but it already has all the qualities of looting Telangana. “Y.S. Sharmila has a ‘Rayalaseema DNA’, how can she become a Telangana woman? No one is able to understand why she is taking out a padayatra now. Her statements about TRS family rule only deserve laughter,” he said. Referring to Ms. Sharmila’s padayatra, BJP chief Bandi Sanjay’s concluded padayatra and the Congress chief Revanth Reddy's recent political tread, he said they are all driven by greed and deceit and described their actions “a drama to loot resources in Telangana.” On the fast-approaching bypoll in Huzurabad, the senior TRS leader alleged that the BJP, with the Election Commission behind it, is conspiring victory. However, he expressed confidence that TRS party’s Gellu Srinivas will win. “BJP’s conspiracy, much like what they did in West Bengal polls, appears to be going even to the extent of provoking violence in Huzurabad, but it will not work in Telangana. The BJP doesn’t talk about price rise or people’s issues, unlike Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who is procuring paddy even after the Centre denied it,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/padayatras-are-a-drama-to-loot-state-resources/article37147093.ece
24 October 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Three held with ganja||Three persons were arrested and ganja seized in two separate incidents in Sangareddy in the last 24 hours. According to the police, one Sanjay Shivaram Dongare was arrested at Rudraram on Friday afternoon and 10 packets of ganja each weighing about five grams was seized from him. He was sent on remand on Saturday. In another case, the enforcement team of prohibition and excise raided a house and seized 350 grams of dry ganja from Mangali Naveen, a resident of Chippalturthi in Narsapur mandal of Medak district on Friday. On Friday evening, the officials seized 1.15 kg ganja from E. Vineeth Kumar of Kalkkod village in Marpally mandal of Vikarabad district, who supplied ganja to customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-held-with-ganja/article37146901.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||More into research||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-into-research/article37146883.ece
24 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Sidhu’s wife flays ex-CM on Aroosa ‘links’||Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu’s wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu attacked former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday over his friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam, alleging that not a single posting of any official took place in the State without “money or gifts” to her. Mr. Sidhu’s principal strategic advisor Mohammad Mustafa also took a dig at Capt. Amarinder, prompting the former CM to hit back at him. “Not a single posting in Punjab took place without money or gifts to Aroosa Alam,” Ms. Sidhu said. She alleged that even in the police department, no posting took place without Ms. Alam’s consent and she “ran away” with all the money. To a question on Ms. Alam’s picture with Congress president Sonia Gandhi sharedon Twitter on Friday, she said it was an old picture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sidhus-wife-flays-ex-cm-on-aroosa-links/article37146771.ece
24 October 2021||Dehradun/Uttarkashi,||Bodies of two more trekkers recovered||The bodies of two more members of an 11-member trekking team which had gone missing on way to Chitkul via Harsil in Uttarkashi district were recovered on Saturday by the ITBP personnel from near Himachal Pradesh border. The bodies found near the Lamkhaga pass are being brought to Sangla from where they will be taken to Uttarkashi, Uttarkashi District Magistrate Mayur Dikshit said. Two still missing The bodies were spotted on Friday, but could be recovered on Saturday, he said. They were identified as those of Upendra Singh (37) from Purola in Uttarkashi and Richard Mandal (30) from Kolkata, Disaster Management Officer Devendra Patwal said. The bodies of five trekkers were brought down on Friday. Two are still missing while the two surviving members of the team are under treatment in Harsil and Uttarkashi. Search operation for the missing trekkers has been halted due to bad weather, the DM said. The missing have been identified as Purola resident Gyan Chand (33) and Kolkata resident Suken Manjhi (43), Mr. Patwal added. Meanwhile, the aerial search continued for five trekkers feared dead in Sundardhunga glacier of Bageshwar district. “A helicopter carrying an SDRF team made two sorties up to Devikund near the glacier, but did not spot any bodies from above. Due to bad weather, the helicopter could not land in the area,” Bageshwar District Magistrate Vineet Kumar told PTI. Another SDRF team has also been sent on foot to the glacier in search of the trekkers. It will reach Devikund by Sunday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bodies-of-two-more-trekkers-recovered/article37146777.ece
24 October 2021||Kolkata,||COVID cases continue to surge in Bengal||The COVID-19 situation in West Bengal deteriorated as 974 more people tested positive for the infection on Saturday, 128 more than the previous day, a health bulletin said. West Bengal had registered 846 COVID-19 cases on Friday. Fresh cases surged for the fourth consecutive day after the State recently celebrated the mega event of Durga Puja. The State’s caseload rose to 15,85,466 as Kolkata registered the highest number of fresh infections at 268. The COVID-19 death toll too soared to 19,045 as 12 more patients succumbed to the infection. Four fresh fatalities each were recorded in Kolkata and its neighbouring North 24 Parganas, while two deaths were reported in Nadia, and one each in South 24 Parganas and Hooghly. The State now has 7,731 active cases, while 15,58,690 people have been cured of the disease so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-cases-continue-to-surge-in-bengal/article37146779.ece
24 October 2021||Lucknow,||Faizabad railway station to be renamed as Ayodhya Cantt.||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to rename the Faizabad railway station, a tweet by the office of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday. It will be called Ayodhya Cantt railway station, the tweet said, adding that the decision was taken by the Chief Minister. In another tweet, the CM’s office said the Centre too has granted its consent to the decision and Adityanath has given green signal to issue a notification in this regard. Earlier in 2018, the Yogi government had renamed Faizabad as Ayodhya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/up-govt-to-rename-faizabad-railway-station/article37146778.ece
24 October 2021||Medininagar (Jharkhand),||RJD wants review of Jharkhand’s job policy||Peeved over the exclusion of Magahi and Bhojpuri in the new employment policy of Jharkhand’s JMM-headed government, its alliance partner Rashtriya Janata Dal on Saturday demanded that Chief Minister Hemant Soren review it. Abhay Kumar Singh, the State president of the RJD, said the party does not support the Hemant Soren government in regard with the new employment policy announced recently. The government’s move to exclude Magahi and Bhojpuri for recruitment in Jharkhand government institutions has hurt the prevailing harmony of the State, Mr. Singh told reporters here. Any discord over the language issue was “not good” as it will lead to “clash of interest”, which is not good for the health of the coalition government, he cautioned. The Soren Cabinet had in August approved a new appointment policy in which it has made knowledge of regional and tribal languages mandatory for government jobs in the State through the Jharkhand State Staff Selection Commission. The Opposition BJP had described the step as ‘discriminatory’. Mr. Singh also hit out at Jharkhand Finance Minister Rameshwar Oraon for his recent statement that RJD has negligible base in the State. The Minister is a senior Congress leader of the State. Mr. Singh had warned the party to be sensible as it is “necessary and proper to honour the alliance dharma and secure better health of the coalition government”. He said, “We (RJD) had accepted to contest in seven seats in the 2019 Assembly poll in Jharkhand as we did not want any conflict among the allies. The prime object of RJD was to prevent communal forces.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rjd-wants-review-of-jharkhands-job-policy/article37146773.ece
24 October 2021||Mumbai,||Survey finds Mumbai gardens in good condition||A citizen survey report on 500 parks in Mumbai has found over 70% in good condition while 12% need improvement. It has also created a digitised record of city’s gardens for the first time. Project Mumbai, in collaboration with the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai and the Ministry of Mumbai’s Magic, presented the findings of their researchto the civic body. The research is the result of the Harita: The Green Footprint Fellowship, which trained and worked with 84 young citizens to mobilise public action and work towards better green spaces in Mumbai. Each of these gardens has been given unique code with grades. The fellowship graded the gardens on a three-point scale with the top gardens being awarded an A-grade. During this process fellows looked at various facts including amenities and infrastructure, safety and lighting, accessibility and parking etc. Of the gardens assessed, 12% received grade C (needs improvement). “The technical report will become a baseline for formulating plan for new gardens,” said Rupali Vaidya from Project Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/survey-finds-mumbai-gardens-in-good-shape/article37146770.ece
24 October 2021||Mumbai,||One held from Mumbai in GST fraud case||Thane Central GST Commissionerate, Mumbai CGST Zone, has arrested a mastermind who had opened a firm named M/s. Doshi Marketing indulged in fraudulently availing and utilising Input Tax Credit to the tune of Rs. 90.68 crore without receiving the goods or services in violation of the provisions of the CGST Act 2017. He was operating from Bhayander West. The firm was dealing in trading of asbestos, cotton yarn, sewing thread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/one-held-from-mumbai-in-gst-fraud-case/article37146969.ece
24 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||7-year-old girl raped in city, accused on the run||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man in central Delhi’s Ranjit Nagar on Friday. The accused has not been arrested so far, the police said. The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) has issued a notice to the city police and asked for an action taken report on the incident. According to the police, they received a PCR call on Friday morning informing them that a child had been raped. A case under Section 376AB (punishment for rape under 12 years of age) and 377 (unnatural offence) of the Indian Penal Code was registered. A CCTV footage has been recovered in which the girl is seen crossing the street alone. A little later, the accused can be seen walking with her and talking to the child. “The accused has been identified with the help of CCTV footage and teams have been formed to nab him. He will be arrested soon. The family says he is not known to them,” said a senior officer. The girl went home after the incident and narrated her ordeal to her mother. The mother then informed the police, said the officer,addingthat the girl is stable but still hospitalised. Lured with Rs. 10 note The DCW said the accused lured the girl by saying that he will give her Rs. 10. “The father of the victim took her to a nearby hospital from where she was referred to another hospital. She is in a critical condition,” the panel said.  The accused has been identified with the help of CCTV footage and teams have been formed to nab him Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/7-year-old-girl-raped-in-city-accused-on-the-run/article37146765.ece
24 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Days after marriage, husband kills woman||A 20-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her husband just a few days after their marriage, in north Delhi’s Burari, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Sagar Singh Kalsi said the accused has been identified as Mohammed Azad Khan, who allegedly stabbed his wife, Sonia, to death. The couple got married in the first week of October, the police said. According to the police, that they received an information at 9.50 a.m. about a woman lying dead at a house in Kamaalpur. When the police reached the spot, they found that the house was locked from inside. Sonia’s mother told the police that she suspected Azad’s involvement in the murder. Mr. Kalsi said teams were formed to trace the accused and with the help of technical and human intelligence Azad was nabbed. During interrogation, the accused allegedly told the police that the couple had a heated argument on Friday night, following which he stabbed her in the stomach and chest many times. “He then came out of the room and the victim locked the door from inside to avoid any further assault as he was trying to re-enter. The accused then went to the roof and hid the weapon,” Mr. Kalsi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/days-after-marriage-husband-kills-woman/article37146764.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi,||North Corporation low on fogging supplies amid surge in dengue cases||As the Capital witnessed a surge in dengue cases over the past week, a status report by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation revealed that the civic body has run out of stock of insecticides, larvicides and medicines used to control the vector-borne disease. According to the report filed by the Public Health Department on October 21, the North body had no stock of four out of seven insecticides. Vikas Goel, Leader of the Opposition in the House, said the civic body had “zero stock” and that hospitals under it were facing a shortage of “basic medicines”. “The planning of procurement has to be done in April, as per the protocol. But the BJP-led body planned it only in October. They are deliberately punishing the people of Delhi,” said Mr. Goel. However, Standing Committee chairman Jogi Ram Jain said the report showed stocks of the North civic body’s “central store only”. “Supplies for a month and above are available in all zones under our jurisdiction. According to the latest update, fogging supply for the next two months has also arrived and testing for the medicine has also been carried out. We will distribute it on Monday,” said Mr. Jain, denying that the civic body was suffering from a shortage of supplies. As of October 16, the North body recorded 166 of 723 dengue cases across the city; the highest since 2017 for the civic body. ‘Delayed purchase’ Opposition leaders of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation also voiced concerns regarding the shortage in stock of supplies. Prem Chauhan, Leader of the Opposition, said the civic body had “delayed the procurement” of medicines and supplies and that the “procurement was only on paper”. SDMC Mayor Mukesh Suryan termed the allegations “baseless”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/north-corporation-low-on-fogging-supplies-amid-surge-in-dengue-cases/article37146769.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi,||Journal on COVID impact on children||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on Saturday launched a journal,Children First: Journal on Children’s Liveswith the first issue highlighting the COVID-19 impact on the lives of children. “This journal will prove to be significant by creating awareness in society towards the rights of children and better parenting. The pandemic has shown how little we understand about the issues affecting the lives of children. This journal will work to sensitise people about the rights of children,” Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said at the launch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/journal-on-covid-impact-on-children/article37146763.ece
24 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man stabbed to death while resisting robbery bid||A 42-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death when he resisted a robbery in central Delhi’s Patel Nagar on Friday night, the police said. No arrests have been made so far. DCP (Central) Shweta Chauhan said the victim has been identified as Manoj, an electrician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-stabbed-to-death-while-resisting-robbery-bid/article37146767.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi,||Will ensure every Dalit child is educated: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said he had vowed to fulfil Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s dream of ensuring that every Dalit child was educated. He was speaking at an event to celebrate Maharshi Valmiki and Dr. Ambedkar’s legacy, at the Thyagaraj Stadium. The CM also honoured 22 meritorious students from the Dalit community who had secured over 90% marks in Class XII.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/will-ensure-every-dalit-child-is-educated-cm/article37146755.ece
24 October 2021||VALLABHNAGAR (RAJASTHAN),||BJP fields ‘unkown’ candidate in bypoll||The upcoming Assembly byelection in Udaipur district’s Vallabhnagar constituency gave an opportunity to the BJP to prove its mettle in the Mewar region, but it is finding it difficult to justify the candidature of businessman Himmat Singh Jhala. Very few voters recognise Mr. Jhala, though he claims to have undertaken philanthropic work during the pandemic. ‘No consensus’ Mired in internal bickering, the BJP fielded Mr. Jhala after the senior leaders failed to reach a consensus on bringing former MLA Randhir Singh Bhindar back to the party fold or giving ticket to a strong contender, Udai Lal Dangi. The unhappiness of party workers over the decision is reflected in the low-key election campaign, especially in the rural areas. Considered a stronghold of Congress, Vallabhnagar has been represented in the State Assembly six times by freedom fighter and Rajput leader Gulab Singh Shaktawat, who was the Home Minister in the 1998-2003 Ashok Gehlot government. His Mr. Shktawat's son Gajendra Singh Shaktawat, who died of a liver-related ailment earlier this year, was elected an MLA twice from Vallabhnagar. Leader of the Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria was strongly against reinducting Mr. Bhindar of the erstwhile royal family, who has since floated an outfit called Janata Sena. On the other hand, Mr. Dangi’s candidature was not acceptable to some other leaders. The embarrassment of BJP leaders was visible at an election meeting in Loonda village over the weekend. Addressing the meeting, BJP State OBC Morcha president Om Prakash Bhadana called upon the party workers to forget their internal differences and make united efforts for Mr. Jhala’s victory. Madan Lal Suthar, a shopkeeker in Vallabhnagar town, told The Hindu that the local BJP leaders had been unable to raise the issues of a complete absence of transport facility, erratic agricultural power supply and the Mavli-Bari Sadri railway line broad gauge conversion work being halted since long. “The voters are justified in thinking that their support to Congress would speed up development,” he said. Ms. Kanwar, a former vice-president of BJP State Mahila Morcha, had filed her nomination as a Janata Sena candidate and later withdrawn it. Mr. Kataria has maintained a distance from the election campaign in Vallabhnagar apparently because the Congress workers have been highlighting his recent derogatory remarks about Rajput warrior Maharana Pratap and a controversial statement on Lord Ram. On the other hand, the Congress expects to ride on the sympathy wave by fielding Shaktawat’s widow Preeti Shaktawat as its candidate. Ganpat Lal, of Kedaria village, said Ms. Preeti’s strategy for seeking votes, such as banners and hoardings mentioning her late husband’s name, was aimed at projecting herself as his “natural successor”. Vallabhnagar Sarpanch Durga Devi Gujjar, a supporter of Ms. Preeti, said the people were being apprised of the development works undertaken during the Congress regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-fields-unknown-candidate-in-byelection/article37146772.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The legend of Lal Baba||An old perception in the community history of Delhi is that the city has the protection of five Bhairavas, 22 Sufis, and two Goddesses — Yog Maya and Kalka Devi. Located on a hill in south Delhi, the Kalka Devi temple and its surrounding landscape curiously offer a template of syncretic culture for contemporary, cosmopolitan Delhi. There is the revered 13-14th century Sufi shrine of Hazrat Nasiruddin Chiragh Dehlavi, the 20th century architectural wonder of the Lotus Temple of the Bahai faith, the ISKCON temple, and even an Ashokan edict of the 3rd century BC.  Window into heritage  The temple of Kalka Devi has a blurred written history linking myths, epic tales, rituals, practices, power of holy men, ritual priests, and religious economics, providing a fascinating window on Delhi’s heritage. According to gaathas (circle of mythic stories), Kalka Devi is an incarnation of Goddess Durga, fighting demons and assuming the form of a wish-fulfilling mother Goddess. The eyes of the deity stand out in the anthropomorphic or human form, compelling and pulling the devotee to have her darshan (audience). Postcards, talismans, keychains, and even dreams invite the faithful to visit her. The research on the sacred geography of the Kalkaji Temple involved interviewing people linked with the holy site in different capacities: the illegal occupants of the erstwhile, dilapidated but beautiful dharmshalas, ritual priests, shopkeepers selling offerings, and sacred men. One such journey was an encounter with Lal Baba, a merchant named Baijal from Kolkata, who became an ascetic after a “miracle”.   In the 1980s, Baijal severely injured his right leg and doctors said it will have to be amputated. A priest gave Baijal’s family a list of nine sacred locations to visit and seek blessings. However, even after completing the rigorous pilgrimage schedule, Baijal’s suffering continued. On reaching the temple of Baba Baidyanath in Deogarh, Jharkhand, Baijal dreamt that he should go to the temple of Kalka Devi in Delhi within nine days. The family organised support of fellow passengers in the train and Baijal arrived at the door of the Goddess. Five months later, his leg was “miraculously” cured. This prompted Baijal to take sanyas (asceticism) and become Lal Baba, wearing red robes in honour of Kalka Devi and playing the dumroo. Among the significant rituals of the shrine is the early morning bathing of the deity with milk, ornamentation, and aarti (prayers). The priests of the shrine allowed Lal Baba to contribute Ganga water as part of the bathing ritual. It made Lal Baba begin a unique spiritual journey. He went intermittently to locations where the Ganga flowed and carried back a barrel of its water. An entire room was designated where Ganga water collected by him and his followers was stored. Gradually, Lal Baba gained stature and respect and the number of his followers increased. The temple authorities permitted him to sit in the Yagna Kund, facing the sanctum of the Goddess. Lal Baba passed away almost a decade ago. The unique ritual of offering Ganga water continues. Lal Baba’s seat has now been designated as ‘sacred’, attracting huge donations from the faithful. These narratives add to heritage experiences, allowing the visitor to step back and observe much more than the religious euphoria. There is a tale of Tiger Baba as well who was commissioned by the Tiger Temple in Thailand to use his powers bestowed by the Devi to control the feline. That’s for another day.  (The writer is an expert on cultural heritage)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/the-legend-of-lal-baba/article37146760.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Beggary is not a choice, it’s the last resort’||Beggary is an everyday reality of city life but we seldom think where do people whom we meet at the traffic signals every morning spend the rest of the day. Do they enjoy the same rights as citizens of the country as we do and where do they vanish when a VIP visits the city? National Award-winning director Kireet Khurana’s latest documentary, The Invisible Visible, aims to build support through a nationwide campaign to repeal the controversial Beggary Prevention Act, 1959, and act as a catalyst to implement the Supreme Court order to set up shelters for the homeless in each district and have independent credible agencies audit these shelters regularly. “Ideally, we need a law at the Centre which overrides the law and makes it redundant, which is where the real activism is happening. We are hoping through the film we shall be able to sensitise the lawmakers, the bureaucrats and other stakeholders, apprise them of the issues and seek their support in striking down the draconian legislation,” says Khurana. Known for his highly acclaimed docu-feature, Saeed Mirza: A Leftist Sufi , in 2015, Khurana was invited to Aspire Circle, a fellowship programme consisting of a group of top social leaders from India. In this group, Khurana met a very young man, Tarique Mohammed, who ran a small but dedicated organisation — Koshish (a Tata Institute of Social Sciences affiliate) — which worked with the homeless. Koshish’s work was noticed in 2018 when it took the lid off the rampant sexual abuse in a government-run institution in Muzaffarpur during a social audit assigned by the Bihar government. “Tarique’s sharing was so evocative and powerful that every time he shared from his life or sordid stories about the homeless, tears would flow down my cheeks. His presence made me a lot more empathetic towards the marginalised. It was then that I decided to make a film, not just to support the cause, but to also grow as an individual,” says Khurana.  Edited excerpts:   What is your take on the law that prohibits begging in a welfare state and its implemen- tation in big cities?   It is an absolutely unconstitutional law that had been legislated by lawmakers who didn’t understand the issues, nor did they want to solve it. They just wanted to wish the homeless away. Beggary is not a choice, it’s the last resort. And in that, if we criminalisepoverty for millions, it’s a shame. Incarceration for being poor is inflicting even more pain on an aggrieved and struggling soul living on the edge.  Y ou have tried to look at the issue of begging from multiple perspectives but at the centre is an NGO. Ho w did you arrive at this form?   One of the main objectives of the film was to humanise the homeless and the people who are working with them. I took a decision much earlier that if I just make a film on the homeless and their issues without the human element, it will become like a regular, talking heads documentary. I wanted the film to touch, move and inspire. Apart from showing abject poverty, I wanted the film to reflect hope.  The documentary has many evocative moments like an old lady not recognising her son. How did you get that?   We knew that Koshish had repatriated 75,000 people, some reuniting with their families after decades. The reasons for the separation may vary but the reunion is almost always tearful. We had to be extremely vigilant and patient to move quickly when such an opportunity arose... I had no clue whom we were going to meet, what we were going to shoot. We had to pack our equipment and leave in less than an hour’s notice. And of course, as you can see in the film, it’s an unbelievable magical moment.  Tell us about the Delhi segment where street performers are often treated as beggars.   The anti-beggary law implies that anyone without an ostensible means of livelihood can be arrested purely on the suspicion of beggary. The profession of playing dhols in marriages or street performers is not considered to be gainful employment as per the interpretation of the law, hence many of these people were arrested in the past in Delhi. However, the Delhi High Court has struck down the anti-beggary law and there are no arrests happening in the city. Also, Delhi has enough shelters for the homeless now, so there has been great progress. We are hoping that the rest of the country will follow suit and the 22-23 odd States where the anti-beggary law is being enforced will also show leniency.  At a time when OTT platforms have rekindled the documentary genre, how do you see its progress?   While the documentary genre has been around for long and the West has been making some outstanding impact, documentaries, unfortunately, a large part of our country is smitten by Bollywood and the usual TV fare, leaving very little space for nuanced, meaningful content. One was hoping that with the advent of OTTs it will change. It has, to some extent, but not enough, and most OTTs are clearly moving as an extended arm of Bollywood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/beggary-is-not-a-choice-its-the-last-resort/article37146758.ece
24 October 2021||HONG KONG,||Rising trade, tensions point to India’s China conundrum||India’s trade with China rising to record levels in 2021 and set to cross the $100-billion mark for the first time has underlined the challenge New Delhi faces as it looks to recalibrate relations amid a more than year-long border crisis while remaining locked in a deep commercial embrace. The two seemingly contradictory trends in relations have come into sharp focus this month when, three days after the 13th round of talks between military commanders ended in a deadlock with both sides trading accusations, New Delhi hailed “a breakthrough for the Indian pharmaceutical industry in China” with Hyderabad-based Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories set for a potential windfall, becoming the first Indian pharmaceutical firm permitted to launch an anti-cancer drug in the lucrative China market. Huge potential Both Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and Ambassador to China Vikram Misri this week highlighted the potential of trade ties. Mr. Misri highlighted pharmaceuticals as particularly having “huge potential yet to be realised”. He said, in an interview to the Global Times in Beijing, discussions “were on-going on the boundary crisis” and “we hope that both sides can resolve this [border] issue, because it is casting a shadow on bilateral ties”. Mr. Shringla also linked the border standoff to overall relations noting in a seminar this week that “it was against the backdrop” of both sides developing “a broad-based relationship” that was “clearly predicated on ensuring that peace and tranquillity were not disturbed” that ties, including trade, took off since the normalisation of relations in 1988. Trade ties have boomed to record levels during the past year — a period which officials in New Delhi acknowledge has marked the lowest point since 1988, in the wake of the crisis along the Line of Actual Control which erupted last summer with China’s unprecedented mobilisation of troops. Figures released this month by China’s Customs showed the two-way trade after nine months reached $90.37 billion, up 49.3% year-on-year. India’s imports from China reached $68.4 billion, up 51.7%, a reminder of continuing dependencies on goods that India has imported in large quantities over the past two decades, such as electrical machinery and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), as well as the emergence of new imports such as medical supplies, which India has bought more from China than any other country during the pandemic, from ventilators to PPEs. China’s global exports of medicine and medical supplies were up 108% this year, and medical supplies appear to have become the latest trade dependency. India also imports up to 70% of APIs from China, more than 90% of solar components and a large share of auto components as well. If the trading relationship has appeared to remain largely immune to the border crisis, where relations have changed dramatically are on the investment front, with curbs on Chinese companies remaining, and in the telecom sector where Chinese firms have been kept out of 5G trials. The massive inflow of Chinese funds into the tech sector has also been stopped. Chinese private equity and venture capital investments fell below $1 billion for the first time since 2017, according to industry research firm Venture Intelligence. Hurdles to market access Mr. Shringla said the size of the trade deficit, which is also set for a record this year, and “a number of market access impediments including a whole host of non-tariff barriers, for most of our agricultural products and the sectors we are competitive in, such as pharmaceuticals, IT/ITES, etc”, have remained two important concerns. He also noted India was looking to reduce those imbalances through initiatives such as the Production Linked Incentives (PLI) scheme aimed at “enhancing the resilience of India’s manufacturing sector”. India’s message to China has been that business cannot be usual while peace on the border remains disturbed. Business has, however, boomed, with no signs of slowing down even as the border crisis shows no signs of easing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rising-trade-tensions-point-to-indias-china-conundrum/article37146117.ece
24 October 2021||New York,||UN fears ‘mass crimes’ as troops assemble in Myanmar’s north||The UN said on Friday it feared an even greater human rights catastrophe in Myanmar amid reports of thousands of troops massing in the north of the Southeast Asian country, which has been in chaos since a February coup. "We should all be prepared, as the people in this part of Myanmar are prepared, for even more mass atrocity crimes. I desperately hope that I am wrong," said UN Special Rapporteur on Myanmar Tom Andrews. More than 1,100 civilians have been killed in the country's bloody crackdown on dissent and more than 8,000 arrested since the coup, according to a local monitoring group. Mr. Andrews, who was presenting the findings of an annual human rights report on Myanmar to the General Assembly, said that he had received information that tens of thousands of troops and heavy weapons were being moved into restive regions in the north and northwest. The findings, he said, also indicated that the junta had engaged in probable crimes against humanity and war crimes. "These tactics are ominously reminiscent of those employed by the military before its genocidal attacks against the Rohingya in Rakhine State in 2016 and 2017," Mr. Andrews said. About 7,40,000 Rohingya fled Myanmar's Rakhine state in 2017 after security forces launched a clampdown that the UN has said may amount to genocide. Mr. Andrews urged countries to deny Myanmar's military junta the money, weapons and legitimacy it desired, citing a prisoner release earlier in the week as evidence that pressure was working.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-fears-mass-crimes-as-troops-assemble-in-myanmars-north/article37146122.ece
24 October 2021||Beirut,||IS says its fighters brought down Kabul power lines||The Islamic State militant group’s Afghan branch on Friday said it was behind an explosion that brought down electricity lines and plunged Kabul into darkness. The power cut on Thursday was a further blow to Taliban efforts to stabilise Afghanistan two months after they seized control. In a statement published on its Telegram channels, Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K) said “the soldiers of the caliphate detonated a bomb on an electricity pylon in Kabul” to damage the electricity sector. The explosion hit a high-voltage line supplying imported power to Kabul and some other provinces. Afghanistan is largely reliant on electricity imported from its northern neighbours Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, making cross-country power lines a prime target for insurgents. The Taliban has promised to fight IS-K but the group has continued to carry out devastating atrocities. Earlier this week, IS-K said it was behind a suicide bombing of a Shia mosque in Kandahar on October 15 that killed 60 people. Meanwhile, a roadside bombing targeting a Taliban vehicle in eastern Afghanistan killed two civilians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/is-says-its-fighters-brought-down-kabul-power-lines/article37146118.ece
24 October 2021||Lahore,||Clashes at TLP’s rally to Islamabad leave 7 dead||A radical Islamist party on Saturday said seven of its supporters have died in clashes with authorities in Pakistan’s eastern city of Lahore after two police officers were killed in the unrest. The number of Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) protesters swelled by thousands on Saturday evening as supporters of the hardline party began marching towards the capital Islamabad without facing any further resistance from police. Scores of the group’s supporters had gathered after Friday prayers to demand the release of their detained leader, blocking roads and firing projectiles in deadly clashes with police. The TLP has previously been behind major anti-France protests that earlier this year led to the embassy issuing a warning for all French citizens to leave the country. “Death toll of TLP supporters rose to seven after two more people succumbed to their injuries caused by police firing,” the party tweeted on Saturday. Police in Lahore would not comment on the claim, but on Friday night said two of its officers had died. “The clashes are still ongoing,” Rana Arif, a spokesman for Lahore police, said. “This is a defensive operation by police against the mob... We are doing shelling to control the crowd.” TLP leader Saad Rizvi was arrested in April when Pakistan’s government outlawed the party in response to violent anti-France protests. In Islamabad, police have closed off roads using shipping containers. Minister returns The party has vowed not to end the protests or enter talks with the government until their leader is released. Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmad, who was in Dubai to watch Pakistan compete in the T20 cricket World Cup, returned home on Prime Minister Imran Khan’s directive to monitor the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/seven-dead-in-tlps-march-to-islamabad/article37146121.ece
24 October 2021||Dubai,||Riyadh targets zero emissions by 2060||One of the world’s largest oil producers, Saudi Arabia, announced on Saturday it aims to reach “net zero” greenhouse gas emissions by 2060, joining more than 100 countries in a global effort to try and curb man-made climate change. Although Saudi Arabia will aim to reduce emissions within its own borders, there is no indication it will slow down investments in oil and gas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/riyadh-targets-zero-emissions-by-2060/article37146119.ece
24 October 2021||Mumbai,||Judge was not biased, court tells Kangana||The Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate court here has held that the Andheri metropolitan magistrate, which is presiding over the defamation case filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar against Kangana Ranaut, has acted “judiciously” and did not show any bias against the actor. Just because the court proceeds with the case by following the law, it does not mean that it is biased against the applicant, Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate S.T. Dande said in her order in which she rejected Ms. Ranaut’s plea that sought transfer of the case to some other court. The Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate had rejected Ms. Ranaut’s petition on October 21. The actor had filed the transfer petition last month, saying that she had “lost faith” in the Andheri metropolitan magistrate’s court as it indirectly “threatened” her of issuing a warrant if she failed to appear before it in a bailable offence. The petition also alleged that the court was biased against her. However, Ms. Dande ruled that the metropolitan magistrate, 10th court, Andheri, has given a fair opportunity to the accused to remain absent by granting all her exemption applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/judge-was-not-biased-court-tells-kangana/article37146155.ece
24 October 2021||MUMBAI,||ICICI Bank Q2 net climbs 30%, NII rises||ICICI Bank Ltd. on Saturday reported second-quarter standalone net profit grew 30% to Rs. 5,511 crore, helped by a 25% year-on-year increase in net interest income (NII) to Rs. 11,690 crore. The net interest margin improved to 4%, from 3.57% in the year-earlier quarter. Total deposits grew by 17% in the quarter to Rs. 9,77,449 crore and the domestic loan portfolio expanded by 19%. “We are optimistic about the growth of the Indian economy and we see many opportunities to grow our core operating profit in a risk-calibrated manner,” said executive director Sandeep Batra. “We believe that our ongoing investments in technology, people and distribution network, our prudent risk management practices and our strong balance sheet will enable us to drive growth” in core operating profit, Mr. Batra added. He said the bank’s Net NPA ratio declined from 1.16% on June 30, to 0.99% as of September 30, the lowest level it has been since December 31, 2014. Provisions (excluding provision for tax) slid by 9% to Rs. 2,714 crore, from Rs. 2,995 crore a year earlier. The retail loan portfolio grew by 20% year-on-year and 5% sequentially and comprised 62.1% of the total loan portfolio as at September 30. The business banking portfolio grew by 43% year-on-year and 12% sequentially. Net NPAs decline Net non-performing assets declined by 12% sequentially to Rs. 8,161 crore, from Rs. 9,306 crore as on June 30. The net addition to gross NPAs declined to Rs. 96 crore during the quarter, from Rs. 3,604 crore in the April-June period. The gross NPA additions declined to Rs. 5,578 crore, from Rs. 7,231 crore in the preceding three months. Recoveries and upgrades of NPAs, excluding write-offs and sale, increased to Rs. 5,482 crore, from Rs. 3,627 crore in the first quarter. The gross NPAs written off were Rs. 1,717 crore. Excluding NPAs, the total fund based outstanding to all borrowers under resolution as per the various extant regulations/guidelines was Rs. 9,684 crore or 1.3% of total advances on September 30, compared to Rs. 4,864 crore on June 30. The bank said it holds provisions amounting to Rs. 1,950 crore against borrowers under resolution as of September 30. In addition, it continues to hold COVID-19 related provisions of Rs. 6,425 crore as of September 30, the same level as on June 30. The lender said its total capital adequacy as at September 30 was 19.52% and Tier-1 capital adequacy (including profits for H1-2022) was 18.53% compared with the minimum regulatory requirements of 11.08% and 9.08%, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/icici-bank-q2-net-climbs-30-nii-rises/article37146630.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Cybersecurity will remain a top priority for firms this year’||Driven by the mounting urgency of securing their hybrid workforces and data, most enterprises are expected to ramp up investments in staff awareness training, data protection, threat vulnerability detection, and response measures, says Vishak Raman , Director, Security Business, Cisco India & SAARC. Excerpts:  Are enterprises able to increase their visibility to overall vulnerability and threat horizon? The key to making a security architecture effective and capable of detecting and preventing attacks is to look at the layers holistically with a single pane of glass. This creates a proactive security framework that enables different layers to talk to each other and co-relate contextual insights in real-time to prevent attacks. Secondly, identity is the new perimeter in the hybrid world – the first line of defence for any organisation. Therefore, IT teams must look at scaling VPNs and multi-factor authentication (MFA) to verify each user’s identity before allowing them access to the network or sensitive data. Ultimately, to ensure safety in the digital world, security must be built-in, not bolted on. It must be deployed everywhere and in everything we do, from the network to data to devices to users. The transition to work from anywhere and erosion of the traditional network perimeters have combined to create an unprecedented threat level to endpoint devices, users, and applications. Today, global enterprises need visibility across these applications as well as secure critical control points. How much are enterprises investing in data protection and network security now? As the range of threats broadens and new vulnerabilities develop, cybersecurity will remain a high priority for corporates this year. According to Gartner, worldwide spending on information security and risk management technology and services is forecast to grow 12.4% to reach $150.4 billion in 2021. Global and Indian enterprises need to continue investing in cloud-native security, data protection, and network security solutions to steer away from the rising cyberattacks in the digital era. What has been the growth of the cybersecurity business globally in 2021 compared with 2020? Is Cisco witnessing quantum growth in this space this year? 2020 was a record-breaking year in terms of data lost in breaches and sheer numbers of cyberattacks on companies, governments, and individuals. According to industry reports, H1 of 2021 has already surpassed the previous year’s record-breaking $7.8 billion raised by cybersecurity start-ups. We saw a 13% growth YoY in our security segment in Q3 FY21. We, at Cisco, in addition to our security offerings, are witnessing high traction for our collaboration, cloud, and other offerings as more and more organisations adopt hybrid work and business models. What are the key cybersecurity innovations and technologies underway now? At Cisco, to help our customers manage their dynamic and growing security needs, we have mobilised significant innovations across our security portfolio. Moving forward, we will strengthen our leadership in cybersecurity through SASE (secure access service edge), XDR (extended detection and response), and zero trust integration into our networking and security unified platforms by securing the essential control points, i.e., the user, device, network, application, and data security. By delivering a platform that continuously detects threats and verifies trust, our aim is to enable our customers to secure their networks for a multi-cloud world. How challenging is it for Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs) to balance risk and innovation in a digital-first economy? Some of the top challenges are training and managing staff remotely, vendor audits, keeping at par with the evolving threat landscape, rising identity theft, managing cybersecurity regulations, and the lack of skilled cybersecurity professionals. CISOs are no longer just security risk managers but are expected to be business enablers of organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cybersecurity-will-remain-a-top-priority-for-firms-this-year/article37146629.ece
24 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||FTA with UAE likely by March, says negotiator||A senior Commerce Ministry official spearheading the negotiations for a free trade agreement (FTA) with the United Arab Emirates said on Saturday that good progress had been achieved and the FTA was likely to be in place by March. “We are trying to conclude the FTA by end of this year and sign the agreement by March... made good progress in this direction,” Joint Secretary Srikar K. Reddy said, addressing a meeting on exports organised by the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry. UAE is the largest national export market for India after the U.S., with exports of about $30 billion. Mr. Reddy, the lead negotiator for the FTAs under discussion with the UAE, Israel and Southern African Customs Union (SACU), said India was contemplating signing many FTAs, in addition to the existing 16, with important countries. The FTA with Mauritius, which became operational earlier this year, was the first that India had signed in the last 10 years, he said. Increase in exports and a surge in domestic demand were powering the recovery of the Indian economy, Mr. Reddy added.  India is mulling signing many free trade agreements in addition to the existing 16||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fta-with-uae-likely-by-march-says-negotiator/article37146631.ece
24 October 2021||Chennai,||IT more widely sought now globally: WNS CEO||Technology is gaining wider acceptance globally, said Keshav Murugesh, group CEO, WNS Global Services, pointing to the strengthening prospects for the IT-BPM industry in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Every business across the globe, even if it be in a traditional area with a conservative outlook, has now climbed the bandwagon in terms of a technology-first and digital transformation agenda,” he observed. WNS had in July raised its forecast for full-year revenue to $961- $1,009 million from the $945-$997 million it had projected in April. Without specifying which verticals had bolstered the revenue prospects, he said, “Insurance is a contributor; the banking and financial services vertical has done extremely well for us. The shipping and logistics area, as normalcy returns, is also very positive. I would also like to call out travel and airline business because that's definitely been a positive. We are seeing more people taking holidays”. With normalcy yet to return fully even as the pandemic appears to be receding, the insurance industry’s potential customers had shown a preference to execute transactions online rather than meeting agents in person. “We have helped insurance firms move to self-service portals,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/it-more-widely-sought-now-globally-wns-ceo/article37146632.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi,||Power ministry unveils rules to sustain viability||The Ministry of Power on Saturday announced new rules to sustain economic viability of the sector, ease financial stress of various stakeholders, and ensure timely recovery of costs involved in electricity generation.  The rules notified by the Ministry of Power under Electricity Act, 2003 are in the interest of the electricity consumers and the stakeholders, it added. The rules include Electricity (Timely recovery of costs due to Change in Law) Rules, 2021. The other rule is Electricity (Promotion of generation from renewable sources of energy by addressing Must Run and other matters) Rules, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/power-ministry-unveils-rules-to-sustain-viability/article37146643.ece
24 October 2021||Austin,||Verstappen calls Hamilton ‘stupid idiot’ as rivalry flares||Road rage bubbled as the track temperature rose in Friday’s second practice session for the United States Grand Prix as Max Verstappen called title rival Lewis Hamilton a “stupid idiot”. World champion Hamilton angered Verstappen by pushing past on the inside of the Red Bull when the Dutchman was lining up a flying lap. Verstappen leads Hamilton by six points in the title race. Rude gesture After the Mercedes almost pushed Verstappen off the track, the Dutchman gave way, lifting his right hand off the wheel to make a rude gesture at Hamilton’s car. Verstappen complained on team radio that Hamilton was a “stupid idiot” and never seemed to recover his poise, ending the session eighth fastest. After the session, with his helmet off but his mask on, Verstappen was more guarded. “Just a mess with the traffic,” he said. Yet, the afternoon was not a total loss for his team. Red Bull’s Mexican driver Sergio Perez was the fastest with a time of 1min 34.946sec. Lando Norris of McLaren was second 0.257s behind. Hamilton who had what would have been the fastest time of the session scrubbed out because he crossed the white track limits line on turn 19, was third 0.364s, 0.50s ahead of teammate Valtteri Bottas. Daniel Ricciardo of McLaren, Lance Stroll in an Aston Martin and Ferrari’s Charles Leclerc were the next three fastest, ahead of Verstappen. “It was a good day,” said Perez. “Obviously it’s going to be very tight trying to put it all together and find those couple of tenths that would put us in the mix for pole tomorrow.” Mercedes dominated the morning session and Hamilton said changes the team made between sessions had not worked. Penalties Bottas faces a grid penalty on Sunday after Mercedes changed his engine for the fifth time this season. Also taking penalties in Austin are George Russell of Williams and Sebastian Vettel of Aston Martin. Bottas drops five grid places for his sixth engine. Russell and Vettel will drop to the back of the grid after each switched to their fourth power unit of the season.  Obviously it’s going to be very tight trying to put it all together — Perez||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verstappen-calls-hamilton-stupid-idiot-as-rivalry-flares/article37146099.ece
24 October 2021||DUBAI,||Dubai braces for fireworks as India faces Pakistan||The ICC T20 World Cup will be set alight when India and Pakistan meet in a big-ticket clash on Sunday. There’s no doubt that the contest between the sub-continental giants will attract global interest even beyond the cricket fraternity. But both teams, with face-offs becoming as rare as a hailstorm in the Emirates, have been trying their best to play down the pressure-cooker scenario associated with the game. Understandably so. More than earning brownie points for winning the match-that-matters-most for respective fans, India and Pakistan would be gunning for an ideal start to their World Cup campaign. Moreover, with both teams having hardly faced each other in the shortest format of the game — eight matches in 14 years, including the two famous matches in the inaugural T20 World Cup in 2007 — there isn’t too much of personal rivalry on the field. In this respect, India will be hoping that Varun Chakravarthy, the mystery spinner touted to be India’s X-factor, will spin his web around the Pakistan batters, none of whom have faced him earlier. Pakistan, on the other hand, will be looking to captain Babar Azam to giude its relatively inexperienced unit to glory. The fact that he will have the guidance of old warhorses Shoaib Malik and Mohammad Hafeez will certainly help it soak up the big-match pressure. Both Malik and Hafeez were part of the inaugural T20 edition 14 Septembers ago. For India, only vice-captain Rohit Sharma featured in that memorable edition in South Africa. Having excelled as a rookie in 2007, Rohit will be hoping for the likes of Rishabh Pant and Chakravarthy to deliver under pressure. But more than the rookies, India will be hoping to get the team balance right. Resolving the muddle of a back-up bowler remains the key for India to start its crusade to regain the T20 World Cup after a prolonged gap on a winning note. Playing Pakistan in the opener would certainly invoke memories of the 2007 World Cup. Thanks to a washout against Scotland, the game that finished with a bowl-out versus Pakistan was India’s first match at the T20 World Cup. The Men in Blue, who won the bowl-out, will be hoping for the same result on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dubai-braces-for-fireworks-as-india-faces-pakistan/article37146211.ece
24 October 2021||CHENNAI,||PCI to start ‘train the trainers’ programme||Deepa Malik, president of Paralympic Committee of India (PCI), said the National federation’s constitution has been aligned with the National Sports Development Code. “That will definitely spare us from further suspensions,” said Deepa at a function organised by Indian Bank to felicitate the Tokyo paralympians here on Saturday. 10 Paralympians were given a cash award of Rs. 51,000 each. When asked about the lack of Indian classification experts after it was revealed that discus thrower Vinod Kumar’s bronze medal at Tokyo was declared void following a reassessment by a classification panel, Deepak said there will soon be training for trainers to address the lacunae. “We are going to start ‘train the trainers’ programme. We are inviting people for Level-I and Level-II courses through online and Level-III course under the International Paralympic Committee guidelines,” she said. Deepa further said as long as she is at the helm, PCI will be transparent “We are focussing on transparency and being an athletic-centric Federation. Our focus will be on growth of para-sports.” Nationals early next year Satyanarayana, PCI’s chairman of technical committee, said the senior Nationals will be either be held in Rajasthan or Chennai, probably in February or March. The first National sub-junior and junior Nationals will be held in Bengaluru from February 16 to 18 2022, while the qualifying events for the 2022 Commonwealth Para Games will be held in Bengaluru on December 19 and 20. “I am sure we will do well in CWG and Asian Games because we have received a lot of support from the Union Government and corporates. This time our aim is to reach out to the rural people,” said Satyanarayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pci-to-start-train-the-trainers-programme/article37146681.ece
24 October 2021||Madrid,||I know the importance of a Clasico: Koeman||Ronald Koeman said on Saturday it was not possible for him to be under more pressure as Barcelona prepares to face Real Madrid in the first Clasico of the season. Koeman appeared to be on the brink of losing his job earlier this month after Barca had won only once in six matches. But the club’s president Joan Laporta moved to end the speculation by insisting Koeman “deserved the benefit of the doubt” and would stay on as coach. “I don’t think it’s possible to be under more pressure,” said Koeman at the eve of match press conference. “As Barcelona coach you have to take it, no problem. I know the importance of a Clasico.” Asked if he still felt the backing of the club, Koeman said smiling: “I have to answer every game if that’s the case. I think I am the coach of Barcelona now, tomorrow let’s see. I feel supported by the club but I know everything depends on results.” Barcelona sits seventh in La Liga after winning four of its opening eight games but it is only two points behind Real Madrid. “This game won’t be decisive,” said Koeman. “It will just show what kind of moment the two teams are in.” After beating Valencia in La Liga and Dynamo Kiev in the Champions League, a victory at Camp Nou on Sunday would round off an encouraging week for Koeman and his team. Yet many believe Madrid is the favourite. “We know exactly what we have, and what we have to do,” said Koeman. “I don’t have any fear.” Jordi Alba trained on Saturday and is ready to play, despite suffering a minor ankle problem in midweek. Fati expected to start Ansu Fati is expected to start after beginning on the bench against Dynamo, with Koeman managing the 18-year-old’s minutes after he recently recovered from a serious knee injury. “We have to keep calm so that he can fully recover,” said Koeman. “Ansu cannot do it on his own, he is part of the team, but he is a player who can make a difference.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-know-the-importance-of-a-clasico-koeman/article37146110.ece
24 October 2021||Chennai,||Give Indian youngsters more chances: Crivellaro||As a creative and attacking midfielder, Brazil’s Rafael Crivellaro has been more than a livewire in Chennaiyin FC’s scheme of things. So much so that when he returned home following an ankle injury midway through the 2020-21 Indian Super League season, the two-time champion was exposed badly both in midfield and attack. The 32-year-old is now fit and looking forward to raising the team from a disastrous season that saw Chennaiyin finish eighth on the table. In an email chat with The Hindu, Crivellaro said he had been seeing a gradual improvement in Indian players and insisted that if given opportunities the country’s strikers could prove their worth. “I particularly like (Anirudh) Thapa and (Lallianzuala) Chhangte. They are on another level and have a lot of potential to be even better,” he said. Excerpts:  The inclusion of more Indians (seven) in the playing XI It’s a very good decision as it will help improve the quality and level of Indian football by giving more opportunities to young Indians. Standard of play of Indians in Chennaiyin and ISL I see vast improvement every year and the new rule will only further assist progress. Absence of any prominent Indian striker in the ISL Usually, every team brings in strong strikers from abroad which makes it hard for a young Indian to break into the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/give-indian-youngsters-more-chances-crivellaro/article37146683.ece
24 October 2021||LONDON,||Mount on the treble as Chelsea runs riot||Chelsea coped just fine without its injured strikers on Saturday, as the Premier League leader romped to a 7-0 win over last-place Norwich, with Mason Mount scoring a hat-trick and the other goals spread around the team in the injury-enforced absence of Romelu Lukaku and Timo Werner.  Important results: Premier League: Brighton 1 (Mac Allister 81-pen) lost to Manchester City 4 (Gundogan 13, Foden 28, 31, Mahrez 90+5).   Chelsea 7 (Mount 8, 85-pen, 90, Hudson-Odoi 18, James 42, Chilwell 57, Aarons 62-og) bt Norwich 0; Everton 2 (Davies 3, Richarlison 63) lost to Watford 5 (King 13, 80, 86, Kucka 78, Dennis 90+1); Leeds 1 (Rodrigo 90+4-pen) drew with Wolves 1 (Hwang 10); Southampton 2 (Livramento 41, Broja 50) drew with Burnley 2 (Cornet 13, 57).   LaLiga : Valencia 2 (Guedes 90+3, Pena 90+8) drew with Real Mallorca 2 (Rodriguez Diaz 32, Diakhaby 38-o.g.).   Bundesliga: Hertha Berlin 1 (Richter 40) bt Borussia Monchengladbach 0; Bayern Munich 4 (Gnabry 16, Lewandowski 30, Choupo-Moting 82, Coman 87) bt Hoffenheim 0; Arminia Bielefeld 1 (Klos 87-pen) lost to Borussia Dortmund 3 (Can 31-pen, Hummels 45, Bellingham 72)   On Friday: Premier League: Arsenal 3 (Partey 23, Aubameyang 45+6, Smith Rowe 56) bt Aston Villa 1 (Ramsey 82).   Serie A: Torino 3 (Sanabria 14, Pobega 31, Brekalo 77) bt Genoa 2 (Destro 70, Caice 81); Sampdoria 2 (Gyasi 15-og, Candreva 36) bt Spezia 1 (Verde 90+5).   LaLiga : Osasuna 1 (Avila 45) drew with Granada 1 (Montoro 90).   Bundesliga: Mainz 4 (Onisiwo 10, Bell 15, Burkardt 26, 71) bt Augsburg 1 (Zeqiri 69).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mount-on-the-treble-as-chelsea-runs-riot/article37146210.ece
24 October 2021||ABU DHABI,||Australia prevails in a low-scoring thriller||Marcus Stoinis (24 n.o., 16b. 3x4) and Matthew Wade (15 n.o., 10b, 2x4) combined in a crucial, unbeaten 40-run stand to help Australia beat South Africa by five wickets, with two balls remaining, in a low-scoring affair in their opening Super 12 clash in the Twenty20 World Cup on Saturday. Replying to South Africa’s 118 for nine, Australia lost three quick wickets at the top and found itself under pressure. Steve Smith, who made 35, and Glenn Maxwell added 42 for the fourth wicket to keep Australia on course but South Africa came back into the see-saw contest by dismissing both in the space of four deliveries to reduce its opponent to 81 for five. With Group One loaded with six Test-playing nations, both Australia and South Africa were desperate to get off to a winning start in the opening match of the Super 12 stage. Hazlewood delivers Earlier, Australia’s bowlers responded splendidly to captain Aaron Finch’s call to bowl first. After Maxwell’s part-time off-spin found a way past South Africa captain Temba Bavuma’s defence, seamer Josh Hazlewood extracted bit of extra bounce to pick up two wickets to reduce the opponent to 32 for three. South Africa did not recover from the shaky start and with Australia picking up wickets at regular intervals, it never threatened to post a big total. Aiden Markram’s 36-ball 40 and Kagiso Rabada’s unbeaten 19 helped the Proteas go past the 100-run mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-prevails-in-a-low-scoring-thriller/article37146216.ece
24 October 2021||DUBAI,||Rashid and Moeen skittle out WI for 55||As the first ball of the Super 12 match between England and West Indies at the ICC T20 World Cup was bowled on Saturday, the frisson of excitement that accompanied the Caribbeans’ epoch-making win in the final five and a half years ago fizzled into a distant memory. Batting first, West Indies collapsed for 55, its second-lowest T20I score. England stuttered in its response, losing four wickets before getting home in 8.2 overs. Akeal Hosein’s athletic one-handed stunner off his own bowling to dismiss Liam Livingstone was the silver lining for Kieron Pollard’s men. Earlier, West Indies suffered an early blow when, in the second over, Chris Woakes deceived Evin Lewis with a slower ball and Moeen Ali ran back from mid-off to take the catch over his shoulder. In the next, Moeen accounted for Lendl Simmons, who hit straight to deep midwicket. With two left-handers — Chris Gayle and Shimron Hetmyer — at the crease, Moeen, who opened the bowling, got a third over in the PowerPlay. The move paid off as Hetmyer flat-batted to Eoin Morgan at mid-on. Gayle started his innings aggressively, driving Woakes through the covers and cutting one past Jason Roy. But he couldn’t maintain the intensity and fell, miscuing a pull off Tymal Mills to Dawid Malan, who ran backwards from midwicket and held on to the ball. Gayle’s dismissal also bookended the PowerPlay, during which England snaffled four wickets and went for a tad over five an over. Moeen bowled his four overs on the trot, returning figures of two for 17 including a staggering 18 dot balls. With England making quick inroads, West Indies sent Dwayne Bravo at No. 5. But he was dismissed for a run-a-ball five as Pollard’s men lost half the side for less than 50. Mills, returning to international cricket after four years, had Nicholas Pooran caught behind — his second scalp. Andre Russell was castled by Adil Rashid for a duck. The leggie then got rid of Pollard and Obed McCoy off successive balls before shattering Ravi Rampaul’s stumps in his next over to finish with remarkable figures of 2.2-0-2-4. There was ironic cheering from the crowd when West Indies reached 50 in the 13th over. It was that kind of a night for the defending champion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rashid-moeen-run-through-west-indies/article37146218.ece
24 October 2021||Coimbatore,||Sohil and Ruhaan steal the show||Bengaluru boys Sohil Shah and Ruhaan Alva stole the show on a rather sultry opening day of the JK Tyre FMSCI National racing championship at the Kari Motor Speedway here on Saturday. While Sohil was tested to the hilt in the Formula LGB4 category, Ruhaan won both the Novice Cup races with relative ease. The FLGB4 class has always witnessed thrills and spills. This time it was even tough for the drivers with the safety car coming out twice. But Sohil has been in similar situations before. The youngster showed immense patience and waited for the right time to make the winning move ahead of Arya Singh of Kolkata. “I am happy to start the season with a win, though it was not easy. I was in the lead but once the safety cars came out, there was a lot of bunching. The net effect is the lead which you had in time and distance gets shrunk. I waited for the right moment in the final lap and won,” he said. Anish Damodara Shetty (Hubli) was too pleased to finish on top in the JK Tyre presents Royal Enfield Continental GT Cup that made its debut. Going flat out on these heavy bikes were quite demanding but Anish stopped the clock at 1:18.325 for a place on the podium. “It was a great challenge to win the maiden race and the last lap was electrifying," said Anish.  The results (provisional):   Formula LGB 4: Race 1: 1. Sohil Shah (Bengaluru) 23:26.923s; 2. Arya Singh (Kolkata) 23:27.088; 3. T.S. Diljith (Thrissur) 23:27.186.   JK Tyre Novice Cup: Race 1: 1. Ruhaan Alva (Bengaluru) 14:22.061s; 2. Aadithya Parasuram (Chennai) 14:25.202; 3. Gaurav Kochar (Coonoor) 14:34.275. Race 2: 1. Ruhaan 15:06.124; 2. Jaden R. Pariat (Guwahati) 15:07.429; 3. Aadithya Parasuram 15:09.109.   JK Tyre presents RE Continental GT Cup: Race 1: 1. Anish Damodara Shetty (Hubli) 14:07.754s; 2. Allwin Xavier (Thrissur) 14.07.859; 3. Jayanth Prathipati (Hyderabad) 14:08.859 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sohil-and-ruhaan-steal-the-show/article37146640.ece
24 October 2021||Marseille,||Argentine flavour adds spice to Le Classique||The experience of a football match in Argentina is almost unmatched for the raw passion of the crowd, the spectacle in the stands often more eye-catching than events on the pitch. That can be the case for any game, but when Paris Saint-Germain come to town it is very special indeed.  Le Classique — as it is sometimes known —is the biggest fixture in French football, and on Sunday it will have a distinctly Argentinian flavour. This will be Sampaoli’s first match against PSG as Marseille coach. In the away dugout will be his compatriot Mauricio Pochettino. In the away team will be Lionel Messi, getting his first taste of France’s biggest grudge match. Table-topper PSG is overwhelming favourite. It has lost just once to OM in 10 years. PSG now totally dominate French football, but once Marseille was the country’s pre-eminent club, and it remains the only French winner of the Champions League, in 1993. They have a proud history, and in Sampaoli it has a man capable of giving new hope to a city obsessed with “l’OM”. Like Messi, Sampaoli played in the youth ranks at Newell’s Old Boys. While Messi left for Barcelona aged 13, Sampaoli’s playing career was halted by injury before it properly began. There are parallels between Sampaoli and Marcelo Bielsa, who became a cult hero in charge of Marseille in 2014-15 and who managed Pochettino at Newell’s, the pair reaching the Copa Libertadores final in 1992. Sampaoli led Argentina to the 2018 World Cup in Russia, but it was a disastrous campaign. Now they find themselves in opposing camps in Ligue 1 after Messi’s move to Paris in August. The Messi factor means the celebrations in Marseille will be quite something if they can get the better of PSG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/argentine-flavour-adds-spice-to-le-classique/article37146106.ece
24 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Dinidhi and Nina set new marks||Karnataka’s Dinidhi Desinghu came up with her third record-breaking performance of the week, rewriting the girls’ Group III 100m freestyle National record, on the final day of the sub-junior and junior National Aquatic Championships on Saturday. Dinidhi’s time of 1:01.52s was 0.25 seconds faster than Vedika Amin’s mark from 2017 and helped win her fifth gold medal of the championship. The day’s other National record was set by Nina Venkatesh in 50m freestyle for Group I girls, where she first erased, in the heats, Suvana Bhaskar’s 29.35s from 2018, and then lowered it with a blistering 28.51-second dash in the final. In boys’ Group I, another home swimmer R. Sambhavv fell six-hundredth of a second short of breaking Virdhawal Khade’s 2008 record in 100m freestyle, coming home in 51.39s. Karnataka, unsurprisingly, was adjudged the team champion in both the boys’ and girls’ categories, across groups. But the girls’ water polo team which had reached a final for the first time in more than a decade, lost to Kerala 7-9.  The results: Boys: Group I: 100m freestyle: R. Sambhavv (Kar), 51.39; 50m butterfly: Bikram Changmai (Asm), 25.22; Group II: 100m freestyle: Pranjal Pandey (MP), 56.70; 200m backstroke: M. Suhas Preetham (Tel), 2:18.12; 50m butterfly: Jananjoy Jyoti Hazarika (Asm), 26.64; 400m IM: Pavan Dhananjaya (Kar), 4:57.42; Group III: 100m freestyle: Akshaj Thakuria (Kar), 1:02.77; 50m breaststroke: M.S. Nitheesh (TN), 35.19; Group IV: 50m freestyle: Akash Chauhan (UP), 30.57; Group V: 50m freestyle: Jas Singh (Kar), 31.90.   Girls: Group I: 100m freestyle: Janhvi Choudhary (Ben), 59.16; 50m butterfly: Nina Venkatesh (Kar) 28.51 (NMR; OR: 28.93, Nina Venkatesh, 2021); 400m IM: Shakthi Balakrishnan (TN), 5:15.69; Group II: 100m freestyle: Ridhima Veerendra Kumar (Kar), 1:00.80; 200m backstroke: Ridhima Veerendra Kumar (Kar), 2:24.26; 50m butterfly: Rishika U.Mangle (Kar), 29.55; Group III: 100m freestyle: Dhinidhi Desinghu (Kar), 1:01.52 (NMR; OR: 1:02.77, Vedika Amin (Mah), 2017); 50m breaststroke: Aurelia Dias (Kar), 39.35; Group IV: 50m freestyle: Zoya Jannat (Ben), 31.61; Group V: 50m freestyle: K. Lasya Sri (AP), 33.52.   Best swimmers: Boys: Group I: Swadesh Mondal (Ben) (4 golds, 1 silver, 4 NMRs); Group II: Pavan Dhananjaya (Kar) (5G); Group III: Akshaj Thakuria (Kar) (5G); Group IV: Sharan Sridhara (Kar) (4G, 2S); Group V: Jas Singh (Kar) (6G).   Girls: Group I: Apeksha Fernandes (Mah) (3G, 1S, 2NMR); Group II: Ridhima Veerendrakumar (Kar) (5G, 2NMR); Group III: Dinidhi Desinghu (Kar) (5G, 3NMR); Group IV: Alyssa Sweedal Rego (Kar) (3G, 1S); Group V: Adriza Rani Chetia (Asm) (3G, 3S).   Diving: Team championships: Boys: Group I: SSCB (26 points); Group II: SSCB (35 pts); Group III: SSCB (29 pts); Girls: Group I: Maharashtra (30 pts); Group II: Madhya Pradesh (35 pts); Group III: Maharashtra (25 pts).   Water polo (winners): Boys: Bengal 12 bt Maharashtra 6; Girls: Kerala 9 bt Karnataka 7 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dinidhi-and-nina-set-new-marks-on-final-day/article37146634.ece
24 October 2021||Pune:,||Iron Age triumphs||Trainer Imtiaz Sait’s Iron Age, ridden by A. Sandesh, won the Akkasaheb Maharaj Trophy (Gr. 3), the main event of Saturday’s (Oct. 23) races. The winner is owned by Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd, Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. Vikram D. Shah & S.R. Sanas. Jockey A. Sandesh stole the limelight by winning five races.  1. ATMOSPHERE PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: TRINKET (Zeeshan) 1, Marlboro Man (T.S. Jodha) 2, Irish Eyes (Nazil) 3 and Adonijah (P.S. Chouhan) 4. 3/4, 1/2 and Snk. 1m, 26.36s. Owners: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy.  2. ISHPINGO PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), (Terms) Maidne, 3-y-o only: LIT (Sandesh) 1, Royal Alamdaar (J. Chinoy) 2, Monarchy (Mosin) 3 and Empower (T.S. Jodha) 4. Not run: Unclaimed Treasure. 4-1/2, Hd and Nose. 1m, 9.28s. Owner: Mr. Prashant Nagar rep. SKJ Racing and Breeding Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: A.M. Jadhav.  3. ROSMINI PLATE (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: QUEEN O’ WAR (Sandesh) 1, Treasure Gold (T.S. Jodha) 2, Circle Of Love (Neeraj) 3 and Winter (P. Shinde) 4. Not run: Johannesburg. 3-1/2, Nose and 2. 1m, 38.54s. Owner: Mr. Prashant Nagar rep. SKJ Racing and Breeding Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: A.M. Jadhav.  4. PORTRUSH PLATE (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: SUCCESSOR (Sandesh) 1, Arcadia (Kirtish) 2, Exotique (Neeraj) 3 and Giant Star (Yash Narredu) 4. 1, 1-1/4 and Sh. 1m, 25.05s. Owners: Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla & Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole rep. Poonawalla Racing & Brdg Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Mukul Sonawala & Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  5. F.S. REPORTER TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: TRISTAR (Yash Narredu) 1, Pride’s Angel (Sandesh) 2, On Va Danser (J. Chinoy) 3 and Whispering Queen (Peter) 4. Not run: Supreme Being. 2-1/4, 1-3/4 and 1-1/2. 1m, 10.56s. Owner: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Nosher Cama.  6. ATMOSPHERE PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: MULTISTARRER (Sandesh) 1, Immeasureable (Chouhan) 2, Farahnoush (Yash Narredu) 3 and Royal Castle (J. Chinoy) 4. 1-3/4, Nk and 3/4. 1m, 26.21s. Owners: M/s. Homi Mehta, Jehangir Mehta, Nozer Panthaky, Mrs. Liane Luthria & Mrs. Homi Mehta. Trainer: Imtiaz Sait.  7. AKKASAHEB MAHARAJ TROPHY (Gr. 3) (1,200m), (Terms) 4-y-o & over: IRON AGE (Sandesh) 1, Augustus Caesar (Neeraj) 2, Smashing Blue (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Hidden Gold (Chouhan) 4. Not run: Silver Flames. 5, 1-3/4 and 2-1/4. 1m, 8.43s. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd, Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. Vikram D. Shah & S.R. Sanas. Trainer: Imtiaz Sait.  8. ISHPINGO PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-only: DARWIN (Bhawani) 1, Agostino Carracci (Zervan) 2, Bloomsbury (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Raffaello (Yash Narredu) 4. 1-1/2, 1-3/4 and 3/4. 1m, 9.81s. Owners: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy.  9. LAGO MEDIO PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: ENIGMA (Kirtish) 1, Desert Fire (J. Chinoy) 2, Wayin (Shahrukh) 3 and Perfect Perfecto (V. Bunde) 4. 9-3/4, 1-1/2 and 1-3/4. 1m, 8.11s. Owners: Mr. Mehernosh H. Debboo, Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo & Mr. Sultan Singh. Trainer: P. Shroff.  Note: Flash Force jumped out awkwardly leaving jockey A. Prakash standing on the gates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/iron-age-triumphs/article37147021.ece
24 October 2021||GENEVA,||European leagues oppose FIFA’s biennial World Cup plan||Europe’s top football leagues cautioned that FIFA’s biennial World Cup plan is still on the table and they vowed on Friday to resist the proposed overhauls of the international match schedule. FIFA president Gianni Infantino promised on Wednesday to seek a global consensus during a longer period of consultation about the World Cup’s future. That was seen as him acknowledging the strength of European opposition to doubling the frequency of the World Cup. The 33-nation European Leagues group was later briefed by FIFA officials, including Arsene Wenger, who shaped the proposal that includes biennial World Cups and fewer, but longer, breaks in domestic seasons to play national team games. FIFA decided this week not to push for a December vote of its 211 member federations and instead to host online talks on Dec. 20 in what it called a “global summit”. “We have also understood very clearly (Thursday) that this does not mean that the proposal from FIFA is off the table,” European Leagues managing director Jacco Swart said on Friday. “We do have no other alternative than strongly reject the FIFA proposals,” said Swart, a former official at the Netherlands’ top league. The leagues cited the risk of “a severe shift in sporting and economic value from domestic to international competitions”. It’s estimated that playing a World Cup every two years would add about $3 billion to FIFA’s revenue that is currently $6 billion in a four-year commercial cycle with one men’s edition. FIFA’s proposal also calls for biennial continental tournaments like the European Championship and South America’s Copa America to ensure major men’s events in June every year. Development FIFA argues this is necessary to attract and retain young fans and fuel development of football globally. “The FIFA proposals are detrimental for the domestic competitions, for the clubs, for the players and for all the fans,” Swart said, echoing the views of UEFA and fan groups. “Football as a whole cannot accept those proposals,” he said after a two-day meeting of European Leagues members in Milan. The leagues prefer keeping the current system of pausing for one weekend four times each season to clear space for national-team games. FIFA wants fewer breaks with less long-haul travel for players, and one option calls for a single long break in October. Infantino said this week FIFA is preparing a feasibility study that will include the economic effects of biennial tournaments ahead of the December meeting of its members. In an online meeting on Tuesday with UEFA members, some told Infantino they could resign from FIFA if the biennial World Cup is approved. UEFA and South American body CONMEBOL have also suggested boycotting future World Cups.  FIFA decided to host online talks on Dec. 20 in what it called a “global summit”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/european-leagues-oppose-fifas-biennial-world-cup-plan/article37146101.ece
24 October 2021||Doha,||Qatar opens fifth World Cup stadium||Qatar inaugurated a fifth stadium that will host World Cup games in 2022 with a domestic cup match on Friday watched by thousands who had either recently recovered from coronavirus or received vaccinations. The Al-Thumama Stadium, about 12km from , will seat 40,000. Since being selected in 2010, Qatar has faced bad headlines and searing criticism on several issues. “Since we won the World Cup (rights) we have received a lot of criticism. There is constructive criticism that we tried to take on board,” said Fatma al-Nuaimi, head of communications of the Supreme Committee that is organising the 2022 tournament. “We also try not to let this criticism stop us,” he said. The inaugural fixture, the Emir Cup, is in honour of the nation’s ruler Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani who attended the fixture along with FIFA president Gianni Infantino.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/qatar-opens-fifth-world-cup-stadium/article37146103.ece
24 October 2021||KITAKYUSHU (Japan),||Rebeca Andrade vaults her way to glory||Rebeca Andrade of Brazil added a world title to her Tokyo Olympic gold medal in vault and also won a silver medal in uneven bars on Saturday at the gymnastics world championships. Andrade scored 15.133 points on her first vault and 14.800 on her second effort, a double-twisting Yurchenko, for a 14.966 average. Asia D’Amato of Italy took silver with 14.083 points while all-around champion Angelina Melnikova of Russia was third with 13.966. Andrade’s vault title is just the second gold for a Brazilian woman and the first since Daiane Dos Santos won floor at the 2003 worlds. Andrade then added a silver medal by finishing second to China’s Wei Xiaoyuan in the uneven bars.  In other events, Stephen Nedoroscik won the first-ever pommel horse gold for the United States with 15.266 points. Weng Hao of China and Kaya Kazuma of Japan shared the silver with 14.900 points. Nicola Bartolini of Italy won the gold medal in the men’s floor exercise with 14.800 points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rebeca-andrade-vaults-her-way-to-glory/article37146104.ece
24 October 2021||Doha,||Qatar hopes to attract 1.2 million visitors||Organisers of the 2022 World Cup in Qatar hope to attract 1.2 million tourists to the Gulf country, an official said, hosting them in traditional hotels and “innovative” accommodation. “We hope that during the World Cup, more than 1.2 million visitors from around the world will attend,” Fatma al-Nuaimi, head of communications at the Supreme Committee that is organising the 2022 tournament, said. Qatar, with a population of approximately 2.75 million, will be the first ever Middle East World Cup host nation between November 21 and December 18 next year. Nuaimi said the Host a Fan initiative will give visitors an opportunity to learn about Qatari culture. “We are a hospitable people, and this will be applied to the World Cup as well,” she said. Some fans and commentators have expressed concerns that the conservative Gulf country may not offer visitors the same experience as past tournaments. Nuaimi said while alcohol was not part of Qatari culture, “alcoholic beverages will be available in designated areas”. Qatar has also faced criticism for its treatment of migrant workers, many of whom are involved in preparations for the World Cup. “We try not to let these criticisms hold us back,” Nuaimi said. Qatar has so far inaugurated five of the eight stadiums that will host the World Cup. The 40,000-seat Al-Thumama stadium, 12 kilometres (7.5 miles) south of central Doha, was the latest to be opened, hosting a domestic cup tie on Friday. Qatar had earlier inaugurated the new-build Ahmad Bin Ali, Al-Janoub and Education City stadiums alongside the refurbished Khalifa ground. Ras Abu Aboud, Al-Bayt and Lusail, which will host the final in 14 months, are yet to be opened. Nuaimi stressed that “98% of the construction was ready, and preparations will be completed by the end of the year”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/qatar-hopes-to-attract-12-million-visitors/article37146107.ece
24 October 2021||Chennai,||Gopi calls for popularising fitness programmes||Ace badminton player and coach Pullela Gopi Chand wants fitness programmes to become a social routine among all age groups. He was speaking at the ‘Physical Literacy Conference 2021: Cultural Connections around the World’, in a Zoom meeting on Saturday. Gopi Chand observed: “Physical activity has always been there in our culture. My great grandfather used to walk 30km every day from our village to attend a court case in the town. Women used to walk long distances to bring water.” He recalled the iconic JRD Tata’s words that a nation doesn’t become great by eradicating poverty alone, but by giving its talented people an opportunity to shine. And, Gopi Chand noted, physical fitness was among the foremost attributes that make a person confident enough to achieve his goals. “It should not be about winning medals alone. It [physical fitness] should become a part of life,” Gopi Chand said. Physical fitness should be an amalgam of mind and body. “They have to be in harmony. You can see that mind-body connect in our ancient dance forms,” he added. Dr. Margaret Whitehead, International Physical Literacy Association (IPLA) founder, said: “Physical efficiency is about attitude. Physical effort with mental health can be rewarding and invigorating with a holistic goal.” Other speakers dwelt on physical activity being enjoyable and not a burden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gopi-chand-stresses-on-physical-fitness/article37146678.ece
24 October 2021||HISAR,||Anamika stuns Sarjubala||World youth medallist Anamika upset former World championships silver medallist S. Sarjubala Devi in a 50kg bout of the National women’s boxing championships here on Saturday. Anamika beat Sarjubala 4-1 to move into the quarterfinals.    Important results (preliminary rounds):   48kg: Laxmi (Del) bt K. Bina Devi (AIP) 4-1, Manju Rani (RSPB) bt Bhabani Barik (Odi) 5-0, Nitu (Har) bt Swasti Arya (Raj) 5-0, Jyotika Bisht (HP) bt Ruby Yadav (Cht) 5-0.   50kg: Anamika (RSPB) bt S. Sarjubala Devi (Man) 4-1, G. Ramya (AP) bt Rinky Kishor (UP) 4-1, Komal (Pun) bt Deepa Kumar (MP) 3-2.   52kg: Minakshi (Har) Ojibala Thounaojam (Man) 5-0, Vanlalduati (AIP) bt Sowmya Avala (AP) RSC-R1, Jyoti (RSPB) bt Eva Waynie Marbaniang (Meg) 5-0, Manju Basumatary (Asm) bt Himani Pant (Utk) 5-0, Nikhat Zareen (Tel) bt Pooja (Del) RSC-R1; 54kg: Shiksha (RSPB) bt Rina Kumari (Bih) RSC-R1, Babyrojisana Chanu (Man) bt Mariyam Ayesha (WB) RSC-R1, Jamuna Boro (Asm) bt Hetal Dama (Guj) RSC-R3, Sonia (UP) bt Tanvi Kaushal (Del) 5-0.   57kg: Radha Patidar (MP) bt Jyoti (Del) 5-0, Sonia Lather (RSPB) bt Roshni Subba (Sik) RSC-R2.   60kg: Simranjit Kaur (Pun) bt Sabiha Khanam (Jha) RSC-R2, Pwilao Basumatary (Asm) bt Rinky Sharma (UP) 5-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anamika-stuns-sarjubala/article37146207.ece
24 October 2021||DUBAI,||‘Finisher’ Hardik gets skipper Kohli’s backing||India captain Virat Kohli backed Hardik Pandya to be the designated finisher at No. 6, stressing that the all-rounder should be able to bowl “at least two overs” later on in the ICC T20 World Cup. “Hardik, presently with his physical condition, is getting better in terms of being prepared to bowl at least two overs for us at a certain stage in the tournament,” said Kohli on Saturday, a day before India’s opener against Pakistan. “Until he starts bowling, we have considered a couple of other options for an over or two. So we are not bothered about it at all,” said Kohli. Citing Hardik’s importance at No. 6, based on his exploits “in Australia purely as a batter” last year, Kohli felt that his utility as a finisher “is way more valuable than forcing him to do something that he is not ready for at the moment.” Kohli expected the surfaces in the UAE to be more batter-friendly than they were in the IPL’s second leg. “I believe that the quality of pitches is definitely going to be far better at the T20 World Cup. Also it being an ICC tournament, we know that the standard of pitches has to be maintained to a certain degree and consistent across venues,” Kohli said. “I understand that to protect the pitches for a tournament like the World Cup, there had to be some kind of compromise in the playing conditions when we played the IPL.” Pakistan skipper Babar Azam exuded confidence in his batting unit. “This time our main strength is batting. The way our batters have been performing over the last couple of months, I am very hopeful that we will produce some good results,” Babar said. He felt that the fact that Pakistan has never beaten India in World Cups — ODIs and T20s — will not have any bearing on Sunday’s contest. “We have forgotten what we have done in the past and we are trying to focus on the future. We will try to do better on the field and produce better results.” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/finisher-hardik-gets-kohlis-backing/article37146213.ece
24 October 2021||Hyderabad:,||Havelock Cruise wins feature event||Trainer D. Netto’s Havelock Cruise (A.A. Vikrant up) won the Dundoo Ekambar Memorial Cup, the main event of the penultimate day’s races here on Saturday (Oct. 23). The winner is owned by Mr. K.S.N. Murthy, Mr. P. Ranga Raju & Mr. C. Nanda Kumar. Trainer D. Netto saddled three winners on the day.  1. VENUS DE MILO PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): WALLOP AND GALLOP (Deepak Singh) 1, Quality Warrior (N.B. Kuldeep) 2, Golden Amaris (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Southern Act (B.R. Kumar) 4. 1-1/4, 4-1/4 and 1/2. 1m, 41.02s. Rs. 102 (w), 15, 24 and 46 (p). SHP: 75, THP: 123, SHW: 24 and 62, FP: 1,242, Q: 513, Tanala: 23,657. Favourite: Aryaman. Owner: Mr. Syed Nawaz Hussain. Trainer: Anant Vatsalya.  Note: In this race, Aryaman broke down near 400m and dislodged the jockey Vikrant, who escaped unhurt.  2. RED INDIAN PLATE (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): NOVEMBER RAIN (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Moringa (Ashad Asbar) 2, Campania (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Greek’s Ace (Ajit Singh) 4. Sh, 1-1/4 and Hd. 1m 54.20s. Rs. 68 (w), 21, 11 and 11 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 49, SHW: 21 and 13, FP: 300, Q: 97, Tanala: 1,406. Favourite: Forever Bond. Owner: Mr. Teja Gollapudi. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  3. VENUS DE MILO PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): BANDIT KING (Ajit Singh) 1, Dream Station (Mukesh Kumar) 2, Special Effort (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Costello (A.A. Vikrant) 4. Not run: Reining Queen. 3/4, Hd and 2-3/4. 1m, 40.27s. Rs. 33 (w), 24, 11 and 21 (p). SHP: 36, THP: 64, SHW: 15 and 35, FP: 88, Q: 42, Tanala: 585. Favourite: Dream Station. Owners: Mr. Prabhakar Chowdari Tripuraneni & Mr. Vadre Vajrender Rao. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  4. K. SRINIVAS REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (1,800m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): MAXIMUM GLAMOUR (A.A. Vikrant) 1, Just Incredible (Mukesh Kumar) 2, Limoncello (R. Ajinkya) 3 and Kesariya Balam (Abhay Singh) 4. 3/4, Nk and Sh. 1m, 53.56s. Rs. 12 (w), 10, 22 and 13 (p). SHP: 60, THP: 26, SHW: 10 and 28, FP: 104, Q: 59, Tanala: 226. Favourite: Maximum Glamour. Owners: Mr. Donal Anthony Netto, Mr. Veeramachaneni Bharat & Mr. Srikanth Badruka. Trainer: D. Netto.  5. BE MY GUEST PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): AERIAL COMBAT (Abhay Singh) 1, General Atlantic (B. Nikhil) 2, California Beauty (G. Naresh) 3 and Unmatched (Md. Ismail) 4. Not run: Sandown Park and Blazing Jupiter. 2-3/4, 5-1/4 and 2. 1m, 12.98s. Rs. 51 (w), 17, 13 and 28 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 65, SHW: 22 and 16, FP: 61, Q: 167, Tanala: 2,093. Favourite: General Atlantic. Owner: Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta. Trainer: R. H. Sequeira.  6. BE MY GUEST PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): BEAUTY ON PARADE (Deepak Singh) 1, Curcumin (R. Ajinkya) 2, Nearest (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Stunning Force (Mukesh Kumar) 4. 4, 3/4 and 2. 1m, 13.50s. Rs. 58 (w), 16, 35 and 16 (p). SHP: 144, THP: 34, SHW: 19 and 43 (p). FP: 1,551, Q: 769, Tanala: 4,997. Favourite: Lifes Song. Owners: Mr. Prakash Babu, Mr. K. Rama Krishna & Mr. Shailendra Singh. Trainer: D. Netto.  7. DUNDOO EKAMBAR MEMORIAL CUP (1,600m), rated 80 and above (Cat. I): HAVELOCK CRUISE (A.A. Vikrant) 1, N R I Valley (Abhay Singh) 2, Skipton (S.S. Tanwar) 3 and Premier Action (Mukesh Kumar) 4. 1-1/4, 2 and 1. 1m, 38.99s. Rs. 136 (w), 20, 11 and 16 (p). SHP: 30, THP: 45, SHW: 42 and 21, FP: 552, Q: 231, Tanala: 2,099. Favourite: Lightning Bolt. Owners: Mr. K.S.N. Murthy, Mr. P. Ranga Raju & Mr. C. Nanda Kumar. Trainer: D. Netto.  8. SOLARIO PLATE (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): ELMIRA (Afroz Khan) 1, Flamingo Fame (Santosh Raj) 2, Thunder Road (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and Sea Wolf (Ajit Singh) 4. 1, 2 and 2. 1m, 14.87s. Rs. 253 (w), 59, 21 and 11 (p). SHP: 54, THP: 67, SHW: 132 and 19, FP: 2,145, Q: 917, Tanala: 6,229. Favourite: Flamingo Fame. Owner:Mr. M. Ramakrishna Reddy. Trainer: L. D’ Silva. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 2,07,233 (c/o) & 30%: 7,401 (12 tkts.); Treble: (i) 6,255 (5 tkts.), (ii) 466 (42 tkts.), (iii) 23, 436 (2 tkts.); Mini Jackpot: (i) 24,754 (1 tkt), (ii) 34, 407 (c/o).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/havelock-cruise-wins-feature-event/article37146641.ece
24 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vishnu, Siddharth move into final qualifying round||Former champions Vishnu Vardhan and Siddharth Vishwakarma sailed into the third and final qualifying round of the Fenesta National tennis championships at the DLTA Complex on Saturday. Vishnu dropped six games in two rounds and Siddharth four games.  The results (second qualifying round): Men: Faisal Qamar bt Shivam Dalmia 9-4; Parav Garg bt Abhishek Gaur 9-7; Ajay Malik bt Neel Garud 9-2; Vishnu Vardhan bt Sushant Dabas 9-3; Boopathy Sakthivel bt Ricky Sehrawat 9-2; Siddharth Arya bt Mohit Bhardwaj 9-2; Lohith Bathrinath bt Rudra Bhatt 9-5; Siddharth Vishwakarma bt Sivadeep Kosaraju 9-1; Madhwin Kamath bt Amrutjay Mohanty 9-6; Jagmeet Singh bt Yuvraj Chaudhary 9-5.   Women: Shruti Ahlawat bt Vanshika Choudhary 9-1; Anjali Rathi bt Sachi Sharma 9-5; Priyanshi Bhandari bt Avishka Gupta 9-8(5); Lakshmi Gowda bt Anusha Kondaveeti 9-2; Sonashe Bhatnagar bt Isha Budwal 9-2; Farhat Aleen Qamar bt Ananya Yadav 9-1; Radhika Yadav bt Kriti Tomar 9-4; Shefali Arora bt Charanya Sreekrishnan 9-7; Sudipta Senthil Kumar bt Medhavi Singh 9-1; Ishwari Matere bt Himaanshika 9-5; Vanshita Pathania bt Riya Uboveja 9-5; Nandini Dixit bt Dakshata Patel 9-7; Niyati Kukreti bt Deepalakshmi Vanaraja 9-3; S. Srinidhi bt Steisha Buddhala 9-3; Sharmada Balu bt Kavya Khirwar 9-4; Kiran Kalkal bt Renee Singh 9-6 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vishnu-siddharth-move-into-final-qualifying-round/article37146742.ece
24 October 2021||New Delhi,||Jena tops list of qualifiers||A change of schedule released as late as 90 minutes from Saturday’s event robbed the first day of National javelin championship of the two finals originally planned. Hence, only the qualifying rounds in men, boys’ under-18 and under-16 were held. After the qualifying rounds, 12 men headed by Odisha’s Kishore Kumar Jena who came up with the day’s best throw of 70.96 metres, made it to the final. In the boys’ u-18, Rahul Yadav showed the way with an attempt of 65.30 metres. In boys’ u-16, Arjun (62.19) topped the qualifiers’ list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jena-tops-list-of-qualifiers/article37146685.ece
24 October 2021||London,||Salah tells Liverpool he wants to stay||Mohamed Salah has told Liverpool he wants to stay for the rest of his career, but insisted the success of his contract negotiations with the club “doesn’t depend on me”. Salah’s current contract expires in 2023 and Liverpool is trying to finalise a new long-term deal. The 29-year-old has so far been unable to come to terms with the Reds amid reports he wants wages that would make him one of the Premier League’s top earners. That has sparked fears that Salah will leave Anfield eventually. But, on the eve of Liverpool’s clash with Manchester United on Sunday, Salah put the ball in his club’s court as he said he would stay forever, given the chance. It doesn’t depend on me, but if you asked me I would love to stay until the last day of my football career,” Salah told Sky Sports on Friday. “But I can’t say much about that, it’s not in my hands. It depends on what the club wants. It doesn’t depend on me. “At the moment, I can’t see myself ever playing against Liverpool. That would make me sad.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/salah-tells-liverpool-he-wants-to-stay/article37146111.ece
24 October 2021||Dubai,||Stern Oman test awaits India||India will take on a strong Oman side in the first match of its qualifying campaign for the AFC U-23 Asian Cup football here on Sunday. “The next three matches provide a chance to the youngsters to gain some experience and gauge where they stand against their generation of stronger sides like Oman, UAE, and Kyrgyz Republic,” Stimac said at a press conference on Saturday. “We don’t have huge expectations. We hope everyone will give their best. That’s what I am asking from the players,” Stimac said. “At this moment, it’s difficult to say how we will fare against stronger sides who are prepared more than us for this leg. But I also hope we can surprise some. We will look for our chances.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stern-oman-test-awaits-india/article37146097.ece
24 October 2021||Guayaquil (Ecuador),||Olympic sprinter shot dead||Ecuadorian sprinter Alex Quinonez was fatally shot in the city of Guayaquil, police said on Saturday. Quinonez, who was 32, became a national hero in 2012 when he reached the 200m final at the London Games, finishing seventh in a race won by Usain Bolt. Guayaquil-based newspaper El Universo reported that Quinonez was shot on a street around 9.20 p.m. on Friday and that another man was also killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-sprinter-shot-dead/article37146208.ece
24 October 2021||MONASTIR (TUNISIA),||Jennifer claws back in style||Jennifer Luikham survived two match points to beat Mara Guth of Germany 1-6, 6-4, 7-5 in the semifinals of the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament on Saturday. The Indian was down 2-5 in the decider and faced two match points on the German’s serve in the ninth game before fighting back.  Other results:   $15,000 ITF men, Doha: Doubles (semifinals): Simon Freund (Swe) & Niklas Schell (Ger) bt Shashank Theertha & Tushar Madan 6-2, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Doubles (semifinals): Viktor Jovic (Srb) & Aziz Ouakaa (Tun) bt Niki Poonacha & Sidharth Rawat 4-6, 6-1, [11-9].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jennifer-claws-back-in-style/article37146638.ece
24 October 2021||KOLKATA,||CRPF beats CCSCSB||Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) beat Central Civil Services Cultural and Sports Board (CCSCSB) 5-2 in the National women’s inter-department hockey championships on Saturday.  The results: SAI bt Defence Sports Control Board 30-0; Steel Plants Sports Board bt UCO Bank WHA 9-2; CRPF bt CCSCSB 5-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/crpf-beats-ccscsb/article37146741.ece
24 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Rajasthan United earns I-League spot||Rajasthan United qualified for the I-League for the first time after a goalless draw with Kenkre FC in the last qualification match here on Saturday. Rajasthan topped the table with seven points from three matches.  Other result: Delhi FC 6 (Nikhil Mali 2, Gagandeep Bali 2, Sergio Barboza, Anwar Ali) bt Madan Maharaj FC 0 . PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajasthan-united-earns-i-league-spot/article37146635.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 07:19 IST,||Sudoku — October 24, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-24-2021/article37147156.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sand as ‘soap’||Mannequins for sand-bathing — bee eaters may walk away with that title without a contest, where humans handle the adjudication. A majority of us, particularly those who let birdwatching happen to them and hardly stir far from their lodgings and seek out birds, are prone to making that judgement. The bee eater — and in our patches, the green bee-eater — is only a more visible symbol of a behaviour that runs in many other species. Recently, on the earthern passage leading to Adyar estuary, with the boundary of the Theosophical Society rearing up on one side in a tall wall, an Eurasian hoopoe seemed to make this point, suddenly pausing from an afternoon feeding binge. Call it what you will, a coincidence or a case of one-upmanship, the hoopoe stopped tapping the ground for insects, and engaged in a sand-bathing ritual, the highlight being that a green bee-eater had done a wriggle in the sands, only a few feet away and a few seconds earlier. Away from the anthropomorphic lens that draws poetic but senseless inference of one-upmanship from a regular functional bird behaviour, it could be enlightening and fascinating to ask and explore the question: Why do birds have sand-baths? And possibly another too: Why do some have sand baths, while others don’t? Ornithologist V Santharam observes: “Preen glands are essentially for oiling feathers. Mud baths are for dealing with parasites. Preen glands may to some extent help deal with ectoparasites . But these birds that take mud baths do it more for getting rid of ectoparasites.” On the other question, he points out that one notices a good number of hole-nesting species engaging in this cleansing ritual. Santharam believes being hole-nesting birds may have something to do with this behaviour, possibly because the their ectoparasite load could be higher. The fact that hoopoes, the hornbills and bee-eaters are inveterate sand-bathers provides strong scaffolding for this thought. On why a good number of birds do not view sand as a means to rid themselves of free-loaders, there obviously cannot be an answer compact enough to packed into one sentence, short and smart. Santharam notes that in some bird species, there could be other behaviours that may adequately compensate for the absence of this behaviour. “In birds species that form social flocks and allopreen — the yellow-billed babbler being a classic example — the presence of the social group will take care of the ectoparasites.” He also remarks how “anting” is for some bird species a way to try to be free of ectoparasites. By crushing certain types of ants picked up with their bills and rubbing the formic acid generated in this manner against their bodies, these birds seem to make short work of ectoparasites.  (Field Notes is a weekly column about the resident and migratory birds of Chennai)   Preen glands are essentially for oiling feathers. Mud baths are for dealing with parasites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sand-as-soap/article37146394.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An eWaste drive with a local address||The two-day eWaste and old clothes collection drive at Manapakkam (October 23-24) was roughed in at informal chats, largely on WhatsApp, between parents. Before SARS-COV-2 got the universe to socialise hunched over laptops and thumbing on mobiles, these parents would meet while dropping and picking up their children at school. A year ago, the friendship forged through brief corridor conversations and online chats led them to form a loosely structured group, Friends of Manapakkam. It was decided the group would volunteer for activities for the locality’s betterment, primarily in solid waste management. However, while the destination was marked, the ticket for the ride was missing. To put it plainly, they did not have a crystallised idea of how to go about their self-imposed goal. While hanging hopelessly in that space between resolution and action, one of them, Abitha went to an eWaste collection drive in Adyar, initiated in March this year by Residents of Kasturba Nagar Association (ROKA). While she emptied her bag crammed with electronic discards, a workable idea popped right into that bag and she took it to Manapakkam. When the other members of the group heard what it was, the ball was set rolling. “My son is studying at Lalaji Memorial Omega International School in Kolappakam, and I have made many friends from the school. These are also mothers of students at the schooI — Radhika, Deepa and Anandhi — and we are basically interested in solid waste management and the three Rs philosophy. When I attended the ROKA eWaste drive, a thought struck me. Not many people would want to travel far to drop their eWaste and any other recyclable waste such as old clothes. These days people do not mind spending money, but they do mind how their time is spent. So, having a drive primarily targeting people within a two to three kilometre radius, but keeping it open for anyone from anywhere seemed like a great idea.” When Abitha contacted Janani Venkitesh, Secretary of ROKA, seeking the Adyar group's guidance in organising a similar drive in Manapakkam, the response was hugely encouraging. “Their thinking was aligned with ROKA’s. We want more volunteers and communities across neighbourhoods to conduct ewaste collection drives locally and they should not primarily depend on ROKA to conduct drives. So, we agreed to help out,” recalls Janani. The help included getting the seal of approval and support, which includes finding a venue, from local Greater Chennai Corporation officials. The process after the collection is crucial and laborious as the assortment of collected waste should be separated and sent to the right recyclers. It is one of the areas where the ROKA eWaste drives have shown application and system. “Soon thereafter, I and Saranya, another ROKA volunteer met them, and it was almost finalised that it would happen in April.” But the Coronavirus had other plans. The ravaging second wave wiped out every thought of an eWaste drive. “Around the second wave, we had had only the first dose and we thought it prudent to have the eWaste drive later,” recalls Abitha. Going through the entire process again, which includes meeting local GCC officials, the event is now being organised at . Abitha believes even if 10 p.c. of the population participates in the drive, the objective would be met. Ten percent should amount to quite a number of residents. The population consists of many domiciliaries drawn to the locality for the schools the locality counts, as also for the quick access it provides to some IT parks. Going by an observation from Abitha, one tinged with obvious hyperbole, Manapakkam and its surroundings are an oversized school zone that pretends to be a locality. In truth, the locality cannot be pigeonholed into a pat, uni-dimensional category — that of course goes for any locality “There are many schools, and it is also an IT area,” remarks Abitha after some thought, and is hopeful that many residents would warm up to the eWaste initiative. Alagu Karthikeyan, who recently shifted to Manapakkam from Second Main Road in Kasturba Nagar where she was a ROKA volunteer, notes that the presence of many gated communities in Manapakkam makes it easier for the eWaste campaign to reach people. “One just has to get in touch with the committee members and they would take it forward.” The people who are inviting themselves to the party are what makes the heart glow with resplendent happiness. “We are using every avenue possible to spread the word about the event. They are getting calls from. Sowcarpet and Anna Nagar. When they receive calls from residents for far-flung areas, they are excited and I can relate to that. We went through same excitement when our drives evoked such responses,” observes Janani, adding that she, Saranya and two other ROKA volunteers would be in attendance during the two days to smoothen any possible wrinkles in the process. Says Abitha, “Now, we are reassuring others who are interested in having an eWaste drive in their neighbourhoods that they can count on our support. I got a call from a resident from Kattankulathur: I told them that if they started something, we would be there for them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-ewaste-drive-with-a-local-address/article37146440.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Back from the brink||Prasanna Karthik sews up a recollection of two medical crises with how he recovered from both, not just by pills, surgical threads and plates, but also wafer-thin carbon wheels. Prasanna, who suffered a cardiac arrest on December 30, 2012, snuffed out 43 candles on his birthday cake this week, on October 19 — so, imagine the shock the medical event nine years ago would have brought to his kith and kin. Prasanna would ensure their eyebrows went further up, the brows furrowed this time with pleasant surprise. Post-recovery, he took to running and shed 22 kilogrammes but an almost equal amount of flab remained before he finally achieved a healthy BMI. In 2014, acting on a friend’s suggestion, he jumped into cycling for heart health. It however went beyond the natural blood-pumping machine and captured his whole being, soul and sprit added for good measure, and made an endurance cyclist out of him, not to mention a “fitness trainer”. Absorbed in randonneuring, he would go on to win four senior-randonneuring (SR) titles (for an SR title, one has to complete 200, 300, 400 and 600 km Brevet de Randonneur Mondiaux or BRMs in one year). He capped off the 2019 season with participation in the 1200-km Paris-Brest-Paris brevet, which happens once in four years. Besides, he has done one Les Ranonneus Mondiaux (LRM), a 1,000 km ride. “Considering what I had gone through and recovered from, some people started looking up to me. As I did not want what had happened to me happen to them, I started getting familiar with diets and workouts.” The consultations on diets and workouts come gratis . Prasanna explains: “The training helps me enhance my knowledge about diets and workouts. I spend quality time on them learning about all these things.” It is essentially about sharing with others how he undid the effects of unhealthy eating and working behaviours. “When I had the cardiac arrest, I was into lifting weights, but not cardio. I was leading a sedentary life, and knew nothing about healthy diets. And the stress of running a business also took a toll on my heart,” says this Velachery resident. Prasanna admits he is not a certified nutritionist, but having shed around 42 kg twice — after the cardiac event and later, following an accident that rendered him hors de combat for months on end — “I do know how the body reacts to various diets”. Besides voracious reading about these twin subjects, he wrangled enough time from his property development business for a kettlebell certification programme, which helps him while writing out workout regimens for his friends. Around three years after the cardiac arrest and his transformation into an endurance cyclist, an accident set him back significantly and he had to start afresh almost from square one. It was a cycling accident that happened while riding the cycle downhill, and the brakes gave way. “I broke my wrist — it collapsed completely. I broke my collar bone. I was out of action for six months. A plate had been put in my shoulder and another in my wrist, and during my recovery period, I was not able to hold the handlebar. I had also put on considerable weight.” He repeated the cycle of recovery and restoration and transformation, losing over 40 kg again. When he returned to his business he was faced with paucity of time, and was forced to cut down on the time he could devote to guide others. Prasanna now focusses only on helping people on diets. “Currently, I am guiding six people with diets.” When it comes to workouts, he helps others with basic techniques such as posture correction. He points out that he would somehow create time for volunteering at randonnering events. A member of Madras Randonneurs, he is part of the ride responsibility. Though volunteering takes much out of him as it requires him to keep shuffling between control points — “Volunteering is more taxing than riding” — it does puts enough back in him, in terms of fulfilment, for him to continue with it.  I broke my wrist — it collapsed completely. I broke my collar bone. My brakes had given way. I was out of action for six months. A plate had been put in my shoulder and another in my wrist, and during my recovery, I was not able to hold the handlebar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/back-from-the-brink/article37146419.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweeter Deepavali||Software engineer Raghava Simha has set himself a target this Deepavali — making the festival somewhat memorable for 3,000 underprivileged children. As part of the festive season, he is running a campaign called Kanna Sweet Donate Panna Aasaya under which underprivileged children will be gifted with sweets. This campaign ends on October 30.  Kanna Sweet Donate Panna Aasaya  is one of the campaigns at “iGiver.org,” launched by Ragava Simha during the first wave of the pandemic. “iGiver.org is an online platform that I and my team have developed. It connects donors and non-governmental organisations. Donors can make donations in kind to these organisations through commercial establishments listed in iGiver.org,” says Raghava who runs his own software company called Lokas AWS Technologies Private Limited. For the Deepavali sweets campaign, the software engineer has roped in Winners Bakery. “Priced at Rs. 60, each sweet box contains a cake and some cookies. The response is encouraging. So far, 50 people have donated towards this cause. Some have made a donation that would help 300 children, and a few have taken care of 100, 50, 20, 10 and some five. So far, the campaign has reached out to 1,733 children living in care homes across Chennai,” says Raghava, a resident of Perambur. The commercial establishments listed in iGiver.org are: groceries stores Ambika Appalam Depot and Lokesh Provision & Oil Store; fruits and vegetables store Organic Farmers Market, sweets and snacks shops Svadishtana and Winners Bakery, book stores Amar Chitra Katha, Sixth Sense and Pratham Books, stationery store Sri Balaji Enterprises. Besides, iGiver.org has partnered with Inspire Minds where the latter sells gameboards. The games listed in iGiver.org aims to instill healthy food habits in children. Further there is something for donors who are interested in helping people with special needs, for which iGiver.org has tied up with Avaz inc which offers technology-based assistance for people with special needs. “I had worked with many non-governmental organisations. So, when the pandemic broke out last March and when the first nationwide lockdown was effected, many NGOs approached me for support. I also reached out to my relatives and friends to extend help to the needy and they sent me money. Last year, we were feeding the poor including the migrant labourers and distributed groceries. That is when the idea to start a digital platform that would directly connect donors and NGOs occurred to me and donations will be only in-kind and not money, and for which we had to tie up with commercial establishments. Hence the iGiver.org initiative. But, we charge an amount from the commercial establishments. Because, this platform brings the commercial establishments some business. If commercial establishments give anything for free, we will also not charge them. We need this money to sustain the initiative. Maintaining this website will entail some expenditure and this money will be put to that use. We also welcome products made by non-governmental organisations working with people with special needs.” Raghava Simha, a resident of Perambur, can be reached at 72000 11175.  “Last year, we were feeding the poor including the migrant labourers, and distributed groceries”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sweeter-deepavali/article37146424.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An extended role||A Chennai-based support group of parents of children with intellectual disabilities has embarked on a new journey – ensuring employment opportunities for the children. Towards creating an inclusive workplace, VOICE (Voice of Parents for Inclusion, Care and Empowerment of Children With Special Needs) is facilitating employment for the differently-abled, parents of such young adults and able-bodied individuals. KNSOFT Technologies, a Hyderabad-based startup, is the first company that has associated with VOICE to offer work from home opportunities for more than 80 people, which includes 10 neuro-diverse individuals, 20 special moms, and the remaining being individuals in need. Mano Rajini, one of the admins in VOICE, says they floated this opportunity in the various WhatsApp groups, inviting people to join. “There are quotas for the differently-abled but we noticed that without support they do not meet the expectations of the employer. Many a time, a differently-abled individual feels isolated in a new environment, so here we have special moms and volunteers helping us integrate the special adult, as in a buddy system,” says Rajini. She says volunteers are the backbone of this initiative. “They could be college students, homemakers or retired people who would lend support and earn a salary in the process,” says Rajini. Projects in data entry has many takers. Another project in the pipeline include GIS Mapping in Google Maps. Dasaradh Kosana, CEO, KNSOFT Technologies, says they started working with special adults since August and plan to scale it up depending on how many new gigs they get. “On October 24, we are opening a branch office in Chennai so that those on our rolls will be free to work from our space if they wish to,” says Dasaradh. He says they are still streamlining various process and those working on any project will be paid salaries based on their output. “Instructions on what needs to be done is carried out mainly with volunteers’ support. We also have a quality team that checks the completed work,” he says. Dasaradh says the pandemic has made it possible for people to explore remote work and the differently-abled are sure to benefit from the arrangement if they receive some support. Mangai Alwar and Santhiya Sundar, mothers of children on the spectrum, say that one of the main challenges that special needs adults face is having difficulty in socialising and understanding instructions. “My son, Rohan, has mood swings and needs some help from me; this work from home opportunity allows him to work at his own pace and time without much pressure,” says Santhiya. Rohan has been working for the last two months and is paid based on the “number of files” he completes. Mangai’s son has been finding his feet by running a web designing website. “But sometimes he has difficulty the logic behind certain processes and that is where I pitch in,” says Mangai. Rakshakanathan A N, a final-year undergraduate student and a member of the team, applied for the job to supplement his family income after his mother lost her job. “I work four hours a day and pitch in when others seek help,” he says. Voice started with 10 parents and has grown to nearly 1,000.   The pandemic has made it possible for people to explore remote work and the differently-abled are sure to benefit from the arrangement if they receive some support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-extended-role/article37146430.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Helpline numbers to attend to Deepavali rush||In view of Deepavali, the State Transport Department will ply special long-distance buses from six bus terminuses in Chennai on November 1, 2 and 3. More than 3,000 special buses will be operated. The buses will be operated from Madhavaram New bus terminus, Kalaignar Karunanidhi Nagar Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) bus terminus, Tambaram Sanatorium Arignar Anna Madras Export Processing Zone (MEPZ) bus terminus, Tambaram Railway Station (West) bus terminus, Poonamallee bus terminus and MGR bus terminus at Koyambedu.   Appeal to the public  Buses with reservations have been advised to operate from MGR bus terminus, Koyambedu and proceed through Poonamallee, Nazarethpettai, Outer Ring Road and Vandalur to Urapakkam bus terminus. Those who have gone in for reservations to board buses from Tambaram and Perungalathur bus terminuses have been requested to board from Urapakkam bus terminus. People travelling by the private mode of transport have been requested to travel either via the Thirukazhukundram - Chengalpattu route or Sriperumbudur - Chengalpattu route to avoid traffic congestion in the Grand Southern Trunk Road Tambaram and Perungalathur regions.  Reservation counters  A total of 10 reservation counters will be set up on the premises of MGR bus terminus, Koyambedu; and two at MEPZ bus terminus. The public can also book the tickets online through www.tnstc.in, www.redbus.in, www.paytm.com and www.busindia.com and on the official app of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation.   Helpline numbers  To know about bus routes and register complaints regarding services, public can contact the following numbers - 94450 14450, and 94450 14436. Twenty ‘May I Help You’ booths will be set up in the terminuses. For registering complaints against fleecing omni bus operators, public can call 044 24749002/ toll-free number 1800 425 6151.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/helpline-numbers-to-attend-to-deepavali-rush/article37146416.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Creativity and cause||Ranganayaki A, 82 years old, will be stepping out of her house in Santhome to showcase her intricate bead embroidery work at a Deepavali exhibition-cum-sale. She would be among 12 other home-based entrepreneurs, who will also display their creations at CP Art Centre, Alwarpet on October 25 and 26 in an event organised by Vanaja Sree Enterprises. Each of these women have an inspiring story about how they turned their passion into business so that they could be financially-independent and how they made the necessary adaptations to deal with the challenges posed by the pandemic. To beat loneliness after the death of her husband in 1992, Ranganayaki took to bead embroidery, with the basics of it that she had picked up during an overseas tour. In recent times, she has been honing her skills through tutorials on YouTube and magazines. “I did not participate in any outdoor exhibitions since the pandemic began last year, instead I kept adding to my collection. Now that I am vaccinated it gives me more confidence to step out,” says the octogenarian who will be showcasing her works that can be worn as choker, bangle and stitched on clothes. Recently, Ranganayaki, a member of Inner Wheel Club, took part in Tulip Bazaar that was held online. “There is a different joy in seeing a customer face-to-face and receive their feedback about your work; it gives me more design ideas too,” she says. For organiser Vanaja Ramanathan, the sale also means contributing a part of the collection to charity. The cuttings for the petticoats and nighties that she sells are done by her, following which it is outsourced to women from the slum clearance board in Ashok Nagar who stitch them. “I have been doing this for more than 20 years and helping underprivileged women earn some money,” says Vanaja. Her enterprise has a database of 200 women entrepreneurs and every time Vanaja plans an exhibition she announces it in the group. “Pandemic was a tough time for us, but many of us have found new ways to do business. We have been setting up stalls at gated communities, the most recent one being at Majestic Park in Virugambakkam,” says Vanaja. Last year, Jayalakshmi P from KK Nagar took up a space in front of her house to put up a shop selling homemade snacks like vadams and pickles. “I was not lucky as there were two other outlets on my street, so I am pinning my hopes on this sale at the CP Art Centre that has been lucky for me in the past,” says Jayalakshmi. She says her family subsists on her income and for the hardwork she puts in preparing these items people must shop from her. “ Athirasam is a Deepavali special and I am selling the batter,” she says. Jute bags to bedspreads from Karur, each of the stalls show how women are trying hard to find their feet amidst the pandemic. Educating the girl child Sowmya Silks is organising a sale of a wide range of saris and salwars at another venue at CP Art Centre through which the enterprise hopes to meet two needs. Sowmya V, who runs the unit, says they are helping the weavers in Kancheepuram who are left with much unsold stock due to the pandemic. “A small part of the proceeds from the sale also goes toward educating the girl child,” says Sowmya. The initiative has been running for 15 years where half-a-dozen girls are chosen to meet their educational expense. “We started this with our staff’s child and since then we have been increasing the number of beneficiaries who are chosen by word-of-mouth,” says Sowmya.  The cuttings for the petticoats and nighties that she sells are done by her. The stitching is done by women from the slum clearance board||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creativity-and-cause/article37146428.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Water wise||Whenever the monsoon is close at hand, rainwater harvesting pitter-patters into the spotlight. Where no rainwater harvesting installation exists, a rude goad can be expected. Where an RWH structure does exist, a possible laurel can be won. Jains Pebble Brook, a gated community in Thoraipakkam, has received laurels for its rainwater harvesting installations and the results it has achieved with them. VR Chennai, a mall in Anna Nagar, received accolades for theirs in the category for commercial establishments. The winners were announced at virtual concalve organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) on October 21. The Municipal Administration and Water Supply (MAWS) department in coordination with Chennai Metro Water and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) had maked these two for the top honour in their categories under “Rainwater Harvesting Implementation”. CMWSSB had vetted the various entries and passed on its observations to MAWS to make the selection, a CMWSSB source familiar with the exercise disclosed. An official from the main CMWSSB office remarks that VR Chennai harvests rainwater optimally through a system of recharge wells and pits and what makes their water management commendable, even somewhat singular, is the total lack of dependence on groundwater. “They have not sunk any borewells on their premises. They buy water from tankers, and during the rainy reason, they meet a good part of their water needs by efficiently harvesting rainwater,” the Metro Water official adds. Jains Pebble Brook stood out in the residential-units category. From each of the 15 CMWSSB Areas, details about the pick of the rainwater harvesting systems had to be sent to the main office. Jains Pebble Brook made it from Area 15. On what makes this gated community’s rainwater conservation effort remarkable, a local CMWSSB official shares this observation: “Generally, all RWAs would have done RWH installations at the time of construction, but would be lax in maintaining the facility and it would become defunct. This RWA has been consistently maintaining the RWH installations they had done for four blocks. The water they take out they use with conventional filter and recycle the used water. Besides, they also have a modular STP in place.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/water-wise/article37146413.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||From patient to promoter||For some years now, the Deepavali season brings a rare memory to this family in West Mambalam. Two members in the family fought cancer and are now leading a normal life, thanks to a 16-year-old’s gentle nudge that got the elders at home to undergo a cancer screening camp at her school. The diagnosis happened around Deepavali time in 2014. The management of Jaigopal Garodia Hindu Vidyalaya Secondary School had organised a breast cancer screening camp for its teachers and support staff on the campus. A mobile cancer screening clinic of Penn Nalam, a unit of Sri Dhanvantri Trust, had wheeled in. The mobile clinic was parked in the school and the team had told the students to ask their elders at home to avail this facility. “My daughter, who was in class XII, asked me to attend the camp without knowing that I was experiencing some abnormality in my breast,” says S. Nalini. In her late 30s then, Nalini decided to attend the camp and also take her mother and sister-in-law along with her. “The basic tests were done and we were told if we did not get a call after Deepavali then everything was fine,” says Nalini, who left with her fingers crossed. As luck would have it, Nalini was called to the Penn Nalam office and explained about the diagnosis and further treatment. “It came as a shock; the doctors had diagonised stage 3 cancer for me and also for my mom who was in her 60s,” says Nalini. The family was devastated but was determined to give the two of them hope and all the moral support they would need through every stage of the treatment. Nalini’s treatment put her daughter under immense stress. “I still remember that on March 31 I had a surgery and my daughter had to take her mathematics Board examination,” she says. Her father’s advice was: “No one should point out that you got less marks because of your mother’s treatment.” The treatment at a private hospital included radiation and chemotherapy that went on for more than a year. Nalini says cancer has given her strength to believe in herself. “The support and encouragement I got from my family helped me emotionally and physically,” she says. She is now one of Penn Nalam’s fiercest campaigners, telling people how she fought the disease and instilling a sense of hope in those treading the same path. She creates awareness about the necessity of regular screenings. “I do not shy away from telling my story whenever I am invited by Penn Nalam and I go for screening every year,” she says. At an event organised at the Income Tax office, Nalini shared the stage with actor and cancer survivor Gautami. Her advice to women: “If you are close to 40 and above make sure you look out for the warning signs. Early detection and diagnosis is the only way to fight cancer and that is how I am alive.” Radhika Santhanakrishnan, founder Penn Nalam, says survivors like Nalini are brand ambassadors for us. They help us reach out to our target group faster.    Early detection is the only way to fight cancer and it’s because of that I am alive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-patient-to-promoter/article37146421.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Merge us with GCC’||The Confederation of Ayyappanthangal Residents Welfare Associations has made a representation to the Additional Chief Secretary to the Government, Municipal Administration & Water Supply Department last week seeking the inclusion of Ayyappanthangal Village Panchayat in Greater Chennai Corporation. This request follows a recent Government Order that proposes to upgrade the Mangadu Town Panchayat to Mangadu Municipality and include Ayyappanthangal and surrounding villages in it. Ayyappanthangal Panchayat is situated in Kundrathur Panchayat Union in Kancheepuram District. “Ayyappanthagal shares its border with Karambakkam (which is part of the Greater Chennai Corporation) but not with Mangadu. Ayyappanthagal and Mangadu are approximately five kilometres apart,” says P. Senthil Kumar, coordinator of the Confederation. “Over the years, the population has increased manifold in Ayyappanthangal Village Panchayat. At present, the population density of Ayyappanthangal is around 2,000 people per square km. Though classified as “Village Panchayat,” Ayyappanthangal is highly urbanised. It has gated communities and multi-storied buildings. Comparatively, Mangadu in spite of being a Town Pachayat is not as urbanised as Ayyappanthangal.” says Senthil Kumar. Besides the representation to the Municipal Administration & Water Supply Department, the Confederation of Ayyappanthangal Residents Welfare Associations has also initiated a signature campaign. So far, 500 residents have signed and expressed support for the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/merge-us-with-gcc/article37146435.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Manapakkam residents launch waste management initiative||Friends of Manapakkam (a group of volunteers from that locality) in association with Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is conducting a drive to collect old torn clothes, footwear, mattress and eWaste on October 23 and October 24 (from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on both days) at the Government middle school in Manapakkam. The aim of the drive is to responsibly divert the clothes, footwear and eWaste to authorised recyclers, notes a press release. The collected, old wornout clothes including those that are usable will be handed over to Porur-based Little Drops, a home for the old destitute and mentally challenged people. The unusable clothes would be made as diapers or mats or pillows and used in the home for people needs. Old unusable footwear, mattresses pillows and eWaste will be taken by the Greater Chennai Corporation’s empaneled aggregator and recyclers World Scrap Recycling Solutions and Wastewinn . The drive will be held on October 23 and 24 th Sunday at Government Middle School ,Manapakkam from 10.00 am to 4 pm. For more details, call 6374050127 or whatsapp 9444891902.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/manapakkam-residents-launch-waste-management-initiative/article37146437.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Kolu Kondattam 2021 draws huge participation||The Hindu Kolu Kondattam 2021 which got under way alongside Navaratri celebrations, encouraged participants to come up with innovative Kolu displays. Spread across Chennai, Madurai, Trichy and Coimbatore, the contest evoked an enthusiastic response and was marked by huge participation in all the four cities. Based on a variety of criteria, three winners were picked from each city. Padmavati Raman from Alwarpet walked away with the first place while Kala Nagarajan from Ambattur finished runner-up; and the third place went to Vaishnavi Arul from Adyar. Thanks to our sponsors, an event of this magnitude was possible. Here is the list of sponsors. nThe event was sponsored bytitle sponsor Vidiem Kitchen Appliances.nIt was powered by Mangaldeep. nThe event was organised in association with Naga Food Products. nSSVM Institutions was the education partner; nNippon Paint the colour partner;nSaraswathi Vidyalaya the school partner; nKancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks & Freshey’s were the associate sponsors. nGift sponsors were Aachi Masala; Cotton House; G Organics; Estilo Clothing; Saaral Foods; PS Tamarind; RCL Foods; Selai Nayaki; Supreme Furniture. nThe TV Partner was News18 Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kolu-kondattam-2021-draws-huge-participation/article37146407.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Breast cancer screening camp||As October is observed as Breast Cancer Awareness Month, Dr. Kamakshi Memorial Hospitals is conducting a breast cancer screening camp along with an awareness session. The camps are conducted in the hospital’s branches in Pallikaranai, Medavakkam, Adyar and Pallavaram. Time: From 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. According to a press release, the test will be conducted at a cost of Rs.499 including a consultation with a physician and a breast ultrasound. Any further investigative procedure prescribed will be done at a 30 per cent discount, adds the release. For details call 8939900500 / 044-66300300||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/breast-cancer-screening-camp/article37146408.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Cancer care for men||This June, Aan Nalam, a unit of Penn Nalam Hospital, was opened to focus on diseases pertaining to oncology common among men. “Lions Club of Madras North has given us a building at Nerkundram, where we offer cancer screening and other treatments at a subsidised rate,” says Radhika Santhanakrishnan, founder Penn Nalam. Radhika says that both Penn Nalam and Aan Nalam devotes nearly 30% of its clinical time for cancer awareness programmes. Poor awareness about the disease and the absence of screening programmes are a few reasons why cancer is diagonised at a very advanced stage. “At an anganwadi in Thiruvottiyur, we were invited to screen all the ayyas and the tests were sponsored by a foreign donor,” says Radhika. Its mobile unit, started in 2013, offers subsidised screening in and around Chennai and other parts of the State. “If we have at least 60 sign-ups in an area we are ready to take our mobile unit to the place. Post-screening, we also do a follow-up so that they can repeat the test if they are showing any signs and symptoms,” says Arockia Mary, who is part of the mobile screening team. Communities and corporates that want to avail the services of its mobile screening bus at their colony/gated community/office premises can call the 9677046863/ 9840416775/965933156.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cancer-care-for-men/article37146420.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Velachery subway cries for attention||The subway near Velachery MRTS railway station badly needs a facelift. Following a heavy downpour, water stagnates in the facility. Provisions should be made for water to drain out. The existing motor pumps are out of order. Due to lack of regular maintenance, the subway has fllen into a sorry state. Once the Link Road connecting Taramani, Perungudi and Velachery MRTS stations is ready, the subway will be put to optimum use. Hence, the Southern Railway authorities concerned should attend to these issues at the earliest. S. Kumararaja is the president of Annai Indira Nagar Residents Welfare Association, Velachery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/velachery-subway-cries-for-attention/article37146398.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Your dream home is just a click away||Casagrand presents The Hindu PropertyPlus Virtual property fair, launched on October 22, 2021. The most trusted virtual property fair brings to you over 15 prestigious builders in Chennai. Sign up to find your dream home. The Virtual Property Fair will be open till October 31, 2021. Buyers will have an exciting array of options – from budget homes and functional apartment to lavish villas and luxury bungalows – all on a single platform. To register and view the special offers, visit https://bit.ly/THVP21 or scan the QR Code Our partners: Title Sponsor — Casagrand; and the other partners are: Lancor; Hiranandani Communities; SPR City; KG Builders; Sumanth & CO; VGN Homes; Navin’s; Voora; Fomra; Baashyaam; Marutham Group; Deccan; The Nest; Nova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/your-dream-home-is-just-a-click-away/article37146411.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering Crazy Mohan||Crazy Creations celebrated Crazy Mohan’s 69th birthday recently at an event organised at Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha, Vani Mahal. Nephrologist Dr Rajan Ravichandran was awarded the Crazy Mohan Award of Excellence in recognition of his contribution in the field of medicine and service to society. Dr Rajan has been helping the underprivileged through Sapiens Health Foundation, said a press release. The award, which was presented by Ravi Appaswami, MD, Appaswami Real Estate, carried a citation and a memento. Carnatic vocalist Gayathri Girish and stage actor Kathadi Ramamurthy felicitated the awardee. Speaking at the event Dr Rajan highlighted the importance of early detection of kidney ailments and the work done by the Foundation. He recalled his long friendship with Crazy Mohan, who was the ambassador for Sapiens Health Foundation's campaigns. Crazy Balaji in his speech shared a few instances of how Dr Rajan helped patients. Director SB Khanthan compeered the event. Crazy Premier League, a hilarious play by Crazy Creations troupe, was staged at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/remembering-crazy-mohan/article37146434.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Two-day workshop on composting and gardening||TNAU Information and Training Centre at Guindy is organising a two-day training programme on composting and gardening on October 28 and 29. PH: 044-29530048.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-day-workshop-on-composting-and-gardening/article37146395.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Registration for Terry Fox run ends today||Today is the last day to register for the Terry Fox Run Chennai. The annual event was flagged off on October 17 with participants taking part by walking, cycling, skating or running and raising funds for Cancer Research This is the 13th year of the run, which brought to Chennai in 2009 by Akash Dube, a cancer patient, with the help of the Rotary Club of Madras East. Akash succumbed in 2012. Participants can register and donate athttps://youtoocanrun.com/races/terry-fox-virtual-run-chennai-2021/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/registration-for-terry-fox-run-ends-today/article37146396.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s raining exhibitions||lWomen self help groups are selling their festival special products at an exhibition organised by Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women at Annai Teresa's Women complex, Valluvar Kottam, Nungambakkam lThe Bengal Weavers Rang Mahal are back in the city with their range of handwoven saris and handloom dress materials. The sale is on till November 1 at CP Art Centre, Alwarpet. lAt the Odisha Artisans Association’s crafts bazaar, open till the end of the month at Sankara Hall, Alwarpet, more than 30 stalls selling a wide range of textiles, jewellery, paintings and white wooden dolls are on display. lPreethi Handicrafts has a range of handicrafts and handlooms from Rajasthan, Orissa and Kashmir that can be gifted. The sale is at North Mada Street, Mylapore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/its-raining-exhibitions/article37146425.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Miyawaki project launched||AM Foundation, the corporate social responsibility arm of Singapore-headquartered AM International Holdings, recently completed a Miyawaki technique tree plantation project around the manufacturing plants of Manali Petrochemicals (MPL). The initiative, carried out in co-operation with the Greater Chennai Corporation, is part of MPL’s CSR efforts to enhance the quality of air, water and soil for green living, said a release. Various native species of trees were planted in Zone 2, Ward 15 of Manali New Town. The species of trees were selected based on recommendations from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/miyawaki-project-launched/article37146433.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Mandaveli outlet specialises in Deepavali delicacies||Raju Iyer catering services has a range of homemade delicacies for Deepavali. Jangiri, badhusha and special mixture are some of the favourites. Other hot favourites are laddu, mysorepak , gauva cake and karasev. The enterprise, which has been in business for more than 40 years, also send sweets to various countries including USA, Singapore and Australia. The outlet is at 54/24, VC Garden II Street, Mandaveli. For orders, contact 9444434269/9952962527||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mandaveli-outlet-specialises-in-deepavali-delicacies/article37146417.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||From patient to promoter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-patient-to-promoter/article37146400.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||for the rainy day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/for-the-rainy-day/article37146415.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||the fight against dengue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-fight-against-dengue/article37146432.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sand as ‘soap’||Mannequins for sand-bathing — bee eaters may walk away with that title without a contest, where humans handle the adjudication. A majority of us, particularly those who let birdwatching happen to them and hardly stir far from their lodgings and seek out birds, are prone to making that judgement. The bee eater — and in our patches, the green bee-eater — is only a more visible symbol of a behaviour that runs in many other species. Recently, on the earthern passage leading to Adyar estuary, with the boundary of the Theosophical Society rearing up on one side in a tall wall, an Eurasian hoopoe seemed to make this point, suddenly pausing from an afternoon feeding binge. Call it what you will, a coincidence or a case of one-upmanship, the hoopoe stopped tapping the ground for insects, and engaged in a sand-bathing ritual, the highlight being that a green bee-eater had done a wriggle in the sands, only a few feet away and a few seconds earlier. Away from the anthropomorphic lens that draws poetic but senseless inference of one-upmanship from a regular functional bird behaviour, it could be enlightening and fascinating to ask and explore the question: Why do birds have sand-baths? And possibly another too: Why do some have sand baths, while others don’t? Ornithologist V Santharam observes: “Preen glands are essentially for oiling feathers. Mud baths are for dealing with parasites. Preen glands may to some extent help deal with ectoparasites . But these birds that take mud baths do it more for getting rid of ectoparasites.” On the other question, he points out that one notices a good number of hole-nesting species engaging in this cleansing ritual. Santharam believes being hole-nesting birds may have something to do with this behaviour, possibly because the their ectoparasite load could be higher. The fact that hoopoes, the hornbills and bee-eaters are inveterate sand-bathers provides strong scaffolding for this thought. On why a good number of birds do not view sand as a means to rid themselves of free-loaders, there obviously cannot be an answer compact enough to packed into one sentence, short and smart. Santharam notes that in some bird species, there could be other behaviours that may adequately compensate for the absence of this behaviour. “In birds species that form social flocks and allopreen — the yellow-billed babbler being a classic example — the presence of the social group will take care of the ectoparasites.” He also remarks how “anting” is for some bird species a way to try to be free of ectoparasites. By crushing certain types of ants picked up with their bills and rubbing the formic acid generated in this manner against their bodies, these birds seem to make short work of ectoparasites.  (Field Notes is a weekly column about the resident and migratory birds of Chennai)   Preen glands are essentially for oiling feathers. Mud baths are for dealing with parasites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sand-as-soap/article37146444.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Water wise||Whenever the monsoon is close at hand, rainwater harvesting pitter-patters into the spotlight. Where no rainwater harvesting installation exists, a rude goad can be expected. Where an RWH structure does exist, a possible laurel can be won. Jains Pebble Brook, a gated community in Thoraipakkam, has received laurels for its rainwater harvesting installations and the results it has achieved with them. VR Chennai, a mall in Anna Nagar, received accolades for theirs in the category for commercial establishments. The winners were announced at virtual concalve organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) on October 21. The Municipal Administration and Water Supply (MAWS) department in coordination with Chennai Metro Water and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) had maked these two for the top honour in their categories under “Rainwater Harvesting Implementation”. CMWSSB had vetted the various entries and passed on its observations to MAWS to make the selection, a CMWSSB source familiar with the exercise disclosed. An official from the main CMWSSB office remarks that VR Chennai harvests rainwater optimally through a system of recharge wells and pits and what makes their water management commendable, even somewhat singular, is the total lack of dependence on groundwater. “They have not sunk any borewells on their premises. They buy water from tankers, and during the rainy reason, they meet a good part of their water needs by efficiently harvesting rainwater,” the Metro Water official adds. Jains Pebble Brook stood out in the residential-units category. From each of the 15 CMWSSB Areas, details about the pick of the rainwater harvesting systems had to be sent to the main office. Jains Pebble Brook made it from Area 15. On what makes this gated community’s rainwater conservation effort remarkable, a local CMWSSB official shares this observation: “Generally, all RWAs would have done RWH installations at the time of construction, but would be lax in maintaining the facility and it would become defunct. This RWA has been consistently maintaining the RWH installations they had done for four blocks. The water they take out they use with conventional filter and recycle the used water. Besides, they also have a modular STP in place.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/water-wise/article37146449.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An eWaste drive with a local address||The two-day eWaste and old clothes collection drive at Manapakkam (October 23-24) was roughed in at informal chats, largely on WhatsApp, between parents. Before SARS-COV-2 got the universe to socialise hunched over laptops and thumbing on mobiles, these parents would meet while dropping and picking up their children at school. A year ago, the friendship forged through brief corridor conversations and online chats led them to form a loosely structured group, Friends of Manapakkam. It was decided the group would volunteer for activities for the locality’s betterment, primarily in solid waste management. However, while the destination was marked, the ticket for the ride was missing. To put it plainly, they did not have a crystallised idea of how to go about their self-imposed goal. While hanging hopelessly in that space between resolution and action, one of them, Abitha went to an eWaste collection drive in Adyar, initiated in March this year by Residents of Kasturba Nagar Association (ROKA). While she emptied her bag crammed with electronic discards, a workable idea popped right into that bag and she took it to Manapakkam. When the other members of the group heard what it was, the ball was set rolling. “My son is studying at Lalaji Memorial Omega International School in Kolappakam, and I have made many friends from the school. These are also mothers of students at the schooI — Radhika, Deepa and Anandhi — and we are basically interested in solid waste management and the three Rs philosophy. When I attended the ROKA eWaste drive, a thought struck me. Not many people would want to travel far to drop their eWaste and any other recyclable waste such as old clothes. These days people do not mind spending money, but they do mind how their time is spent. So, having a drive primarily targeting people within a two to three kilometre radius, but keeping it open for anyone from anywhere seemed like a great idea.” When Abitha contacted Janani Venkitesh, Secretary of ROKA, seeking the Adyar group's guidance in organising a similar drive in Manapakkam, the response was hugely encouraging. “Their thinking was aligned with ROKA’s. We want more volunteers and communities across neighbourhoods to conduct ewaste collection drives locally and they should not primarily depend on ROKA to conduct drives. So, we agreed to help out,” recalls Janani. The help included getting the seal of approval and support, which includes finding a venue, from local Greater Chennai Corporation officials. The process after the collection is crucial and laborious as the assortment of collected waste should be separated and sent to the right recyclers. It is one of the areas where the ROKA eWaste drives have shown application and system. “Soon thereafter, I and Saranya, another ROKA volunteer met them, and it was almost finalised that it would happen in April.” But the Coronavirus had other plans. The ravaging second wave wiped out every thought of an eWaste drive. “Around the second wave, we had had only the first dose and we thought it prudent to have the eWaste drive later,” recalls Abitha. Going through the entire process again, which includes meeting local GCC officials, the event is now being organised at . Abitha believes even if 10 p.c. of the population participates in the drive, the objective would be met. Ten percent should amount to quite a number of residents. The population consists of many domiciliaries drawn to the locality for the schools the locality counts, as also for the quick access it provides to some IT parks. Going by an observation from Abitha, one tinged with obvious hyperbole, Manapakkam and its surroundings are an oversized school zone that pretends to be a locality. In truth, the locality cannot be pigeonholed into a pat, uni-dimensional category — that of course goes for any locality “There are many schools, and it is also an IT area,” remarks Abitha after some thought, and is hopeful that many residents would warm up to the eWaste initiative. Alagu Karthikeyan, who recently shifted to Manapakkam from Second Main Road in Kasturba Nagar where she was a ROKA volunteer, notes that the presence of many gated communities in Manapakkam makes it easier for the eWaste campaign to reach people. “One just has to get in touch with the committee members and they would take it forward.” The people who are inviting themselves to the party are what makes the heart glow with resplendent happiness. “We are using every avenue possible to spread the word about the event. They are getting calls from. Sowcarpet and Anna Nagar. When they receive calls from residents for far-flung areas, they are excited and I can relate to that. We went through same excitement when our drives evoked such responses,” observes Janani, adding that she, Saranya and two other ROKA volunteers would be in attendance during the two days to smoothen any possible wrinkles in the process. Says Abitha, “Now, we are reassuring others who are interested in having an eWaste drive in their neighbourhoods that they can count on our support. I got a call from a resident from Kattankulathur: I told them that if they started something, we would be there for them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-ewaste-drive-with-a-local-address/article37146474.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Back from the brink||Prasanna Karthik sews up a recollection of two medical crises with how he recovered from both, not just by pills, surgical threads and plates, but also wafer-thin carbon wheels. Prasanna, who suffered a cardiac arrest on December 30, 2012, snuffed out 43 candles on his birthday cake this week, on October 19 — so, imagine the shock the medical event nine years ago would have brought to his kith and kin. Prasanna would ensure their eyebrows went further up, the brows furrowed this time with pleasant surprise. Post-recovery, he took to running and shed 22 kilogrammes but an almost equal amount of flab remained before he finally achieved a healthy BMI. In 2014, acting on a friend’s suggestion, he jumped into cycling for heart health. It however went beyond the natural blood-pumping machine and captured his whole being, soul and sprit added for good measure, and made an endurance cyclist out of him, not to mention a “fitness trainer”. Absorbed in randonneuring, he would go on to win four senior-randonneuring (SR) titles (for an SR title, one has to complete 200, 300, 400 and 600 km Brevet de Randonneur Mondiaux or BRMs in one year). He capped off the 2019 season with participation in the 1200-km Paris-Brest-Paris brevet, which happens once in four years. Besides, he has done one Les Ranonneus Mondiaux (LRM), a 1,000 km ride. “Considering what I had gone through and recovered from, some people started looking up to me. As I did not want what had happened to me happen to them, I started getting familiar with diets and workouts.” The consultations on diets and workouts come gratis . Prasanna explains: “The training helps me enhance my knowledge about diets and workouts. I spend quality time on them learning about all these things.” It is essentially about sharing with others how he undid the effects of unhealthy eating and working behaviours. “When I had the cardiac arrest, I was into lifting weights, but not cardio. I was leading a sedentary life, and knew nothing about healthy diets. And the stress of running a business also took a toll on my heart,” says this Velachery resident. Prasanna admits he is not a certified nutritionist, but having shed around 42 kg twice — after the cardiac event and later, following an accident that rendered him hors de combat for months on end — “I do know how the body reacts to various diets”. Besides voracious reading about these twin subjects, he wrangled enough time from his property development business for a kettlebell certification programme, which helps him while writing out workout regimens for his friends. Around three years after the cardiac arrest and his transformation into an endurance cyclist, an accident set him back significantly and he had to start afresh almost from square one. It was a cycling accident that happened while riding the cycle downhill, and the brakes gave way. “I broke my wrist — it collapsed completely. I broke my collar bone. I was out of action for six months. A plate had been put in my shoulder and another in my wrist, and during my recovery period, I was not able to hold the handlebar. I had also put on considerable weight.” He repeated the cycle of recovery and restoration and transformation, losing over 40 kg again. When he returned to his business he was faced with paucity of time, and was forced to cut down on the time he could devote to guide others. Prasanna now focusses only on helping people on diets. “Currently, I am guiding six people with diets.” When it comes to workouts, he helps others with basic techniques such as posture correction. He points out that he would somehow create time for volunteering at randonnering events. A member of Madras Randonneurs, he is part of the ride responsibility. Though volunteering takes much out of him as it requires him to keep shuffling between control points — “Volunteering is more taxing than riding” — it does puts enough back in him, in terms of fulfilment, for him to continue with it.  I broke my wrist — it collapsed completely. I broke my collar bone. My brakes had given way. I was out of action for six months. A plate had been put in my shoulder and another in my wrist, and during my recovery, I was not able to hold the handlebar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/back-from-the-brink/article37146462.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweeter Deepavali||Software engineer Raghava Simha has set himself a target this Deepavali — making the festival somewhat memorable for 3,000 underprivileged children. As part of the festive season, he is running a campaign called Kanna Sweet Donate Panna Aasaya under which underprivileged children will be gifted with sweets. This campaign ends on October 30.  Kanna Sweet Donate Panna Aasaya  is one of the campaigns at “iGiver.org,” launched by Ragava Simha during the first wave of the pandemic. “iGiver.org is an online platform that I and my team have developed. It connects donors and non-governmental organisations. Donors can make donations in kind to these organisations through commercial establishments listed in iGiver.org,” says Raghava who runs his own software company called Lokas AWS Technologies Private Limited. For the Deepavali sweets campaign, the software engineer has roped in Winners Bakery. “Priced at Rs. 60, each sweet box contains a cake and some cookies. The response is encouraging. So far, 50 people have donated towards this cause. Some have made a donation that would help 300 children, and a few have taken care of 100, 50, 20, 10 and some five. So far, the campaign has reached out to 1,733 children living in care homes across Chennai,” says Raghava, a resident of Perambur. The commercial establishments listed in iGiver.org are: groceries stores Ambika Appalam Depot and Lokesh Provision & Oil Store; fruits and vegetables store Organic Farmers Market, sweets and snacks shops Svadishtana and Winners Bakery, book stores Amar Chitra Katha, Sixth Sense and Pratham Books, stationery store Sri Balaji Enterprises. Besides, iGiver.org has partnered with Inspire Minds where the latter sells gameboards. The games listed in iGiver.org aims to instill healthy food habits in children. Further there is something for donors who are interested in helping people with special needs, for which iGiver.org has tied up with Avaz inc which offers technology-based assistance for people with special needs. “I had worked with many non-governmental organisations. So, when the pandemic broke out last March and when the first nationwide lockdown was effected, many NGOs approached me for support. I also reached out to my relatives and friends to extend help to the needy and they sent me money. Last year, we were feeding the poor including the migrant labourers and distributed groceries. That is when the idea to start a digital platform that would directly connect donors and NGOs occurred to me and donations will be only in-kind and not money, and for which we had to tie up with commercial establishments. Hence the iGiver.org initiative. But, we charge an amount from the commercial establishments. Because, this platform brings the commercial establishments some business. If commercial establishments give anything for free, we will also not charge them. We need this money to sustain the initiative. Maintaining this website will entail some expenditure and this money will be put to that use. We also welcome products made by non-governmental organisations working with people with special needs.” Raghava Simha, a resident of Perambur, can be reached at 72000 11175.  “Last year, we were feeding the poor including the migrant labourers, and distributed groceries”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sweeter-deepavali/article37146465.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An extended role||A Chennai-based support group of parents of children with intellectual disabilities has embarked on a new journey – ensuring employment opportunities for the children. Towards creating an inclusive workplace, VOICE (Voice of Parents for Inclusion, Care and Empowerment of Children With Special Needs) is facilitating employment for the differently-abled, parents of such young adults and able-bodied individuals. KNSOFT Technologies, a Hyderabad-based startup, is the first company that has associated with VOICE to offer work from home opportunities for more than 80 people, which includes 10 neuro-diverse individuals, 20 special moms, and the remaining being individuals in need. Mano Rajini, one of the admins in VOICE, says they floated this opportunity in the various WhatsApp groups, inviting people to join. “There are quotas for the differently-abled but we noticed that without support they do not meet the expectations of the employer. Many a time, a differently-abled individual feels isolated in a new environment, so here we have special moms and volunteers helping us integrate the special adult, as in a buddy system,” says Rajini. She says volunteers are the backbone of this initiative. “They could be college students, homemakers or retired people who would lend support and earn a salary in the process,” says Rajini. Projects in data entry has many takers. Another project in the pipeline include GIS Mapping in Google Maps. Dasaradh Kosana, CEO, KNSOFT Technologies, says they started working with special adults since August and plan to scale it up depending on how many new gigs they get. “On October 24, we are opening a branch office in Chennai so that those on our rolls will be free to work from our space if they wish to,” says Dasaradh. He says they are still streamlining various process and those working on any project will be paid salaries based on their output. “Instructions on what needs to be done is carried out mainly with volunteers’ support. We also have a quality team that checks the completed work,” he says. Dasaradh says the pandemic has made it possible for people to explore remote work and the differently-abled are sure to benefit from the arrangement if they receive some support. Mangai Alwar and Santhiya Sundar, mothers of children on the spectrum, say that one of the main challenges that special needs adults face is having difficulty in socialising and understanding instructions. “My son, Rohan, has mood swings and needs some help from me; this work from home opportunity allows him to work at his own pace and time without much pressure,” says Santhiya. Rohan has been working for the last two months and is paid based on the “number of files” he completes. Mangai’s son has been finding his feet by running a web designing website. “But sometimes he has difficulty the logic behind certain processes and that is where I pitch in,” says Mangai. Rakshakanathan A N, a final-year undergraduate student and a member of the team, applied for the job to supplement his family income after his mother lost her job. “I work four hours a day and pitch in when others seek help,” he says. Voice started with 10 parents and has grown to nearly 1,000.   The pandemic has made it possible for people to explore remote work and the differently-abled are sure to benefit from the arrangement if they receive some support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-extended-role/article37146468.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Creativity and cause||Ranganayaki A, 82 years old, will be stepping out of her house in Santhome to showcase her intricate bead embroidery work at a Deepavali exhibition-cum-sale. She would be among 12 other home-based entrepreneurs, who will also display their creations at CP Art Centre, Alwarpet on October 25 and 26 in an event organised by Vanaja Sree Enterprises. Each of these women have an inspiring story about how they turned their passion into business so that they could be financially-independent and how they made the necessary adaptations to deal with the challenges posed by the pandemic. To beat loneliness after the death of her husband in 1992, Ranganayaki took to bead embroidery, with the basics of it that she had picked up during an overseas tour. In recent times, she has been honing her skills through tutorials on YouTube and magazines. “I did not participate in any outdoor exhibitions since the pandemic began last year, instead I kept adding to my collection. Now that I am vaccinated it gives me more confidence to step out,” says the octogenarian who will be showcasing her works that can be worn as choker, bangle and stitched on clothes. Recently, Ranganayaki, a member of Inner Wheel Club, took part in Tulip Bazaar that was held online. “There is a different joy in seeing a customer face-to-face and receive their feedback about your work; it gives me more design ideas too,” she says. For organiser Vanaja Ramanathan, the sale also means contributing a part of the collection to charity. The cuttings for the petticoats and nighties that she sells are done by her, following which it is outsourced to women from the slum clearance board in Ashok Nagar who stitch them. “I have been doing this for more than 20 years and helping underprivileged women earn some money,” says Vanaja. Her enterprise has a database of 200 women entrepreneurs and every time Vanaja plans an exhibition she announces it in the group. “Pandemic was a tough time for us, but many of us have found new ways to do business. We have been setting up stalls at gated communities, the most recent one being at Majestic Park in Virugambakkam,” says Vanaja. Last year, Jayalakshmi P from KK Nagar took up a space in front of her house to put up a shop selling homemade snacks like vadams and pickles. “I was not lucky as there were two other outlets on my street, so I am pinning my hopes on this sale at the CP Art Centre that has been lucky for me in the past,” says Jayalakshmi. She says her family subsists on her income and for the hardwork she puts in preparing these items people must shop from her. “ Athirasam is a Deepavali special and I am selling the batter,” she says. Jute bags to bedspreads from Karur, each of the stalls show how women are trying hard to find their feet amidst the pandemic. Educating the girl child Sowmya Silks is organising a sale of a wide range of saris and salwars at another venue at CP Art Centre through which the enterprise hopes to meet two needs. Sowmya V, who runs the unit, says they are helping the weavers in Kancheepuram who are left with much unsold stock due to the pandemic. “A small part of the proceeds from the sale also goes toward educating the girl child,” says Sowmya. The initiative has been running for 15 years where half-a-dozen girls are chosen to meet their educational expense. “We started this with our staff’s child and since then we have been increasing the number of beneficiaries who are chosen by word-of-mouth,” says Sowmya.  The cuttings for the petticoats and nighties that she sells are done by her. The stitching is done by women from the slum clearance board||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creativity-and-cause/article37146467.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||From patient to promoter||For some years now, the Deepavali season brings a rare memory to this family in West Mambalam. Two members in the family fought cancer and are now leading a normal life, thanks to a 16-year-old’s gentle nudge that got the elders at home to undergo a cancer screening camp at her school. The diagnosis happened around Deepavali time in 2014. The management of Jaigopal Garodia Hindu Vidyalaya Secondary School had organised a breast cancer screening camp for its teachers and support staff on the campus. A mobile cancer screening clinic of Penn Nalam, a unit of Sri Dhanvantri Trust, had wheeled in. The mobile clinic was parked in the school and the team had told the students to ask their elders at home to avail this facility. “My daughter, who was in class XII, asked me to attend the camp without knowing that I was experiencing some abnormality in my breast,” says S. Nalini. In her late 30s then, Nalini decided to attend the camp and also take her mother and sister-in-law along with her. “The basic tests were done and we were told if we did not get a call after Deepavali then everything was fine,” says Nalini, who left with her fingers crossed. As luck would have it, Nalini was called to the Penn Nalam office and explained about the diagnosis and further treatment. “It came as a shock; the doctors had diagonised stage 3 cancer for me and also for my mom who was in her 60s,” says Nalini. The family was devastated but was determined to give the two of them hope and all the moral support they would need through every stage of the treatment. Nalini’s treatment put her daughter under immense stress. “I still remember that on March 31 I had a surgery and my daughter had to take her mathematics Board examination,” she says. Her father’s advice was: “No one should point out that you got less marks because of your mother’s treatment.” The treatment at a private hospital included radiation and chemotherapy that went on for more than a year. Nalini says cancer has given her strength to believe in herself. “The support and encouragement I got from my family helped me emotionally and physically,” she says. She is now one of Penn Nalam’s fiercest campaigners, telling people how she fought the disease and instilling a sense of hope in those treading the same path. She creates awareness about the necessity of regular screenings. “I do not shy away from telling my story whenever I am invited by Penn Nalam and I go for screening every year,” she says. At an event organised at the Income Tax office, Nalini shared the stage with actor and cancer survivor Gautami. Her advice to women: “If you are close to 40 and above make sure you look out for the warning signs. Early detection and diagnosis is the only way to fight cancer and that is how I am alive.” Radhika Santhanakrishnan, founder Penn Nalam, says survivors like Nalini are brand ambassadors for us. They help us reach out to our target group faster.    Early detection is the only way to fight cancer and it’s because of that I am alive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-patient-to-promoter/article37146464.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Merge us with GCC’||The Confederation of Ayyappanthangal Residents Welfare Associations has made a representation to the Additional Chief Secretary to the Government, Municipal Administration & Water Supply Department last week seeking the inclusion of Ayyappanthangal Village Panchayat in Greater Chennai Corporation. This request follows a recent Government Order that proposes to upgrade the Mangadu Town Panchayat to Mangadu Municipality and include Ayyappanthangal and surrounding villages in it. Ayyappanthangal Panchayat is situated in Kundrathur Panchayat Union in Kancheepuram District. “Ayyappanthagal shares its border with Karambakkam (which is part of the Greater Chennai Corporation) but not with Mangadu. Ayyappanthagal and Mangadu are approximately five kilometres apart,” says P. Senthil Kumar, coordinator of the Confederation. “Over the years, the population has increased manifold in Ayyappanthangal Village Panchayat. At present, the population density of Ayyappanthangal is around 2,000 people per square km. Though classified as “Village Panchayat,” Ayyappanthangal is highly urbanised. It has gated communities and multi-storied buildings. Comparatively, Mangadu in spite of being a Town Pachayat is not as urbanised as Ayyappanthangal.” says Senthil Kumar. Besides the representation to the Municipal Administration & Water Supply Department, the Confederation of Ayyappanthangal Residents Welfare Associations has also initiated a signature campaign. So far, 500 residents have signed and expressed support for the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/merge-us-with-gcc/article37146472.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Manapakkam residents launch waste management initiative||Friends of Manapakkam (a group of volunteers from that locality) in association with Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is conducting a drive to collect old torn clothes, footwear, mattress and eWaste on October 23 and October 24 (from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on both days) at the Government middle school in Manapakkam. The aim of the drive is to responsibly divert the clothes, footwear and eWaste to authorised recyclers, notes a press release. The collected, old wornout clothes including those that are usable will be handed over to Porur-based Little Drops, a home for the old destitute and mentally challenged people. The unusable clothes would be made as diapers or mats or pillows and used in the home for people needs. Old unusable footwear, mattresses pillows and eWaste will be taken by the Greater Chennai Corporation’s empaneled aggregator and recyclers World Scrap Recycling Solutions and Wastewinn . The drive will be held on October 23 and 24 th Sunday at Government Middle School ,Manapakkam from 10.00 am to 4 pm. For more details, call 6374050127 or whatsapp 9444891902.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/manapakkam-residents-launch-waste-management-initiative/article37146473.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Kolu Kondattam 2021 draws huge participation||The Hindu Kolu Kondattam 2021 which got under way alongside Navaratri celebrations, encouraged participants to come up with innovative Kolu displays. Spread across Chennai, Madurai, Trichy and Coimbatore, the contest evoked an enthusiastic response and was marked by huge participation in all the four cities. Based on a variety of criteria, three winners were picked from each city. Padmavati Raman from Alwarpet walked away with the first place while Kala Nagarajan from Ambattur finished runner-up; and the third place went to Vaishnavi Arul from Adyar. Thanks to our sponsors, an event of this magnitude was possible. Here is the list of sponsors. nThe event was sponsored bytitle sponsor Vidiem Kitchen Appliances.nIt was powered by Mangaldeep. nThe event was organised in association with Naga Food Products. nSSVM Institutions was the education partner; nNippon Paint the colour partner;nSaraswathi Vidyalaya the school partner; nKancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks & Freshey’s were the associate sponsors. nGift sponsors were Aachi Masala; Cotton House; G Organics; Estilo Clothing; Saaral Foods; PS Tamarind; RCL Foods; Selai Nayaki; Supreme Furniture. nThe TV Partner was News18 Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kolu-kondattam-2021-draws-huge-participation/article37146456.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Cancer care for men||This June, Aan Nalam, a unit of Penn Nalam Hospital, was opened to focus on diseases pertaining to oncology common among men. “Lions Club of Madras North has given us a building at Nerkundram, where we offer cancer screening and other treatments at a subsidised rate,” says Radhika Santhanakrishnan, founder Penn Nalam. Radhika says that both Penn Nalam and Aan Nalam devotes nearly 30% of its clinical time for cancer awareness programmes. Poor awareness about the disease and the absence of screening programmes are a few reasons why cancer is diagonised at a very advanced stage. “At an anganwadi in Thiruvottiyur, we were invited to screen all the ayyas and the tests were sponsored by a foreign donor,” says Radhika. Its mobile unit, started in 2013, offers subsidised screening in and around Chennai and other parts of the State. “If we have at least 60 sign-ups in an area we are ready to take our mobile unit to the place. Post-screening, we also do a follow-up so that they can repeat the test if they are showing any signs and symptoms,” says Arockia Mary, who is part of the mobile screening team. Communities and corporates that want to avail the services of its mobile screening bus at their colony/gated community/office premises can call the 9677046863/ 9840416775/965933156.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cancer-care-for-men/article37146463.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article37146441.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Helpline numbers to attend to Deepavali rush||In view of Deepavali, the State Transport Department will ply special long-distance buses from six bus terminuses in Chennai on November 1, 2 and 3. More than 3,000 special buses will be operated. The buses will be operated from Madhavaram New bus terminus, Kalaignar Karunanidhi Nagar Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) bus terminus, Tambaram Sanatorium Arignar Anna Madras Export Processing Zone (MEPZ) bus terminus, Tambaram Railway Station (West) bus terminus, Poonamallee bus terminus and MGR bus terminus at Koyambedu.   Appeal to the public  Buses with reservations have been advised to operate from MGR bus terminus, Koyambedu and proceed through Poonamallee, Nazarethpettai, Outer Ring Road and Vandalur to Urapakkam bus terminus. Those who have gone in for reservations to board buses from Tambaram and Perungalathur bus terminuses have been requested to board from Urapakkam bus terminus. People travelling by the private mode of transport have been requested to travel either via the Thirukazhukundram - Chengalpattu route or Sriperumbudur - Chengalpattu route to avoid traffic congestion in the Grand Southern Trunk Road Tambaram and Perungalathur regions.  Reservation counters  A total of 10 reservation counters will be set up on the premises of MGR bus terminus, Koyambedu; and two at MEPZ bus terminus. The public can also book the tickets online through www.tnstc.in, www.redbus.in, www.paytm.com and www.busindia.com and on the official app of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation.   Helpline numbers  To know about bus routes and register complaints regarding services, public can contact the following numbers - 94450 14450, and 94450 14436. Twenty ‘May I Help You’ booths will be set up in the terminuses. For registering complaints against fleecing omni bus operators, public can call 044 24749002/ toll-free number 1800 425 6151.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/helpline-numbers-to-attend-to-deepavali-rush/article37146450.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s raining exhibitions||lWomen self help groups are selling their festival special products at an exhibition organised by Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women at Annai Teresa's Women complex, Valluvar Kottam, Nungambakkam lThe Bengal Weavers Rang Mahal are back in the city with their range of handwoven saris and handloom dress materials. The sale is on till November 1 at CP Art Centre, Alwarpet. lAt the Odisha Artisans Association’s crafts bazaar, open till the end of the month at Sankara Hall, Alwarpet, more than 30 stalls selling a wide range of textiles, jewellery, paintings and white wooden dolls are on display. lPreethi Handicrafts has a range of handicrafts and handlooms from Rajasthan, Orissa and Kashmir that can be gifted. The sale is at North Mada Street, Mylapore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/its-raining-exhibitions/article37146466.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Two-day workshop on composting and gardening||TNAU Information and Training Centre at Guindy is organising a two-day training programme. On October 28, a workshop in composting technologies will be conducted followed by kitchen gardening the next day. According to a release, the programmes will be useful to homemakers, gardeners, self help group and students. Information on composting methodologies, recycling of bio degradable wastes, materials for preparation of compost, compost production methodology and factors influencing composting will be taught. Those interested can register by calling 044-29530048.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-day-workshop-on-composting-and-gardening/article37146469.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Miyawaki project launched||AM Foundation, the corporate social responsibility arm of Singapore-headquartered AM International Holdings, recently completed a Miyawaki technique tree plantation project around the manufacturing plants of Manali Petrochemicals (MPL). The initiative, carried out in co-operation with the Greater Chennai Corporation, is part of MPL’s CSR efforts to enhance the quality of air, water and soil for green living, said a release. Various native species of trees were planted in Zone 2, Ward 15 of Manali New Town. The species of trees were selected based on recommendations from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/miyawaki-project-launched/article37146471.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Registration for Terry Fox run ends today||Today is the last day to register for the Terry Fox Run Chennai. The annual event was flagged off on October 17 with participants taking part by walking, cycling, skating or running and raising funds for Cancer Research This is the 13th year of the run, which brought to Chennai in 2009 by Akash Dube, a cancer patient, with the help of the Rotary Club of Madras East. Akash succumbed in 2012. Participants can register and donate athttps://youtoocanrun.com/races/terry-fox-virtual-run-chennai-2021/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/registration-for-terry-fox-run-ends-today/article37146445.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Home-made delicacies||Raju Iyer catering services has a range of homemade delicacies for Deepavali. Jangiri, badhusha and special mixture are some of them. For orders, contact 9444434269/9952962527||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/home-made-delicacies/article37146448.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Your dream home is just a click away||Casagrand presents The Hindu PropertyPlus Virtual property fair, launched on October 22, 2021. The most trusted virtual property fair brings to you over 15 prestigious builders in Chennai. Sign up to find your dream home. The Virtual Property Fair will be open till October 31, 2021. Buyers will have an exciting array of options – from budget homes and functional apartment to lavish villas and luxury bungalows – all on a single platform. To register and view the special offers, visit https://bit.ly/THVP21 or scan the QR Code Our partners: Title Sponsor — Casagrand; and the other partners are: Lancor; Hiranandani Communities; SPR City; KG Builders; Sumanth & CO; VGN Homes; Navin’s; Voora; Fomra; Baashyaam; Marutham Group; Deccan; The Nest; Nova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/your-dream-home-is-just-a-click-away/article37146459.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||a campaign to promote mask-wearing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-campaign-to-promote-mask-wearing/article37146461.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||the fight against dengue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-fight-against-dengue/article37146470.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A Parking lot?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-parking-lot/article37146447.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Water wise||Whenever the monsoon is close at hand, rainwater harvesting pitter-patters into the spotlight. Where no rainwater harvesting installation exists, a rude goad can be expected. Where an RWH structure does exist, a possible laurel can be won. Jains Pebble Brook, a gated community in Thoraipakkam, has received laurels for its rainwater harvesting installations and the results it has achieved with them. VR Chennai, a mall in Anna Nagar, received accolades for theirs in the category for commercial establishments. The winners were announced at virtual concalve organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) on October 21. The Municipal Administration and Water Supply (MAWS) department in coordination with Chennai Metro Water and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) had maked these two for the top honour in their categories under “Rainwater Harvesting Implementation”. CMWSSB had vetted the various entries and passed on its observations to MAWS to make the selection, a CMWSSB source familiar with the exercise disclosed. An official from the main CMWSSB office remarks that VR Chennai harvests rainwater optimally through a system of recharge wells and pits and what makes their water management commendable, even somewhat singular, is the total lack of dependence on groundwater. “They have not sunk any borewells on their premises. They buy water from tankers, and during the rainy reason, they meet a good part of their water needs by efficiently harvesting rainwater,” the Metro Water official adds. Jains Pebble Brook stood out in the residential-units category. From each of the 15 CMWSSB Areas, details about the pick of the rainwater harvesting systems had to be sent to the main office. Jains Pebble Brook made it from Area 15. On what makes this gated community’s rainwater conservation effort remarkable, a local CMWSSB official shares this observation: “Generally, all RWAs would have done RWH installations at the time of construction, but would be lax in maintaining the facility and it would become defunct. This RWA has been consistently maintaining the RWH installations they had done for four blocks. The water they take out they use with conventional filter and recycle the used water. Besides, they also have a modular STP in place.”  This RWA has been consistently maintaining the RWH installations they had done for four blocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/water-wise/article37146477.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sand as ‘soap’||Mannequins for sand-bathing — bee eaters may walk away with that title without a contest, where humans handle the adjudication. A majority of us, particularly those who let birdwatching happen to them and hardly stir far from their lodgings and seek out birds, are prone to making that judgement. The bee eater — and in our patches, the green bee-eater — is only a more visible symbol of a behaviour that runs in many other species. Recently, on the earthern passage leading to Adyar estuary, with the boundary of the Theosophical Society rearing up on one side in a tall wall, an Eurasian hoopoe seemed to make this point, suddenly pausing from an afternoon feeding binge. Call it what you will, a coincidence or a case of one-upmanship, the hoopoe stopped tapping the ground for insects, and engaged in a sand-bathing ritual, the highlight being that a green bee-eater had done a wriggle in the sands, only a few feet away and a few seconds earlier. Away from the anthropomorphic lens that draws poetic but senseless inference of one-upmanship from a regular functional bird behaviour, it could be enlightening and fascinating to ask and explore the question: Why do birds have sand-baths? And possibly another too: Why do some have sand baths, while others don’t? Ornithologist V Santharam observes: “Preen glands are essentially for oiling feathers. Mud baths are for dealing with parasites. Preen glands may to some extent help deal with ectoparasites . But these birds that take mud baths do it more for getting rid of ectoparasites.” On the other question, he points out that one notices a good number of hole-nesting species engaging in this cleansing ritual. Santharam believes being hole-nesting birds may have something to do with this behaviour, possibly because the their ectoparasite load could be higher. The fact that hoopoes, the hornbills and bee-eaters are inveterate sand-bathers provides strong scaffolding for this thought. On why a good number of birds do not view sand as a means to rid themselves of free-loaders, there obviously cannot be an answer compact enough to packed into one sentence, short and smart. Santharam notes that in some bird species, there could be other behaviours that may adequately compensate for the absence of this behaviour. “In birds species that form social flocks and allopreen — the yellow-billed babbler being a classic example — the presence of the social group will take care of the ectoparasites.” He also remarks how “anting” is for some bird species a way to try to be free of ectoparasites. By crushing certain types of ants picked up with their bills and rubbing the formic acid generated in this manner against their bodies, these birds seem to make short work of ectoparasites.  Preen glands are essentially for oiling feathers. Mud baths are for dealing with parasites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sand-as-soap/article37146488.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An eWaste drive with a local address||The two-day eWaste and old clothes collection drive at Manapakkam (October 23-24) was roughed in at informal chats, largely on WhatsApp, between parents. Before SARS-COV-2 got the universe to socialise hunched over laptops and thumbing on mobiles, these parents would meet while dropping and picking up their children at school. A year ago, the friendship forged through brief corridor conversations and online chats led them to form a loosely structured group, Friends of Manapakkam. It was decided the group would volunteer for activities for the locality’s betterment, primarily in solid waste management. However, while the destination was marked, the ticket for the ride was missing. To put it plainly, they did not have a crystallised idea of how to go about their self-imposed goal. While hanging hopelessly in that space between resolution and action, one of them, Abitha went to an eWaste collection drive in Adyar, initiated in March this year by Residents of Kasturba Nagar Association (ROKA). While she emptied her bag crammed with electronic discards, a workable idea popped right into that bag and she took it to Manapakkam. When the other members of the group heard what it was, the ball was set rolling. “My son is studying at Lalaji Memorial Omega International School in Kolappakam, and I have made many friends from the school. These are also mothers of students at the schooI — Radhika, Deepa and Anandhi — and we are basically interested in solid waste management and the three Rs philosophy. When I attended the ROKA eWaste drive, a thought struck me. Not many people would want to travel far to drop their eWaste and any other recyclable waste such as old clothes. These days people do not mind spending money, but they do mind how their time is spent. So, having a drive primarily targeting people within a two to three kilometre radius, but keeping it open for anyone from anywhere seemed like a great idea.” When Abitha contacted Janani Venkitesh, Secretary of ROKA, seeking the Adyar group's guidance in organising a similar drive in Manapakkam, the response was hugely encouraging. “Their thinking was aligned with ROKA’s. We want more volunteers and communities across neighbourhoods to conduct ewaste collection drives locally and they should not primarily depend on ROKA to conduct drives. So, we agreed to help out,” recalls Janani. The help included getting the seal of approval and support, which includes finding a venue, from local Greater Chennai Corporation officials. The process after the collection is crucial and laborious as the assortment of collected waste should be separated and sent to the right recyclers. It is one of the areas where the ROKA eWaste drives have shown application and system. “Soon thereafter, I and Saranya, another ROKA volunteer met them, and it was almost finalised that it would happen in April.” But the Coronavirus had other plans. The ravaging second wave wiped out every thought of an eWaste drive. “Around the second wave, we had had only the first dose and we thought it prudent to have the eWaste drive later,” recalls Abitha. Going through the entire process again, which includes meeting local GCC officials, the event is now being organised at . Abitha believes even if 10 p.c. of the population participates in the drive, the objective would be met. Ten percent should amount to quite a number of residents. The population consists of many domiciliaries drawn to the locality for the schools the locality counts, as also for the quick access it provides to some IT parks. Going by an observation from Abitha, one tinged with obvious hyperbole, Manapakkam and its surroundings are an oversized school zone that pretends to be a locality. In truth, the locality cannot be pigeonholed into a pat, uni-dimensional category — that of course goes for any locality “There are many schools, and it is also an IT area,” remarks Abitha after some thought, and is hopeful that many residents would warm up to the eWaste initiative. Alagu Karthikeyan, who recently shifted to Manapakkam from Second Main Road in Kasturba Nagar where she was a ROKA volunteer, notes that the presence of many gated communities in Manapakkam makes it easier for the eWaste campaign to reach people. “One just has to get in touch with the committee members and they would take it forward.” The people who are inviting themselves to the party are what makes the heart glow with resplendent happiness. “We are using every avenue possible to spread the word about the event. They are getting calls from. Sowcarpet and Anna Nagar. When they receive calls from residents for far-flung areas, they are excited and I can relate to that. We went through same excitement when our drives evoked such responses,” observes Janani, adding that she, Saranya and two other ROKA volunteers would be in attendance during the two days to smoothen any possible wrinkles in the process. Says Abitha, “Now, we are reassuring others who are interested in having an eWaste drive in their neighbourhoods that they can count on our support. I got a call from a resident from Kattankulathur: I told them that if they started something, we would be there for them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-ewaste-drive-with-a-local-address/article37146504.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Back from the brink||Prasanna Karthik sews up a recollection of two medical crises with how he recovered from both, not just by pills, surgical threads and plates, but also wafer-thin carbon wheels. Prasanna, who suffered a cardiac arrest on December 30, 2012, snuffed out 43 candles on his birthday cake this week, on October 19 — so, imagine the shock the medical event nine years ago would have brought to his kith and kin. Prasanna would ensure their eyebrows went further up, the brows furrowed this time with pleasant surprise. Post-recovery, he took to running and shed 22 kilogrammes but an almost equal amount of flab remained before he finally achieved a healthy BMI. In 2014, acting on a friend’s suggestion, he jumped into cycling for heart health. It however went beyond the natural blood-pumping machine and captured his whole being, soul and sprit added for good measure, and made an endurance cyclist out of him, not to mention a “fitness trainer”. Absorbed in randonneuring, he would go on to win four senior-randonneuring (SR) titles (for an SR title, one has to complete 200, 300, 400 and 600 km Brevet de Randonneur Mondiaux or BRMs in one year). He capped off the 2019 season with participation in the 1200-km Paris-Brest-Paris brevet, which happens once in four years. Besides, he has done one Les Ranonneus Mondiaux (LRM), a 1,000 km ride. “Considering what I had gone through and recovered from, some people started looking up to me. As I did not want what had happened to me happen to them, I started getting familiar with diets and workouts.” The consultations on diets and workouts come gratis . Prasanna explains: “The training helps me enhance my knowledge about diets and workouts. I spend quality time on them learning about all these things.” It is essentially about sharing with others how he undid the effects of unhealthy eating and working behaviours. “When I had the cardiac arrest, I was into lifting weights, but not cardio. I was leading a sedentary life, and knew nothing about healthy diets. And the stress of running a business also took a toll on my heart,” says this Velachery resident. Prasanna admits he is not a certified nutritionist, but having shed around 42 kg twice — after the cardiac event and later, following an accident that rendered him hors de combat for months on end — “I do know how the body reacts to various diets”. Besides voracious reading about these twin subjects, he wrangled enough time from his property development business for a kettlebell certification programme, which helps him while writing out workout regimens for his friends. Around three years after the cardiac arrest and his transformation into an endurance cyclist, an accident set him back significantly and he had to start afresh almost from square one. It was a cycling accident that happened while riding the cycle downhill, and the brakes gave way. “I broke my wrist — it collapsed completely. I broke my collar bone. I was out of action for six months. A plate had been put in my shoulder and another in my wrist, and during my recovery period, I was not able to hold the handlebar. I had also put on considerable weight.” He repeated the cycle of recovery and restoration and transformation, losing over 40 kg again. When he returned to his business he was faced with paucity of time, and was forced to cut down on the time he could devote to guide others. Prasanna now focusses only on helping people on diets. “Currently, I am guiding six people with diets.” When it comes to workouts, he helps others with basic techniques such as posture correction. He points out that he would somehow create time for volunteering at randonnering events. A member of Madras Randonneurs, he is part of the ride responsibility. Though volunteering takes much out of him as it requires him to keep shuffling between control points — “Volunteering is more taxing than riding” — it does puts enough back in him, in terms of fulfilment, for him to continue with it.  I broke my wrist — it collapsed completely. I broke my collar bone. My brakes had given way. I was out of action for six months. A plate had been put in my shoulder and another in my wrist, and during my recovery, I was not able to hold the handlebar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/back-from-the-brink/article37146492.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweeter Deepavali||Software engineer Raghava Simha has set himself a target this Deepavali — making the festival somewhat memorable for 3,000 underprivileged children. As part of the festive season, he is running a campaign called Kanna Sweet Donate Panna Aasaya under which underprivileged children will be gifted with sweets. This campaign ends on October 30.  Kanna Sweet Donate Panna Aasaya  is one of the campaigns at “iGiver.org,” launched by Ragava Simha during the first wave of the pandemic. “iGiver.org is an online platform that I and my team have developed. It connects donors and non-governmental organisations. Donors can make donations in kind to these organisations through commercial establishments listed in iGiver.org,” says Raghava who runs his own software company called Lokas AWS Technologies Private Limited. For the Deepavali sweets campaign, the software engineer has roped in Winners Bakery. “Priced at Rs. 60, each sweet box contains a cake and some cookies. The response is encouraging. So far, 50 people have donated towards this cause. Some have made a donation that would help 300 children, and a few have taken care of 100, 50, 20, 10 and some five. So far, the campaign has reached out to 1,733 children living in care homes across Chennai,” says Raghava, a resident of Perambur. The commercial establishments listed in iGiver.org are: groceries stores Ambika Appalam Depot and Lokesh Provision & Oil Store; fruits and vegetables store Organic Farmers Market, sweets and snacks shops Svadishtana and Winners Bakery, book stores Amar Chitra Katha, Sixth Sense and Pratham Books, stationery store Sri Balaji Enterprises. Besides, iGiver.org has partnered with Inspire Minds where the latter sells gameboards. The games listed in iGiver.org aims to instill healthy food habits in children. Further there is something for donors who are interested in helping people with special needs, for which iGiver.org has tied up with Avaz inc which offers technology-based assistance for people with special needs. “I had worked with many non-governmental organisations. So, when the pandemic broke out last March and when the first nationwide lockdown was effected, many NGOs approached me for support. I also reached out to my relatives and friends to extend help to the needy and they sent me money. Last year, we were feeding the poor including the migrant labourers and distributed groceries. That is when the idea to start a digital platform that would directly connect donors and NGOs occurred to me and donations will be only in-kind and not money, and for which we had to tie up with commercial establishments. Hence the iGiver.org initiative. But, we charge an amount from the commercial establishments. Because, this platform brings the commercial establishments some business. If commercial establishments give anything for free, we will also not charge them. We need this money to sustain the initiative. Maintaining this website will entail some expenditure and this money will be put to that use. We also welcome products made by non-governmental organisations working with people with special needs.” Raghava Simha, a resident of Perambur, can be reached at 72000 11175.  “Last year, we were feeding the poor including the migrant labourers, and distributed groceries”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sweeter-deepavali/article37146495.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An extended role||A Chennai-based support group of parents of children with intellectual disabilities has embarked on a new journey – ensuring employment opportunities for the children. Towards creating an inclusive workplace, VOICE (Voice of Parents for Inclusion, Care and Empowerment of Children With Special Needs) is facilitating employment for the differently-abled, parents of such young adults and able-bodied individuals. KNSOFT Technologies, a Hyderabad-based startup, is the first company that has associated with VOICE to offer work from home opportunities for more than 80 people, which includes 10 neuro-diverse individuals, 20 special moms, and the remaining being individuals in need. Mano Rajini, one of the admins in VOICE, says they floated this opportunity in the various WhatsApp groups, inviting people to join. “There are quotas for the differently-abled but we noticed that without support they do not meet the expectations of the employer. Many a time, a differently-abled individual feels isolated in a new environment, so here we have special moms and volunteers helping us integrate the special adult, as in a buddy system,” says Rajini. She says volunteers are the backbone of this initiative. “They could be college students, homemakers or retired people who would lend support and earn a salary in the process,” says Rajini. Projects in data entry has many takers. Another project in the pipeline include GIS Mapping in Google Maps. Dasaradh Kosana, CEO, KNSOFT Technologies, says they started working with special adults since August and plan to scale it up depending on how many new gigs they get. “On October 24, we are opening a branch office in Chennai so that those on our rolls will be free to work from our space if they wish to,” says Dasaradh. He says they are still streamlining various process and those working on any project will be paid salaries based on their output. “Instructions on what needs to be done is carried out mainly with volunteers’ support. We also have a quality team that checks the completed work,” he says. Dasaradh says the pandemic has made it possible for people to explore remote work and the differently-abled are sure to benefit from the arrangement if they receive some support. Mangai Alwar and Santhiya Sundar, mothers of children on the spectrum, say that one of the main challenges that special needs adults face is having difficulty in socialising and understanding instructions. “My son, Rohan, has mood swings and needs some help from me; this work from home opportunity allows him to work at his own pace and time without much pressure,” says Santhiya. Rohan has been working for the last two months and is paid based on the “number of files” he completes. Mangai’s son has been finding his feet by running a web designing website. “But sometimes he has difficulty the logic behind certain processes and that is where I pitch in,” says Mangai. Rakshakanathan A N, a final-year undergraduate student and a member of the team, applied for the job to supplement his family income after his mother lost her job. “I work four hours a day and pitch in when others seek help,” he says. Voice started with 10 parents and has grown to nearly 1,000.   The pandemic has made it possible for people to explore remote work and the differently-abled are sure to benefit from the arrangement if they receive some support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-extended-role/article37146500.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Creativity and cause||Ranganayaki A, 82 years old, will be stepping out of her house in Santhome to showcase her intricate bead embroidery work at a Deepavali exhibition-cum-sale. She would be among 12 other home-based entrepreneurs, who will also display their creations at CP Art Centre, Alwarpet on October 25 and 26 in an event organised by Vanaja Sree Enterprises. Each of these women have an inspiring story about how they turned their passion into business so that they could be financially-independent and how they made the necessary adaptations to deal with the challenges posed by the pandemic. To beat loneliness after the death of her husband in 1992, Ranganayaki took to bead embroidery, with the basics of it that she had picked up during an overseas tour. In recent times, she has been honing her skills through tutorials on YouTube and magazines. “I did not participate in any outdoor exhibitions since the pandemic began last year, instead I kept adding to my collection. Now that I am vaccinated it gives me more confidence to step out,” says the octogenarian who will be showcasing her works that can be worn as choker, bangle and stitched on clothes. Recently, Ranganayaki, a member of Inner Wheel Club, took part in Tulip Bazaar that was held online. “There is a different joy in seeing a customer face-to-face and receive their feedback about your work; it gives me more design ideas too,” she says. For organiser Vanaja Ramanathan, the sale also means contributing a part of the collection to charity. The cuttings for the petticoats and nighties that she sells are done by her, following which it is outsourced to women from the slum clearance board in Ashok Nagar who stitch them. “I have been doing this for more than 20 years and helping underprivileged women earn some money,” says Vanaja. Her enterprise has a database of 200 women entrepreneurs and every time Vanaja plans an exhibition she announces it in the group. “Pandemic was a tough time for us, but many of us have found new ways to do business. We have been setting up stalls at gated communities, the most recent one being at Majestic Park in Virugambakkam,” says Vanaja. Last year, Jayalakshmi P from KK Nagar took up a space in front of her house to put up a shop selling homemade snacks like vadams and pickles. “I was not lucky as there were two other outlets on my street, so I am pinning my hopes on this sale at the CP Art Centre that has been lucky for me in the past,” says Jayalakshmi. She says her family subsists on her income and for the hardwork she puts in preparing these items people must shop from her. “ Athirasam is a Deepavali special and I am selling the batter,” she says. Jute bags to bedspreads from Karur, each of the stalls show how women are trying hard to find their feet amidst the pandemic. Educating the girl child Sowmya Silks is organising a sale of a wide range of saris and salwars at another venue at CP Art Centre through which the enterprise hopes to meet two needs. Sowmya V, who runs the unit, says they are helping the weavers in Kancheepuram who are left with much unsold stock due to the pandemic. “A small part of the proceeds from the sale also goes toward educating the girl child,” says Sowmya. The initiative has been running for 15 years where half-a-dozen girls are chosen to meet their educational expense. “We started this with our staff’s child and since then we have been increasing the number of beneficiaries who are chosen by word-of-mouth,” says Sowmya.  The cuttings for the petticoats and nighties that she sells are done by her. The stitching is done by women from the slum clearance board||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creativity-and-cause/article37146497.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||From patient to promoter||For some years now, the Deepavali season brings a rare memory to this family in West Mambalam. Two members in the family fought cancer and are now leading a normal life, thanks to a 16-year-old’s gentle nudge that got the elders at home to undergo a cancer screening camp at her school. The diagnosis happened around Deepavali time in 2014. The management of Jaigopal Garodia Hindu Vidyalaya Secondary School had organised a breast cancer screening camp for its teachers and support staff on the campus. A mobile cancer screening clinic of Penn Nalam, a unit of Sri Dhanvantri Trust, had wheeled in. The mobile clinic was parked in the school and the team had told the students to ask their elders at home to avail this facility. “My daughter, who was in class XII, asked me to attend the camp without knowing that I was experiencing some abnormality in my breast,” says S. Nalini. In her late 30s then, Nalini decided to attend the camp and also take her mother and sister-in-law along with her. “The basic tests were done and we were told if we did not get a call after Deepavali then everything was fine,” says Nalini, who left with her fingers crossed. As luck would have it, Nalini was called to the Penn Nalam office and explained about the diagnosis and further treatment. “It came as a shock; the doctors had diagonised stage 3 cancer for me and also for my mom who was in her 60s,” says Nalini. The family was devastated but was determined to give the two of them hope and all the moral support they would need through every stage of the treatment. Nalini’s treatment put her daughter under immense stress. “I still remember that on March 31 I had a surgery and my daughter had to take her mathematics Board examination,” she says. Her father’s advice was: “No one should point out that you got less marks because of your mother’s treatment.” The treatment at a private hospital included radiation and chemotherapy that went on for more than a year. Nalini says cancer has given her strength to believe in herself. “The support and encouragement I got from my family helped me emotionally and physically,” she says. She is now one of Penn Nalam’s fiercest campaigners, telling people how she fought the disease and instilling a sense of hope in those treading the same path. She creates awareness about the necessity of regular screenings. “I do not shy away from telling my story whenever I am invited by Penn Nalam and I go for screening every year,” she says. At an event organised at the Income Tax office, Nalini shared the stage with actor and cancer survivor Gautami. Her advice to women: “If you are close to 40 and above make sure you look out for the warning signs. Early detection and diagnosis is the only way to fight cancer and that is how I am alive.” Radhika Santhanakrishnan, founder Penn Nalam, says survivors like Nalini are brand ambassadors for us. They help us reach out to our target group faster.    Early detection is the only way to fight cancer and it’s because of that I am alive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-patient-to-promoter/article37146494.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Manapakkam residents launch waste management initiative||Friends of Manapakkam (a group of volunteers from that locality) in association with Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is conducting a drive to collect old torn clothes, footwear, mattress and eWaste on October 23 and October 24 (from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on both days) at the Government middle school in Manapakkam. The aim of the drive is to responsibly divert the clothes, footwear and eWaste to authorised recyclers, notes a press release. The collected, old wornout clothes including those that are usable will be handed over to Porur-based Little Drops, a home for the old destitute and mentally challenged people. The unusable clothes would be made as diapers or mats or pillows and used in the home for people needs. Old unusable footwear, mattresses pillows and eWaste will be taken by the Greater Chennai Corporation’s empaneled aggregator and recyclers World Scrap Recycling Solutions and Wastewinn . The drive will be held on October 23 and 24 th Sunday at Government Middle School ,Manapakkam from 10.00 am to 4 pm. For more details, call 6374050127 or whatsapp 9444891902.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/manapakkam-residents-launch-waste-management-initiative/article37146503.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Kolu Kondattam 2021 draws huge participation||The Hindu Kolu Kondattam 2021 which got under way alongside Navaratri celebrations, encouraged participants to come up with innovative Kolu displays. Spread across Chennai, Madurai, Trichy and Coimbatore, the contest evoked an enthusiastic response and was marked by huge participation in all the four cities. Based on a variety of criteria, three winners were picked from each city. Padmavati Raman from Alwarpet walked away with the first place while Kala Nagarajan from Ambattur finished runner-up; and the third place went to Vaishnavi Arul from Adyar. Thanks to our sponsors, an event of this magnitude was possible. Here is the list of sponsors. nThe event was sponsored bytitle sponsor Vidiem Kitchen Appliances.nIt was powered by Mangaldeep. nThe event was organised in association with Naga Food Products. nSSVM Institutions was the education partner; nNippon Paint the colour partner;nSaraswathi Vidyalaya the school partner; nKancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks & Freshey’s were the associate sponsors. nGift sponsors were Aachi Masala; Cotton House; G Organics; Estilo Clothing; Saaral Foods; PS Tamarind; RCL Foods; Selai Nayaki; Supreme Furniture. nThe TV Partner was News18 Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kolu-kondattam-2021-draws-huge-participation/article37146482.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering Crazy Mohan||Crazy Creations celebrated Crazy Mohan’s 69th birthday recently at an event organised at Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha, Vani Mahal. Nephrologist Dr Rajan Ravichandran was awarded the Crazy Mohan Award of Excellence in recognition of his contribution in the field of medicine and service to society. Dr Rajan has been helping the underprivileged through Sapiens Health Foundation, said a press release. The award, which was presented by Ravi Appaswami, MD, Appaswami Real Estate, carried a citation and a memento. Carnatic vocalist Gayathri Girish and stage actor Kathadi Ramamurthy felicitated the awardee. Speaking at the event Dr Rajan highlighted the importance of early detection of kidney ailments and the work done by the Foundation. He recalled his long friendship with Crazy Mohan, who was the ambassador for Sapiens Health Foundation's campaigns. Crazy Balaji in his speech shared a few instances of how Dr Rajan helped patients. Director SB Khanthan compeered the event. Crazy Premier League, a hilarious play by Crazy Creations troupe, was staged at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/remembering-crazy-mohan/article37146484.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Helpline numbers to attend to the Deepavali rush||In view of Deepavali, the State Transport Department will ply special long-distance buses from six bus terminuses in Chennai on November 1, 2 and 3. More than 3,000 special buses will be operated. The buses will be operated from Madhavaram New bus terminus, Kalaignar Karunanidhi Nagar Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) bus terminus, Tambaram Sanatorium Arignar Anna Madras Export Processing Zone (MEPZ) bus terminus, Tambaram Railway Station (West) bus terminus, Poonamallee bus terminus and MGR bus terminus at Koyambedu.   Appeal to the public  Buses with reservations have been advised to operate from MGR bus terminus, Koyambedu and proceed through Poonamallee, Nazarethpettai, Outer Ring Road and Vandalur to Urapakkam bus terminus. Those who have gone in for reservations to board buses from Tambaram and Perungalathur bus terminuses have been requested to board from Urapakkam bus terminus. People travelling by the private mode of transport have been requested to travel either via the Thirukazhukundram - Chengalpattu route or Sriperumbudur - Chengalpattu route to avoid traffic congestion in the Grand Southern Trunk Road Tambaram and Perungalathur regions.  Reservation counters  A total of 10 reservation counters will be set up on the premises of MGR bus terminus, Koyambedu; and two at MEPZ bus terminus. The public can also book the tickets online through www.tnstc.in, www.redbus.in, www.paytm.com and www.busindia.com and on the official app of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation.   Helpline numbers  To know about bus routes and register complaints regarding services, public can contact the following numbers - 94450 14450, and 94450 14436. Twenty ‘May I Help You’ booths will be set up in the terminuses. For registering complaints against fleecing omni bus operators, public can call 044 24749002/ toll-free number 1800 425 6151.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/helpline-numbers-to-attend-to-the-deepavali-rush/article37146486.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Cancer care for men||This June, Aan Nalam, a unit of Penn Nalam Hospital, was opened to focus on diseases pertaining to oncology common among men. “Lions Club of Madras North has given us a building at Nerkundram, where we offer cancer screening and other treatments at a subsidised rate,” says Radhika Santhanakrishnan, founder Penn Nalam. Radhika says that both Penn Nalam and Aan Nalam devotes nearly 30% of its clinical time for cancer awareness programmes. Poor awareness about the disease and the absence of screening programmes are a few reasons why cancer is diagonised at a very advanced stage. “At an anganwadi in Thiruvottiyur, we were invited to screen all the ayyas and the tests were sponsored by a foreign donor,” says Radhika. Its mobile unit, started in 2013, offers subsidised screening in and around Chennai and other parts of the State. “If we have at least 60 sign-ups in an area we are ready to take our mobile unit to the place. Post-screening, we also do a follow-up so that they can repeat the test if they are showing any signs and symptoms,” says Arockia Mary, who is part of the mobile screening team. Communities and corporates that want to avail the services of its mobile screening bus at their colony/gated community/office premises can call the 9677046863/ 9840416775/965933156.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cancer-care-for-men/article37146493.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Krishnapuri park looks inviting’||Fitness walkers, yoga practitioners and residents of Krishnapuri and neighbouring areas thank the Greater Chennai Corporation for the painting work carried out at Krishnapuri park in response to their requests. The park has got a new lease of life and looks inviting. Lakshman Rao Krishnapuŕi, R.A.Puram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/krishnapuri-park-looks-inviting/article37146499.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Cancer screening camp conducted||October being breast cancer awareness month, a screening camp was conducted at Mufaddal Poly Clinic, a Public Health Centre run by the Dawoodi Bohra Community in Royapuram. A team from Penn Nalam Hospital screened 47 women at the camp. A webinar was also conducted in collaboration with the Amatullah Cancer Prevention programme by Dr. Sakina Poonawala, Obstetrician/ Gynaecologist to create awareness on breast cancer prevention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cancer-screening-camp-conducted/article37146475.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Miyawaki project launched||AM Foundation, the corporate social responsibility arm of Singapore-headquartered AM International Holdings, recently completed a Miyawaki technique tree plantation project around the manufacturing plants of Manali Petrochemicals (MPL). The initiative, carried out in co-operation with the Greater Chennai Corporation, is part of MPL’s CSR efforts to enhance the quality of air, water and soil for green living, said a release. Various native species of trees were planted in Zone 2, Ward 15 of Manali New Town. The species of trees were selected based on recommendations from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/miyawaki-project-launched/article37146476.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Registration for Terry Fox run ends today||Today is the last day to register for the Terry Fox Run Chennai. The annual event was flagged off on October 17 with participants taking part by walking, cycling, skating or running and raising funds for Cancer Research This is the 13th year of the run, which brought to Chennai in 2009 by Akash Dube, a cancer patient, with the help of the Rotary Club of Madras East. Akash succumbed in 2012. Participants can register and donate athttps://youtoocanrun.com/races/terry-fox-virtual-run-chennai-2021/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/registration-for-terry-fox-run-ends-today/article37146487.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s raining exhibitions||lWomen self help groups are selling their festival special products at an exhibition organised by Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women at Annai Teresa's Women complex, Valluvar Kottam, Nungambakkam lThe Bengal Weavers Rang Mahal are back in the city with their range of handwoven saris and handloom dress materials. The sale is on till November 1 at CP Art Centre, Alwarpet. lAt the Odisha Artisans Association’s crafts bazaar, open till the end of the month at Sankara Hall, Alwarpet, more than 30 stalls selling a wide range of textiles, jewellery, paintings and white wooden dolls are on display. lPreethi Handicrafts has a range of handicrafts and handlooms from Rajasthan, Orissa and Kashmir that can be gifted. The sale is at North Mada Street, Mylapore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/its-raining-exhibitions/article37146496.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer- writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtown feedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article37146502.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Mandaveli outlet specialises in Deepavali delicacies||Raju Iyer catering services has a range of homemade delicacies for Deepavali. Jangiri, badhusha and special mixture are some of the favourites. Other hot favourites are laddu, mysorepak , gauva cake and karasev. The enterprise, which has been in business for more than 40 years, also send sweets to various countries including USA, Singapore and Australia. The outlet is at 54/24, VC Garden II Street, Mandaveli. For orders, contact 9444434269/9952962527||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mandaveli-outlet-specialises-in-deepavali-delicacies/article37146491.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Your dream home is just a click away||Casagrand presents The Hindu PropertyPlus Virtual property fair, launched on October 22, 2021. The most trusted virtual property fair brings to you over 15 prestigious builders in Chennai. Sign up to find your dream home. The Virtual Property Fair will be open till October 31, 2021. Buyers will have an exciting array of options – from budget homes and functional apartment to lavish villas and luxury bungalows – all on a single platform. To register and view the special offers, visit https://bit.ly/THVP21 or scan the QR Code Our partners: Title Sponsor — Casagrand; and the other partners are: Lancor; Hiranandani Communities; SPR City; KG Builders; Sumanth & CO; VGN Homes; Navin’s; Voora; Fomra; Baashyaam; Marutham Group; Deccan; The Nest; Nova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/your-dream-home-is-just-a-click-away/article37146483.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Creativity and cause||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creativity-and-cause/article37146489.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Back from the brink||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/back-from-the-brink/article37146490.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||colours of Chennai||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/colours-of-chennai/article37146501.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An eWaste drive with a local address||The two-day eWaste and old clothes collection drive at Manapakkam (October 23-24) was roughed in at informal chats, largely on WhatsApp, between parents. Before SARS-COV-2 got the universe to socialise hunched over laptops and thumbing on mobiles, these parents would meet while dropping and picking up their children at school. A year ago, the friendship forged through brief corridor conversations and online chats led them to form a loosely structured group, Friends of Manapakkam. It was decided the group would volunteer for activities for the locality’s betterment, primarily in solid waste management. However, while the destination was marked, the ticket for the ride was missing. To put it plainly, they did not have a crystallised idea of how to go about their self-imposed goal. While hanging hopelessly in that space between resolution and action, one of them, Abitha went to an eWaste collection drive in Adyar, initiated in March this year by Residents of Kasturba Nagar Association (ROKA). While she emptied her bag crammed with electronic discards, a workable idea popped right into that bag and she took it to Manapakkam. When the other members of the group heard what it was, the ball was set rolling. “My son is studying at Lalaji Memorial Omega International School in Kolappakam, and I have made many friends from the school. These are also mothers of students at the schooI — Radhika, Deepa and Anandhi — and we are basically interested in solid waste management and the three Rs philosophy. When I attended the ROKA eWaste drive, a thought struck me. Not many people would want to travel far to drop their eWaste and any other recyclable waste such as old clothes. These days people do not mind spending money, but they do mind how their time is spent. So, having a drive primarily targeting people within a two to three kilometre radius, but keeping it open for anyone from anywhere seemed like a great idea.” When Abitha contacted Janani Venkitesh, Secretary of ROKA, seeking the Adyar group's guidance in organising a similar drive in Manapakkam, the response was hugely encouraging. “Their thinking was aligned with ROKA’s. We want more volunteers and communities across neighbourhoods to conduct ewaste collection drives locally and they should not primarily depend on ROKA to conduct drives. So, we agreed to help out,” recalls Janani. The help included getting the seal of approval and support, which includes finding a venue, from local Greater Chennai Corporation officials. The process after the collection is crucial and laborious as the assortment of collected waste should be separated and sent to the right recyclers. It is one of the areas where the ROKA eWaste drives have shown application and system. “Soon thereafter, I and Saranya, another ROKA volunteer met them, and it was almost finalised that it would happen in April.” But the Coronavirus had other plans. The ravaging second wave wiped out every thought of an eWaste drive. “Around the second wave, we had had only the first dose and we thought it prudent to have the eWaste drive later,” recalls Abitha. Going through the entire process again, which includes meeting local GCC officials, the event is now being organised at . Abitha believes even if 10 p.c. of the population participates in the drive, the objective would be met. Ten percent should amount to quite a number of residents. The population consists of many domiciliaries drawn to the locality for the schools the locality counts, as also for the quick access it provides to some IT parks. Going by an observation from Abitha, one tinged with obvious hyperbole, Manapakkam and its surroundings are an oversized school zone that pretends to be a locality. In truth, the locality cannot be pigeonholed into a pat, uni-dimensional category — that of course goes for any locality “There are many schools, and it is also an IT area,” remarks Abitha after some thought, and is hopeful that many residents would warm up to the eWaste initiative. Alagu Karthikeyan, who recently shifted to Manapakkam from Second Main Road in Kasturba Nagar where she was a ROKA volunteer, notes that the presence of many gated communities in Manapakkam makes it easier for the eWaste campaign to reach people. “One just has to get in touch with the committee members and they would take it forward.” The people who are inviting themselves to the party are what makes the heart glow with resplendent happiness. “We are using every avenue possible to spread the word about the event. They are getting calls from. Sowcarpet and Anna Nagar. When they receive calls from residents for far-flung areas, they are excited and I can relate to that. We went through same excitement when our drives evoked such responses,” observes Janani, adding that she, Saranya and two other ROKA volunteers would be in attendance during the two days to smoothen any possible wrinkles in the process. Says Abitha, “Now, we are reassuring others who are interested in having an eWaste drive in their neighbourhoods that they can count on our support. I got a call from a resident from Kattankulathur: I told them that if they started something, we would be there for them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-ewaste-drive-with-a-local-address/article37146563.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An extended role||A Chennai-based support group of parents of children with intellectual disabilities has embarked on a new journey – ensuring employment opportunities for the children. Towards creating an inclusive workplace, VOICE (Voice of Parents for Inclusion, Care and Empowerment of Children With Special Needs) is facilitating employment for the differently-abled, parents of such young adults and able-bodied individuals. KNSOFT Technologies, a Hyderabad-based startup, is the first company that has associated with VOICE to offer work from home opportunities for more than 80 people, which includes 10 neuro-diverse individuals, 20 special moms, and the remaining being individuals in need. Mano Rajini, one of the admins in VOICE, says they floated this opportunity in the various WhatsApp groups, inviting people to join. “There are quotas for the differently-abled but we noticed that without support they do not meet the expectations of the employer. Many a time, a differently-abled individual feels isolated in a new environment, so here we have special moms and volunteers helping us integrate the special adult, as in a buddy system,” says Rajini. She says volunteers are the backbone of this initiative. “They could be college students, homemakers or retired people who would lend support and earn a salary in the process,” says Rajini. Projects in data entry has many takers. Another project in the pipeline include GIS Mapping in Google Maps. Dasaradh Kosana, CEO, KNSOFT Technologies, says they started working with special adults since August and plan to scale it up depending on how many new gigs they get. “On October 24, we are opening a branch office in Chennai so that those on our rolls will be free to work from our space if they wish to,” says Dasaradh. He says they are still streamlining various process and those working on any project will be paid salaries based on their output. “Instructions on what needs to be done is carried out mainly with volunteers’ support. We also have a quality team that checks the completed work,” he says. Dasaradh says the pandemic has made it possible for people to explore remote work and the differently-abled are sure to benefit from the arrangement if they receive some support. Mangai Alwar and Santhiya Sundar, mothers of children on the spectrum, say that one of the main challenges that special needs adults face is having difficulty in socialising and understanding instructions. “My son, Rohan, has mood swings and needs some help from me; this work from home opportunity allows him to work at his own pace and time without much pressure,” says Santhiya. Rohan has been working for the last two months and is paid based on the “number of files” he completes. Mangai’s son has been finding his feet by running a web designing website. “But sometimes he has difficulty the logic behind certain processes and that is where I pitch in,” says Mangai. Rakshakanathan A N, a final-year undergraduate student and a member of the team, applied for the job to supplement his family income after his mother lost her job. “I work four hours a day and pitch in when others seek help,” he says. Voice started with 10 parents and has grown to nearly 1,000.   The pandemic has made it possible for people to explore remote work and the differently-abled are sure to benefit from the arrangement if they receive some support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-extended-role/article37146572.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweeter Deepavali||Software engineer Raghava Simha has set himself a target this Deepavali — making the festival somewhat memorable for 3,000 underprivileged children. As part of the festive season, he is running a campaign called Kanna Sweet Donate Panna Aasaya under which underprivileged children will be gifted with sweets. This campaign ends on October 30.  Kanna Sweet Donate Panna Aasaya  is one of the campaigns at “iGiver.org,” launched by Ragava Simha during the first wave of the pandemic. “iGiver.org is an online platform that I and my team have developed. It connects donors and non-governmental organisations. Donors can make donations in kind to these organisations through commercial establishments listed in iGiver.org,” says Raghava who runs his own software company called Lokas AWS Technologies Private Limited. For the Deepavali sweets campaign, the software engineer has roped in Winners Bakery. “Priced at Rs. 60, each sweet box contains a cake and some cookies. The response is encouraging. So far, 50 people have donated towards this cause. Some have made a donation that would help 300 children, and a few have taken care of 100, 50, 20, 10 and some five. So far, the campaign has reached out to 1,733 children living in care homes across Chennai,” says Raghava, a resident of Perambur. The commercial establishments listed in iGiver.org are: groceries stores Ambika Appalam Depot and Lokesh Provision & Oil Store; fruits and vegetables store Organic Farmers Market, sweets and snacks shops Svadishtana and Winners Bakery, book stores Amar Chitra Katha, Sixth Sense and Pratham Books, stationery store Sri Balaji Enterprises. Besides, iGiver.org has partnered with Inspire Minds where the latter sells gameboards. The games listed in iGiver.org aims to instill healthy food habits in children. Further there is something for donors who are interested in helping people with special needs, for which iGiver.org has tied up with Avaz inc which offers technology-based assistance for people with special needs. “I had worked with many non-governmental organisations. So, when the pandemic broke out last March and when the first nationwide lockdown was effected, many NGOs approached me for support. I also reached out to my relatives and friends to extend help to the needy and they sent me money. Last year, we were feeding the poor including the migrant labourers and distributed groceries. That is when the idea to start a digital platform that would directly connect donors and NGOs occurred to me and donations will be only in-kind and not money, and for which we had to tie up with commercial establishments. Hence the iGiver.org initiative. But, we charge an amount from the commercial establishments. Because, this platform brings the commercial establishments some business. If commercial establishments give anything for free, we will also not charge them. We need this money to sustain the initiative. Maintaining this website will entail some expenditure and this money will be put to that use. We also welcome products made by non-governmental organisations working with people with special needs.” Raghava Simha, a resident of Perambur, can be reached at 72000 11175.  “Last year, we were feeding the poor including the migrant labourers, and distributed groceries”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sweeter-deepavali/article37146574.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Back from the brink||Prasanna Karthik sews up a recollection of two medical crises with how he recovered from both, not just by pills, surgical threads and plates, but also wafer-thin carbon wheels. Prasanna, who suffered a cardiac arrest on December 30, 2012, snuffed out 43 candles on his birthday cake this week, on October 19 — so, imagine the shock the medical event nine years ago would have brought to his kith and kin. Prasanna would ensure their eyebrows went further up, the brows furrowed this time with pleasant surprise. Post-recovery, he took to running and shed 22 kilogrammes but an almost equal amount of flab remained before he finally achieved a healthy BMI. In 2014, acting on a friend’s suggestion, he jumped into cycling for heart health. It however went beyond the natural blood-pumping machine and captured his whole being, soul and sprit added for good measure, and made an endurance cyclist out of him, not to mention a “fitness trainer”. Absorbed in randonneuring, he would go on to win four senior-randonneuring (SR) titles (for an SR title, one has to complete 200, 300, 400 and 600 km Brevet de Randonneur Mondiaux or BRMs in one year). He capped off the 2019 season with participation in the 1200-km Paris-Brest-Paris brevet, which happens once in four years. Besides, he has done one Les Ranonneus Mondiaux (LRM), a 1,000 km ride. “Considering what I had gone through and recovered from, some people started looking up to me. As I did not want what had happened to me happen to them, I started getting familiar with diets and workouts.” The consultations on diets and workouts come gratis . Prasanna explains: “The training helps me enhance my knowledge about diets and workouts. I spend quality time on them learning about all these things.” It is essentially about sharing with others how he undid the effects of unhealthy eating and working behaviours. “When I had the cardiac arrest, I was into lifting weights, but not cardio. I was leading a sedentary life, and knew nothing about healthy diets. And the stress of running a business also took a toll on my heart,” says this Velachery resident. Prasanna admits he is not a certified nutritionist, but having shed around 42 kg twice — after the cardiac event and later, following an accident that rendered him hors de combat for months on end — “I do know how the body reacts to various diets”. Besides voracious reading about these twin subjects, he wrangled enough time from his property development business for a kettlebell certification programme, which helps him while writing out workout regimens for his friends. Around three years after the cardiac arrest and his transformation into an endurance cyclist, an accident set him back significantly and he had to start afresh almost from square one. It was a cycling accident that happened while riding the cycle downhill, and the brakes gave way. “I broke my wrist — it collapsed completely. I broke my collar bone. I was out of action for six months. A plate had been put in my shoulder and another in my wrist, and during my recovery period, I was not able to hold the handlebar. I had also put on considerable weight.” He repeated the cycle of recovery and restoration and transformation, losing over 40 kg again. When he returned to his business he was faced with paucity of time, and was forced to cut down on the time he could devote to guide others. Prasanna now focusses only on helping people on diets. “Currently, I am guiding six people with diets.” When it comes to workouts, he helps others with basic techniques such as posture correction. He points out that he would somehow create time for volunteering at randonnering events. A member of Madras Randonneurs, he is part of the ride responsibility. Though volunteering takes much out of him as it requires him to keep shuffling between control points — “Volunteering is more taxing than riding” — it does puts enough back in him, in terms of fulfilment, for him to continue with it.  I broke my wrist — it collapsed completely. I broke my collar bone. My brakes had given way. I was out of action for six months. A plate had been put in my shoulder and another in my wrist, and during my recovery, I was not able to hold the handlebar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/back-from-the-brink/article37146564.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Merge us with GCC’||The Confederation of Ayyappanthangal Residents Welfare Associations has made a representation to the Additional Chief Secretary to the Government, Municipal Administration & Water Supply Department last week seeking the inclusion of Ayyappanthangal Village Panchayat in Greater Chennai Corporation. This request follows a recent Government Order that proposes to upgrade the Mangadu Town Panchayat to Mangadu Municipality and include Ayyappanthangal and surrounding villages in it. Ayyappanthangal Panchayat is situated in Kundrathur Panchayat Union in Kancheepuram District. “Ayyappanthagal shares its border with Karambakkam (which is part of the Greater Chennai Corporation) but not with Mangadu. Ayyappanthagal and Mangadu are approximately five kilometres apart,” says P. Senthil Kumar, coordinator of the Confederation. “Over the years, the population has increased manifold in Ayyappanthangal Village Panchayat. At present, the population density of Ayyappanthangal is around 2,000 people per square km. Though classified as “Village Panchayat,” Ayyappanthangal is highly urbanised. It has gated communities and multi-storied buildings. Comparatively, Mangadu in spite of being a Town Pachayat is not as urbanised as Ayyappanthangal.” says Senthil Kumar. Besides the representation to the Municipal Administration & Water Supply Department, the Confederation of Ayyappanthangal Residents Welfare Associations has also initiated a signature campaign. So far, 500 residents have signed and expressed support for the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/merge-us-with-gcc/article37146558.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Creativity and cause||Ranganayaki A, 82 years old, will be stepping out of her house in Santhome to showcase her intricate bead embroidery work at a Deepavali exhibition-cum-sale. She would be among 12 other home-based entrepreneurs, who will also display their creations at CP Art Centre, Alwarpet on October 25 and 26 in an event organised by Vanaja Sree Enterprises. Each of these women have an inspiring story about how they turned their passion into business so that they could be financially-independent and how they made the necessary adaptations to deal with the challenges posed by the pandemic. To beat loneliness after the death of her husband in 1992, Ranganayaki took to bead embroidery, with the basics of it that she had picked up during an overseas tour. In recent times, she has been honing her skills through tutorials on YouTube and magazines. “I did not participate in any outdoor exhibitions since the pandemic began last year, instead I kept adding to my collection. Now that I am vaccinated it gives me more confidence to step out,” says the octogenarian who will be showcasing her works that can be worn as choker, bangle and stitched on clothes. Recently, Ranganayaki, a member of Inner Wheel Club, took part in Tulip Bazaar that was held online. “There is a different joy in seeing a customer face-to-face and receive their feedback about your work; it gives me more design ideas too,” she says. For organiser Vanaja Ramanathan, the sale also means contributing a part of the collection to charity. The cuttings for the petticoats and nighties that she sells are done by her, following which it is outsourced to women from the slum clearance board in Ashok Nagar who stitch them. “I have been doing this for more than 20 years and helping underprivileged women earn some money,” says Vanaja. Her enterprise has a database of 200 women entrepreneurs and every time Vanaja plans an exhibition she announces it in the group. “Pandemic was a tough time for us, but many of us have found new ways to do business. We have been setting up stalls at gated communities, the most recent one being at Majestic Park in Virugambakkam,” says Vanaja. Last year, Jayalakshmi P from KK Nagar took up a space in front of her house to put up a shop selling homemade snacks like vadams and pickles. “I was not lucky as there were two other outlets on my street, so I am pinning my hopes on this sale at the CP Art Centre that has been lucky for me in the past,” says Jayalakshmi. She says her family subsists on her income and for the hardwork she puts in preparing these items people must shop from her. “ Athirasam is a Deepavali special and I am selling the batter,” she says. Jute bags to bedspreads from Karur, each of the stalls show how women are trying hard to find their feet amidst the pandemic. Educating the girl child Sowmya Silks is organising a sale of a wide range of saris and salwars at another venue at CP Art Centre through which the enterprise hopes to meet two needs. Sowmya V, who runs the unit, says they are helping the weavers in Kancheepuram who are left with much unsold stock due to the pandemic. “A small part of the proceeds from the sale also goes toward educating the girl child,” says Sowmya. The initiative has been running for 15 years where half-a-dozen girls are chosen to meet their educational expense. “We started this with our staff’s child and since then we have been increasing the number of beneficiaries who are chosen by word-of-mouth,” says Sowmya.  The cuttings for the petticoats and nighties that she sells are done by her. The stitching is done by women from the slum clearance board||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creativity-and-cause/article37146576.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Water wise||Whenever the monsoon is close at hand, rainwater harvesting pitter-patters into the spotlight. Where no rainwater harvesting installation exists, a rude goad can be expected. Where an RWH structure does exist, a possible laurel can be won. Jains Pebble Brook, a gated community in Thoraipakkam, has received laurels for its rainwater harvesting installations and the results it has achieved with them. VR Chennai, a mall in Anna Nagar, received accolades for theirs in the category for commercial establishments. The winners were announced at virtual concalve organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) on October 21. The Municipal Administration and Water Supply (MAWS) department in coordination with Chennai Metro Water and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) had maked these two for the top honour in their categories under “Rainwater Harvesting Implementation”. CMWSSB had vetted the various entries and passed on its observations to MAWS to make the selection, a CMWSSB source familiar with the exercise disclosed. An official from the main CMWSSB office remarks that VR Chennai harvests rainwater optimally through a system of recharge wells and pits and what makes their water management commendable, even somewhat singular, is the total lack of dependence on groundwater. “They have not sunk any borewells on their premises. They buy water from tankers, and during the rainy reason, they meet a good part of their water needs by efficiently harvesting rainwater,” the Metro Water official adds. Jains Pebble Brook stood out in the residential-units category. From each of the 15 CMWSSB Areas, details about the pick of the rainwater harvesting systems had to be sent to the main office. Jains Pebble Brook made it from Area 15. On what makes this gated community’s rainwater conservation effort remarkable, a local CMWSSB official shares this observation: “Generally, all RWAs would have done RWH installations at the time of construction, but would be lax in maintaining the facility and it would become defunct. This RWA has been consistently maintaining the RWH installations they had done for four blocks. The water they take out they use with conventional filter and recycle the used water. Besides, they also have a modular STP in place.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/water-wise/article37146573.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sand as ‘soap’||Mannequins for sand-bathing — bee eaters may walk away with that title without a contest, where humans handle the adjudication.  The bee eater — and in our patches, the green bee-eater — is only a more visible symbol of a behaviour that runs in many other species. Recently, on the earthern passage leading to Adyar estuary, with the boundary of the Theosophical Society rearing up on one side in a tall wall, an Eurasian hoopoe seemed to make this point, suddenly pausing from an afternoon feeding binge. Call it what you will, a coincidence or a case of one-upmanship, the hoopoe stopped tapping the ground for insects, and engaged in a sand-bathing ritual, the highlight being that a green bee-eater had done a wriggle in the sands, only a few feet away and a few seconds earlier. Away from the anthropomorphic lens that draws poetic but senseless inference of one-upmanship from a regular functional bird behaviour, it could be enlightening and fascinating to ask and explore the question: Why do birds have sand-baths? And possibly another too: Why do some have sand baths, while others don’t? Ornithologist V Santharam observes: “Preen glands are essentially for oiling feathers. Mud baths are for dealing with parasites. Preen glands may to some extent help deal with ectoparasites . But these birds that take mud baths do it more for getting rid of ectoparasites.” On the other question, he points out that one notices a good number of hole-nesting species engaging in this cleansing ritual. Santharam believes being hole-nesting birds may have something to do with this behaviour, possibly because the their ectoparasite load could be higher. The fact that hoopoes, the hornbills and bee-eaters are inveterate sand-bathers provides strong scaffolding for this thought.     Preen glands are essentially for oiling feathers. Mud baths are for dealing with parasites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sand-as-soap/article37146550.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Manapakkam residents launch waste management initiative||Friends of Manapakkam (a group of volunteers from that locality) in association with Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is conducting a drive to collect old torn clothes, footwear, mattress and eWaste on October 23 and October 24 (from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on both days) at the Government middle school in Manapakkam. The aim of the drive is to responsibly divert the clothes, footwear and eWaste to authorised recyclers, notes a press release. The collected, old wornout clothes including those that are usable will be handed over to Porur-based Little Drops, a home for the old destitute and mentally challenged people. The unusable clothes would be made as diapers or mats or pillows and used in the home for people needs. Old unusable footwear, mattresses pillows and eWaste will be taken by the Greater Chennai Corporation’s empaneled aggregator and recyclers World Scrap Recycling Solutions and Wastewinn . The drive will be held on October 23 and 24 th Sunday at Government Middle School ,Manapakkam from 10.00 am to 4 pm. For more details, call 6374050127 or whatsapp 9444891902.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/manapakkam-residents-launch-waste-management-initiative/article37146562.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||From patient to promoter||For some years now, the Deepavali season brings a rare memory to this family in West Mambalam. Two members in the family fought cancer and are now leading a normal life, thanks to a 16-year-old’s gentle nudge that got the elders at home to undergo a cancer screening camp at her school. The diagnosis happened around Deepavali time in 2014. The management of Jaigopal Garodia Hindu Vidyalaya Secondary School had organised a breast cancer screening camp for its teachers and support staff on the campus. A mobile cancer screening clinic of Penn Nalam, a unit of Sri Dhanvantri Trust, had wheeled in. The mobile clinic was parked in the school and the team had told the students to ask their elders at home to avail this facility. “My daughter, who was in class XII, asked me to attend the camp without knowing that I was experiencing some abnormality in my breast,” says S. Nalini. In her late 30s then, Nalini decided to attend the camp and also take her mother and sister-in-law along with her. “The basic tests were done and we were told if we did not get a call after Deepavali then everything was fine,” says Nalini, who left with her fingers crossed. As luck would have it, Nalini was called to the Penn Nalam office and explained about the diagnosis and further treatment. “It came as a shock; the doctors had diagonised stage 3 cancer for me and also for my mom who was in her 60s,” says Nalini. The family was devastated but was determined to give the two of them hope and all the moral support they would need through every stage of the treatment. Nalini’s treatment put her daughter under immense stress. “I still remember that on March 31 I had a surgery and my daughter had to take her mathematics Board examination,” she says. Her father’s advice was: “No one should point out that you got less marks because of your mother’s treatment.” The treatment at a private hospital included radiation and chemotherapy that went on for more than a year. Nalini says cancer has given her strength to believe in herself. “The support and encouragement I got from my family helped me emotionally and physically,” she says. She is now one of Penn Nalam’s fiercest campaigners, telling people how she fought the disease and instilling a sense of hope in those treading the same path. She creates awareness about the necessity of regular screenings. “I do not shy away from telling my story whenever I am invited by Penn Nalam and I go for screening every year,” she says. At an event organised at the Income Tax office, Nalini shared the stage with actor and cancer survivor Gautami. Her advice to women: “If you are close to 40 and above make sure you look out for the warning signs. Early detection and diagnosis is the only way to fight cancer and that is how I am alive.” Radhika Santhanakrishnan, founder Penn Nalam, says survivors like Nalini are brand ambassadors for us. They help us reach out to our target group faster.    Early detection is the only way to fight cancer and it’s because of that I am alive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-patient-to-promoter/article37146566.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The walls of change||Inspired by Greater Chennai Corporation’s Singara Chennai campaign, residents of ETA Verde, a gated community at Porur, picked up the paint brush to give the walls near the entrance of the apartment an all-new look. The spotlight was on the children from the community, who brought a creative touch to the exercise. More than 20 children, lead by Chennai-based artist Dhayanedi, embellished a small section of the wall with murals. A combination of Gond art with vibrant colours painted by the children made this initiative eye-catching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-walls-of-change/article37146570.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Kolu Kondattam 2021 draws huge participation||The Hindu Kolu Kondattam 2021 which got under way alongside Navaratri celebrations, encouraged participants to come up with innovative Kolu displays. Spread across Chennai, Madurai, Trichy and Coimbatore, the contest evoked an enthusiastic response and was marked by huge participation in all the four cities. Based on a variety of criteria, three winners were picked from each city. Padmavati Raman from Alwarpet walked away with the first place while Kala Nagarajan from Ambattur finished runner-up; and the third place went to Vaishnavi Arul from Adyar. Thanks to our sponsors, an event of this magnitude was possible. Here is the list of sponsors. nThe event was sponsored bytitle sponsor Vidiem Kitchen Appliances.nIt was powered by Mangaldeep. nThe event was organised in association with Naga Food Products. nSSVM Institutions was the education partner; nNippon Paint the colour partner;nSaraswathi Vidyalaya the school partner; nKancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks & Freshey’s were the associate sponsors. nGift sponsors were Aachi Masala; Cotton House; G Organics; Estilo Clothing; Saaral Foods; PS Tamarind; RCL Foods; Selai Nayaki; Supreme Furniture. nThe TV Partner was News18 Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kolu-kondattam-2021-draws-huge-participation/article37146549.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Cancer care for men||This June, Aan Nalam, a unit of Penn Nalam Hospital, was opened to focus on diseases pertaining to oncology common among men. “Lions Club of Madras North has given us a building at Nerkundram, where we offer cancer screening and other treatments at a subsidised rate,” says Radhika Santhanakrishnan, founder Penn Nalam. Radhika says that both Penn Nalam and Aan Nalam devotes nearly 30% of its clinical time for cancer awareness programmes. Poor awareness about the disease and the absence of screening programmes are a few reasons why cancer is diagonised at a very advanced stage. “At an anganwadi in Thiruvottiyur, we were invited to screen all the ayyas and the tests were sponsored by a foreign donor,” says Radhika. Its mobile unit, started in 2013, offers subsidised screening in and around Chennai and other parts of the State. “If we have at least 60 sign-ups in an area we are ready to take our mobile unit to the place. Post-screening, we also do a follow-up so that they can repeat the test if they are showing any signs and symptoms,” says Arockia Mary, who is part of the mobile screening team. Communities and corporates that want to avail the services of its mobile screening bus at their colony/gated community/office premises can call the 9677046863/ 9840416775/965933156.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cancer-care-for-men/article37146565.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Your dream home is just a click away||Casagrand presents The Hindu PropertyPlus Virtual property fair, launched on October 22, 2021. The most trusted virtual property fair brings to you over 15 prestigious builders in Chennai. Sign up to find your dream home. The Virtual Property Fair will be open till October 31, 2021. Buyers will have an exciting array of options – from budget homes and functional apartment to lavish villas and luxury bungalows – all on a single platform. To register and view the special offers, visit https://bit.ly/THVP21 or scan the QR Code Our partners: Title Sponsor — Casagrand; and the other partners are: Lancor; Hiranandani Communities; SPR City; KG Builders; Sumanth & CO; VGN Homes; Navin’s; Voora; Fomra; Baashyaam; Marutham Group; Deccan; The Nest; Nova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/your-dream-home-is-just-a-click-away/article37146552.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Rayala Nagar RWA seeks walkway at park||We are happy to note that the Greater Chennai Corporation is getting a children’s park ready on Second Main Road in Rayala Nagar. There is another park nearby where Corporation is raising a Miyawaki forest. I request the Corporation to create a walkway at this park. There is another vacant land in First Cross Street meant for the creation of a park. Here, some residents pooled in money and cleaned the place and cleared the dense vegetation and installed badminton courts recently. We request the Corporation to maintain it well and build wash-rooms there. P.V. Kishore is the president of Rayala Nagar Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/rayala-nagar-rwa-seeks-walkway-at-park/article37146556.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Breast cancer screening camp||As October is observed as Breast Cancer Awareness Month, Dr. Kamakshi Memorial Hospitals is conducting a breast cancer screening camp along with an awareness session. The camps are conducted in the hospital’s branches in Pallikaranai, Medavakkam, Adyar and Pallavaram. Time: From 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. According to a press release, the test will be conducted at a cost of Rs.499 including a consultation with a physician and a breast ultrasound. Any further investigative procedure prescribed will be done at a 30 per cent discount, adds the release. For details call 8939900500 / 044-66300300||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/breast-cancer-screening-camp/article37146554.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s raining exhibitions||lWomen self help groups are selling their festival special products at an exhibition organised by Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women at Annai Teresa's Women complex, Valluvar Kottam, Nungambakkam lThe Bengal Weavers Rang Mahal are back in the city with their range of handwoven saris and handloom dress materials. The sale is on till November 1 at CP Art Centre, Alwarpet. lAt the Odisha Artisans Association’s crafts bazaar, open till the end of the month at Sankara Hall, Alwarpet, more than 30 stalls selling a wide range of textiles, jewellery, paintings and white wooden dolls are on display. lPreethi Handicrafts has a range of handicrafts and handlooms from Rajasthan, Orissa and Kashmir that can be gifted. The sale is at North Mada Street, Mylapore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/its-raining-exhibitions/article37146575.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on composting||TNAU Information and Training Centre at Guindy is organising a two-day training programme on composting and gardening on October 28 and 29. PH: 044-29530048.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-composting/article37146553.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||From patient to promoter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-patient-to-promoter/article37146559.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An eWaste drive with a local address||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-ewaste-drive-with-a-local-address/article37146561.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||a bright look||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-bright-look/article37146568.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An eWaste drive with a local address||The two-day eWaste and old clothes collection drive at Manapakkam (October 23-24) was roughed in at informal chats, largely on WhatsApp, between parents. Before SARS-COV-2 got the universe to socialise hunched over laptops and thumbing on mobiles, these parents would meet while dropping and picking up their children at school. A year ago, the friendship forged through brief corridor conversations and online chats led them to form a loosely structured group, Friends of Manapakkam. It was decided the group would volunteer for activities for the locality’s betterment, primarily in solid waste management. However, while the destination was marked, the ticket for the ride was missing. To put it plainly, they did not have a crystallised idea of how to go about their self-imposed goal. While hanging hopelessly in that space between resolution and action, one of them, Abitha went to an eWaste collection drive in Adyar, initiated in March this year by Residents of Kasturba Nagar Association (ROKA). While she emptied her bag crammed with electronic discards, a workable idea popped right into that bag and she took it to Manapakkam. When the other members of the group heard what it was, the ball was set rolling. “My son is studying at Lalaji Memorial Omega International School in Kolappakam, and I have made many friends from the school. These are also mothers of students at the schooI — Radhika, Deepa and Anandhi — and we are basically interested in solid waste management and the three Rs philosophy. When I attended the ROKA eWaste drive, a thought struck me. Not many people would want to travel far to drop their eWaste and any other recyclable waste such as old clothes. These days people do not mind spending money, but they do mind how their time is spent. So, having a drive primarily targeting people within a two to three kilometre radius, but keeping it open for anyone from anywhere seemed like a great idea.” When Abitha contacted Janani Venkitesh, Secretary of ROKA, seeking the Adyar group's guidance in organising a similar drive in Manapakkam, the response was hugely encouraging. “Their thinking was aligned with ROKA’s. We want more volunteers and communities across neighbourhoods to conduct ewaste collection drives locally and they should not primarily depend on ROKA to conduct drives. So, we agreed to help out,” recalls Janani. The help included getting the seal of approval and support, which includes finding a venue, from local Greater Chennai Corporation officials. The process after the collection is crucial and laborious as the assortment of collected waste should be separated and sent to the right recyclers. It is one of the areas where the ROKA eWaste drives have shown application and system. “Soon thereafter, I and Saranya, another ROKA volunteer met them, and it was almost finalised that it would happen in April.” But the Coronavirus had other plans. The ravaging second wave wiped out every thought of an eWaste drive. “Around the second wave, we had had only the first dose and we thought it prudent to have the eWaste drive later,” recalls Abitha. Going through the entire process again, which includes meeting local GCC officials, the event is now being organised at . Abitha believes even if 10 p.c. of the population participates in the drive, the objective would be met. Ten percent should amount to quite a number of residents. The population consists of many domiciliaries drawn to the locality for the schools the locality counts, as also for the quick access it provides to some IT parks. Going by an observation from Abitha, one tinged with obvious hyperbole, Manapakkam and its surroundings are an oversized school zone that pretends to be a locality. In truth, the locality cannot be pigeonholed into a pat, uni-dimensional category — that of course goes for any locality “There are many schools, and it is also an IT area,” remarks Abitha after some thought, and is hopeful that many residents would warm up to the eWaste initiative. Alagu Karthikeyan, who recently shifted to Manapakkam from Second Main Road in Kasturba Nagar where she was a ROKA volunteer, notes that the presence of many gated communities in Manapakkam makes it easier for the eWaste campaign to reach people. “One just has to get in touch with the committee members and they would take it forward.” The people who are inviting themselves to the party are what makes the heart glow with resplendent happiness. “We are using every avenue possible to spread the word about the event. They are getting calls from. Sowcarpet and Anna Nagar. When they receive calls from residents for far-flung areas, they are excited and I can relate to that. We went through same excitement when our drives evoked such responses,” observes Janani, adding that she, Saranya and two other ROKA volunteers would be in attendance during the two days to smoothen any possible wrinkles in the process. Says Abitha, “Now, we are reassuring others who are interested in having an eWaste drive in their neighbourhoods that they can count on our support. I got a call from a resident from Kattankulathur: I told them that if they started something, we would be there for them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-ewaste-drive-with-a-local-address/article37146543.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sand as ‘soap’||Mannequins for sand-bathing — bee eaters may walk away with that title without a contest, where humans handle the adjudication. A majority of us, particularly those who let birdwatching happen to them and hardly stir far from their lodgings and seek out birds, are prone to making that judgement. The bee eater — and in our patches, the green bee-eater — is only a more visible symbol of a behaviour that runs in many other species. Recently, on the earthern passage leading to Adyar estuary, with the boundary of the Theosophical Society rearing up on one side in a tall wall, an Eurasian hoopoe seemed to make this point, suddenly pausing from an afternoon feeding binge. Call it what you will, a coincidence or a case of one-upmanship, the hoopoe stopped tapping the ground for insects, and engaged in a sand-bathing ritual, the highlight being that a green bee-eater had done a wriggle in the sands, only a few feet away and a few seconds earlier. Away from the anthropomorphic lens that draws poetic but senseless inference of one-upmanship from a regular functional bird behaviour, it could be enlightening and fascinating to ask and explore the question: Why do birds have sand-baths? And possibly another too: Why do some have sand baths, while others don’t? Ornithologist V Santharam observes: “Preen glands are essentially for oiling feathers. Mud baths are for dealing with parasites. Preen glands may to some extent help deal with ectoparasites . But these birds that take mud baths do it more for getting rid of ectoparasites.” On the other question, he points out that one notices a good number of hole-nesting species engaging in this cleansing ritual. Santharam believes being hole-nesting birds may have something to do with this behaviour, possibly because the their ectoparasite load could be higher. The fact that hoopoes, the hornbills and bee-eaters are inveterate sand-bathers provides strong scaffolding for this thought. On why a good number of birds do not view sand as a means to rid themselves of free-loaders, there obviously cannot be an answer compact enough to packed into one sentence, short and smart. Santharam notes that in some bird species, there could be other behaviours that may adequately compensate for the absence of this behaviour. “In birds species that form social flocks and allopreen — the yellow-billed babbler being a classic example — the presence of the social group will take care of the ectoparasites.” He also remarks how “anting” is for some bird species a way to try to be free of ectoparasites. By crushing certain types of ants picked up with their bills and rubbing the formic acid generated in this manner against their bodies, these birds seem to make short work of ectoparasites.  (Field Notes is a weekly column about the resident and migratory birds of Chennai)   Preen glands are essentially for oiling feathers. Mud baths are for dealing with parasites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sand-as-soap/article37146530.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Back from the brink||Prasanna Karthik sews up a recollection of two medical crises with how he recovered from both, not just by pills, surgical threads and plates, but also wafer-thin carbon wheels. Prasanna, who suffered a cardiac arrest on December 30, 2012, snuffed out 43 candles on his birthday cake this week, on October 19 — so, imagine the shock the medical event nine years ago would have brought to his kith and kin. Prasanna would ensure their eyebrows went further up, the brows furrowed this time with pleasant surprise. Post-recovery, he took to running and shed 22 kilogrammes but an almost equal amount of flab remained before he finally achieved a healthy BMI. In 2014, acting on a friend’s suggestion, he jumped into cycling for heart health. It however went beyond the natural blood-pumping machine and captured his whole being, soul and sprit added for good measure, and made an endurance cyclist out of him, not to mention a “fitness trainer”. Absorbed in randonneuring, he would go on to win four senior-randonneuring (SR) titles (for an SR title, one has to complete 200, 300, 400 and 600 km Brevet de Randonneur Mondiaux or BRMs in one year). He capped off the 2019 season with participation in the 1200-km Paris-Brest-Paris brevet, which happens once in four years. Besides, he has done one Les Ranonneus Mondiaux (LRM), a 1,000 km ride. “Considering what I had gone through and recovered from, some people started looking up to me. As I did not want what had happened to me happen to them, I started getting familiar with diets and workouts.” The consultations on diets and workouts come gratis . Prasanna explains: “The training helps me enhance my knowledge about diets and workouts. I spend quality time on them learning about all these things.” It is essentially about sharing with others how he undid the effects of unhealthy eating and working behaviours. “When I had the cardiac arrest, I was into lifting weights, but not cardio. I was leading a sedentary life, and knew nothing about healthy diets. And the stress of running a business also took a toll on my heart,” says this Velachery resident. Prasanna admits he is not a certified nutritionist, but having shed around 42 kg twice — after the cardiac event and later, following an accident that rendered him hors de combat for months on end — “I do know how the body reacts to various diets”. Besides voracious reading about these twin subjects, he wrangled enough time from his property development business for a kettlebell certification programme, which helps him while writing out workout regimens for his friends. Around three years after the cardiac arrest and his transformation into an endurance cyclist, an accident set him back significantly and he had to start afresh almost from square one. It was a cycling accident that happened while riding the cycle downhill, and the brakes gave way. “I broke my wrist — it collapsed completely. I broke my collar bone. I was out of action for six months. A plate had been put in my shoulder and another in my wrist, and during my recovery period, I was not able to hold the handlebar. I had also put on considerable weight.” He repeated the cycle of recovery and restoration and transformation, losing over 40 kg again. When he returned to his business he was faced with paucity of time, and was forced to cut down on the time he could devote to guide others. Prasanna now focusses only on helping people on diets. “Currently, I am guiding six people with diets.” When it comes to workouts, he helps others with basic techniques such as posture correction. He points out that he would somehow create time for volunteering at randonnering events. A member of Madras Randonneurs, he is part of the ride responsibility. Though volunteering takes much out of him as it requires him to keep shuffling between control points — “Volunteering is more taxing than riding” — it does puts enough back in him, in terms of fulfilment, for him to continue with it.  I broke my wrist — it collapsed completely. I broke my collar bone. My brakes had given way. I was out of action for six months. A plate had been put in my shoulder and another in my wrist, and during my recovery, I was not able to hold the handlebar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/back-from-the-brink/article37146531.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweeter Deepavali||Software engineer Raghava Simha has set himself a target this Deepavali — making the festival somewhat memorable for 3,000 underprivileged children. As part of the festive season, he is running a campaign called Kanna Sweet Donate Panna Aasaya under which underprivileged children will be gifted with sweets. This campaign ends on October 30.  Kanna Sweet Donate Panna Aasaya  is one of the campaigns at “iGiver.org,” launched by Ragava Simha during the first wave of the pandemic. “iGiver.org is an online platform that I and my team have developed. It connects donors and non-governmental organisations. Donors can make donations in kind to these organisations through commercial establishments listed in iGiver.org,” says Raghava who runs his own software company called Lokas AWS Technologies Private Limited. For the Deepavali sweets campaign, the software engineer has roped in Winners Bakery. “Priced at Rs. 60, each sweet box contains a cake and some cookies. The response is encouraging. So far, 50 people have donated towards this cause. Some have made a donation that would help 300 children, and a few have taken care of 100, 50, 20, 10 and some five. So far, the campaign has reached out to 1,733 children living in care homes across Chennai,” says Raghava, a resident of Perambur. The commercial establishments listed in iGiver.org are: groceries stores Ambika Appalam Depot and Lokesh Provision & Oil Store; fruits and vegetables store Organic Farmers Market, sweets and snacks shops Svadishtana and Winners Bakery, book stores Amar Chitra Katha, Sixth Sense and Pratham Books, stationery store Sri Balaji Enterprises. Besides, iGiver.org has partnered with Inspire Minds where the latter sells gameboards. The games listed in iGiver.org aims to instill healthy food habits in children. Further there is something for donors who are interested in helping people with special needs, for which iGiver.org has tied up with Avaz inc which offers technology-based assistance for people with special needs. “I had worked with many non-governmental organisations. So, when the pandemic broke out last March and when the first nationwide lockdown was effected, many NGOs approached me for support. I also reached out to my relatives and friends to extend help to the needy and they sent me money. Last year, we were feeding the poor including the migrant labourers and distributed groceries. That is when the idea to start a digital platform that would directly connect donors and NGOs occurred to me and donations will be only in-kind and not money, and for which we had to tie up with commercial establishments. Hence the iGiver.org initiative. But, we charge an amount from the commercial establishments. Because, this platform brings the commercial establishments some business. If commercial establishments give anything for free, we will also not charge them. We need this money to sustain the initiative. Maintaining this website will entail some expenditure and this money will be put to that use. We also welcome products made by non-governmental organisations working with people with special needs.” Raghava Simha, a resident of Perambur, can be reached at 72000 11175.  “Last year, we were feeding the poor including the migrant labourers, and distributed groceries”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sweeter-deepavali/article37146534.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An extended role||A Chennai-based support group of parents of children with intellectual disabilities has embarked on a new journey – ensuring employment opportunities for the children. Towards creating an inclusive workplace, VOICE (Voice of Parents for Inclusion, Care and Empowerment of Children With Special Needs) is facilitating employment for the differently-abled, parents of such young adults and able-bodied individuals. KNSOFT Technologies, a Hyderabad-based startup, is the first company that has associated with VOICE to offer work from home opportunities for more than 80 people, which includes 10 neuro-diverse individuals, 20 special moms, and the remaining being individuals in need. Mano Rajini, one of the admins in VOICE, says they floated this opportunity in the various WhatsApp groups, inviting people to join. “There are quotas for the differently-abled but we noticed that without support they do not meet the expectations of the employer. Many a time, a differently-abled individual feels isolated in a new environment, so here we have special moms and volunteers helping us integrate the special adult, as in a buddy system,” says Rajini. She says volunteers are the backbone of this initiative. “They could be college students, homemakers or retired people who would lend support and earn a salary in the process,” says Rajini. Projects in data entry has many takers. Another project in the pipeline include GIS Mapping in Google Maps. Dasaradh Kosana, CEO, KNSOFT Technologies, says they started working with special adults since August and plan to scale it up depending on how many new gigs they get. “On October 24, we are opening a branch office in Chennai so that those on our rolls will be free to work from our space if they wish to,” says Dasaradh. He says they are still streamlining various process and those working on any project will be paid salaries based on their output. “Instructions on what needs to be done is carried out mainly with volunteers’ support. We also have a quality team that checks the completed work,” he says. Dasaradh says the pandemic has made it possible for people to explore remote work and the differently-abled are sure to benefit from the arrangement if they receive some support. Mangai Alwar and Santhiya Sundar, mothers of children on the spectrum, say that one of the main challenges that special needs adults face is having difficulty in socialising and understanding instructions. “My son, Rohan, has mood swings and needs some help from me; this work from home opportunity allows him to work at his own pace and time without much pressure,” says Santhiya. Rohan has been working for the last two months and is paid based on the “number of files” he completes. Mangai’s son has been finding his feet by running a web designing website. “But sometimes he has difficulty the logic behind certain processes and that is where I pitch in,” says Mangai. Rakshakanathan A N, a final-year undergraduate student and a member of the team, applied for the job to supplement his family income after his mother lost her job. “I work four hours a day and pitch in when others seek help,” he says. Voice started with 10 parents and has grown to nearly 1,000.   The pandemic has made it possible for people to explore remote work and the differently-abled are sure to benefit from the arrangement if they receive some support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-extended-role/article37146537.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Creativity and cause||Ranganayaki A, 82 years old, will be stepping out of her house in Santhome to showcase her intricate bead embroidery work at a Deepavali exhibition-cum-sale. She would be among 12 other home-based entrepreneurs, who will also display their creations at CP Art Centre, Alwarpet on October 25 and 26 in an event organised by Vanaja Sree Enterprises. Each of these women have an inspiring story about how they turned their passion into business so that they could be financially-independent and how they made the necessary adaptations to deal with the challenges posed by the pandemic. To beat loneliness after the death of her husband in 1992, Ranganayaki took to bead embroidery, with the basics of it that she had picked up during an overseas tour. In recent times, she has been honing her skills through tutorials on YouTube and magazines. “I did not participate in any outdoor exhibitions since the pandemic began last year, instead I kept adding to my collection. Now that I am vaccinated it gives me more confidence to step out,” says the octogenarian who will be showcasing her works that can be worn as choker, bangle and stitched on clothes. Recently, Ranganayaki, a member of Inner Wheel Club, took part in Tulip Bazaar that was held online. “There is a different joy in seeing a customer face-to-face and receive their feedback about your work; it gives me more design ideas too,” she says. For organiser Vanaja Ramanathan, the sale also means contributing a part of the collection to charity. The cuttings for the petticoats and nighties that she sells are done by her, following which it is outsourced to women from the slum clearance board in Ashok Nagar who stitch them. “I have been doing this for more than 20 years and helping underprivileged women earn some money,” says Vanaja. Her enterprise has a database of 200 women entrepreneurs and every time Vanaja plans an exhibition she announces it in the group. “Pandemic was a tough time for us, but many of us have found new ways to do business. We have been setting up stalls at gated communities, the most recent one being at Majestic Park in Virugambakkam,” says Vanaja. Last year, Jayalakshmi P from KK Nagar took up a space in front of her house to put up a shop selling homemade snacks like vadams and pickles. “I was not lucky as there were two other outlets on my street, so I am pinning my hopes on this sale at the CP Art Centre that has been lucky for me in the past,” says Jayalakshmi. She says her family subsists on her income and for the hardwork she puts in preparing these items people must shop from her. “ Athirasam is a Deepavali special and I am selling the batter,” she says. Jute bags to bedspreads from Karur, each of the stalls show how women are trying hard to find their feet amidst the pandemic. Educating the girl child Sowmya Silks is organising a sale of a wide range of saris and salwars at another venue at CP Art Centre through which the enterprise hopes to meet two needs. Sowmya V, who runs the unit, says they are helping the weavers in Kancheepuram who are left with much unsold stock due to the pandemic. “A small part of the proceeds from the sale also goes toward educating the girl child,” says Sowmya. The initiative has been running for 15 years where half-a-dozen girls are chosen to meet their educational expense. “We started this with our staff’s child and since then we have been increasing the number of beneficiaries who are chosen by word-of-mouth,” says Sowmya.  The cuttings for the petticoats and nighties that she sells are done by her. The stitching is done by women from the slum clearance board||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creativity-and-cause/article37146536.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Water wise||Whenever the monsoon is close at hand, rainwater harvesting pitter-patters into the spotlight. Where no rainwater harvesting installation exists, a rude goad can be expected. Where an RWH structure does exist, a possible laurel can be won. Jains Pebble Brook, a gated community in Thoraipakkam, has received laurels for its rainwater harvesting installations and the results it has achieved with them. VR Chennai, a mall in Anna Nagar, received accolades for theirs in the category for commercial establishments. The winners were announced at virtual concalve organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) on October 21. The Municipal Administration and Water Supply (MAWS) department in coordination with Chennai Metro Water and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) had maked these two for the top honour in their categories under “Rainwater Harvesting Implementation”. CMWSSB had vetted the various entries and passed on its observations to MAWS to make the selection, a CMWSSB source familiar with the exercise disclosed. An official from the main CMWSSB office remarks that VR Chennai harvests rainwater optimally through a system of recharge wells and pits and what makes their water management commendable, even somewhat singular, is the total lack of dependence on groundwater. “They have not sunk any borewells on their premises. They buy water from tankers, and during the rainy reason, they meet a good part of their water needs by efficiently harvesting rainwater,” the Metro Water official adds. Jains Pebble Brook stood out in the residential-units category. From each of the 15 CMWSSB Areas, details about the pick of the rainwater harvesting systems had to be sent to the main office. Jains Pebble Brook made it from Area 15. On what makes this gated community’s rainwater conservation effort remarkable, a local CMWSSB official shares this observation: “Generally, all RWAs would have done RWH installations at the time of construction, but would be lax in maintaining the facility and it would become defunct. This RWA has been consistently maintaining the RWH installations they had done for four blocks. The water they take out they use with conventional filter and recycle the used water. Besides, they also have a modular STP in place.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/water-wise/article37146519.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Helpline numbers to attend to Deepavali rush||In view of Deepavali, the State Transport Department will ply special long-distance buses from six bus terminuses in Chennai on November 1, 2 and 3. More than 3,000 special buses will be operated. The buses will be operated from Madhavaram New bus terminus, Kalaignar Karunanidhi Nagar Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) bus terminus, Tambaram Sanatorium Arignar Anna Madras Export Processing Zone (MEPZ) bus terminus, Tambaram Railway Station (West) bus terminus, Poonamallee bus terminus and MGR bus terminus at Koyambedu.   Appeal to the public  Buses with reservations have been advised to operate from MGR bus terminus, Koyambedu and proceed through Poonamallee, Nazarethpettai, Outer Ring Road and Vandalur to Urapakkam bus terminus. Those who have gone in for reservations to board buses from Tambaram and Perungalathur bus terminuses have been requested to board from Urapakkam bus terminus. People travelling by the private mode of transport have been requested to travel either via the Thirukazhukundram - Chengalpattu route or Sriperumbudur - Chengalpattu route to avoid traffic congestion in the Grand Southern Trunk Road Tambaram and Perungalathur regions.  Reservation counters  A total of 10 reservation counters will be set up on the premises of MGR bus terminus, Koyambedu; and two at MEPZ bus terminus. The public can also book the tickets online through www.tnstc.in, www.redbus.in, www.paytm.com and www.busindia.com and on the official app of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation.   Helpline numbers  To know about bus routes and register complaints regarding services, public can contact the following numbers - 94450 14450, and 94450 14436. Twenty ‘May I Help You’ booths will be set up in the terminuses. For registering complaints against fleecing omni bus operators, public can call 044 24749002/ toll-free number 1800 425 6151.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/helpline-numbers-to-attend-to-deepavali-rush/article37146506.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The wait continues||Chitlapakkam Rising, a citizens group, has requested the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) to restore the small bus services S3 and S8 and also the service of a regular bus, H51 Extension. “With schools and colleges set to reopen from November 1, the services should be resumed at the earliest,” says D. Udhayavani, member of the group. S3 was plying between Chromepet and Madambakkam via Chitlapakkam. S8 between Chromepet and Tambaram East railway station via Chitlapakkam. And, H51 Extension was connecting Chitlapakkam and Madras High Court. “The services were temporarily suspended to facilitate the construction of a major cut-and-cover macro drain on the bus route roads in Chitlapakkam. The work was taken up by the Water Resources Department, a wing of the Public Works Department from September 2018 to December 2019. However, after the completion of the drain work, the MTC services have not been restored to this day,” says Sunil Jayaram, another member of the group. The MTC services provided connectivity to Tambaram Sanatorium railway station, Chromepet bus terminal, Tambaram Teshildar Office, Tambaram Taluk Government Hospital (Chromepet GH), National Institute of Siddha, and Madras Export Processing Zone (MEPZ), Tambaram Sanatorium. In the absence of MTC services, residents of Chitlapakkam find it difficult to access these places. “Exploiting this situation, autorickshaw drivers fleece us. To cite an example, the auto fare from the Tambaram Sanatorium railway station to Thirumagal Nagar in Chitlapakkam is Rs. 70. Not all of us can afford to spend so much every day for commuting, and due to this situation, some resort to walking. Even then, they are not spared. There is no proper space to walk. Due to haphazard parking of vehicles and encroachments, people are forced to walk on the carriageway,” adds Udhayavani. Chitlapakkam Rising has taken up this issue with the Metropolitan Transport Corporation. “We have escalated the isue taking it to the notice of the Tambaram MLA; and we want the MLA to convene a meeting with the residents of Chitlapakkam in the presence of MTC officials to understand the gravity of the problem,” says Jayaram.  The services were temporarily suspended to facilitate the construction of a major cut-and-cover macro drain on the bus route roads in Chitlapakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-wait-continues/article37146511.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘MTC buses hardly halt at this stop in Chromepet’||I request the Metropolitan Transport Corporation to clearly demarcate the Sarvana Stores bus-stop in Chromepet on Grand Southern Trunk Road. In the absence of a bus-shelter and a signboard to indicate the bus-stop, MTC drivers halt the bus as they please. At present, only barricades have been placed to identify the bus-stop. But only a few buses halt within the bay. Most of drivers halt the bus away from bus-stop, that is near the intersection of Pudhuvai Nagar First Street and Grand Southern Trunk Road in Chromepet and some on the middle of the road. The commuters have no idea of where their buses will halt. Therefore, they have to be literally on their toes and run amidst the flow of vehicular traffic on the highway to board the buses. Further, the walkers’ pathway on the road is engulfed by parked vehicles. As a result, commuters are forced to stand in the highway which is unsafe. In this regard, I request the State Highways Department and the Pallavapuram Municipality to construct a shelter with seating facilities so that the bus-stop is made prominent. D. Sukumar is a resident of Chromepet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mtc-buses-hardly-halt-at-this-stop-in-chromepet/article37146527.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||From patient to promoter||For some years now, the Deepavali season brings a rare memory to this family in West Mambalam. Two members in the family fought cancer and are now leading a normal life, thanks to a 16-year-old’s gentle nudge that got the elders at home to undergo a cancer screening camp at her school. The diagnosis happened around Deepavali time in 2014. The management of Jaigopal Garodia Hindu Vidyalaya Secondary School had organised a breast cancer screening camp for its teachers and support staff on the campus. A mobile cancer screening clinic of Penn Nalam, a unit of Sri Dhanvantri Trust, had wheeled in. The mobile clinic was parked in the school and the team had told the students to ask their elders at home to avail this facility. “My daughter, who was in class XII, asked me to attend the camp without knowing that I was experiencing some abnormality in my breast,” says S. Nalini. In her late 30s then, Nalini decided to attend the camp and also take her mother and sister-in-law along with her. “The basic tests were done and we were told if we did not get a call after Deepavali then everything was fine,” says Nalini, who left with her fingers crossed. As luck would have it, Nalini was called to the Penn Nalam office and explained about the diagnosis and further treatment. “It came as a shock; the doctors had diagonised stage 3 cancer for me and also for my mom who was in her 60s,” says Nalini. The family was devastated but was determined to give the two of them hope and all the moral support they would need through every stage of the treatment. Nalini’s treatment put her daughter under immense stress. “I still remember that on March 31 I had a surgery and my daughter had to take her mathematics Board examination,” she says. Her father’s advice was: “No one should point out that you got less marks because of your mother’s treatment.” The treatment at a private hospital included radiation and chemotherapy that went on for more than a year. Nalini says cancer has given her strength to believe in herself. “The support and encouragement I got from my family helped me emotionally and physically,” she says. She is now one of Penn Nalam’s fiercest campaigners, telling people how she fought the disease and instilling a sense of hope in those treading the same path. She creates awareness about the necessity of regular screenings. “I do not shy away from telling my story whenever I am invited by Penn Nalam and I go for screening every year,” she says. At an event organised at the Income Tax office, Nalini shared the stage with actor and cancer survivor Gautami. Her advice to women: “If you are close to 40 and above make sure you look out for the warning signs. Early detection and diagnosis is the only way to fight cancer and that is how I am alive.” Radhika Santhanakrishnan, founder Penn Nalam, says survivors like Nalini are brand ambassadors for us. They help us reach out to our target group faster.    Early detection is the only way to fight cancer and it’s because of that I am alive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-patient-to-promoter/article37146533.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Merge us with GCC’||The Confederation of Ayyappanthangal Residents Welfare Associations has made a representation to the Additional Chief Secretary to the Government, Municipal Administration & Water Supply Department last week seeking the inclusion of Ayyappanthangal Village Panchayat in Greater Chennai Corporation. This request follows a recent Government Order that proposes to upgrade the Mangadu Town Panchayat to Mangadu Municipality and include Ayyappanthangal and surrounding villages in it. Ayyappanthangal Panchayat is situated in Kundrathur Panchayat Union in Kancheepuram District. “Ayyappanthagal shares its border with Karambakkam (which is part of the Greater Chennai Corporation) but not with Mangadu. Ayyappanthagal and Mangadu are approximately five kilometres apart,” says P. Senthil Kumar, coordinator of the Confederation. “Over the years, the population has increased manifold in Ayyappanthangal Village Panchayat. At present, the population density of Ayyappanthangal is around 2,000 people per square km. Though classified as “Village Panchayat,” Ayyappanthangal is highly urbanised. It has gated communities and multi-storied buildings. Comparatively, Mangadu in spite of being a Town Pachayat is not as urbanised as Ayyappanthangal.” says Senthil Kumar. Besides the representation to the Municipal Administration & Water Supply Department, the Confederation of Ayyappanthangal Residents Welfare Associations has also initiated a signature campaign. So far, 500 residents have signed and expressed support for the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/merge-us-with-gcc/article37146541.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Manapakkam residents launch waste management initiative||Friends of Manapakkam (a group of volunteers from that locality) in association with Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is conducting a drive to collect old torn clothes, footwear, mattress and eWaste on October 23 and October 24 (from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on both days) at the Government middle school in Manapakkam. The aim of the drive is to responsibly divert the clothes, footwear and eWaste to authorised recyclers, notes a press release. The collected, old wornout clothes including those that are usable will be handed over to Porur-based Little Drops, a home for the old destitute and mentally challenged people. The unusable clothes would be made as diapers or mats or pillows and used in the home for people needs. Old unusable footwear, mattresses pillows and eWaste will be taken by the Greater Chennai Corporation’s empaneled aggregator and recyclers World Scrap Recycling Solutions and Wastewinn . The drive will be held on October 23 and 24 th Sunday at Government Middle School ,Manapakkam from 10.00 am to 4 pm. For more details, call 6374050127 or whatsapp 9444891902.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/manapakkam-residents-launch-waste-management-initiative/article37146542.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Kolu Kondattam 2021 draws huge participation||The Hindu Kolu Kondattam 2021 which got under way alongside Navaratri celebrations, encouraged participants to come up with innovative Kolu displays. Spread across Chennai, Madurai, Trichy and Coimbatore, the contest evoked an enthusiastic response and was marked by huge participation in all the four cities. Based on a variety of criteria, three winners were picked from each city. Padmavati Raman from Alwarpet walked away with the first place while Kala Nagarajan from Ambattur finished runner-up; and the third place went to Vaishnavi Arul from Adyar. Thanks to our sponsors, an event of this magnitude was possible. Here is the list of sponsors. nThe event was sponsored bytitle sponsor Vidiem Kitchen Appliances.nIt was powered by Mangaldeep. nThe event was organised in association with Naga Food Products. nSSVM Institutions was the education partner; nNippon Paint the colour partner;nSaraswathi Vidyalaya the school partner; nKancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks & Freshey’s were the associate sponsors. nGift sponsors were Aachi Masala; Cotton House; G Organics; Estilo Clothing; Saaral Foods; PS Tamarind; RCL Foods; Selai Nayaki; Supreme Furniture. nThe TV Partner was News18 Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kolu-kondattam-2021-draws-huge-participation/article37146517.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Cancer care for men||This June, Aan Nalam, a unit of Penn Nalam Hospital, was opened to focus on diseases pertaining to oncology common among men. “Lions Club of Madras North has given us a building at Nerkundram, where we offer cancer screening and other treatments at a subsidised rate,” says Radhika Santhanakrishnan, founder Penn Nalam. Radhika says that both Penn Nalam and Aan Nalam devotes nearly 30% of its clinical time for cancer awareness programmes. Poor awareness about the disease and the absence of screening programmes are a few reasons why cancer is diagonised at a very advanced stage. “At an anganwadi in Thiruvottiyur, we were invited to screen all the ayyas and the tests were sponsored by a foreign donor,” says Radhika. Its mobile unit, started in 2013, offers subsidised screening in and around Chennai and other parts of the State. “If we have at least 60 sign-ups in an area we are ready to take our mobile unit to the place. Post-screening, we also do a follow-up so that they can repeat the test if they are showing any signs and symptoms,” says Arockia Mary, who is part of the mobile screening team. Communities and corporates that want to avail the services of its mobile screening bus at their colony/gated community/office premises can call the 9677046863/ 9840416775/965933156.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cancer-care-for-men/article37146532.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Plagued by a raft of issues||Members of Sri Sarvamangala Nagar Residents’ Association at Chitlapakkam have filed a RTI to learn about the action taken by Chitlapakkam Selection Grade Town Panchayat on a host of issues they have been raising from time to time. These include ABC initiative to control dog population, unkempt vacant plots and encroachment by commercial establishments and residential homes.  M. Ravi, secretary, Sri Sarvamangala Nagar Residents Association, says the unkempt vacant plots in the locality are being used as a dumping ground. “This draws pigs and stray dogs,” he says. Ravi says they want the Panchayat to levy a fee from owners for cleaning vacant plots periodically. “There are many vacant plots in the neighbourhood and garbage is being dumped there. Poor sanitation would lead to outbreak of diseases,” says Ravi. Ravi raised the issues with the executive officer of the town panchayat through WhatsApp. “Recently, the junior engineer, sanitary officer and conservancy staff inspected the plots but no action has been taken,” he says. No space to walk Pedestrians in many areas have no proper space to walk. Most of the lanes lack pedestrian walkway or are encroached upon for parking vehicles. A section of residents have cultivated gardens outside their homes and have fenced them too, forcing the residents to walk on the carriageway. Besides, many commercial establishments have encroached upon the walking space by constructing a shed, which is used as a parking space. “At a Lok Adalat held on July 30, 2019, at Chengalpattu, we raised these issues. An official in the rank of Junior Assistant from the Panchayat took an undertaking to solve the issues within 15 days,” says Ravi. Prune the tree branches The unchecked growth of greenery is proving to be a nuisance. The branches and leaves block street lights. Despite complaints by the residents to prune the tree branches before the onset of north-east monsoon, no action has been taken, says K. Ramakrishna, executive committee member of the association. Residents says it’s a few months since fogging operations were carried out in the locality. The stormwater drains in the region are used to discharge sewage and dump garbage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/plagued-by-a-raft-of-issues/article37146505.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Grills on footpath damaged’||The eastern side of Tambaram railway station was spruced up two years ago. Footpaths were laid, road medians were constructed and colourful saplings were planted within it. Powerful LED lights were installed. However, vandalism by miscreants has taken the shine off the refurbishments. The steel grills along the footpath are especially found to be broken and bent at several places. And in some places, the grills have been removed. I request the Southern Railways to do the needful. R V Baskaran is a resident of Selaiyur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/grills-on-footpath-damaged/article37146524.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Your dream home is just a click away||Casagrand presents The Hindu PropertyPlus Virtual property fair, launched on October 22, 2021. The most trusted virtual property fair brings to you over 15 prestigious builders in Chennai. Sign up to find your dream home. The Virtual Property Fair will be open till October 31, 2021. Buyers will have an exciting array of options – from budget homes and functional apartment to lavish villas and luxury bungalows – all on a single platform. To register and view the special offers, visit https://bit.ly/THVP21 or scan the QR Code Our partners: Title Sponsor — Casagrand; and the other partners are: Lancor; Hiranandani Communities; SPR City; KG Builders; Sumanth & CO; VGN Homes; Navin’s; Voora; Fomra; Baashyaam; Marutham Group; Deccan; The Nest; Nova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/your-dream-home-is-just-a-click-away/article37146522.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering Crazy Mohan||Crazy Creations celebrated Crazy Mohan’s 69th birthday recently at an event organised at Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha, Vani Mahal. Nephrologist Dr Rajan Ravichandran was awarded the Crazy Mohan Award of Excellence in recognition of his contribution in the field of medicine and service to society. Dr Rajan has been helping the underprivileged through Sapiens Health Foundation, said a press release. The award, which was presented by Ravi Appaswami, MD, Appaswami Real Estate, carried a citation and a memento. Carnatic vocalist Gayathri Girish and stage actor Kathadi Ramamurthy felicitated the awardee. Speaking at the event Dr Rajan highlighted the importance of early detection of kidney ailments and the work done by the Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/remembering-crazy-mohan/article37146508.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Breast cancer screening camp||As October is observed as Breast Cancer Awareness Month, Dr. Kamakshi Memorial Hospitals is conducting a breast cancer screening camp along with an awareness session. The camps are conducted in the hospital’s branches in Pallikaranai, Medavakkam, Adyar and Pallavaram. Time: From 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. According to a press release, the test will be conducted at a cost of Rs.499 including a consultation with a physician and a breast ultrasound. Any further investigative procedure prescribed will be done at a 30 per cent discount, adds the release. For details call 8939900500 / 044-66300300||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/breast-cancer-screening-camp/article37146518.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Speed-breakers need to be laid in intersections in Ullagaram’||I request the State Highways Department and the Greater Chennai City Traffic Police to lay speed-breakers and deploy a traffic police personnel at the following two intersections — Medavakkam Main Road and NSK Road in Vanuvampet and Medavakkam Main Road, Alex Street and Draupadi Amman Koil Street in Ullagaram. In these two intersections, pedestrians have a tough time in crossing the junction. They have to signal the motorists to slow down and then they cross. It is worse during rush hour. Hence, the authorities concerned are requested to do the needful. A. Raghavan is a resident of Nanganallur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/speed-breakers-need-to-be-laid-in-intersections-in-ullagaram/article37146529.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s raining exhibitions||lWomen self help groups are selling their festival special products at an exhibition organised by Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women at Annai Teresa's Women complex, Valluvar Kottam, Nungambakkam lThe Bengal Weavers Rang Mahal are back in the city with their range of handwoven saris and handloom dress materials. The sale is on till November 1 at CP Art Centre, Alwarpet. lAt the Odisha Artisans Association’s crafts bazaar, open till the end of the month at Sankara Hall, Alwarpet, more than 30 stalls selling a wide range of textiles, jewellery, paintings and white wooden dolls are on display. lPreethi Handicrafts has a range of handicrafts and handlooms from Rajasthan, Orissa and Kashmir that can be gifted. The sale is at North Mada Street, Mylapore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/its-raining-exhibitions/article37146535.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Two-day workshop on composting and gardening||TNAU Information and Training Centre at Guindy is organising a two-day training programme. On October 28, a workshop in composting technologies will be conducted followed by kitchen gardening the next day. According to a release, the programmes will be useful to homemakers, gardeners, self help group and students. Information on composting methodologies, recycling of bio degradable wastes, materials for preparation of compost, compost production methodology and factors influencing composting will be taught. Those interested can register by calling 044-29530048.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-day-workshop-on-composting-and-gardening/article37146538.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Miyawaki project launched||AM Foundation, the corporate social responsibility arm of Singapore-headquartered AM International Holdings, recently completed a Miyawaki technique tree plantation project around the manufacturing plants of Manali Petrochemicals (MPL). The initiative, carried out in co-operation with the Greater Chennai Corporation, is part of MPL’s CSR efforts to enhance the quality of air, water and soil for green living, said a release. Various native species of trees were planted in Zone 2, Ward 15 of Manali New Town. The species of trees were selected based on recommendations from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/miyawaki-project-launched/article37146540.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Registration for Terry Fox run ends today||Today is the last day to register for the Terry Fox Run Chennai. The annual event was flagged off on October 17 with participants taking part by walking, cycling, skating or running and raising funds for Cancer Research. Participants can register and donate athttps://youtoocanrun.com/ races/terry-fox-virtual-run-chennai-2021/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/registration-for-terry-fox-run-ends-today/article37146507.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Home-made delicacies||Raju Iyer catering services has a range of homemade delicacies for Deepavali. Jangiri, badhusha and special mixture are some of them. Other hot favourites are laddu, mysorepak , gauva cake and karasev .The enterprise, which has been in business for more than 40 years, also send sweets to various countries including USA, Singapore and Australia. For orders, contact 9444434269/9952962527||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/home-made-delicacies/article37146509.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Back from the brink||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/back-from-the-brink/article37146512.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||the fight against dengue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-fight-against-dengue/article37146539.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Lasting suppers||There’s a Hindi aphorism that has always intrigued me. It says that a halwai (sweetmeat-maker) doesn’t eat his own sweets. Why ever not, I have often asked myself. Surely, the halwai knows what works best? It was this thought that had prompted me, several years ago, to ask a few chefs what they liked to cook and eat at home. I was surprised by their answers. Most stressed that they liked nothing more than a simple spread of rice, dal and papad. This came back to me when I was reading Anthony Bourdain’s A Cook’s Tour: In Search of the Perfect Meal last week. He writes about something called the “last meal game” that he played with fellow chefs. If you were about to die, what would your last meal be, he’d ask. Bourdain writes: “‘Braised short ribs,’ said one friend. ‘A single slab of seared foie gras,’ said another. ‘Linguine pomodoro, like my mother used to make me,’ said another. ‘Cold meat loaf sandwich,’ said another, shuddering with pleasure. ‘Don’t tell anyone.’ “No one I’ve ever played this game with came back with, ‘Tasting menu at Ducasse,’” he writes, referring to the Michelin-starred chain. The taste of family Indeed, as I find in a great many books written by noted cooks, there is nothing chefs treasure more than a simple dish. They may know their white truffles from black, but they keep going back to old memories, and often meals cooked with everyday ingredients, when they write about food. In Madhur Jaffrey’s Curry Easy , she mentions various kinds of simple and exotic dishes, but goes mushy when she writes about egg curries. She recalls how her friend, the film producer Ismail Merchant, would call her when he returned home from his travels abroad, and say, “Come over for dinner”. “The fact that his cupboard was completely bare and his refrigerator mostly empty from his week abroad did not faze him one bit. He bought some eggs and made an egg curry, which he served with rice, his mother’s mango pickle, and some salad. What more can one want?” Almost every food book has a reference to a fond memory or a dish cooked by a mother or a grandmother. Food show hostess and writer Nigella Lawson writes about her mother’s roast chicken, a Saturday lunch ritual, and “the lemony and rich, yet calming, savoury scent that filled the air” as she cooked. “This may be — indeed is — the smell, the taste, the dish that says ‘family’ to me and my siblings, and brings our long-absent mother back to the kitchen and table with us,” Lawson writes in Nigella Kitchen: Recipes from the Heart of the Home . The strangest of ingredients can open up the floodgates of food memory. In Chef Mandaar Sukhtankar’s case, it is the smell of fresh milk. Fresh days “One Sunday driving around town, I found myself trailing a milkman on a scooter and my mind went back to when we were children. The doorbell would ring. The doodhwala with his milk can and indispensable ‘measure’ would be at the door. The aroma of fresh milk would make me giddy as he measured and poured it out,” he writes in Romancing the Chicks: Stories, Recipes and Thoughts . The road turned, as did the milkman — “and I drove on ahead wondering if I would ever find a milkman to tail again, just so I could relive those fresh days once more in this oh-so-tetra-packed-world.” Since I started with the last meal concept, let me end with Roald Dahl’s version of it — a game he called the hangman’s supper. In Roald Dahl’s Cookbook , he recalls several memorable meals, including one from when he was 17. On that occasion, he fished rainbow trout from a lake in Newfoundland and cooked them simply on embers. Then there was the ptarmigan, a Norwegian grouse, cooked by his mother, and served with a creamy gravy and small round roast potatoes. “These are the meals I remember and would like to have again, but, alas, nothing superlative can ever be repeated. We must live with our memories,” he writes. And memories are the best ingredients you can have in a kitchen — or a cookbook.  In Madhur Jaffrey’sCurry Easy, she mentions various simple and exotic dishes, but goes mushy when she writes about egg curries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lasting-suppers/article37146586.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Listening to nature’s voice||Amitav Ghosh opens The Nutmeg’s Curse with soldiers from the Dutch East India Company unleashing their savagery on the people of the Banda Islands in the 17th century. Bandanese chiefs were mercilessly massacred, and the extermination of the people lasted 18 years, with “not a vestige of their language or peculiar customs” remaining. Ghosh then moves from Indonesia to the heinous crimes of genocide of Native Americans in North America. His polemic links settler colonialism and its barbaric values to the sustained culture of domination and destruction of the land and people. For over three centuries, Europeans and Native Americans fought a “total war” in which “races, cultures, worldviews and ecosystems were pitted against each other”. In 1550, Charles V of Spain held a conference at Valladolid to resolve whether Amerindians had souls, but the question remained unsettled. White man’s burden Colonialists’ claim to the “savage”, “wild” and “vacant” land laid the seeds of climate change, believes Ghosh. Since the 16th century, the ideology of conquest has been built on the belief that white Europeans are superior to the natives in intelligence, culture, and language; these theories have been strengthened and celebrated by poets, philosophers and thinkers (e.g., Alfred Lord Tennyson, Francis Bacon, Francis Galton) and manifested as part of the colonial zeitgeist. Ghosh describes all this in his now familiar lyrical, slightly melancholic, picaresque style. In this gripping read, a tour de force , his words are sharp, avenging, and often find their mark. The terraforming colonial project has been extended across the planet, which has become a resource to be devoured. What would it be like to live on earth as if it were Gaia, a living, vital entity, Ghosh wonders? Native Americans lived like that and believed that their landscapes were alive. Ghosh seeks a global politics of ‘vitalism’ — the belief that living beings have a vital force. With storytelling at the core, vitalism is built around the landscape, imbued with meaning, and its politics encompasses different elements of performance and participation, occupation and alternative modes of dwelling (as in Gandhi’s ashram). Recent examples of vitalist politics are the Occupy Movement, Black Lives Matter, and protests at the Dakota Pipeline. Science and reason Ghosh’s thesis can stand on its own without some of his gratuitous potshots at science and scientists. Interpreting nature requires varied language, including that of science. The articles and reviews by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change include papers about local global warming experiences by farmers and fishers, which are not being ignored in the pursuit of climate models. But numbers too are crucial, not a fog. Ignore them, and you will silence reason along with the voices of nature and landscapes. We also know that vitalism gone overboard can sink into superstition and we must be well aware of the dangers of that. Ghosh writes, “there exists no other sphere of contemporary life in which there is so great an overlap between a phenomenon and the credentialed literature that frames it.” He goes on to say that not just economists but ordinary people speak and write about the economy. Presumably, he might add that both farmers and scientists have views about growing crops. Why don’t ordinary people play a more prominent role in climate conversations? But he seems to forget that climate change will express itself over multiple generations well into the future and we are barely beginning to see its impacts. He follows the story of migrants who have been undertaking the arduous journey to Europe in increasing numbers. Surprisingly, he finds that a good proportion of them are from Bangladesh and tries to uncover the reasons for their migration. He follows the life of one young man, ‘Khokon’ from Kishoreganj district, who he meets in Parma, Italy. Khokon describes his oppressive life, which was overlaid with one disaster after the other. He undertook a nightmare of a journey, having to pay large sums to traffickers for their arrangements. But when asked why he had migrated, was it climate change, he resolutely points to other troubles: political violence, the bad job scene, family problems and aspirations for better living standards. And the new communications technologies made it convenient for him to connect with traffickers.    Polarised view Ghosh falls into the familiar but now dated polarised thinking on the social and the natural sciences. Assuming that natural scientists are positivists, that they equate their models with reality, is a common mistake. True, the natural sciences originated with a view to gain mastery over nature, but even anthropology has dubious origins as a knowledge-collecting enterprise to spy for colonial powers. The prevailing ‘social constructivist’ tendency in the social sciences has pivoted around an obsession with epistemology. While thumbing one’s nose at scientists might be valid, when the planet is facing climate change, we cannot dismiss scientists’ understanding and their estimates. Ghosh and some in the humanities and social sciences now try to perform the indelicate dance of mistakenly accusing climate scientists and their scientism. But he personally, perhaps condescendingly, admires scientists for their courage! While the upswell of vitalism has lifted Greta Thunberg, her success, he believes, is despite her mantra, “listen to the scientists”. Harken to the words spoken by nature, Ghosh says. Therein lies the wisdom to address climate change.  The reviewer is a scientist who lives in Chennai.  The Nutmeg’s Curse Amitav Ghosh Penguin Random House  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/listening-to-natures-voice/article37146604.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Tinker tales||Back in the 1970s, most of us owned only two-stroke two-wheelers. I owned a scooter which I carted around on my postings from station to station. It was a trusty machine, which I tended personally, doing the routine oil change and other work. Because of my experience working in a garage in the six months between my school ending and college starting, I had purchased the tools and retained the interest to do repair and overhaul jobs myself. Prior to my posting to Missamari in Assam in 1976, I had somewhat neglected my scooter, because my spare time was mostly spent with family. I had diagnosed the need for decarbonising the engine, because the kick-starter would sometimes kick back, but kept postponing it. My posting in Missamari was in an appointment which demanded much time and attention. Indeed, my wife did all the shopping and sundry chores, using the scooter. And she was having trouble starting it. Missamari of those days had a very small market place, boasting only one rather inexperienced mechanic. With the self-importance of my skill and experience with machines, I did not want to entrust my scooter to a youngster. So decarb was further postponed. One holiday morning, my wife complained that it was too difficult for her to start the scooter. So we went down together to our garage, me in “holiday wear” wearing Hawai chappals. When I depressed the kick-starter, it snapped back, and since I was wearing chappals, the kick-starter pedal painfully struck the underside of my foot and a metatarsal was fractured. My lower leg was put into a plaster cast in the Military Hospital, and I was granted a few days’ sick leave. My downstairs neighbour Ganapathy asked what had happened when he saw my leg in plaster. When told how it happened, he was quite amused and unbelieving that a scooter kick-starter could cause a fracture. With little to do at home, I decided that it was high time to decarb the engine. So I carried down the tools and a low stool for sitting on, to the garage. The engine was taken down easily, and I decided to do a thorough overhaul. The engine and its subsystems were all stripped down and strewn over half the garage, with me sitting on the stool in the middle, my plaster leg sticking out. It must have been a strange sight, because Ganapathy happened to come by at that time and burst out laughing. I did not find anything funny, and curtly asked him what was there to laugh about. He said, “I see you are taking revenge on your scooter!”, and went on his way, still laughing loudly. sg9kere@live.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tinker-tales/article37146578.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from Mexico’s Doll Island||Besides holding the title of the scariest place in all of Mexico City, Isla del las Muñecas ,which is Spanish for ‘Island of the Dolls’, is also excruciatingly difficult to get to. It is located 18 miles south of Mexico City in Xochimilco, a suburb famous for its floating, man-made islands of reed called chinampas that were built by the Aztecs. The tiny island is so popular that it is responsible for the spawning of at least eight other copycat doll islands. Fakes, that cunning trajinera boat captains are only too happy to convince you into visiting. Luckily for me, I have a local Mexican friend along who manages to find a captain ready to take us to the real island, which is a good two hours away from Embarcadero Cuemanco, one of the nine boat landings dotted along the canals of Xochimilco. Floral tributes In the indigenous Náhuatl language, the word ‘xochimilco’ simply means ‘place where flowers grow’ and that’s exactly why, in the early 1950s after a bad case of heartbreak, Don Julián Santana Barrera moved here and started growing flowers on an abandoned chinampa. Every day he’d take a trajinera loaded with his marigolds or cempasuchitl (flower of the dead), as they are known as in Mexico, to sell at the Mercado de Xochimilco. It was while returning home from one such sale that he encountered a little girl who was drowning in the canal next to his island. His inability to save her would haunt him for months to come. And so, to appease her spirit that he believed was tormenting him, he set up a small shrine with an almost life size doll he named Agustinita placed on an altar. This would be the only doll Don Julián would ever name among the thousands of dolls in all shapes and sizes — some decapitated, some missing limbs — that he’d collect over the years. It is said that some dolls would mysteriously float up to his island, others he would barter for his flowers. In lieu of an entry fee, people visiting him on the island would also bring with them old dolls that he’d happily add to his creepy collection. Whispering winds Today, besides the bizarre garlands of dolls that can be found festooned from almost every gnarly tree’s branches, the island is also home to a small ramshackle museum run by the caretaker, Anastasio Santana Velasco, who claims to be Don Julián’s nephew. Pasted on its flimsy corrugated metal walls are copies of articles from local newspapers about the island along with a portrait of its toothless creator. The rest of the rooms, including Don Julián’s bedroom, are filled with his precious dolls, which Anastasio claims often whisper to him as he passes by. Supremely creeped out, we walk towards the trajinera that we pray will still be there to ferry us back. As a parting shot, Anastasio tells us that exactly 20 years ago, on April 7, 2001, Don Julián’s dead body was found floating in the exact same spot where he had seen the little girl drown. The Mumbai-based writer and restaurant reviewer is passionate about food, travel and luxury, not necessarily in that order.  Today, besides the bizarre garlands of dolls that can be found festooned from almost every gnarly tree’s branch, the island is also home to a small ramshackle museum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-mexicos-doll-island/article37146622.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Ashoka on the rocks||In its plot outline, Emperor Ashoka’s life resembles that of many modern Indians. He grew up with parental pressures to join the family business, got married off to a person who wasn’t necessarily his first choice, had children in quick succession, quarrelled with his siblings over family property, aced performance reviews, and then, out of the blue, was hit by a mid-life spiritual crisis, eventually leading to self-conscious attempts at a writing career — in his case, a series of status updates he self-published on numerous rocks. Ashoka’s ideas have endured because rocks endure and noble ideas endure and because Indians are an enduring people who live their history. His ideas are now part — a much contested part — of what it means to be an Indian. It would seem that such a typical trajectory wouldn’t attract much literary attention. But plot isn’t story. The details matter. Ashoka’s life has attracted, and continues to attract, the attention of politicians and scholars, reformers and educators, filmmakers and novelists. Irwin Allan Sealy is the latest author who has attempted to retell Ashoka’s story in a contemporary idiom. Sealy’s Asoca begins with the eponymous hero as a princeling, indulged and bullied by his older brothers, and ends with his final days as a monk somewhere “in the land of jade and rubies and fragrant rice,” presumably Burma. The book’s 160,000+ words, distributed over 77 chapters, each not more than 2-4 pages in length, is narrated entirely in the first person, from Ashoka’s point of view. Thoughtful cosmopolitan  Asoca could be classified as a historical novel, but it is better to think of it as a novel about a historical figure. Such novels are difficult to write because the author is constrained by historical facts. They also attract the kind of pestilent reader who simply cannot proceed with the story if, say, the author has gotten the drachma-rupaiya conversion rate wrong. Sealy has some room to play though. Though we know a lot about the Mauryas and their empire, Ashoka himself is shrouded in royal posturing, Buddhist myth-making, and Brahmanical slander. In Sealy’s telling Ashoka comes across as a thoughtful cosmopolitan who is able to appreciate different points of view, and though unafraid of war and violence, also someone who is quite aware of the limitations of force. Stifling p.o.v Sealy devotes a lot of attention to recreating the mid-third century BCE Mauryan world. He mostly succeeds, but perhaps the ambience is a bit too contemporary. Sealy seems to be ambivalent about just how seriously he wants readers to take his English. In one place, he’ll tell us about the correct pronunciation of ‘Ashoka’, but at another, he’ll have Ashoka say “A man likes to feel he is earning his bread”. The metonymic usage of bread for ‘living’ or ‘wages’ is peculiar to Europe; here, roti would have been a better fit. While such liberties are easily excused, less excusable is Prayagraj telling his brother Ashoka that Taxila is “desi soil”. Kiran Nagarkar in his note to Cuckold remarked that he chose “an easy colloquial currency of language”, that is, “a contemporary idiom”, because he was “striving for immediacy, rather than some academic notion of fidelity, at best simulated.” However, the matter isn’t academic. When an author puts modern language and modern values in the minds and mouths of historical characters, they risk turning them into moderns. In fact, it’s a problem that plagues contemporary historical fiction. It undermines a key pleasure in reading this genre, namely, immersion in a non-modern consciousness, not just a different past or place. A historical novel succeeds despite its language, not because of it. Sealy’s decision to use Ashoka as his first-person narrator is the work’s overarching limitation. The vast and gorgeous canvas of third-century India is entirely filtered through what Ashoka thinks or feels or perceives. I found it stifling. It forces Sealy to rely on letters and reports and dialogues, which are largely info-dumps. And it isn’t even Ashoka really who is doing the perceiving; he notices the things Sealy thinks we’ll find interesting or relevant. That’s why Ashoka tells us about the layout of rooms, useful facts about Ujjaini, or the wood not needed for the cremation of “Uncle K” (Kautilya). All these awkward issues arise because Ashoka has to be Sealy’s vassal and the “emperor of Ind” at the same time. This novel, precisely because it is a novel about Ashoka, needed many voices, many points of view. That said, Asoca has its delights. Sealy is writing for readers, not fellow writers; it’s an unpretentious book free of stylistic fits of madness. The Gupta/ Maurya age is when Hindu civilisation had its moment in the sun; Sealy’s portrait of a bold and self-confident civilisation strikes a refreshingly different note. It is a literary novel still interested in telling a story. That is rarer than one might think, and perhaps for that reason alone, Asoca is a book to be read as well as recommended. Author ofHalf Of What I Say, the reviewer has a collection of short stories forthcoming from Hachette.  Asoca: A Sutra Irwin Allan Sealy Penguin Viking  Rs. 699    When an author puts modern language and modern values in the minds and mouths of historical characters, they risk turning them into moderns||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ashoka-on-the-rocks/article37146588.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Death in the clouds||Ernest Hemingway’s words about Paris being a moveable feast could well describe the Northeast too. If you are lucky enough to have lived in the States of Meghalaya, Manipur, Nagaland, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram or Tripura, then wherever you go, it stays with you. This magical story is from Meghalaya: Kynpham Sing Nongkynrih weaves a fictional tale around the dying tradition of Ka Phor Sorat or the feast of the dead, a six-day funeral ceremony of the Lyngngams, a Khasi sub-tribe. The narrator says that it is perhaps the last time that this ancient ritual is being observed — most Khasis have converted to Christianity — and the ceremony, which involves several rites and the sacrifice of at least 50 bulls, is far too expensive and unwieldy. A group of friends from Shillong decide to go out west to the tiny village of Nongshyrkon to witness it. But first, the narrator of Funeral Nights , Ap Jutang, wants to tell readers a few things about his hometown Sohra, anglicised by the British to first Cherra and then Cherrapunji. He has been shaped by his hometown — “not only the customs and manners of Sohra’s people but also by the silent influence of the hills, rivers and woods that surround it”. It takes him a thousand pages, 12 chapters and the ruse of an ancient ritual to fully ruminate on Meghalaya — the complexities of its name and people, how stories from the past inform the present, and the perils and joys of being Khasi. He delves into his Khasi roots, tackling philosophical questions such as, “Who are we? Where are we going? Why do we seem to lose ourselves, like ‘bees without a queen’?” Water, wind, cloud Using myths, folklore, poetry and prose, the writer, speaking through Ap and his friends, unravels a place and its people. Funeral Nights is an intense and acute study of Meghalaya’s socio-cultural mores, its rich natural environment at the mercy of plunderers, and the political twists and turns that have shaped its history. Shillong is associated with squalor — its famous tags ‘Queen of Hill Stations’ or ‘Scotland of the East’ inspire neither happiness nor admiration nor a sense of belonging in Ap. Instead, he yearns for Sohra with its deep gorges and forests. Ap likes to count the many names Khasis have for rain, with which Sohra/ Cherrapunji is synonymous — slap (rain), lapbah (heavy rain), lap-lai-miet (three-night rain), lap-eriong (dark-wind rain/ black storm), lappraw (light rain), lapmynsaw (rain of danger, which has both literal and metaphorical meanings) and so on. He admits that many of his friends do not share his enthusiasm for a Sohra that is all “water, wind, cloud, darkness and terrorising tempests.” Why, they wonder, does Ap experience a “heartrending longing for such a land?” On their journey to unspoilt Nongshyrkon in the west Khasi hills on unbelievably bad roads, Ap and his friends dissect all that is wrong with Meghalaya, from coal-mining, timber-logging and disregarded bans to corrupt officials who go to villages “only to loot”; the thorny issue of migration; and the three vices that allegedly afflict all Khasi men — kyiad, khalai, kynthei (alcohol, gambling, women). In minute detail In between big stories such as these and that of the grand funeral complete with shamans, there are little stories — why the kwai (betel nut) is a part and parcel of Khasi culture; meanings of the names of different clans and sub-tribes, and the ‘curious phenomenon’ of so many Khasis having ‘star’ as a part of their name, like Morningstar, Lordstar, Jonathanstar etc; why cats and dogs are sacred; why the favourite game of the State is archery. Birds and beasts, Assam-type houses, flowers and food of the region are described in the minutest detail. It is a rambling and sprawling novel, perhaps mirroring life, with its multitudes of thoughts, feelings and words. For those hailing from the Northeast, the book will be familiar territory. For the rest, it’s a window to an often misunderstood world that is viewed with both awe and concern. To give just one example, you will learn that khublei , which literally means ‘god bless’, also serves as hello, welcome, thank you and farewell in Khasi.  Funeral Nights Kynpham Sing Nongkynrih Context  Rs. 899    He delves into his Khasi roots, tackling philosophical questions such as, “Who are we? Where are we going? Why do we seem to lose ourselves, like ‘bees without a queen’?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/death-in-the-clouds/article37146590.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Where home is a rubbish mountain 20 storeys high||Rag pickers live off what the rest of the world throws away. They lead invisible lives in the landfills that keep growing, stagnating and putrefying with items discarded by the city’s rich. The dark trail of modern life is seen and felt everywhere. Journalist Saumya Roy, who spent eight years researching the impact of urbanisation, over-consumption and waste mismanagement in Maximum City, describes it as ‘discarded desires’ of the moneyed-people. The grossness of disparity between the world of the rich and the poor compelled her to explore the lives of rag pickers in 2013, when she co-founded Vandana Foundation to support the livelihoods of Mumbai’s poorest micro-entrepreneurs. Unspoken trauma Roy initially planned to write a magazine article but in 2016 after fire erupted in Deonar’s garbage mountains engulfing the city in its smoke and the pickers got arrested, her Mountain Tales took shape as she witnessed the unspoken trauma of the marginalised community. She knew they struggled to feed their families and continued to live in anguish in the place because they believed it gave them an opportunity to earn. Recycling, reselling and reusing waste is a way of life for the human scavengers but inside their collective world of filth and poverty, is the silent and harsh battle with illnesses, pollution, injuries, misery, neglect, death and despair. It tugged at Roy’s heart and she began chronicling the daily life of teenager Farzana Shaikh, her parents and eight siblings, extended family members and friends. The teetering piles of deliveries brought them everything “from stale food, recyclable material, dead animals, foetuses of newly born, medical and plastic waste, old clothes, broken furniture, glass and twisted metal.”  How the waste pickers live in rotting garbage, sewage and toxic chemicals to find clothes, food, love and friendship; how they relentlessly search for items to sell for a living and in the process clean up a significant proportion of waste generated daily by the city; how they get injured while working with waste and sometimes crushed under the wheels of bulldozers; the stigma they face and remain out of any welfare scheme — all this drives Roy’s powerful narrative. She critically examines the relationship between the comfort of the better-offs and the accumulating waste at Deonar landfill estimated to be in existence for 122 years housing millions of tonnes of waste spread over 314 acres of land. The garbage dumps are as high as 20-storeyed apartments. The poorest of the poor reach the landfill slums with the faith that the dumping grounds will shape their lives. It perhaps does for those who chase and get lucky to sort the new trash delivery trucks or bribe the municipality and police to put their hands in first to strike gold from the garbage. The rest live around and continue to scour the dump in hope.    Spectacle of decay The garbage mountains have a toxic halo, says the author, in her telling account. With age and gender no bar, the waste pickers instil life into the mammoth graveyard of belongings of the privileged: they resell things that come from the city, they eat, wear, hoard and play with them. “They stalk the waste and make for a world that is a mirror image of ours,” writes Roy. She details every instance with care and empathy and her lucid writing not only draws the reader but also helps to reflect upon how one person’s trash impacts another’s life. There are pending court cases aimed at controlling entry of garbage into Deonar’s landfills. But the garbage mountains have remained a spectacle of decay even as the lives that the waste pickers build on it get more fragile.  Mountain Tales Saumya Roy Profile Books/ Hachette  Rs. 699    With age and gender no bar, the waste pickers instil life into the mammoth graveyard of belongings of the privileged: they resell things that come from the city, they eat, wear, hoard and play with them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/where-home-is-a-rubbish-mountain-20-storeys-high/article37146602.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 Born on October 24, 1921, this gentleman was the creator of The Common Man, a character who for more than 50 years represented a citizen of India and his troubles and hopes. First published in 1951 in The Times of India , the character soon became well-loved by readers everywhere. He went on to be featured in a postage stamp, became the mascot of the airline Air Deccan and even had a TV series based on him. Who was the creator whose 100th birth anniversary it is today? 2 Mario Miranda was a cartoonist whose skills were first noticed when he started drawing caricatures on the walls of his home in Daman. His characteristic style of drawing was said to be ‘very flat with criss-crossing interactions’. He loved depicting busy street scenes and the hustle and bustle of daily life of the region he eventually called home. His work is lovingly preserved in a museum in the capital. The people of which place did Mario Miranda love depicting? 3 Charles Addams was an eccentric American cartoonist who loved medieval weaponry, fast cars, and was afraid of tight spaces and snakes. After studying at the Grand Central School of Art his first job was to remove blood from photos of corpses that appeared in True Detective magazine, which he found very interesting. What is the most famous creation of this cartoonist, who is well known for his darkly humorous and macabre characters? 4 Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster were childhood friends in Cleveland who shared a love for science fiction and adventures. In 1933 they started developing a story about a character that as an infant escapes the destruction of his home and is raised by a family in Middle America. Their creation could leap long distances, run really fast and lift heavy weights, but these powers increased greatly over time. What character did these two teens create? 5 Johhny Hart was an American cartoonist who produced two very famous cartoon strips for newspapers. One was The Wizard of Id, based on a cast of characters in a medieval castle. His other strip is about a group of cavemen and anthropomorphic animals from the earliest eras of mankind. What is the two-letter title of this comic strip that describes their time period? 6 In the Gospel of Matthew in the Bible , Jesus appears to be warning his disciples to preach only before receptive audiences and not waste good things on people who will not appreciate them. He says “neither cast your ____ before ____, lest they trample them under their feet,” referring to a jewellery item and a farm animal. This has become a popular phrase and as of 2002, the title of an extremely punny and funny comic strip by Stephan Pastis. What is the phrase? 7 Jim Davis is the creator of one of the most widely published comic strips, appearing in 2,580 newspapers. The comic strip revolves around a character and his laziness, obsessive eating, love of coffee and lasagna, disdain of Mondays, and diets. He is also shown to manipulate people to get whatever he wants. What is the name of this character who was based on Davis’s grandfather? 8 Scott Adams is the creator of a comic strip, which revolves around the life of a skilled engineer with poor social skills. The comic strip is known for its funny portrayal of people in drone jobs who toil ceaselessly for incompetent middle managers and are stuck with expense reports and project management. What is the name of the central character that has brought a smile to many office workers? 9 This comic has been referred to as “arguably the longest story ever told by one human being.” The strip, though dealing with children and their issues with loneliness and miscommunication in just four panels, has become an icon of pop culture. Its creator, Sparky, hated the name given by the syndicate as it wasn’t the name of any of the characters. What is the name of this widely popular comic strip? 10 The two primary characters of this comic are named after an influential French theologian who generated much controversy, and an Englishman who is considered one of the founders of modern political philosophy. These two names were given new life by Bill Watterson, an artist who was working in an advertising job he detested. The strip is loved because it asks important questions without simplistically resolving them. What are their names, which you would come across if you had read any one of the 2,400 newspapers or 45 million copies of the book they have been in? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article37146614.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Pierce Bossman||Dear Agony Akka,  Myself 30 years, BA pass, decent family. Recently I have been to friend’s birthday party and while returning home at 9 p.m. suddenly current went off. Friend’s house is little far but I was on foot because no money to put petrol in motorcycle. Dark made me scared. Mother also started to worry. Of course, you will ask why grown-up man is feeling scared but what to do. Lots of people roaming around like farmers and activists, anti-nationals and loudly talking women. Mother is telling earlier women never raised voice. Akka, I am unemployed since two years but more than job or petrol price I am worried about nation safety and safety of innocent men like me who are pious and doing all rites. Can you suggest any self-defence I can employ during such outings? —Petrified Uncle & Stressed Son    Dear PUSS,  I completely understand your uneasiness and nervousness. It is only natural to feel like this when you are unemployed and still living with your mother at the age of 30. It is high time you…. oops, sorry, wrong reply. Let’s begin again. You are 100% right. National security is of paramount concern. You must be prepared at each and every moment to fight for your Motherland and Defend Her From Enemies. Some unkind people might argue that The Motherland’s greatest enemies are skyrocketing fuel prices and unemployed men but you must learn to ignore them. What do they know of India who only India know? You, on the other hand, are well aware of all the bogeymen who hide under your bed and lurk in the streets, always ready to pop out as soon as the government has important work to do like holding elections. Now, help is at hand. An intrepid entrepreneurial company called Apasteron Pvt. Ltd., domiciled in that great frontier of development that is Uttar Pradesh, has invented a brand new patriotic set of weapons, with deadly potential and also rooted in India’s Great Traditions. The first one is the Trishul. What’s to invent, you are asking? Ah, but this is not garden-variety trishul found in temples and peaceful anti-farmer rallies. This Brahmastra has electric current. Apparently, you press a button and the trishul starts to buzz like mosquito bat and you can “make the enemy temporarily ineffective.” In the video, company spokesman explains helpfully that it can also be used to puncture cars. (I have written mail asking about efficacy against Chennai autos.) The second astra , called Sapper Punch, is glove with battery pack strapped to the wrist. Here too, you press a button and wham, enemy gets “shock and awe” treatment. In interview to news agency, company executive repeatedly mentions how these cutting-edge weapons will be very useful against Chinese. I fear he might be a little behind the times. Maybe he started inventing during golden Maurya Age but got patent only now when already enemies are using X-26 Taser guns and Sponge Grenades. But no need to get depressed. It is very limiting to think Chinese are only enemy. These weapons can be deployed equally well against loud-talking women, anti-tradition reservation seekers, dhobi who tears kurta, brands using Urdu words, etc. You can ask Dejavu Surya to read from list. Once you sell off your mother’s gold chain and buy these weapons, you can walk home at any time and never feel scared. You can even protect neighbourhood women from bangle-sellers and love jihadis. After this, no need for boring job. You are meant for more piercing things.   — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pierce-bossman/article37146612.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The sounds of twilight||One evening in the office, I heard the calls of a barbet on top of a banyan tree. The monotonous kot-roo ... kot-roo sounded a lot familiar. The sounds of a barbet were one of the things that described the twilight in our childhood days in the villages. The experience of twilight then was a lot different from what is now under the deafening sounds of vehicles and TV and other electronic gadgets. It’s a different world altogether that we miss in the middle of all the buzz. When the day begins to fade into darkness, the world on the other side awakens with its own vigour. As the birds settle back into their nests with raucous calls, a cauldron of bats begin to board their night flight. The music of the night is never late to begin. The crickets, cicadas and katydids are waiting to rock the night! The cicadas are the first to sing and first to stop! The crickets and katydids start a bit late but stay long! We had all the fascination to know how such such tiny insects create such high-frequency sounds. So that fascination would lead us to capture the crickets and secure them inside an empty match box. It was fun to hand the box to someone and the box starts making high-pitch terrifying sounds. The insects would start their rhythmic song like an alarm as we played on the ground unaware of the light dimming slowly. The noiseless surroundings were a wonderful stage for these insects, and all that we would listen outside after dark was their rhythmic buzz. In addition to this, the howling foxes made a chorus not so far away from the paddy fields. All these were the signature sounds of the nights to begin with in life at villages. Nowadays, the scenes have changed. The fields are far from the place we live in. Our living spaces are deprived of trees for birds or insects to make their homes. The sounds of twilight or the night are no different from those of dawn or noon. There is no difference between the natural worlds that revolve around day and night or between light and darkness. Syncing with nature or the natural world is the best way to live our lives. It soothes, calms and brings in a feel of being an element of this universe. ashokbbalakrishna@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sounds-of-twilight/article37146580.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The actor remains an enigma||It is difficult, as Ritu Menon mentions in the preface of this charming book, to separate the dancer from the dance. So, despite Zohra Sehgal’s considerable body of work, and the exciting times in which it was carried out, by the end of Menon’s warm-hearted eponymous biography, Zohra remains an enigma. Many signposts Presented as a four-act play, (not for Zohra the conventional three or five acts!), with two intermissions and the curtain call, the biography traces Zohra’s life from her birth into privilege with her family’s connections to aristocracy in Rampur in 1912 to her death in 2014 with no dearth of significant signposts in between. Starting with Uday Shankar’s telegram in 1935 to a 23-year-old Sehgal to join him on a tour of Japan, the book details her impetuous decision to travel with her favourite Uncle Memphis by road from Dehradun to Luxor, Egypt. It was 1930 and even as visions of Agatha Christie’s Death on the Nile fill one’s mind, there is Zohra using the burqa as camouflage to travel in an open Dodge Tourer to Quetta, Baluchistan, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Turkey, Lebanon and Cairo, driving from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. through blinding sandstorms and bandits and kidnappers. Zohra decided to become a dancer inspired by Isadora Duncan’s autobiography and studied in Dresden under Mary Wigman. On her return to India after a fairytale experience, even as Nazi clouds were gathering, Zohra set off on her next adventure — touring with Uday Shankar’s dance troupe. At The Uday Shankar Cultural Centre, which counted filmmaker Guru Dutt as a student, Sehgal was Shankar’s dance assistant as well as in charge of developing a five-year syllabus. It was here that Zohra met her husband, the beautiful and troubled Kameshwar Sehgal. Eight years her junior, the 30-year-old Zohra married Kameshwar in 1942 at the height of the Quit India Movement and World War II. Jawaharlal Nehru, who was supposed to attend the wedding with a pair of rugs for the couple, could not do so as he was arrested. Bombay talkies The couple moved to Lahore to set up a dance school but relocated to Bombay because of pre-Partition communal tensions. Life at 41 Pali Hill, where the couple had Uma and Chetan Anand and his brothers actor Dev Anand and Goldie, as neighbours, was an exciting meeting ground of intellectuals, writers, artists. Zohra discovered theatre with the Indian People’s Theatre Association (IPTA) and Prithvi Theatre where she imbibed the Prithvi Raj Kapoor school of bombastic acting. After Kameshwar’s heart-breaking suicide in 1959, Zohra moved to Delhi and three years later to London on a drama scholarship. The book follows Zohra’s adventures in the theatre world in the U.K. and working with BBC, the path-breaking television work including in The Jewel in the Crown and Doctor Who . On her return to India a quarter century later Zohra finds herself very much in demand as the lively, salty granny in big budget Hindi cinema from Dil Se (1998) to Saawariya (2007). There were also ad films and dramatised readings and a successful fight against cancer. The book is as much the story of Zohra’s life as it is the story of the arts in India in the past century. There are fascinating nuggets aplenty including Pearl S. Buck presenting a signed copy of The Good Earth to Zohra and her sister, Uzra, during their America tour.  Zohra! A Biography in Four Acts Ritu Menon Speaking Tiger Books  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-actor-remains-an-enigma/article37146600.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Thrust and parry||Hard Luck Louie picked up the hand of a lifetime in the club’s Saturday night duplicate. He jumped to slam when he learned that partner had at least three-card spade support. Louie won the opening heart lead perforce and cashed the ace and king of spades. Had both opponents followed, or if the jack had fallen singleton, Louie would have a simple route to 12 tricks. None of that happened, so Louie left the jack of trumps outstanding and cashed the ace, king, and queen of diamonds. Had East ruffed, the 10 of spades would be an entry to dummy and Louie would be able to discard two clubs on the diamonds. East, a wily veteran, saw what was happening and refused to ruff. Louie drew the last trump in frustration and went through the motions, but he ended up down one. Lucky Larry declared the same contract and faced the same opening lead. He won in hand and cashed only the ace of trumps. He left the trumps alone and cashed all three high diamonds. Had either opponent ruffed. Larry could have drawn the last trump and crossed to dummy with the 10 of spades. East at Larry’s table also refused to ruff, so Larry led his nine of spades and overtook it with dummy’s 10. East was helpless. He won with his jack and tried to cash a heart, but Larry ruffed high and led the four of spades to dummy’s seven. This drew the last trump and provided an entry to the diamonds. Well done!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/thrust-and-parry/article37146617.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Portrait of a Scotsman||Evie Dunmore  Berkley Rs. 278 (Kindle price) Fans ofBridgertonwill like this Regency-era story of London heiress Hattie Greenfield dreaming of independence and perfect love; her match, the dark, moneyed Lucian Blackstone who plots revenge while marrying her; a journey that makes them see each other in a different light.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/portrait-of-a-scotsman/article37146584.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Through the Open Window||Vaishali Hamlai  Rupa Publications Rs. 295 This story about mothers and daughters is about three independent women — Jannat Kaur and her twins, Mahira and Tamannah — who go through several ups and downs while trying to achieve a sense of self-worth. Each of them finds love, loses it, then finds it again it another form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/through-the-open-window/article37146592.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The Turnout||Megan Abbott  G.P. Putnam’s Sons Rs. 487 (Kindle price) Dara and Marie Durant run the Durant School of Dance founded by her celebrity mother. Along with Charlie, Dara’s husband, they have perfected a dance that keeps the studio thriving. Then a suspicious accident happens and an interloper arrives to threaten their delicate balance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-turnout/article37146594.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Taxi Wallah And Other Stories||Numair Atif Choudhury  Fourth Estate India Rs. 250 All the protagonists here are outsiders looking in at Bangladeshi society — whether it is the taxi wallah who ferries tourists to upmarket hotels, Rabia the house-help who has to call even the youngest of her employer’s children ‘apa’, or the brick-breaker who hammers rubble at construction sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/taxi-wallah-and-other-stories/article37146596.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Nehru: The Debates that Defined India||Tripurdaman Singh, Adeel Hussain  HarperCollins Rs. 599 This volume illuminates four encounters that Nehru had with contemporaries Muhammad Iqbal, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Sardar Patel and Syama Prasad Mookerjee. Nehru voices ideological disagreements and offers visions of the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/nehru-the-debates-that-defined-india/article37146598.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A Place in my Heart||Anupama Chopra  Ebury Press/PRH Rs. 499 Her first movie memory isSholay, and Chopra writes about all her other favourites, fromKarztoLuck by Chance. There’s Amitabh Bachchan and Shah Rukh Khan too, as also Malayalam films includingAngamaly DiariesandKumbalangi Nightsin this quirky memoir by a film critic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-place-in-my-heart/article37146606.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Asylum||Daman Singh  Westland Rs. 499 The reform of mental healthcare in India began in the early 20th century, and yet even now four out of five mentally ill persons go untreated. Singh traces the history of mental healthcare in India with the help of archival records, parliamentary debates and other records.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/asylum/article37146608.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Resisting Disappearance||Ather Zia  Zubaan Books Rs. 645 Drawn from Zia’s decade of engagement with the Association of Parents of Disappeared Persons, this book follows mothers and ‘half-widows’ as they step into courts and morgues in search of their kin. She explores how Kashmiri women nurture a politics of resistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/resisting-disappearance/article37146610.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3173||Across  1 12 sheep delay broadcast (10) 6 Employs guessers now and then (4) 9 Traditional musician’s fiddle enthralling ol’ Kansas (4,6) 10 Fossil fuel in eyeliner, we’re told (4) 12 Somnolent type to tear open vehicle with seafood (3,3,6) 15 A little unclear, nervous beginner (7) 16 Gets in boats to resort (7) 17 Spend a lot, swell place obtained (7) 19 Go Dutch, splash out, save penny — stroke of luck! (7) 20 I saw Gary race around roads (12) 23 Highway travelled by horse noisily (4) 24 Fastidious Everyman given time: ‘silly not to deliver’ (10) 25 Egyptian city where god’s rejected (4) 26 Ungodliest, harrowing: together they circle the world (10)  Down  1 Primarily, spiritualist ultimately finding ihsān? (4) 2 Beauty magazine, whichever way you look at it (4) 3 Granadilla spread one consumed on Friday. Peeled? Quite (7,5) 4 Constituents of Antioch, an overseas principality once (7) 5 I tucked into tea, not ardently consumed (3,4) 7 Bouillon for starters: pungent, inedible, the French food not yet eaten? (10) 8 No end of fish and beef (10) 11 The raw bananas: I try a dish, but ... (8,4) 13 Vulgar wiseacre’s teaching aids (5,5) 14 Bespoke material old duke ordered (6-4) 18 Artist representing Creole? Good (2,5) 19 Slack-jawed at first, getting affectionate with royal (7) 21 Spy giving up date of birth (including name) (4) 22 Wife avoiding insects and snakes (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3173/article37146620.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||More studies show the superiority of hybrid immunity||Yet another study has shown that a combination of natural infection with a single dose of vaccine provides greater immunity than either natural infection without vaccination or full vaccination in infection-naïve individuals. People without prior infection but fully vaccinated with the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine showed a decline in neutralising antibodies over a period of three to seven months. But the decline was much less in vaccinated people with prior infection. Though 500 health-care workers with or without prior infection were vaccinated, those with hybrid immunity — natural immunity from an infection combined with the immunity provided by the vaccine — had a higher and more durable neutralising antibody response. The hybrid immunity offers stronger protection than just infection or full vaccination alone. Neutralising antibodies The study, posted in the preprint server medRxiv on October 19 (preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed), has found that in 500 health-care workers, the neutralising antibodies were twofold more in people immunised with Pfizer vaccine following natural infection compared with people immunised with Pfizer vaccine but without prior infection. In the case of people vaccinated with AstraZeneca following natural infection, the neutralising antibodies were threefold more than in vaccinated people with no prior infection. Early evidence One of the early evidences of hybrid immunity being better than full vaccination in people without a prior infection came in end-April. The results posted in preprint server medRxiv found that vaccination led to increased levels of neutralizing antibodies against variants in people who had been previously infected compared with those without a prior infection. An earlier study posted on August 25 in the preprint server medRxiv found that compared with vaccine-induced immunity from two doses of Pfizer vaccine, natural immunity conferred longer lasting and stronger protection against infection, symptomatic disease and hospitalisation caused by the Delta variant in Israel. But naturally infected individuals who were given a single dose of the vaccine showed additional protection against the Delta variant; the protection level conferred by hybrid immunity was even higher than the one offered by natural infection or full vaccination. Soon after vaccines were rolled out, researchers began to notice higher levels of antibodies in people who were naturally infected prior to vaccination compared with vaccinated people without prior infection. In short, the hybrid immunity from natural infection followed by vaccination provided superior immunity than either natural infection alone or full vaccination. Contrary point However, a study published recently in the journal Science observed that “boosting of pre-existing immunity from prior infection with vaccination mainly resulted in a transient benefit to antibody titers with little-to-no long-term increase in cellular immune memory”. There is a growing body of evidence that protection from natural immunity can be potent, and researchers are beginning to acknowledge this. However, scientific consensus about the exact strength or durability of the natural immunity post natural infection is not known. Also, the strength and durability of natural immunity might not be uniform and might vary between people depending on the nature and duration of infection (asymptomatic or symptomatic) and severity of disease (mild, moderate or severe). “Antibody levels are really variable after recovering from infections, and those at the lower end of the spectrum might be more susceptible to reinfections,” Deepta Bhattacharya, Professor of immunology at the University of Arizona told NBC News. “But after a single vaccine in people who have recovered from COVID-19, antibodies skyrocket up, including those that neutralize variants of concern.” Researchers at Rockefeller University in New York City looked at how different types of immunity would protect against potential variants. They modified the coronavirus spike protein such that it contained 20 naturally occurring mutations. In the lab, the modified spike protein was tested against antibodies from people belonging to three groups — those who have been fully vaccinated without prior infection, people with prior infection but not vaccinated, and people with hybrid immunity. They found the modified spike proteins were able to evade the antibodies from the first two groups but not antibodies from people with hybrid immunity. The study is posted in the preprint server BioRxiv.   In August, CDC published a study in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) where they showed that unvaccinated people without previous infection are twice as likely to be reinfected compared with vaccinated people with a prior infection. This study prompted the CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky to urge all Americans to take a vaccine even if previously infected. “If you have had COVID-19 before, please still get vaccinated,” she appealed. Immunological edge The immunological advantage from hybrid immunity arises mostly from memory B cells. While the bulk of antibodies after infection or vaccination decline after a short while, the memory B cells, which evolve in the lymph nodes, get triggered on subsequent infection or vaccination. So when people who recovered from COVID-19 are re-exposed to the spike protein, the memory B cells are capable of churning out highly potent antibodies. “Differences between the memory B cells triggered by infection and those triggered by vaccination — as well as the antibodies they make — might also underlie the heightened responses of hybrid immunity. Infection and vaccination expose the spike protein to the immune system in vastly different ways,” Dr. Michel Nussenzweig, an immunologist at the Rockefeller University in New York City told Nature.  Dr. Nussenzweig’s team isolated hundreds of memory B cells from people at various time points after infection and vaccination. They found that unlike after full vaccination, antibodies produced by natural infection continued to grow in potency and their breadth against variants for a year after infection. According to Nature, unlike after vaccination, the memory B cells formed after natural infection are more likely to make antibodies that block immune-evading variants. But two studies have found that memory B cells in the fully vaccinated people without prior infection are growing in number and gaining mutations up to 12 weeks after the second dose, which allows the B cells to recognise and neutralise variants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/more-studies-show-the-superiority-of-hybrid-immunity/article37146187.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Decision on booster doses must be evidence-based||The SARS-CoV-2 vaccination programme in India began on 16 January, this year. It has been close to eight months since the time individuals who were vaccinated early on received the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This set includes healthcare and other frontline workers, followed by high-risk individuals, including the elderly. Countries such as the U.K., Israel, and the U.S. have started administering booster doses of vaccines, and this has led to the question of whether India should start considering booster doses as well. Three criteria For booster doses to be recommended as a policy decision, three criteria need to be met. First, it should be clear that the immunity offered by a vaccine wanes with time, and this results in an increase in the probability of breakthrough infections. Second, for a disease that runs a mild course in a majority of individuals, it should be evident that the lowered efficacy of vaccines with the passage of time is true not only for infection, but also for moderate-to-severe disease necessitating hospitalisation and/or causing death. Third, it is important to prove that the administration of a booster dose reduces the probability of such severe disease, thereby saving lives and reducing the burden on healthcare. Studies from Israel and the U.S. suggested that the incidence of breakthrough infections increased progressively with the passage of time from the second dose of mRNA vaccines. The study from Israel found this to be true for severe infections as well , with the finding that individuals above the age of 60 were especially vulnerable. A report which analysed the effectiveness of the AstraZeneca Vaxzevria vaccine (which goes by the name of Covishield in India) by Public Health England, found an increased incidence of breakthrough infections after 20 weeks post-vaccination. The effectiveness against hospitalisation and death, though lower, was largely preserved, suggesting that the vaccine continued to be protective against these outcomes. Similar to the mRNA vaccine results, a greater waning of immunity was observed among individuals who were above the age of 65 years and among individuals with underlying medical conditions. While the loss of effectiveness of vaccines against hospitalisations and death are not universally convincing, the data in favour of that being the case for the immunocompromised and the elderly seem consistent. What is lacking is a biomarker of either cellular and/or antibody mediated immunity which correlates with protection, especially as the former may have an important role to play in long-term protection. Protective doses Will the addition of a booster protect against such breakthrough infections, including those that are severe? The results of a study from Israel, although debated for its methodology, seem to suggest that boosters are protective, when given at least 5 months after the initial 2 doses. Whether the same holds true for non-mRNA vaccines is not known. Data from the COV-BOOST trial suggested that an mRNA vaccine resulted in a stronger booster effect no matter what the primary vaccine was, and this was used to guide the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) recommendations in the U.K.. If India decides to recommend boosters, this data needs to be considered to decide the choice of booster recommended. The biggest argument against booster doses is that of vaccine equity. It is a known fact that even a single dose of a vaccine protects against hospitalisation and death. In a world in which vaccine shortages have resulted in so many people being left unvaccinated, is it fair to deprive some of protection against hospitalisation and death, while protecting others from an infection that is likely to be mild? Difficult questions Even within a country, there are a few difficult questions to be answered. When a common vaccine is used for all age groups, should the first dose of the vaccine for a 15-year old be prioritised over a booster dose for a 65-year old? Or should we prioritize arresting transmission by targeting universal vaccination, as transmission has the potential of selecting newer variants? Should we wait for such newer variants and target specific boosters against them, as is the strategy for an influenza vaccine? Should preventing infections, even mild, among healthcare workers be a priority, considering that they are in close contact with immunosuppressed individuals on a daily basis? We need data from India to know whether both the available vaccines continue to protect against hospitalisations and death, and whether this is true across all risk groups. In the absence of such data, the extrapolation from studies across the world would suggest that those with immunosuppressive conditions and the elderly might benefit from a booster dose, as has been suggested by the World Health Organization. For the other trade-offs, models that simulate transmission across groups (for example, in schools), hospitalisation rates with varying losses of vaccine effectiveness, and the likely protective effects of boosters in altering such burdens on the healthcare system will be useful to make informed decisions. Duncan McLaren once stated that “Famine is not caused by a shortage of food; it is caused by a shortage of justice”. Similarly, while many parts of the world wait with eager anticipation for individuals to receive their first dose, it is key that if we recommend booster doses of vaccines, we do it in a way that is just and based on sound scientific principles.  (Lancelot Pinto is a consultant respirologist at P.D. Hinduja National Hospital and Medical Research Centre, Mumbai.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/decision-on-booster-doses-must-be-evidence-based/article37146174.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||New light on how insulin signalling affects tissue health||In a study that examined the effect of insulin on liver cells taken from mice, researchers have uncovered how insulin amounts shape the flow of information through the signalling network. The study also provides insights into the degree to which major and minor components are important in keeping this signalling process intact. This knowledge can direct further studies to identify targets for therapy. Larger role of insulin Insulin is a hormone secreted by the b cells of the pancreas. It is commonly associated with an ability to regulate glucose metabolism. However, later studies (from around 1949 until recently) have shown it plays a larger role and helps in growth and maintenance of tissues. Despite years of study, fundamental details as to how differential amounts of insulin impact cells are unknown. An important mechanism in the cell is insulin signalling, which is a series of biochemical reactions that convey information about availability of insulin and the necessity to regulate the glucose in the blood. There are two main pathways for insulin signalling, named AKT and ERK, which together balance metabolism and growth. These specifically control storage of glucose in the liver and also stimulate glucose transport in skeletal muscle and fat. Abnormalities in insulin signalling thus impact health and survival itself of organisms and the study addresses an important piece of the puzzle. Study design The study was done on liver cells isolated from mice. The experimental design mimicked both normal levels of insulin, as in a healthy individual, and abnormal levels of insulin that is associated with pathophysiology. “This was achieved by treating cells with (a) low fasted concentrations of insulin (b) high fed concentrations of insulin (c) very high hyperinsulinemic levels (d) pulsatile fasted insulin followed by fed insulin and (e) continuous or repeat exposure to fed insulin levels,” says Namrata Shukla from Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai, the first author of a paper on this work published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. The study was a collaboration between TIFR Mumbai, TIFR Hyderabad and Indian Institute of Technology Bombay. Ullas Kolthur-Seetharaman from TIFR (Mumbai and Hyderabad), who led the work, explains that previous studies employed different, often very high amounts of insulin to investigate changes in signalling. While these have revealed the components, the network properties and robustness of signaling has not been assessed by varying insulin inputs. “Our study employs multiple regimes of insulin, both normal and abnormal, which together have illustrated how changes in levels of insulin is able to shape the flow of information within cells,” he says. The study found that the inputs from the fasted insulin levels created a memory that improved the fed insulin inputs. “ It also elucidates the detrimental impact of constant high insulin as in the case of uncontrolled feeding habits, without a fasting phase, and its effects on signaling molecules that govern tissue maintenance and growth,” says Prof Kolthur-Seetharaman. Future interventions “Finally, it identifies potential novel regulatory components and parameters whose modulation could lead to better therapeutic interventions in the future to reduce tissue damage, beyond the usual impact on blood glucose,” he adds. Ranjith Padinhateeri and Shantanu Kadam from IIT Bombay collaborated with the TIFR group on the mathematical modelling or simulation part of the study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/new-light-on-how-insulin-signalling-affects-tissue-health/article37146177.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Impact of asteroids and comets||Was the evolution of the Earth’s atmosphere affected by asteroid, comet strikes? Between 2.5 and 4 billion years ago it was not uncommon for asteroids or comets to hit the Earth. In fact, the largest ones, more than 9 kilometres wide, altered the chemistry of the planet’s earliest atmosphere. Now, a study by U.S. researchers analysed remnants of ancient asteroids and modelled the effects of their collisions to show that the strikes took place more often than previously thought. These strikes may have delayed when oxygen started accumulating on Earth, says a Harvard University press release. The new models can help scientists understand more precisely when the planet started its path toward becoming the Earth we know today. The researchers found existing planetary bombardment models underestimate how frequently asteroids and comets would hit Earth. The new, higher collision rate suggest impactors hit the planet roughly every 15 million years, about 10 times higher than current models. The scientists realised this after analysing records of what appear to be ordinary bits of rock. They are actually ancient evidence, known as impact spherules, that formed in the fiery collisions each time large asteroids or comets struck the planet. Researchers modelled how all these impacts would have influenced the atmosphere. They essentially found that the accumulated effects of meteorite impacts by objects larger than 9 kilometres probably created an oxygen sink that sucked most of the oxygen out of the atmosphere. The findings align with the geological record and the Great Oxidation Event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/impact-of-asteroids-and-comets/article37146176.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Aahana’s agent makeover||During the 2020 lockdown, when most actors were taking a break, Aahana Kumra was on her feet. The actor had completed the shooting for Bawri Chhori , which released earlier this year, and had shot for two web shows — the sitcom Sandwiched Forever (2020) and Call My Agent: Bollywood , that is all set to release on Netflix later this month. A remake of the successful French show Dix Pour Cent, which follows the lives of agents who, while serving their celebrity clients, are also desperate to keep their agency afloat. It also stars Rajat Kapoor, Soni Razdan and Ayush Mehra. Kumra’s journey from Lucknow to Mumbai, as she took the leap from theatre to television in 2014 with Yudh , and then to streaming, shows a slow, careful conviction. Be it Lipstick Under My Burkha , where she plays Leela, an entrepreneuring beautician, or the viral FilterCopy sketch comedy When You’re Expecting a Baby , the 34-year-old has dabbled across genres and is now both “excited and nervous” for the Indian remake of the cult show. In an interview with The Hindu Weekend , the actor speaks without inhibition about the film industry, working during the pandemic, and her love for theatre.  What was it like working during lockdown?  I had five back-to-back releases in 2020 and I never said no to work. During the lockdown, my spot boy came to see me and, given the circumstances, I assumed he needed money. But he had just come to tell me to take on projects as only then would he get employed. It was because of him that I pushed myself and shot Sandwiched Forever in an indoor set in August. I was then offered Call My Agent: Bollywood .  You’re a big fan of the original show. What was it like working on its remake?   The biggest star I shot with was Shaad Ali, the show’s director. While he spoils you, Shaad has also tested my patience too many times because he wouldn’t give me a second take! Our ensemble was absolutely fantastic. Soni [Razdan] and I go way back, Hussain [Dalal], who co-wrote the dialogues with Abbas, is a very dear friend, and we both did theatre together. Radhika [Seth] is debuting on the show and as her first scene was with me I felt responsible.  Does your character Amal Ahmed share similarities with Andréa Martel from the original?   Amal Ahmed is very similar to Camille Cottin’s Andréa. They have kept my character bisexual [she is gay in the first season]. But I had to borrow from the aggressive casting agents I have met in real life. I enjoyed playing Amal, and felt very empowered — she’s very manipulative, sketchy, and ensures she gets what she wants.  They gave you a nose ring. Was that an attempt to ‘Indianise’ Amal?   I have always been conscious about my nose, because it’s so long, but when I put on the nose ring, it looked fun. Tanya Sharma [the costume designer] and Shaad wanted me to look different from my other shows. They cut my hair short and gave me oversized jackets, shirts, and straight-fit pants to make me look overbearing. I will be seen wearing hues of red and the colour becomes an inherent part of the character — she is like goddess Kali.  You were part of the first batch of Whistling Woods. How important was that formal education in acting for you?   One of the good things that came out of it was my relationship with Naseer sir [Naseeruddin Shah] and Ratna ma’am [Ratna Pathak Shah]. They were my teachers, and I want to have that childlike dignity. If I hadn’t gone to film school, I would have never known about 2001: A Space Odyssey , or Clockwork Orange or Andrei Tarkovsky. I would still be watching only Indian and mainstream Hollywood films and think only that is cinema. I go to Russia often because my father lives in Moscow. I watch the Bolshoi there, and love watching other artistes. When I was in Japan, I saw sumo wrestlers and thought, ‘Oh my God, that’s art!” So much of the mainstream has been fed to us, and then you think that is the be all and end all.  You’ve said that there is an intense lobbying that happens in Bollywood. Is it the same for OTT?   In cinema, you need to know people to be able to get a film. I hardly do films as I don’t get them easily and I still don’t know how you get films. I know of people who haven’t auditioned but gotten a part whereas we don’t even get a foot in the door with films. Now with film stars coming to OTT, shows are paying them huge amounts of money and we are still getting peanuts. They are trying to make a Hindi film industry out of an OTT platform, but it is not going to work. The audience on OTT love performances, not stars. You have to prove your mettle as an actor. You cannot be a factory, launching and announcing films. Call My Agent: Bollywood releases on Netflix on October 29||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aahanas-agent-makeover/article37146964.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The road to El Gouna||It has been a mad couple of weeks. Several frantic days at the BFI London Film Festival included the privilege of attending the world premiere of Prasun Chatterjee’s delightful Dostojee , listening to the great and the good of the film world speak, including Trishna filmmaker Michael Winterbottom, the great Mike Leigh ( Secrets & Lies , Topsy Turvy ), The Warrior , Amy and Senna director Asif Kapadia, who had an immersive VR project Laika in the festival, to trans iconLingua Francafilmmaker Isabel Sandoval who was the head of the first features jury. And, while London was winding down, it was more PCR tests and on to another plane to Cairo, a dash to change flights to Hurghada and thence by road to the Red Sea resort town of El Gouna. It was my first time at the El Gouna Film Festival, where, besides writing about the festival for Variety , I had to present an award. The journey began dramatically as, while waiting at Heathrow to board the Cairo flight, my news feed went berserk with images of the event’s main venue, the Festival Plaza, in flames. Pausing only to write a report on the blaze, I boarded the flight. By the time the next day dawned, the organisers had worked miracles and at the glittering opening night ceremony, there was nary a trace of the fire. Meanwhile, Egyptian authorities denied entry to U.K.-resident and Palestinian filmmaker Said Zagha and in solidarity, fellow Palestinian, Homeland actor Mohammad Bakri decided to cancel his El Gouna trip to accept a career achievement award and deliver a masterclass. Except during the parties, the pace at El Gouna was unhurried, the stay at a seven-star resort was relaxed, and the films were excellent. I finally caught up with Laurent Cantet’s Arthur Rambo , which begins as a slide into the black hole of French social media and segues into an examination of the immigrant experience. Ali El Arabi’s moving documentary Captains of Za’atari , which began life as a project at El Gouna a couple of years ago, documents the experiences of two best friends and aspiring footballers, trapped in a Jordanian refugee camp. While on refugees, the International Emerging Film Talent Association’s annual Refugee Voices in Film event, in conjunction with United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, was a collection of several searing short films and a reminder of the privileged life most of us have compared to the lot of the refugees depicted in the film. The highlight of the festival undoubtedly was a masterclass by American filmmaker Darren Aronofsky, director of films such as Pi , Requiem For A Dream , Black Swan , The Fountain and his most polarising work, Mother!  Aronofsky spoke at length about his craft and then proceeded to dispense advise to the eager crowd of young Egyptian filmmakers, actors and writers present at the Festival Plaza. For the directors, he stressed the necessity of having an original voice and being honest with actors. He advised actors to understand the meaning behind each line of the script and to spend as much time as possible with the director and writer. The festival was also a great way of catching up with old friends, and making new ones, in a tranquil atmosphere while the Red Sea twinkled in the distance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-road-to-el-gouna/article37146965.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||What if jokes don’t land?||In her first-ever set as a stand-up comic, actor Sunny Leone doesn’t mince words. “You all know me for something I’ve done in the past that you have all judged me for, and that I might be ashamed of,” she says with a shrug and a smile before delivering the punchline or punch-word —mastizade(fun seekers). And, the audience cracks up. This according to comedian Neeti Palta is a great strategy to win the crowd over. “Comics will tell you that if you get the audience with the first joke, they are with you. And, when you start by addressing what the audience is already thinking about you, you have them.” For season two of Amazon Prime Video’s One Mic Stand , a reality show (hosted by Sapan Verma) that has celebrities attempt stand-up comedy after being trained by professionals, Palta mentors Leone. We see the likes of Karan Johar, Faye D’Souza, Raftaar and Chetan Bhagat, who are mentored by Sumukhi Suresh, Atul Khatri, Samay Raina, Abish Mathew respectively. Less chat, more comedy One of the first steps after everyone is onboard is what Verma, also the showrunner, calls a “long therapy session” where the celebrities meet their comedy mentors and the writers of the show. “They talk about their lives and then the writers write jokes for them,” he adds. At the end of season one, Verma and the team knew that they had ‘cracked the format’ but there was always room for improvement; one of which was to keep each celebrity set crisp and packed with jokes. “In the first season, we often wrote long scripts but this time we ruthlessly cut them down to five pages. We have a great writers’ room and they understood that this was to make the show better.” Much like celebrities who are attempting stand-up for the first time, this is a novel experience for the comics as well. And, teaching a newbie how to make a room full of strangers laugh isn’t easy. “You can be funny among your group of friends but that doesn’t always translate on stage. The stories you tell them are based on people and backgrounds that they know,” says Palta. Mathew adds, “It’s a Catch-22 situation. Comics become better by going to open-mics again and again. Only by failing, do you build the confidence that helps you manage a room the next time.” Accepting imperfections The format of One Mic Stand though, is such that a celebrity has only one chance on a given night to establish their comedy credentials. “It’s a live show, with a live audience. There is no cheating,” Palta says. Honesty, according to Verma, is a great way to win the audience over. “I’ve told the celebs that if a joke bombs, they can just say ‘It’s not my fault. Sapan told me it was funny’”. Verma understands that the USP of the show is the vulnerability and imperfection that comes with having well-known faces attempt something new in front of the camera. “You know that they aren’t going to be perfect and it’s unfair to even expect it. This is why we retain moments when they look at their cheat sheet or fumble. Last season, someone fumbled and our editor cut it out but I told him to add it back because that’s the charm of the show.” One Mic Stand is now streaming on Amazon Prime Video||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/what-if-jokes-dont-land/article37146963.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Why is India facing bouts of extreme weather?||The story so far: Even as the southwest monsoon began to retreat from the subcontinent, Kerala and Uttarakhand received record rainfall in October. In both these States and others, over the last few years, there have been variations in the pattern and intensity of rainfall. Kerala had seen a severe spell in 2018, which caused havoc. This year’s rain, too, claimed lives in Kerala and Uttarakhand. What is the quantity of rainfall? According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Kerala and Mahe region received 124% excess rainfall from October 14 to October 20. Against the normal 72.1 mm rainfall for the period, the region had received 161.2 mm. Lakshadweep received 15% excess rainfall. From October 1 to October 22, Kerala recorded 121% excess rainfall, with all districts, except Alappuzha, recording above 70% excess rainfall. Alappuzha recorded 52% excess for the period. The latest fortnightly forecast from the agency says “above normal” rainfall is expected over the next fortnight. Uttarakhand recorded 192.6 mm against the usual 35.3 mm from October 1 to October 20, with several districts reporting 24-hour highs that exceeded the figures from over a century. What explains the torrential rain? There are different factors at play in Kerala and Uttarakhand. There have been two rain-bearing ‘low pressure systems’ that are active in the Arabian Sea as well as the Bay of Bengal since the past week. The low pressure system in the Arabian Sea contributed to the heavy rain in Kerala, whereas western disturbances, which are periodic influxes of moisture-laden clouds from the Mediterranean, and common during winter, are what caused the rain in northern India. The Bay of Bengal is still warm and strong winds from there are reaching as far as Uttarakhand and will contribute to rainfall in several parts of north-eastern India. October is the month when the southwest monsoon entirely retreats from India and the northeast monsoon sets in, bringing rain over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. Both low pressures as well as western disturbances are tangentially connected to the larger pattern of global warming. The Bay of Bengal is historically the warmer ocean that seeds low pressures and cyclones that bring rain to India. In recent years however, the Arabian Sea, too, has been warmer than normal, and leading to significant cyclonic activity. Overall elevated temperatures are also contributing to warmer waters in the Arctic Ocean and drawing colder air from the poles with greater intensity. This added to the increased moisture, thereby seeding more intense western disturbance activity over north India. Is the delayed monsoon withdrawal responsible? This year, the monsoon began its retreat on October 6 and though it was expected to fully retreat by October 16, it is yet to completely withdraw, with the associated clouds still lingering on. The IMD’s latest assessment is that the monsoon will completely withdraw by October 26 and that will also herald the beginning of the northeast monsoon. When the atmosphere and the ocean is considered as a whole, rain everywhere is the result of moisture rushing up to fill differences in temperature between oceans and the land and while there is a broad agreement that warming oceans are contributing to intense spells of rainfall in pockets followed by long rainless spells, specific instances — such as what is being seen in Kerala and Uttarakhand — aren’t unprecedented. The monsoon cycle is prone to large variations, and every year regional factors get accentuated — it’s hard to predict which in advance — that then lead to extreme climate events. What are the factors responsible for the disasters? This year, India was poised to receive below normal rainfall until August when global meteorological factors changed and caused a torrential September that largely repaired the monsoon deficit. However, the vagaries in climate reveal their impact in the damage that they cause and the latter is due to society’s environmental choices. Kerala and Uttarakhand have large tracts of hilly terrain that are prone to landslips. But construction has continued unabated even on land unsuited for human habitation. Several ecologists and environmentalists have for years warned of the consequences of unplanned development and, in the context of an increasingly erratic climate, it is only logical that more inhabitants of these regions will be exposed to greater climate risk.   A low pressure system in the Arabian Sea contributed to the heavy rains in Kerala whereas western disturbances, moisture-laden clouds from the Mediterranean, caused the rains in northern India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-is-india-facing-bouts-of-extreme-weather/article37146113.ece
24 October 2021||October 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccines for children||The story so far: The Subject Expert Committee, which is advising the Drugs Controller-General of India (DCGI), has recommended that it grant emergency use authorisation (EUA) for Covaxin among children aged 2-18. The final approval for the vaccine for children aged 2-18 is under expert opinion and evaluation. The DCGI will hold discussions with the Health Minister, the Prime Minister’s Office, and Bharat Biotech before granting EUA to Covaxin, according to reports. Earlier, the DCGI had granted EUA for Zydus Cadila vaccine candidate ZyCoV-D for use in children. Is Covaxin for children different than the dose for adults? The Covaxin that will be rolled out for children in India is of the same product and presentation as the adult vaccine, according to sources in the company that makes the vaccine, the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. The company got the green light to conduct trials among children in May. Subsequently, they tested the adult version of Covaxin on 525 children, in two doses 28 days apart. Interim data from the trials, submitted by October, suggested that safety and immunogenicity were studied, and it was found to be safe among children. A longer follow-up will also be done among study participants. Data from Covaxin is not available publicly. Is there a need for a separate vaccine for children? Children, experts argue, need their own regimen of care and treatment including vaccinations. While most vaccines cater to children, it is also necessary to calibrate vaccines for specific use in children when they have first been developed for the adult population, as in the case of COVID-19. It is not simply a case of sizing down an adult dosage for children, experts argue. Working on vaccine or drug regimens with children is very challenging. Children have distinct developmental and physiological differences from adults, and as they grow, they tend to have changing needs. The World Health Organization (WHO), therefore, recommends that clinical trials in children are necessary to develop age-specific, empirically verified therapies, and interventions to determine the best possible treatments for them. Dr. Moshe Arditi, academic director of the Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases Allergy and Immunology at Cedars-Sinai, says on the Cedars Sinai website: “Their bodies work differently, and they undergo changes as they grow from infancy toward adolescence and adulthood.” He further explains that as children grow and change, their immune systems do, too. A 6-year-old is not the same as a 16-year-old. To account for these differences, researchers do “age de-escalation” studies with participants placed in different groups. For example, 6-to-12-year-olds, 2-to-6-year-olds and 6-months-to-2-year-olds. Doses start at the lowest safest level and researchers increase them in different groups to determine whether a larger dose is more effective or whether a lower dose provides a complete response. “It’s a bit like the Goldilocks effect.” Do children need COVID-19 vaccination? Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, commenting on the value of COVID-19 vaccines for children, says that considering that children under the age of 18 form a large proportion of the population (32% globally), ensuring protection for them is a move towards pandemic control. Protection is urgently needed when the disease risk is high, it says. However, for children, it adds, there is a relatively low risk of disease. Although they account for one in nine SARS-CoV-2 infections, they constitute only 2% of all hospitalisations. Most infections in children are mild and they recover fully. Serious illness is rare, but well-described; this includes the inflammatory and potentially deadly condition, Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children. Recently, speaking at a seminar, Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist, WHO, said, “Children have the same percentage of antibody exposure that adults have. We had shut schools saying children should not be exposed to the virus, but there has been community exposure since they have been doing other activities. Children have been going to malls, they have been playing outside, and are around their family.” However, making a case for reopening schools is vastly different from children getting a COVID-19 vaccine, while one discusses the continuation of life as it is lived, the other is a deeply ethical question. The Gavi paper says evoking the ethical principle of distributive justice that the benefits and burdens should be distributed among society’s members in a just manner makes the case that children should be included in COVID-19 vaccine trials. What is next? The DCGI will have to approve the vaccine before it can be administered to children and decide whether the safety and immunogenicity data among the 500-odd cohort suffices for EUA.  Experts say it is necessary to calibrate vaccines for specific use in children when they have first been developed for the adult population as in the case of COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccines-for-children/article37146115.ece
