25 October 2021||Jammu,||J&K now free of strong-arm tactics by three families: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who is on a three-day tour of J&K, on Sunday said dadagiri (bullying) by three families had ended in Jammu and Kashmir, and any grassroots representative could now aim to become a Union Minister or even the Chief Minister of the Union Territory (UT). “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has laid the foundations of grassroots representation in J&K where 30,000 panches and sarpanches were elected and tehsil and zila-level elections were held for the first time in 70 years. Dadagiri of three families will not work now. Any panch or sarpanch can become a Union Minister or even Chief Minister,” Mr. Shah said, in his speech at Jammu’s Bhagwati Nagar, in a veiled reference to the National Conference (NC), the Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Investment inflow He said that when the Centre introduced a new industrial policy, the three families, which exploited J&K, used to mock who would come to invest in the Union Territory. “Due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts, Rs. 12,000 crore of investment has come till now to J&K. We aim at Rs. 51,000-crore investments by 2022,” he said. On the security situation, Mr. Shah said the civilian deaths had come down in J&K during BJP rule. “A total of 208 people were killed per year between 2004 and 2014. We saw 2,081 people lose their lives between 2004 and 2014. From 2014 to September 2021, 239 people lost their lives. We’re not satisfied as we want to build a situation where nobody loses their lives and terrorism completely ends. The Centre is committed to saving the lives of the people of J&K and end terrorism,” Mr. Shah said. He described the reading down of Article 370 in 2019 as a step to achieve the dream of leaders like Prem Nath Dogra and Syama Prasad Mukherjee, who believed in the slogan “ ek desh, ek vidhan, ek nishan” (one nation, one law, one symbol). “It’s because of PM Modi we were able to realise the dream of Mukherjee and ensured his sacrifice did not go waste. Justice was delivered to Jammu, which will no more be sidelined. There will be neither injustice any more nor any politics of appeasement,” Mr. Shah said. The Minister said J&K had finally been on the path of development. “No one will be allowed to disturb the era of development. Youth from J&K need to work for the development and defeat the sinister designs,” he said. Mr. Shah inaugurated the new campus of the IIT, Jammu and laid the foundation stone of a medical college. He also visited the forward areas in Makwal area and interacted with local people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jk-now-free-of-strong-arm-tactics-by-three-families-shah/article37156126.ece
25 October 2021||Tiruchi,||Aided colleges wary of Kerala policy on unaided programmes||Managements of government-aided arts and science colleges are understood to be apprehensive of the impact that the policy of neighbouring Kerala will have on Tamil Nadu on the issue of government-aided colleges offering unaided programmes. At the start of this academic year, the Kerala government had informed the Supreme Court of its decision not to sanction new self-financing courses in aided colleges. On their part, managements of self-financing colleges in Tamil Nadu also share the contention of Kerala Arts and Science Unaided College Management Association that they are at a disadvantage when compared to the aided colleges that offer unaided programmes by utilising the infrastructure meant for aided programmes. The reasoning is that the aided colleges receive substantial aid from the University Grants Commission and the State governments. ‘Reality is otherwise’ “There is no level playing field. There is a general tendency on the part of students to prefer unaided programmes in aided colleges over those offered by unaided colleges, though the harsh reality is that the quality, both in terms of faculty qualification and delivery mechanism, is far better in unaided colleges,” a principal of an unaided college in the city said. The irony is that the students do not mind paying higher fee for the unaided programmes in aided colleges due to the advantage of brand name, despite the fact that the teachers in aided programmes have nothing to do with the course offered under self-financing stream, the college head said. Only through better patronage can the unaided colleges, which also cater to the higher educational requirements of the economically backward sections of the society by levying reasonable fee, be in a position to strengthen infrastructure,” another Principal said. Heads of the government colleges, on the other hand, opine that there is nothing wrong in optimising the utility of available infrastructure for improving the gross enrolment ratio of the State in higher education. Citing this factor, the Kerala High Court had, during 2014, rejected the petition filed by the Kerala Arts and Science Unaided College Management Association seeking prevention of government-aided colleges from starting self-financing courses. Thereafter, the association had moved the Supreme Court challenging the State’s policy of persisting with permitting aided colleges to run self-financing UG and PG degree courses utilising the infrastructure meant for aided courses. The Higher Education Department of the State had, nevertheless, clarified that the policy will not affect the continuation of the existing unaided programmes in such institutions.  Only through better patronage can unaided colleges be in a position to strengthen infrastructure A Principal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aided-colleges-wary-of-kerala-policy-on-unaided-programmes/article37156325.ece
25 October 2021||Hyderabad,||Plenary will stamp KCR’s hold on TRS||The first plenary of the TRS here after the pandemic, on Monday, will be the complete show of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and will stamp his complete authority on the party as well as the government. He will be elected as the party president yet again as no other candidate has filed nomination for the post. But the plenary is also being seen as focussing on revitalising the party cadre for the next Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plenary-will-stamp-kcrs-hold-on-trs/article37156390.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Idol Wing police seize one more statue from seven-member gang||The Idol Wing Police have seized one more statue from the seven accused persons who were earlier arrested when they tried to sell a Meenakshmi Amman statue near Melmaruvathur on October 17. The Idol Wing police have recovered a stone statue of Lord Krishna weighing about 185 g and eight centimetres in height, based on the confession by one person belonging to the seven-member gang. A police official of the Idol Wing said a special team had arrested the seven persons, including three women, when the gang members attempted to sell an idol near Sithaamur village in Melmaruvathur on October 17. Of the seven persons, four — the kingpin of the gang D. Karthik, B. Moorthy, S. Sundaramurthy and M. Abdulrahman — were taken into police custody for interrogation. Plan foiled During the interrogation conducted by inspector Indira, Sundaramurthy informed that a small statue of Lord Krishna was in their possession and the gang had planned to sell it for Rs. 3 lakh. The statue was in a damaged condition, the official added. The Idol Wing police, during the seizure operation on October 17, recovered the statues of Meenakshmi Amman and Rishabadevar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/idol-wing-police-seizes-one-more-statue-from-arrested-seven-member-gang/article37156201.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||Punjab Congress fault lines widen||The turmoil in the Punjab Congress resurfaced on social media on Sunday, with Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari describing the party’s situation in Punjab as a “chaotic daily soap opera” while Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu asserted that he would not let the political discourse deviate from “real issues”. “...In my 40 years plus in @INCIndia I have never seen such chaos & anarchy as what is playing out in @INCPunjab today. Repeated open defiance of AICC [All India Congress Committee] by a PCC President, colleagues squabbling publicly with each other like children,” Mr. Tewari tweeted on Sunday. ‘Daily soap opera’ “For the past 5 months it is @INCPunjab versus @INCPunjab. Do we think that people of Punjab are not disgusted by this daily soap opera? Irony is that those who complained loudest of transgressions & aberrations were unfortunately & continue to be worst offenders themselves,” he added. Tweets from Mr. Tewari, known to be close to former Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.), came in response to the AICC’s former Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat’s interview, in which Mr. Rawat claimed that Capt. Amarinder was replaced because the MLAs were restless and that leaders like Mr. Tewari didn’t fully “understand the ground realities”. The Lok Sabha member also said that history would record the work of the Committee (Mallikarjun Kharge-headed panel) to address grievances of the MLAs as “a serious error of judgement”. “Where is progress on the issues that agitated these MLAs & other eminences — Bargari, Drugs, Power PPA’s, illegal sand mining. Has there been any movement forward?” asked Mr. Tewari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-congress-fault-lines-widen/article37156128.ece
25 October 2021||HONG KONG,||China’s new law ‘formalises’ its actions along LAC||China’s legislature has adopted a new border law, to take effect on January 1, that calls on the state and military to safeguard territory and “combat any acts” that undermine China’s territorial claims. The law was first proposed in March this year, a year into tensions that erupted along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India after the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) mobilised two divisions in forward areas and carried out multiple transgressions. China has unresolved border disputes with India and Bhutan. The new law, observers said, would formalise some of China’s recent actions in disputed territories with both India and Bhutan, including the PLA’s massing of troops in forward areas along the India border, multiple transgressions across the LAC, and the construction of new “frontier villages” along the border with Bhutan. The legislature, which is largely ceremonial and controlled by the Communist Party, on Saturday “voted to adopt a new law on the protection and exploitation of the country’s land border areas,” the Xinhua news agency said. The law “stipulates that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the People’s Republic of China are sacred and inviolable”, the text said, adding that “the state shall take measures to safeguard territorial integrity and land boundaries and guard against and combat any act that undermines territorial sovereignty and land boundaries”. It also calls on the state to “take measures to strengthen border defence, support economic and social development as well as opening-up in border areas, improve public services and infrastructure in such areas, encourage and support people’s life and work there, and promote coordination between border defence and social, economic development in border areas”. Security issue The law designates the various responsibilities of the military, the State Council or Cabinet, and provincial governments in managing the security and economic issues in border areas. Article 22 of the law says the PLA “shall carry out border duties” including “organising drills” and “resolutely prevent, stop and combat invasion, encroachment, provocation and other acts”. The law also says China will “handle land border-related affairs with neighbouring countries through negotiations”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chinas-new-law-formalises-its-lac-actions/article37156124.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Pakistan’s day out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pakistans-day-out/article37156140.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Pakistan’s day out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pakistans-day-out/article37156546.ece
25 October 2021||Bhopal,||Ink thrown at Prakash Jha by Bajrang Dal activists||Filmmaker Prakash Jha’s face was allegedly smeared with ink by Bajrang Dal activists who barged into the set of his upcoming web series Ashram 3, in Bhopal’s Old Jail on Sunday evening. At least three members of his production unit were chased and beaten up by the men protesting against the web series, claiming it was “hurting Hindu sentiments”. They raised slogans against Mr. Jha and Bobby Deol, the lead actor of the web series, and also damaged vehicles of the unit, said a source. According to unconfirmed sources, the Bajrang Dal members were led by the outfit’s office-bearer, Sushil S., who spoke to the media after the incident. “Ink has been thrown on Prakash Jha, whose web series on Ashram is hurting Hindu sentiments. We want him to change the name of the series,” he said outside the Old Jail premises located in Arera Hills, a highly secured area where Mantralaya (State secretariat), Vidhan Sabha, Bhopal District Court, Fire Brigade Station and BSNL Telephone Exchange are located. “DIG, Bhopal, Irshad Wali is personally monitoring the situation,” an official told The Hindu . The police are yet to receive a complaint from Mr. Jha and his production team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ink-thrown-at-prakash-jha-by-bajrang-dal-activists/article37156494.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Pakistan’s day out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pakistans-day-out/article37156189.ece
25 October 2021||Pune,||Graft charge against NCB officials in Aryan case||In a twist in the Aryan Khan drug racket case, a witness has alleged that he was made to sign on blank papers by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) authorities and that he reportedly overheard an alleged pay-off of Rs. 8 crore to the NCB’s Mumbai zonal director, Sameer Wankhede. However, the NCB has denied the allegations. These revelations were made in a notarised affidavit by Prabhakar Raghoji Sail, 40, who claimed that he had worked as a bodyguard for K.P. Gosavi, allegedly the ‘private investigator’ whose selfie with Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, after his arrest on October 2 in an NCB raid, went viral. Mr. Sail’s video, in which he recounted his revelations made in the affidavit, was widely circulated on social media on Sunday. In the affidavit, Mr. Sail claimed that Mr. Wankhede had instructed a member of his staff “to take his signature on 10 blank papers” on the intervening night of October 3-4 (a day after the alleged cruise drug bust on October 2). The witness said that after this, he allegedly overheard Mr. Gosavi speaking with a certain Sam D’Souza and tell the latter: “You put a ‘bomb’ of Rs. 25 crore, let’s settle for Rs. 18 crore and give Rs. 8 crore to Sameer Wankhede.” Mr. Sail claimed that he has seen Pooja Dadlani (Mr. Shah Rukh Khan’s manager) talking with Mr. Gosavi and Mr. D’Souza and later he was instructed by Mr. Gosavi to go to a particular location to collect Rs. 50 lakh cash, which was delivered to him in two bags. He then handed over the same to Mr. Gosavi at the latter’s home in Vashi.  The NCB released a notice stating that Mr. Wankhede had refuted all of Mr. Sail’s allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/graft-charge-against-ncb-in-aryan-case/article37156129.ece
25 October 2021||MYSURU,||Accused in double murder case arrested||Sagar, a resident of K.G. Koppal in Mysuru, was arrested on Sunday over a double murder at Dadadahalli in Srinagar on the outskirts of the city on Thursday. The accused is the son of 56-year-old Shivaprakash, who was hacked to death along with 48-year-old Latha in the latter’s house. The Mysuru South police had registered a case and formed special teams to trace the accused. The police said Sagar, who is in his late twenties, was against his father maintaining friendship with Latha, wife of Shivaprakash’s friend Nagaraj, who died in 2006. Shivaprakash continued to maintain friendship with Latha even after Nagaraj’s death and helped her and her family financially. Shivaprakash reportedly helped Latha in getting her two daughters married off, besides educating her son. After the marriage of her two daughters, Latha was staying with her son Nagarjuna at Dadadahalli. On Thursday night, Sagar, who was against Shivaprakash’s relationship with Latha, barged into her house and hacked to death his father as well as Latha with a machete. Nagarjuna who tried to prevent the attack on his mother also got hit and he was taken to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/accused-in-double-murder-case-arrested/article37156564.ece
25 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pinarayi urges Stalin to drain water from Mullaperiyar||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written to his Tamil Nadu counterpart M.K. Stalin, stressing the “urgent need for the gradual release of water from the Mullaperiyar dam through the tunnel to Tamil Nadu”. Mr. Vijayan said 2,109 cusecs of water was accumulating in the reservoir even after diversion from the Tamil Nadu side. Given the current inflow, the water level would reach the safety threshold of 142 feet if the rain intensified, the Kerala Chief Minister added. He requested Mr. Stalin to “give immediate directions to the authorities to ensure that the maximum quantity of water is drawn from Mullaperiyar dam through the tunnel to Vaigai dam and gradually release the water downstream”. He also requested Mr. Stalin to direct the authorities to intimate the Kerala government at least 24 hours in advance of the opening of the shutters to “help us take precautionary measures to ensure the safety of the people living downstream”. He requested Mr. Stalin’s “kind and positive” response to ensure the “safety of the lives of our people”. He said rainfall was heavy in the catchments of the Mullaperiyar Dam. The water level had touched 133.45 feet on October 18. Soon, the level reached the red alert level in Cheruthoni, compelling the government to open three dam shutters. It also released water from the Edamalayar dam. Mr. Vijayan said heavy flooding had caused loss of life and severe damage in Kerala from October 16 and reminded Mr. Stalin of the historically warm relations between people of both States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pinarayi-urges-stalin-to-draw-mullaperiyar-water/article37156188.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Pak. prisoner killed in Poonch||An arrested Pakistani terrorist was killed and three security personnel were injured on Sunday when militants opened fire on a joint search party of the Army and the police inside a forest in Poonch district of Jammu & Kashmir, officials said.Heavy firing and explosions were reported from the Bhatta Durrian forest of Mendhar, forest areas of Surankote (Poonch) and Thanamandi (Rajouri), where a search operation is on.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pak-prisoner-killed-in-poonch/article37156122.ece
25 October 2021||Belagavi,||Govt. to consider Rs. 200 crore demand for Kittur authority||The State Government will consider the demand for releasing Rs. 200 crore for the Kittur Development Authority, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Kittur near Belagavi. There is a long-pending demand for developing all places associated with the warrior queen Rani Channamma. They include the fort in Kittur and other monuments. People have been demanding Rs. 200 crore. “We will discuss this issue with officers and experts,’’ he said. Steps will be taken to develop Kittur as an international tourist spot, the Chief Minister added. He said that the State Government will take over the administration of the Sainik School being developed in Sangolli, the home town of Sangolli Rayanna, jointly by the State Government and the Ministry of Defence. “We will hold talks with Defence officers and take all steps to develop the school into a national centre of excellence,’’ he said. He said that the government will take a decision on recategorising reservation for Panchamsali community, after consulting legal experts. Union Minister Prahlad Joshi, Member of Legislative Assembly Mahantesh Dodagoudar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-consider-rs-200-crore-demand-for-kittur-authority/article37156364.ece
25 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Navlakha’s phone calls barred, says partner||Activist and journalist Gautam Navlakha, who was arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case in 2020, has recently been shifted to a high-security section of the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai and not allowed to call his family and lawyers, said his partner, Sahba Husain on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/navlakhas-phone-calls-barred-says-partner/article37156282.ece
25 October 2021||Patna,||Lalu arrives in Patna, may campaign in bypolls||Rashtriya Janata Dal president Lalu Prasad on Sunday reached Patna after over three-and-a-half years. He was accompanied by his wife Rabri Devi, daughter Misa Bharti and other family members. Mr. Prasad is likely to campaign for the RJD candidates in the bypolls scheduled for October 30 at Tarapur in Munger and Kusheshwarsthan in Darbhanga districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lalu-arrives-in-patna-may-campaign-in-bypolls/article37156283.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Lower primary classes to reopen today||After 19 months, lower primary classes are set to reopen on Monday. While government and aided schools are set to welcome students, many private schools have decided to defer the reopening after Deepavali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lower-primary-classes-to-reopen-today/article37156141.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Concerns over ‘party politics’ in KSP polls||The interference of “party politics” in the upcoming Kannada Sahitya Parishat (KSP) elections, scheduled for November 21 and for which campaigning is on in full swing, has caused concern among many writers, other candidates, and former office-bearers of the parishat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/concerns-over-party-politics-in-ksp-polls/article37156142.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Final decision on State anthem after bypolls’||Minister for Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar on Sunday said the department had made its recommendation on standardisation of the State anthem to the Chief Minister and a final decision would be announced soon after the bypolls to the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/final-decision-on-state-anthem-after-bypolls/article37156144.ece
25 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pinarayi urges Stalin to drain Mullaperiyar water||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written to his Tamil Nadu counterpart M.K. Stalin, stressing the “urgent need for the gradual release of water from the Mullaperiyar dam through the tunnel to Tamil Nadu”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pinarayi-urges-stalin-to-drain-mullaperiyar-water/article37156251.ece
25 October 2021||KALABURAGI,||‘Quality legal aid must for people to have faith’||Shedding light on the fact that a overwhelming majority of the general public is not utilising free legal aid services due to many reasons, Supreme Court judge Uday U. Lalit has said that good quality legal aid must be ensured to reach people to make them have faith in the legal aid system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/quality-legal-aid-must-for-people-to-have-faith/article37156366.ece
25 October 2021||BELAGAVI,||BJP govt. released funds for Kaginele: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai campaigned for party candidates in Sindgi and Hangal on Sunday. He held a roadshow in Kokatnur, Sindgi, and addressed a rally in Bommanhalli in Hangal constituency. He criticised Congress leader Siddaramaiah without naming him that he had claimed leadership of the Kuruba community without doing anything to develop the community. Mr. Bommai said that it was the BJP government that had released money for the development of Bada and Kaginele, the places associated with Kanaka Dasa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-govt-released-funds-for-kaginele-cm/article37156370.ece
25 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||NCPCR seeks report on Ministers’ visits to school||The controversy over the murder of a teacher in Odisha’s Kalahandi district got thicker with the NCPCR seeking a report on the alleged frequent visits by Ministers to a school promoted by Gobinda Sahu, an accused in the murder case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncpcr-seeks-report-on-ministers-visits-to-school/article37156496.ece
25 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Govt. overshoots detention camp deadline||The Assam Government has overshot a 45-day deadline set by the Gauhati High Court for the completion of a standalone detention centre for declared foreigners. The court had on August 11 asked the State Government to complete the construction of the detention centre, now called transit camp, at Matia in western Assam’s Goalpara district and file a status report within 45 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-govt-overshoots-detention-camp-deadline/article37156495.ece
25 October 2021||MYSURU,||All set for reopening of classes today||Classes for students of I and V will commence from Monday across the State and nearly 1.98 lakh children and 1,2800 primary school teachers in Mysuru district will return to schools after almost 20 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-set-for-reopening-of-classes-today/article37156565.ece
25 October 2021||Jammu,||Pak. prisoner killed in Poonch firing||An arrested Pakistani terrorist was killed and three security personnel were injured on Sunday when militants opened fire on a joint search party of the Army and the police inside a forest in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. Heavy firing and explosions were reported from the Bhatta Durrian forest of Mendhar, where, along with the forest areas adjoining Surankote (Poonch) and Thanamandi in Rajouri district, a massive search operation is on. The operation, in which nine Army personnel were killed in ambushes in Surankote and Mendhar on October 11 and 14, entered the 14th day on Sunday. A police spokesperson said two policemen and an Army jawan along with a prisoner Zia Mustafa, a Pakistani terrorist affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), were injured in firing by terrorists in the Bhatta Durrian forest. “Detenue Mustafa was taken to the area for identification of terrorist hideout during the ongoing operation in which three Army jawans and a JCO were martyred (on October 14). During the search when the team approached the hideout, terrorists again opened fire on the joint team of police and Army personnel in which two policemen and an Army jawan sustained injuries,” the spokesperson said. The police said Mustafa sustained injuries and he could not be taken out from the site in the heavy firing. Body retrieved “During the subsequent operation, reinforcements were sent and the body of Mustafa has been retrieved from the encounter site,” the spokesperson said, adding that legal process has been initiated in connection with the killing of the Pakistani terrorist. Officials said Mustafa, a resident of Rawalakot in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, had been lodged in the Kot Bhalwal jail for the past 14 years and was shifted to Mendhar on police remand after investigation revealed his link with the hiding terrorists. He had sneaked in from the same route before he was arrested from south Kashmir, the officials said. The operation in the two border districts started on October 11 when terrorists ambushed a search party killing five soldiers including a Junior Commissioned Officer in the Surankote forest before another gunfight in nearby Thanamandi the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-prisoner-killed-in-poonch-firing/article37156055.ece
25 October 2021||Patna,||Lalu arrives in Patna, may campaign for party in bypolls||Rashtriya Janata Dal president Lalu Prasad on Sunday reached Patna after over three-and-a-half years. He was accompanied by his wife Rabri Devi, elder daughter Misa Bharti and other family members. Mr. Prasad, who was accorded a warm welcome by party leaders and workers at the airport, is likely to campaign for the party candidates in the byelections scheduled for October 30 at Tarapur in Munger and Kusheshwarsthan in Darbhanga districts. Both Tej Pratap and Tejashwi Yadav, sons of Mr. Prasad, were present at the airport to receive him. Rift with Congress “We are excited that our party leader and bhagwan [God] has come to Patna today and now leaders of all political parties will realise the importance of being Lalu in Bihar,” an RJD worker from Arwal said. Earlier in Delhi, while speaking to media persons, Mr. Prasad slammed Bihar in-charge of the Congress, Bhakt Charan Das. “Bhakt Charan Das is bhakchonahar [stupid and fool]”, said Mr. Prasad when asked for his reaction over the Congress leader saying that the RJD would join forces (obliquely referring to the BJP) against whom the mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) had fought earlier. Mr. Prasad also denied differences between his sons. “Both are my sons and there is no difference between them,” he said. Convicted in several fodder scam cases, Mr. Prasad was later admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi with multiple diseases. After getting bail, he was recuperating at the residence of Ms. Bharti since April 30 this year. Since his incarceration in the fodder scam cases on December 23, 2017, Mr. Prasad visited Patna only for a few days on parole in May 2018 to attend the marriage of Mr. Tej Pratap on May 12. Family sources told The Hindu that Mr. Prasad might celebrate the Chhath (Sun god worship) festival in Patna in October after a long gap. Campaign likely Mr. Prasad is also likely to campaign for the RJD candidates in Tarapur and Kusheshwarsthan for the byelections. “He may address one public meeting at each constituency”, said a senior party leader, adding, “everything depends on his health condition.” The RJD has been striving to win both seats. The party is locked in a multi-cornered contest as the Congress and the Janata Dal(U) have fielded candidates. Mr. Tejashwi has been campaigning in both the constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lalu-arrives-in-patna-may-campaign-for-party-in-bypolls/article37156075.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccine record shows India’s capability: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the country’s health workers had set a new example by achieving the milestone of administering 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses. They had established a new benchmark in service to humanity through innovation and sheer determination, he said. Addressing the nation through his Mann ki Baat radio show, Mr. Modi said the success of the vaccine programme displayed the capability of India. “There are innumerable instances about them (health workers) that convey how they crossed all hurdles and provided the security shield to the maximum number of people,” he said. On the show, Mr. Modi talked to a healthcare worker, Poonam Nautiyal from Bageshwar in Uttarakhand, whose team accomplished the task of administering 100% first doses in the area. She and her team used to cover 8-10 km a day in the hills for vaccinating people. National unity The Prime Minister paid tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, whose birth anniversary is celebrated as ‘National Unity Day’ on October 31. Noting that police personnel in Gujarat, Tripura and Jammu and Kashmir were taking out motorbike rallies to spread the message of national unity, he said many women from Kupwara were working to make the Tricolour for the Army and government offices. Highlighting the importance of music, art and literature in life, Mr. Modi said the Culture Ministry would be organising competitions on patriotic songs, Rangoli and lullabies. “In these lullabies, there should be a reference to modern India, the vision of 21st century India and its dreams,” he said. The competitions would commence on October 31. Paying homage to Bhagwan Birsa Munda, whose birth anniversary is on November 15, Mr. Modi said he taught the countrymen to be proud of their culture and roots. “The foreign rule subjected him to countless threats and applied immense pressure, but he did not relinquish the tribal culture,” he said. “Today, on October 24, ‘United Nations Day’ is celebrated. India had signed the Charter of the United Nations in 1945 prior to Independence. A unique feature related to the UN is that the women of India have played a large role in increasing the influence and strength of the United Nations,” he said, recounting the contributions made by Hansa Mehta, Lakshmi Menon and Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-record-shows-indias-capability-modi/article37156084.ece
25 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Om Prakash Rajbhar changes tack, again||Amid rising political temperatures in Uttar Pradesh ahead of next year’s Assembly election, OBC leader Om Prakash Rajbhar has planned a big rally — a Vanchit, Pichda, Dalit, Alpsankhyak Bhagidhari Mahapanchayat — in Mau on October 27, the 19th foundation day of his party, the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP). And significantly, the SBSP leader has invited Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav to be the chief guest at the rally. The two parties are expected to declare an alliance for the 2022 election, in what has been a complete turnaround for the SBSP over the past five years, with Mr. Rajbhar emerging not just as leader within his community but also a sought-after mobiliser of the non-Yadav MBC votes for the bigger players in the Purvanchal region. The SBSP’s relevance for the BJP can be gauged from the fact that despite commanding 73 out of 80 Lok Sabha seats in 2014, the BJP felt the need to ally with a second party, one that did not have a single MLA. In 2017, the BJP and its two allies won 325 out of the 403 seats, registering a brute majority. The SBSP contested eight and won four but mobilised votes for the BJP in Purvanchal. The alliance provided beneficial for Mr. Rajbhar personally as he went on to become an MLA for the first time. Though a small player in the larger landscape, over the last few years, the SBSP chief has emerged as a leader who speaks unabashedly for OBC interests, leveraging his rustic style rooted in the Purvanchal.  However, Mr. Rajbhar’s political affiliation has hardly been predictable, making him a risky bargain for any potential ally. Mr. Rajbhar’s political journey traces the shift of caste mobilisation in U.P., from the BSP’s Kanshiram to the BJP and Mr. Modi, and now Mr. Akhilesh Yadav. The SBSP has found little electoral success despite contesting elections regularly. In 2012, the party contested 52 seats and secured over four lakh votes but failed to open its score. Mr. Rajbhar again stood third. Then in 2014 Lok Sabha, SBSP became a part of the Ekta Manch that included the Quami Ekta Manch of jailed MLA Mukhtar Ansari. This time Mr. Rajbhar stood fourth but received a decent 66,084 votes in Salempur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/om-prakash-rajbhar-changes-tack-again/article37156080.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘When citizens are manipulated on social media, they distrust everything’||Journalist Maria Ressa from the Philippines is one of two journalists to have been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for 2021 , along with Russian Editor Dmitry Muratov. Ms. Ressa, who is the author of upcoming book How to Stand Up to a Dictator speaks about her battles with the Philippines Government and ‘Big Tech’ social media companies.  It is not since 1935 that the Nobel Peace Prize went to a journalist. Carl Von Ossietzky, who wrote about the Nazi regime and Germany’s remilitarisation plan, won that year. So what do you think is the message the Nobel Peace Committee is sending in 2021? That it is that kind of moment, you know, that it is an existential moment, where, what happened after 1935, you had Second World War. And I use that analogy all the time, because I always say that our information ecosystem, it’s like an atom bomb exploded. And we need to come together globally and find a solution, much like the world did after Second World War, they created the UN, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, right, these values, because I got to say, I keep asking for “tech values”, beyond making money, and [for tech companies] to take the role of being the gatekeeper to the public sphere seriously. I will also say: this prize is for all journalists. I feel like I’m the placeholder for every journalist around the world who have found it so hard to just do their jobs. And I keep hoping that this creative destruction will lead us to a place that is better than where we are. Both the Philippines and India are on the list of top 10 countries where journalists had been killed or targeted. For journalists, the growing threat is coming from democratically elected, populist, and increasingly authoritarian regimes worldwide. What do you think led to the rise of populism? Technology! [These regimes] were always there, if you see that Hitler and others were elected democratically, but I go back to the past decade where journalists lost our gatekeeping powers [to social media] technology. And, globally I would say the first time we saw different realities being put out was in Ukraine, for example, by Russian military led information systems or in the [Indian election campaign] in 2014. We saw that the use of social media lead to an erosion of trust in [mainstream media]. When citizens are being manipulated by parties on social media, they begin to distrust everything. This year an Oxford University research ‘Project on Computational Propaganda’ (now known as the Programme on Democracy and Technologydemtech.oii.ox.ac.uk) found that these “cheap armies on social media” are rolling back democracy in 81 countries around the world. The hard part is that it manipulates our biology. As human beings, we have a lot more in common than we realise because the very same platforms are using an algorithmic manipulation in order to change what we think, to change how we feel. According to one biologist who studied this behaviour, our greatest crisis comes from “palaeolithic emotions, medieval institutions and God-like technology”. The technology is God-like because social media has become a behaviour modification system. And with a lack of accountability, and the potential to make significant amounts of money, it is a business model that takes our data and uses it to manipulate us. The counter argument is that social media, big tech companies have democratised expression, given everyone a platform. Why do you think they are, as you describe, an agent for authoritarianism and not an agent for the people’s right to know? Well, I would point you to 2011, and how the Arab Spring became an Arab Winter. At the beginning, [social media] was empowering. But then, governments realised they could exploit those weaknesses of micro-targeting, those weaknesses of what was used for marketing, and governments began to manipulate those tools. Mark Zuckerberg says all the time that this is a freedom of speech issue. But I like to quote comedian Sacha Baron Cohen who said that this is actually a ‘freedom of reach’ issue. We are talking about algorithmic amplification, algorithmic distribution, and studies now have shown us that lies laced with anger can be spread faster and further than facts. If the social media platforms are biased against the facts, then they are biased against journalism which seeks facts. And this contestation leads to a divided society. In the Philippines, for example, we never argued about facts, regardless of where we stood [on politics]. But after theelection of President [Rodrigo] Dutertein 2016, if you were Pro-Duterte, and you can substitute pro-[former U.S. President Donald] Trump here as well, you would move further right. If you were anti-Duterte, you would move further left. This kind of [algorithmic manipulation] has torn apart the shared reality. Freedom of expression is also the idea that you should be able to speak the truth, speak what you think without fear of retribution. Information [surveillance] operations on social media make that more difficult, and as a result these strongman leaders brought out the worst of human nature, gave permission for very destructive [online] behaviour. Tell us a little bit about your own journey fighting the strongman leader President Duterte, leading up to your arrest in 2019. In the Philippines, President Duterte was democratically elected, but like many of these digital authoritarians, once he was President, he then took the levers of power and changed it from within. We have seen at least 19 journalists killed during his administration, 63 lawyers, over 400 human rights activists, and then he had this very bloody drug war. Our first battle for truth was, just to collate how many people had died in the [war on drugs], because the police would give one figure and then they would roll it back. In 2012, we set up Rappler with 20 young employees. One of the things that had begun to alarm was that how anyone who questioned the drug war was just pounded on social media. So the first thing we exposed was [the government’s] information operations, we showed our people the data of how they were being manipulated online. I wrote a series called “Weaponising the Internet”, on how social media algorithms impact a person. Then we looked at manufactured reality and how just 26 fake accounts could reach up to three million users via social media. I have to say, I didn’t expect to get arrested. I didn’t expect 10 arrest warrants in less than two years. But we just kept doing what we were doing. The four of us, the co-founders of Rappler, have this pact that only one of us is allowed to be afraid at one time, and then we rotate that. (Laughs) What are your suggestions for journalists just starting out? Is there a toolkit on how to deal with a tough state? The first thing is that journalists, news organisations [must move] from the age when we were competing against each other. We are on the same side. When it is a battle for facts, we are on the same side, and especially on social media. Collaboration is the way forward. This is an amazing time to be a journalist, because the mission has never been as important as it is today.  Freedom of expression is also the idea that you should be able to speak what you think without fear of retribution||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/when-citizens-are-manipulated-on-social-media-they-distrust-everything/article37156082.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘India’s vaccine pace is inspirational to lower-income countries’||Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, is working with countries to support COVID-19 response and maintain and restore routine immunisation. The Alliance is also co-leading global efforts on equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines. Anuradha Gupta , deputy CEO of Gavi, speaks about India’s vaccination journey and how it makes for a global case study.  Do you think the COVID vaccination experience can serve as a critical threshold for the public health policy and implementation in India to take a leap? There is always a risk with these pandemics. When they hit, everybody wakes up. Once they fade, they are soon forgotten. It will be extremely important for any country, not just India, to ensure that learnings out of this crisis are used to improve our health systems and make them pandemic-proof. Certain solutions have proved so compelling that they will outlast the pandemic. For example, I see CoWIN being repurposed for routine immunisation services and other healthcare programmes. For instance, in tuberculosis programmes, there has been a persistent challenge of tracking patients who went to private healthcare services and discontinued their treatment. That can be solved with a shared database on platforms like CoWIN, enabling effective exchange of information between public and private sector providers, and proving extremely helpful in addressing diseases that cause deaths, and medical impoverishment. Another important lesson coming out of this pandemic is that we should have more distributed manufacturing of life-saving commodities, geographically speaking. So, whether it is personal protective equipment (PPE), syringes, vaccines, drugs, or testing kits, the more distributed manufacturing we have across the globe, the better it is for the world. Finally, India will need to reflect on how to build public-private partnerships in the healthcare sector that are mutually reinforcing. Most discourses around the roles of the private sector and public sector in healthcare have positioned the two as mutually exclusive options, in an “either/or” manner. But models like Gavi, for instance, show that there are ways to create highly effective public-private partnerships and craft win-win models for all stakeholders. It is such a proud moment for India to have hit this one billion inoculations mark. The country deserves to celebrate the distance it has covered amid extreme uncertainties. We are hopeful and confident that India will build on this success and contribute to the global good by making vaccines available to other countries, where even the most vulnerable populations are still waiting to access COVID-19 vaccines. What are the major steps you think have most contributed to achieving its vaccination coverage? First, the huge political commitment to vaccination, and very decisive leadership. I think that makes all the difference. Once India decided that vaccination needed to be ramped up, particularly after the second wave hit the country, we immediately saw tremendous progress. Second, India has a huge advantage coming out of systematic investments that have been made in strengthening public health systems since 2005, under the National Health Mission, previously National Rural Health Mission. The one million ASHAs (Accredited Social Health Activists) on the ground, the anganwadi workers, the ANMs (Auxiliary Nurse Midwives), and the health infrastructure really reaching out almost to the last mile, gave India the strength to very quickly mobilise millions of health workers to carry out this ambitious drive. Third, India’s historical strength in building indigenous vaccine manufacturing prowess inspired confidence among the global community to transfer technology for manufacturing COVID-19 vaccines to Indian manufacturers like the Serum Institute of India (SII). SII’s capability and track record gave institutions like Gavi the confidence to provide financial backing and pre-payments to enable the ramp-up in production. Fourth, the public confidence in vaccines, institutions, and the provincial and national governments made this journey possible. The tone was set at the top; people believed in that message, and they actually came forward to get vaccinated. Does India’s COVID vaccination experience have a few lessons for other countries? That India has been able to deliver one billion inoculations at such a rapid pace is inspirational, particularly for lower-income countries. It’s also a great case study, on how to quickly activate health system capacities to vaccinate, overcoming several weaknesses. One of the most important takeaways from this experience is the exemplary use of digital innovations, and the ability to continuously adapt in a crisis setting. CoWIN is a brilliant example of digital innovation which helped India organise its vaccination efforts in a remarkable way, enabling vaccine tracking and vaccine management, otherwise not possible through manual efforts. The use of CoWIN sends a powerful message to the world: that digital technologies can actually be leveraged very fast — at a low cost, but to great effect. We at Gavi are very proud to have funded and supported CoWIN at an early stage. The large-scale use of technology in vaccinations has been a big game-changer for India. In many other countries, where digital technologies are not mature, even prioritisation of populations for vaccine eligibility can be a very big challenge. Are there any specific lessons, knowledge gains that can really be transferred to other infectious disease programmes or public health space in general? One of the lessons that has emerged very clearly from this pandemic and India’s response is that public health system capacities need to be continuously bolstered. To expect so many poor people to maintain physical distancing, hand-washing hygiene — when some of them struggle for clean drinking water — is unreasonable. Also expecting them to buy sanitiser and masks daily, when they are trying hard to make ends meet, is beyond logic. If India hadn’t systemically invested in and developed its health infrastructure over the past decade, probably the story would have been different. That highlights the importance of further increasing investments in public health, pandemic preparedness, and health systems. India has repeatedly committed to increasing investments in public health beyond 1% of GDP. It is time we honour that commitment, because this is not the first or the last pandemic.  (For full interview, go to bit.ly/AnuradhaGupta)    One lessons from this pandemic is that public health system capacities need to be continuously bolstered||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-vaccine-pace-is-inspirational-to-lower-income-countries/article37156089.ece
25 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||PMs’ Museum likely to miss deadline||The Prime Ministers’ Museum on the Teen Murti Bhavan premises is likely to miss yet another deadline, this time the “October, 2021” tentative date, for completion given by Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy to Parliament in August, according to officials. The museum, being constructed next to the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, was approved in March 2018 and would cost Rs. 271.07 crore, Mr. Reddy had said to a question in the Lok Sabha on August 9. He said it would “showcase the life and contribution made by all Prime Ministers of India”. The museum was supposed to open in October 2020 but Culture Ministry officials said the pandemic had contributed to the delay. Two senior officials confirmed that work was pending. They said there was no opening or inauguration date set so far. One official said the project would take at least a couple more months. Requests for comment from a spokesperson of the Ministry were not answered. According to sources, the museum would open on a date of significance, with one option being the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, December 25, which has been declared “Good Governance Day” by the Narendra Modi Government. The project may not be complete in time to open on Jawaharlal Nehru’s birth anniversary, November 14, a source said. Among the features of the museum are audio-visual displays on the lives of all Prime Ministers, holograms, projections and interactive content. A souvenir shop was also being developed, for which the NMML had awarded the contract to an agency in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pms-museum-likely-to-miss-deadline/article37156092.ece
25 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||States told to help cut edible oil prices||With edible oil prices remaining firm ahead of the festive season, the Centre has urged the States to take suitable action to ensure lower prices for consumers, including a review of their stockholding limits. Food and Public Distribution Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey has written to the States outlining the initiatives taken to ease prices for consumers “keeping the festive season in mind”, and convened a review meeting with them on Monday. He has also advised them not to allow any stakeholder in the supply chain to hold stocks in excess of two months of storage capacity. Retail inflation in edible oils and fats stood at 34.2% for September, even as the headline consumer price inflation cooled off to 4.2% and food price inflation fell to just 0.68%. Festival demand “Demand and consumption of edible oils is different for different States and Union Territories as per the preference of the consumers… The Department of Food and Public Distribution (DFPD) is monitoring the prices of edible oils and their availability to the consumers. This is especially important in the context of the upcoming festival season in which demand for edible oils will increase,” the department said in a statement. “It may be considered that any stakeholder (refiners, miller, wholesaler, etc.) should not hold stocks in excess of two months of the storage capacity,” the department has suggested, adding that various steps have already been taken by the Centre based on earlier interactions with the States and edible oil industry associations. A stock disclosure notification has been issued, backed by a web portal to monitor the stock of edible oils and oilseeds on a weekly basis in the country. Earlier this month, the Union Government slashed the import duties and the Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess levied on crude palm, soya bean and sunflower seed oils.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-told-to-help-cut-edible-oil-prices/article37156068.ece
25 October 2021||New York,||‘Misinformation, hate speech in FB’||Internal documents at Facebook show “a struggle with misinformation, hate speech and celebrations of violence” in India, the company’s biggest market, with researchers at the social media giant pointing out that there are groups and pages “replete with inflammatory and misleading anti-Muslim content” on its platform, U.S. media reports have said. In a report published on Saturday, The New York Times said that in February 2019, a Facebook researcher created a user account to look into what the social media website will look like for a person living in Kerala. For the next three weeks, the account operated by a simple rule: follow all the recommendations generated by Facebook’s algorithms to join groups, watch videos and explore new pages on the site. The result was an inundation of hate speech, misinformation and celebrations of violence, which were documented in an internal Facebook report published later that month,” the NYT report said. Biggest market “Internal documents show a struggle with misinformation, hate speech and celebrations of violence in the country, the company’s biggest market,” said the report based on disclosures obtained by a consortium of news organisations, including The New York Times and the Associated Press. The documents are part of a larger cache of material collected by whistleblower Frances Haugen, a former Facebook employee who recently testified before the Senate about the company and its social media platforms. The report said the internal documents include reports on how bots and fake accounts tied to the “country’s ruling party and Opposition figures” were wreaking havoc on national elections. In an internal document titled “Adversarial Harmful Networks: India Case Study”, Facebook researchers wrote that there were groups and pages “replete with inflammatory and misleading anti-Muslim content”. The internal documents also detail how a plan ‘championed’ by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg to focus on “meaningful social interactions” was leading to more misinformation in India, particularly during the pandemic. Efforts by Bajrang Dal The NYT report said another Facebook report detailed efforts by Bajrang Dal to publish posts containing anti-Muslim narratives on the platform. “Facebook is considering designating the group as a dangerous organisation because it is ‘inciting religious violence’ on the platform, the document showed. But it has not yet done so,” the NYT report said. The documents show that Facebook did not have enough resources in India and was not able to grapple with the problems it had introduced there, including anti-Muslim posts. A Facebook spokesman, Andy Stone, said Facebook has reduced the amount of hate speech that people see globally by half this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/misinformation-hate-speech-in-fb/article37156070.ece
25 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Govt. overshoots HC’s detention camp deadline||The Assam Government has overshot a 45-day deadline set by the Gauhati High Court for the completion of a standalone detention centre for declared foreigners. The court had on August 11 asked the State Government to complete the construction of the detention centre, now called transit camp, at Matia in western Assam’s Goalpara district and file a status report within 45 days. The Gauhati High Court had also sought the shifting of 177 inmates across six existing detention centres within as many central jails. These jails are in Dibrugarh, Goalpara, Jorhat, Kokrajhar, Silchar and Tezpur. “The construction of the Matia facility is almost complete,” Manivannan S., the State’s Home Commissioner-Secretary told The Hindu . Home and Political Department officials said the Government had sought some more time to complete the detention centre and the formalities associated with it. Hearing a petition on the detention centres, Justice Kalyan Rai Surana had more than two months ago observed: “…The State envisaged that the construction of detention centre at Matia, Goalpara, would be completed by September 2021… the learned Advocate General has prayed for allowing six weeks’ time to the State to complete the construction of the proposed detention centre and to shift the detenues of the various detention centres...” People adjudged non-citizens by the quasi-judicial Foreigners’ Tribunals are sent to detention centres. Such people are tried after the Assam police’s Border wing serve them notice on suspicion of being foreigners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-govt-overshoots-hcs-detention-camp-deadline/article37156078.ece
25 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab uses tech against illicit brewing||In 2020, Punjab’s Excise Department launched Operation Red Rose to curb illicit liquor trading and nail excise-related crimes. A year-and-a-half later, with the use of precise tracking and monitoring systems to check illicit distillation and smuggling of liquor, the results in terms of the number of suspects booked for crimes, convictions and rise in revenues are encouraging. In December 2020, the department busted an illegal bottling plant at Rajpura in Patiala district using the Global Positioning System (GPS) technology. It has been made compulsory for transporters of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) and spirits to install GPS systems in their vehicles. A control room at the department’s head office in Mohali keeps a tab on the movement of all vehicles round the clock. On December 12, the control room flagged a tanker carrying 20,000 litres of ENA that had started from a distillery from Patiala but halted near Rajpura for an unusually long time. A squad of local officials was rushed to the spot, which found that ENA was being siphoned off from the tanker to an illegal bottling plant. A huge cache of liquor, blends, empty bottles and unused caps were also recovered, and a case was subsequently registered. This is one among several cases that the department has busted by deploying the latest technology. “The basic idea behind Operation Red Rose was to ensure that there should not be illicit or illegal movement of liquor in Punjab. We have adopted zero tolerance on this front. Our conviction rate for 2021-22 (till April-August) is 90%, which in 2019-20 was at around 67%; and in 2020-21, the conviction rate was 77%,” Rajat Agarwal, Punjab’s Excise Commissioner, told The Hindu . Pointing out that the objective of the project is to keep an effective check on spurious and counterfeit liquor, Mr. Agarwal said: “We wanted to keep strict control over manufacturing units, the wholesale and the retail chain so that the quality of liquor is not compromised at any point. Under this operation, better coordination has been developed among the three wings — the civil administration, the Excise Department and the police — and the results are encouraging. The rise in revenue and increase in the number of FIRs and arrests, besides the rise in conviction rate, is testimony to the success of Operation Red Rose.” In 2019-20, the department’s revenue was Rs. 5,118 crore; in 2020-21, it rose to Rs. 6,335 crore. The department is expecting the revenue to touch Rs. 7,000 crore this year. In 2019, a total 11,953 FIRs were lodged and 13,243 arrests were made in cases related to illicit alcohol. From May 2020, when the operation was started, till May 2021, as many as 17,541 FIRs were registered and 16,216 people arrested. The number of convictions in excise-related crimes has also gone up. Dynamic enforcement “We are ensuring cases are taken to the logical conclusion. Enforcement is a continuous and dynamic activity so, of course, at times, unscrupulous elements will come out with some novel ways to work out their activities, but we have been improvising and efforts are paying off,” Mr. Agarwal said. The department has used several technologies — flow meters in bottling plants, QR code-based passes, GPS-enabled transport vehicles, and e-transit passes — to curb different modules of excise theft, which include direct supply of liquor from the manufacturing unit without paying excise duty; liquor smuggling from neighbouring States; and preparing liquor in villages, especially in the areas adjacent to rivers. Naresh Dubey, Joint Commissioner with the State Excise Department, asserts that human intelligence, along with technology, is being effectively put to use. “I can assure that no liquor is illegally coming out from distilleries in Punjab,” he said, adding that the department has used the latest technologies in a manner that “each and every bottle is accounted for as there is a complete check on the inputs”. “The entire manufacturing process of liquor in the State is now online, which is monitored in real-time. The total movement of liquor, consisting of PML (country liquor), Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and beer, starting from manufacturing units to wholesalers and then further to retail shops or bars, is being done online. We have a control room, where our team members monitor the quantity, brand, etc., of the liquor being processed at a given manufacturing unit. On the wholesale front, all the permits are now given online. The retail module for online permits to retail licensees has also been implemented. All the passes have been made QR code enabled, which carry details of transactions that can be checked by any authority in transit — this has curbed the practice of duplicate passes,” Mr. Dubey said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-uses-tech-against-illicit-brewing/article37156053.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||Use anti-drug fund for de-addiction: Ministry||The Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry has recently recommended that the National Fund to Control Drug Abuse be used to carry out de-addiction programmes, rather than just policing activities, a top Ministry official said on Sunday. R. Subrahmanyam, Secretary, Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, said the fund, which was created in accordance with a provision of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, had a nominal corpus of Rs. 23 crore. “It is being used only for policing activities. We recently proposed to add de-addiction to it,” Mr. Subrahmanyam said. He added that a proposal to decriminalise possession of “small quantities” of drugs, as defined in the NDPS Act, had also been sent to the Department of Revenue under the Finance Ministry. He said his department, which is tasked with conducting de-addiction programmes, would then intervene and have the persons caught with small quantities of drugs for personal use directed to rehab, instead of being prosecuted and sent to jail. Mr. Subrahmanyam said the department had a Rs. 250 crore annual budget for its de-addiction activities. A retired IPS officer and Deputy Commissioner of Police of the Delhi Police Crime Branch from 1985 to 1990, at a time the NDPS Act was implemented, Amod Kanth, said the Act itself intended to do what the Social Justice Ministry has suggested. “I agree with their proposal to decriminalise possession of small quantities. The intention of the law is not what the NCB is doing today,” he said, in reference to the NCB’s recent case against Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/use-anti-drug-fund-for-de-addiction-ministry/article37156093.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||China’s law ‘formalises’ its LAC actions||The legislature, which is largely ceremonial and controlled by the Communist Party, on Saturday “voted to adopt a new law on the protection and exploitation of the country’s land border areas,” the Xinhua news agency said. The law “stipulates that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the People’s Republic of China are sacred and inviolable”, the text said, adding that “the state shall take measures to safeguard territorial integrity and land boundaries and guard against and combat any act that undermines territorial sovereignty and land boundaries”. It also calls on the state to “take measures to strengthen border defence, support economic and social development as well as opening-up in border areas, improve public services and infrastructure in such areas, encourage and support people’s life and work there, and promote coordination between border defence and social, economic development in border areas”. The law designates the various responsibilities of the military, the State Council or Cabinet, and provincial governments in managing the security and economic issues in border areas. Article 22 of the law says the PLA “shall carry out border duties” including “organising drills” and “resolutely prevent, stop and combat invasion, encroachment, provocation and other acts”. The law also says China will “handle land border-related affairs with neighbouring countries through negotiations to properly resolve disputes and long-standing border issues”. The passing of the law coincides with stepped up Chinese activity along the land borders, which have mirrored actions in disputed waters in the East and South China Sea. The law will give a stamp of approval for the military’s recent actions in disputed areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinas-law-formalises-its-lac-actions/article37156056.ece
25 October 2021||SANOWA (ASSAM),||Gorias feel heat of eviction drive in Assam||Indigenous Muslims in northern Assam’s Darrang district are now feeling the heat of an eviction drive that was ostensibly aimed at migrant Bengali Muslim settlers on the banks of the Brahmaputra. Between June 7 and September 23, the district authorities evicted more than 1,000 migrant Muslim families from the Dhalpur area to make way for the Government-run Garukhuti farm project. The eviction was paused after two persons, one a minor, were killed in police firing. A month on, the indigenous Gorias — a category of Assamese Muslims who played a part in bringing the ‘encroachment’ issue to the fore six years ago — have found themselves at the receiving end. They are worried about losing access to the land they had been using through generations for seasonal farming and grazing their livestock. “We have nothing against the Government’s Garukhuti project and the eviction of the encroachers. We also gave up about 700 bighas for the project but sought to retain about 300 bighas closer to our village. But they took that too, leaving us with hardly anything to subsist on,” Sanowa resident Abed Ali told The Hindu . Mr. Ali is the son of Kobad Ali, president of the local milk producers’ association and one of four who had filed a case in 2015 under the Assam Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act, 2010, seeking the eviction of encroachers from the village grazing reserve and professional grazing reserve south of Sanowa and the adjoining Rajapukhuri inhabited by Assamese Hindus. “We had a discussion with the local authorities and those in charge of the Garukhuti farm project. We were told that our land would be taken temporarily, but now they have ordered us not to till our land because we have no documents though our forefathers have been using this land for farming and grazing our livestock since the 1800s,” said Julhas Ali, a village leader. District officials pointed out that the land is Government-owned and the onus was on the authorities to decide how it would be used. “We have just started the project. There is a long way to go,” said BJP legislator Padma Hazarika, who heads the committee set up to implement the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gorias-feel-heat-of-eviction-drive-in-assam/article37156062.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Punjab Congress fault lines widen||His outburst comes at a time when Punjab’s Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Capt. (retd) Amarinder Singh are engaged in a bitter public spat over the latter’s friendship with a Pakistani national, Aroosa Alam. Without directly referring to it, Mr. Sidhu tweeted, “Punjab must come back to its real issues that concern every punjabi and our future generations. How will we counter the financial emergency that stares upon us ? I will stick to the real issues and not let them take a backseat!” “The choice is clear between irreparable damage and the last chance for damage control. Who will bring back State’s resources to the State’s coffers, instead of them going to private pockets ? Who will lead the initiative for resurrection of our great State to prosperity!!” asked the Punjab Congress chief in another tweet. Apart from trying to tone down the personal attacks, Mr. Sidhu also clearly tried to steer the discourse back to the leadership question.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-congress-fault-lines-widen/article37156065.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Graft charge against NCB in Aryan case||Mr. Sail’s video, in which he recounted his revelations made in the affidavit, was widely circulated on social media on Sunday. In the affidavit, Mr. Sail claimed that Mr. Wankhede had instructed a member of his staff “to take his signature on 10 blank papers” on the intervening night of October 3-4 (a day after the alleged cruise drug bust). The witness said that after this, he allegedly overheard Mr. Gosavi speaking with a certain Sam D’Souza and tell the latter: “You put a ‘bomb’ of Rs. 25 crore, let’s settle for Rs. 18 crore and give Rs. 8 crore to Sameer Wankhede.” Mr. Sail claimed that he had seen Pooja Dadlani (Mr. Shah Rukh Khan’s manager) talking with Mr. Gosavi and Mr. D’Souza and later he was instructed by Mr. Gosavi to go to a particular location to collect Rs. 50 lakh cash, which was delivered to him in two bags. He then handed over the same to Mr. Gosavi at the latter’s home in Vashi. Mr. Sail recounted that he was later directed by Mr. Gosavi to hand over the bags to Mr. D’Souza. The witness said he feared a threat to his life as Mr. Gosavi had allegedly gone missing. “I fear that NCB officials and other persons involved may kill or abduct me like Gosavi. As seen in big cases, witnesses are often killed or taken away and therefore I want to state the truth.” Mr. Sail said in his affidavit. The NCB released a notice stating that Mr. Wankhede had refuted all of Mr. Sail’s allegations. “As he [Mr. Sail] is a witness in the case and as the case is before the honourable court and sub-judice, he needs to submit his prayer to the honourable court rather than through social media if he has anything to say. In addition, there are certain vigilance-related allegations against certain persons in the affidavit which are based on overhearing by Mr. Sail. Our zonal director, Mumbai Zonal Unit, Mr. Sameer Wankhede has categorically denied these allegations,” reads the NCB notice. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut alleged that there was a concerted attempt to defame Maharashtra using Central agencies and that the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi Government must conduct a suo motu probe into the entire affair. Mr. Raut, the Sena’s chief spokesperson, shared a video detailing Aryan apparently in the NCB custody with Mr. Gosavi, while tweeting: “Witness made to sign on blank paper by NCB is shocking. Also there are reports that there was demand of huge money. CM Uddhav Thackeray said that these cases are made to defame Maharashtra. Police should take suo motu cognisance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/graft-charge-against-ncb-in-aryan-case/article37156066.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||J&K free of strong-arm tactics by 3 families: Shah||Earlier in the day, Mr. Shah paid obeisance at the Digiana gurdwara. He was accompanied by J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha. The Minister said the August 5, 2019 was “a historic decision by the PM”. “Earlier people did not have the right to buy land, refugees did not have rights, people did not get reservation. But, now no one has to fear, because all the rights under the Indian Constitution are available to everyone,” he added. He said the fresh investment will help create five lakh new jobs. “So far, land has been allotted for an investment of Rs. 7,000 crore in Jammu and Rs. 5,000 crore in Kashmir. It’s the magic of Modi ji,” he added. Mr. Shah said a helicopter policy has been announced for J&K under which helipads will be built in every district. “People from the private sector will invest and different sectors will be linked together,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-free-of-strong-arm-tactics-by-3-families-shah/article37156063.ece
25 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Navlakha’s calls barred, says partner||Activist and journalist Gautam Navlakha, who was arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case in 2020, has recently been shifted to a high-security section of the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai and not allowed to call his family and lawyers, said his partner, Sahba Husain, in a statement on Sunday. Ms. Husain said Mr. Navlakha, who is nearly 70 years old, was shifted to the “Anda Circle” from the barracks on October 12. “His telephone calls to me and his lawyers, his lifeline to the outside world, have been discontinued on the pretext that physical mulaquats [meetings] have resumed in jail. I, his partner, Sahba Husain, am over 70, and I live in Delhi. Travelling to Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai frequently to meet him for the allotted 10 minutes is difficult and Gautam’s only contact with me is through the two calls he was allowed every week to me that enabled me to send him articles of need, including medicines, books etc,” she said. ‘Height of unfairness’ He would be able to make contact only by letters that take at least two weeks to reach. She said not allowing under-trial prisoners to call their lawyers was the height of unfairness. “Gautam’s fragile health and well-being will be further jeopardised by this withdrawal of the phone call facility to his family and lawyers. Already, in the Anda Circle, he is deprived of daily walks in the jail’s non-concreted greener areas and fresh air, and his health has deteriorated further, making specialised medical care an absolute necessity, if he is to live to fight this unjust and false case foisted on him,” she said. She quoted Mr. Navlakha as saying he spends 16 hours a day inside his cell and the remaining eight hours in a cemented corridor surrounded by high walls. Citing the recent death of another accused, Father Stan Swamy, while in custody, she said: “These are prisoners of conscience, who have had to face indignities and humiliation for the smallest needs, and wage court battles for basic dignities in prison…Gautam has faced his unjustified incarceration with courage and spirit. How much longer is he going to be persecuted for his views, and to what extent will the authorities go to break his spirit?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navlakhas-calls-barred-says-partner/article37156058.ece
25 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Netherlands keen on Naval Liaison Officer||The Netherlands is interested in posting a Liaison Officer (LO) at the Navy’s Information Fusion Centre for Indian Ocean Region (IFC-IOR) for Maritime Domain Awareness and information sharing, Vice Admiral René Tas, Commander of the Royal Netherlands Navy, says. In a telephonic conversation with The Hindu , he stressed the need for greater cooperation and interoperability between like-minded countries in tackling maritime threats. “We could not participate in Malabar [naval exercises] because it didn’t fit in the schedule of the Strike Group. We are excited to hear about Malabar and get lessons from that as well,” he said when asked if the Netherlands was interested in also joining the exercise. “The more we exercise, the more we can learn from each other. Nobody can win the fights against adversaries, extremism or terrorism alone. We need each other, we need to partner up more and more. Nations alone cannot fix the problem, nations together they can. So we are eager to learn from Malabar as well,” he said. The second phase of the Quad Malabar exercise was held in the Bay of Bengal earlier this month. Vice Adm. Tas is in India coinciding with the visit of the U.K. Carrier Strike Group (CSG), led by the British carrier Queen Elizabeth. The  Netherlands Frigate, HNLMS Evertsen , is also part of the CSG. The maiden India-U.K. joint tri-service exercise Konkan Shakti is scheduled in India from October 21 to 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/netherlands-keen-on-naval-liaison-officer/article37156060.ece
25 October 2021||Bhopal,||Right wing activists attack film set||Filmmaker Prakash Jha allegedly faced an ink attack and at least three members of his production unit were beaten up when they were shooting for the upcoming web series — Ashram 3 — in Bhopal on Sunday evening. Tension gripped Bhopal’s Old Jail when Bajrang Dal activists entered the premises where the shooting was under way. The activists raised slogans against Mr. Jha and Bobby Deol, the lead actor of the web series, assaulted some members of the crew and damaged vehicles of the production unit. According to unconfirmed sources, the attack was led by Bajrang Dal office-bearer Sushil S. Speaking to the media outside the jail after the incident, Mr. Sushil said, “Ink has been thrown on Prakash Jha, whose web series Ashram is hurting Hindu sentiments. We want Prakash Jha to change the name of the web series.” The Old Jail is located in Arera Hills, considered to be a highly secured area where the State secretariat, Assembly complex, District Court and BSNL Telephone Exchange are located. “DIG, Bhopal, Irshad Wali is personally monitoring the situation,” an official said. The police is yet to receive a complaint from Mr. Jha and his team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/right-wing-activists-attack-film-set/article37156117.ece
25 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.P. to get nine new medical colleges||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to visit Uttar Pradesh on Monday to launch the Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PM-ASBY) and inaugurate nine medical colleges in the State. The Yojana, according to a release issued by the Central Government, will be one of the largest pan-India schemes for strengthening healthcare infrastructure across the country. The objective of PM-ASBY is to fill critical gaps in public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both urban and rural areas. Meanwhile, the Health Ministry, in a release, noted that the Central Government has given its approval for 157 new medical colleges in India since 2014 and has invested a total of Rs. 17,691.08 crore on them. “On completion, nearly 16,000 undergraduate medical seats would be added. Of these, 6,500 seats have already been created with the functioning of 64 new medical colleges. Under the Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS), the Central Government has also provided about Rs. 2,451.1 crore for upgradation of existing State government or Central Government medical colleges,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-to-launch-healthcare-schemes-in-up/article37156090.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul terms fuel price hike ‘tax dacoity’||The Congress on Sunday slammed the Centre over rising fuel prices with former party chief Rahul Gandhi taking a dig at the government, saying the “tax dacoity” on petrol prices is rising and there would be some respite from it if elections take place somewhere. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also attacked the Centre over rising prices of petrol and diesel, alleging that the Modi Government has created records in “giving trouble” to people. Record rise Taking to Twitter, the Congress general secretary tagged a media report which said that this year petrol prices have increased by a record Rs. 23.53. Petrol and diesel prices on Sunday were hiked for the fifth straight day by 35 paise per litre each, pushing pump rates to a new high across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-terms-fuel-price-hike-tax-dacoity/article37156073.ece
25 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Rains likely to cause damage to basmati crop in Punjab||Rain lashing several parts of Punjab are likely to cause damage to crops especially basmati paddy at various places in the State, officials said on Sunday. Paddy harvesting is also likely to be delayed, they further said. State Agriculture Department officials said rain is likely to impact crop yield in areas including Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ferozepur, Rupnagar and Pathankot. Hailstorm had lashed some places in Punjab on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rains-likely-to-cause-damage-to-basmati-crop-in-punjab/article37156499.ece
25 October 2021||Srinagar,||Civilian killed in exchange of fire with militants: police||A civilian was killed near a CRPF camp in Shopian on Sunday in an exchange of fire with militants, according to the police. The victim, Shahid Aijaz from Anantnag, was a milkman. “During cross-firing, one person died,” the police said. The regional parties have demanded a probe. “Another innocent civilian killed allegedly by CRPF in Shopian today. It is sad the armed forces are showing little restraint and operating with such impunity,” Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/civilian-killed-in-exchange-of-fire-with-militants-police/article37156064.ece
25 October 2021||Lakhimpur Kheri,||Lakhimpur Kheri: Union minister's son Ashish Mishra contracts dengue||Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, has contracted dengue and was shifted to the district hospital, an official said on Sunday. Ashish, who was in police remand, was sent to the district jail on Saturday for treatment at its healthcare facility, a senior police official said. Ashish, along with three others, was taken in two-day police custody on Friday evening for further interrogation in the case.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lakhimpur-kheri-union-ministers-son-ashish-mishra-contracts-dengue/article37156072.ece
25 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||NCPCR seeks report from Odisha on Ministers’ visits to school, college||The controversy over the murder of a teacher in Odisha’s Kalahandi district got thicker with the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) seeking a report on the alleged frequent visits by Ministers to the campus of a school promoted by Gobinda Sahu, who is an accused of the teacher’s murder. On October 8, Mr. Sahu reportedly admitted to having killed Mamita Meher, a teacher at the Sunshine English Medium School at Mahaling in Kalahandi district. Since then, Opposition parties have questioned the regular visits by Ministers to the campus of a school and college promoted by Mr. Sahu. Most of the allegations insinuate sexual favours sought by influential Ministers and officers. “The Commission has directed the State government to probe into the incident by recording the statements of students studying in the educational institute, in five days. The Superintendent of Police has also been asked to investigate allegations of the role of school authorities in sexual exploitation of boys and girls in the campus,” said NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo. ‘Manipulating probe’ Earlier, the National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma had written to Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, stating that Ministers in the State were using their positions for exploiting and sexually harassing women, and also manipulating police investigation into the case. She sought the removal of two Ministers. The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) termed the NCW a “national joke” after it expressed strong disapproval over “interference” by the national women’s body. The BJD maintained that the police were investigating the murder. Senior BJD leaders said the Commissions were acting at the behest of the BJP, which wanted to take “political advantage” ahead of panchayat and civic body elections. Senior BJP leader Bijoy Mohapatra on Sunday alleged that Minister of State for Home Dibya Shankar Mishra was in touch with Mr. Sahu, and had tried to mediate between him and the victim before her killing. All India Mahila Congress president Netta D’Souza on Sunday led a delegation to the victim’s family in Balangir district, and came down heavily on the State government for not sacking the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncpcr-seeks-report-from-odisha-on-ministers-visits-to-school-college/article37156076.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||NIA arrests person ‘linked to IS-affiliated outfits’||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested a person for allegedly having links with the banned Islamic State-affiliated outfits. “Earlier in 2013, Muhammad Tauqir Mahmood, along with his associate, had also visited Syria illegally to liaise with Daesh leadership and had offered support from Indian Muslims,” the agency said on Sunday. The arrest of Mahmood, 33, a resident of Bengaluru, has been made in a case registered by the NIA last year against him, Zuhab Hameed aka Shakeel Manna, Irfan Nasir and Mohammed Shihab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-arrests-person-linked-to-is-affiliated-outfits/article37156077.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Infra projects to be fast-tracked to boost city’s resilience||Work on major civic infrastructure projects with an expenditure of over Rs. 100 crore is set to be fast-tracked in various parts of the city. As part of this initiative, low-lying residential areas such as Madipakkam in the western parts of Pallikaranai marshland are expected to get better drains to improve disaster preparedness in the long term. The KfW mission, which reached the city on October 18, to assess the situation ahead of funding for the stormwater drain project in Kovalam basin, has reportedly decided to fast track the project. Tenders for three packages for the western parts of Pallikaranai marshland are expected to be floated next month. Another 15 packages are expected to be fast tracked. Fiat to officials At a recent meeting, Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi asked officials to fast-track the essential packages of major projects with an expenditure of over Rs. 100 crore, to improve the city’s disaster resilience, response, preparedness and liveability. Among these projects are Integrated Storm Water Drain Project in Kosasthalaiyar and Kovalam basins, Intelligent Transport System (ITS) and the Integrated Command and Control Centre. As the work on various components of the projects is expected to be speeded up, residents’ associations have stressed on the need for proper coordination among all stakeholders and a focus on protecting the interests of residents in each area affected by disaster events in the past. “Major infrastructure projects should always make our neighbourhood more resilient. We find an improvement in the network of stormwater drains in Chennai after the floods in 2015. More concentration is needed in areas with a risk of disaster. The major projects should improve connectivity of all neighbourhoods even in the event of a disaster. Now, the Corporation has desilted all the stormwater drains ahead of northeast monsoon which has to be well appreciated,” said V. Rajagopal, President, Anna Nagar Western Extension (Phase II) Residents Welfare Association. Aswathy Dilip, South Asia Director, ITDP, said the major infrastructure projects when implemented would improve the liveability of the city. Coordination crucial “The main challenge in the successful implementation lies in the ability to bring coordination and collaboration among different departments in the city. For example, the success of the implementation of the ITS project will depend on its ability to weave in the plans of Metro Rail Phase II project, the mega streets project and the road safety project by Greater Chennai Corporation as well as projects planned by highways along the proposed network,” said Ms. Dilip. “Every department in the city has years of experience when it comes to implementing any project within its jurisdiction. However, we need processes and systems to ensure that projects that require interdepartmental coordination are implemented seamlessly. It is heartening to see that that Chennai is moving towards this with the revamp of CUMTA in the pipeline,” said Ms. Dilip. For Kosasthalaiyar stormwater drains, senior officials review the project every fortnight. “This is a major project which will ensure, in the coming years, that the problem of flooding in the northern areas is mitigated,” said an official. The project is funded by Asian Development Bank (ADB). Drains running to a length of 769 km were being built at an estimate of Rs. 3,220 crore. The civic body has completed 20% of the drains. The work will be completed in February 2024. More than 30 lakh residents of Thiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram, Kolathur and Ambattur will have a better network of drains once the project was completed. Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) will fund the intelligent transport system project in Chennai at an estimated cost of Rs. 957 crore. The tender will be floated in one month, officials said. The integrated stormwater drain project in Kovalam basin is expected to be completed by February 2025.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infra-projects-to-be-fast-tracked-to-boost-citys-resilience/article37156193.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Close clergy’s personal trusts’||Expressing concern over the “tendency among the Catholic clergy in Tamil Nadu to establish and manage independent trusts”, Archbishop Leopoldo Girelli, Apostolic Nuncio to India, has instructed Bishops to close the existing personal trusts. Archbishop Leopoldo Girelli, who visited the Diocese of Kottar, said the trusts were being registered as NGOs, ostensibly to provide assistance to those in need. “Even if the aim of such trusts may appear to be praiseworthy, all too often they become financial and political power bases for the priests involved,” he said in a letter to the Archbishops and the Bishops and the Tamil Nadu Bishops’ Council (TNBC) on October 8. He said that according to the canon law 286, “clerics are prohibited from conducting business or trade personally or through others for their own advantage or that of others, except with the permission of legitimate ecclesiastical authority”. “Clerics or religious who exercise a trade or business contrary to the prescripts of the canons are to be punished according to the gravity of the deceit,” he said, quoting canon law 1392. Urging the TNBC to find out the details of the personal trusts held by priests, the Apostolic Nuncio instructed the Bishops to close them and not to allow any new one. He made it clear that no trust should be under the sole control of a member of the clergy. “Bring under the control of the diocesan trust or the diocesan social services trust those trusts that are of genuine benefit to the life and mission of the diocese.” Bishop Thomas Aquinas, Bishop of Coimbatore, has already circulated the Apostolic Nuncio’s letter to the priests and asked them to close their trusts. “Our diocese is not willing to bring them under the diocesan control,” he said in his letter to the priests on October 16. Asked for his opinion, Peter Alphonse, chairman, State Minorities Commission, said the issue had already been brought to his notice. “It is the right time for the Catholic community... to keep their house in order. The purpose of the mission is to help the downtrodden, and not individuals, whoever they may be,” he said. Former IAS officer M.G. Devasahayam said that according to the canon law and the Bible, the clergy should take care of only spiritual and ecclesiastical affairs, and are not supposed to handle properties and material affairs. He said that it was the failure of the project to open a medical college and hospital at Muttom, Kanniyakumari district, on a huge loan, that had necessitated the visit of the Nuncio and his subsequent instructions. “That is why I have been pressing for the constitution of a committee of faithfuls, with professional knowledge, to look after the properties and other issues. Of course, there are non-corrupt priests. But they lack knowledge,” said Mr. Devasahyam, who was involved in the restoration of church properties at the Boat Club and the properties of D’Monte Trust in Chennai.  That is why I have been pressing for a committee of faithfuls, with professional knowledge, to look after the properties M.G. Devasahayamformer IAS officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/close-personal-trusts-of-clergy/article37156186.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Indian economy is still in the woods: Chidambaram||Former finance minister and senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram said the Indian economy is still in the woods. Delivering the R. K. Shanmugam Memorial Lecture, organised by The Tamil Chamber of Commerce in Chennai on Saturday, he also took a jibe at the Centre’s claim of V-shaped recovery of the economy. Mr. Chidambaram pointed out that the economy is seeing a two-speed K-shaped recovery where some have seen their income and wealth grow, while the majority have suffered pain and economic loss. Only 10% of the population has seen some increase in income, while 40% has seen a sharp fall, and it has been a status quo for the remaining 50%, he added. Mr. Chidambaram also cited Reserve Bank of India’s commentary that demand has been sluggish, while growth in bank deposits has dropped, household debt has risen, financial savings have declined and high fuel prices have crowded out other discretionary spending. He also pointed out that inequality has been increasing. Mr. Chidambaram said that true recovery will happen if the economic growth reaches the 2018-19 levels and crosses the numbers of Financial Year 2020. “I don’t think it will happen in the current fiscal (2021-22),” he said. “We are looking at a cloudy future and economists have pointed out that the sluggishness in the world economy would continue till June, 2022,” he said. Fuel prices “So, for the next nine months, the sluggishness in the Indian economy will continue. Post that, if the Indian government takes the right policy measures, the Indian economy can recover. For that, they should know how to retain the economic advisors,” he said. To a question on high fuel prices, Mr. Chidambaram blamed this on a high tax of 33% levied by the Central government and said that it amounted to extortion.  Only 10% of the population has seen some increase in income, while 40% has seen a sharp fall, and it has been a status quo for the remaining 50%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-economy-is-still-in-the-woods-chidambaram/article37156320.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘A unique figure in Indian journalism’||“He is a journalist who, for more than 50 years, through his chosen medium, covered virtually every major event of significance in India. I cannot think of any other journalist who did it day after day, in a sustained way, with a signature style... covering politics and public affairs in this country. There are would-be geniuses, there are those that think they are geniuses — most of them are not — but R.K. Laxman was a true genius,” said N. Ram, director, The Hindu Group of Publications Pvt. Ltd., at the birth centenary celebrations of renowned cartoonist R.K. Laxman at the Leela Palace hotel in Chennai on Sunday. Late Mr. Laxman’s website laxmanlegacy.com, and a calender was unvieled at the event, attended by a number of well-known personalities from various sections of society, such as Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, film producer Pushpa Kandasamy, actors Sivakumar and Siddharth and cartoonists Madan and Keshav, among others. Mr. Ram said there is a need for a good biography of R.K. Laxman. He has written some elements of his autobiography and others have written about it. But it has to be an independent work, not a hagiography. “On this day, we can proclaim, without anyone daring to dispute, that he was a true genius and a unique figure in Indian journalism,” Mr. Ram said. Chartered Accountant, activist and columnist S. Gurumurthy recounted how he spoke to Laxman about joining Indian Express, to which he reportedly said: “If anyone touches my cartoon and says that this cartoon will not go, that day I will join you”. “Laxman acquired that freedom and it was untouched,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rk-laxman-is-a-unique-figure-in-indian-journalism/article37156238.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Girish Mathrubootham roped in as advisor for Hoote||Producer and director Soundarya Vishagan has introduced a voice-based social media platform, Hoote, and has roped in Girish Mathrubootham, founder and CEO of Freshworks, as one of her advisers. Last month, when Freshworks went for an initial public offering (IPO) in the U.S, Mr. Mathrubootham had mentioned that the code name for his IPO was Project SuperStar, named after actor Rajinikanth. Arvind Parthasarathi, a tech entrepreneur at the silicon valley and currently the founder of Project Crosswords, is another adviser for Hoote. Ms. Soundarya has also roped in Sunny Pokala, whose firm developed the Kavalan app, used by the Tamil Nadu police. Hoote is a social media platform where one can use their voice to share thoughts and views for up to 60 seconds. Though the app has been around for some time, people started downloading it after a tweet mentioning Hoote by Rajinikanth went viral. “People can now express through their voice their thoughts, wishes and ideas, just like they do in writing in any language of their choice. I am happy to launch the innovative, useful and first-of-its-kind app Hoote App in my voice,” he said.  Though the app has been around for some time, people started downloading it after a tweet by Rajinikanth mentioning Hoote went viral||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girish-mathrubootham-roped-in-as-adviser-for-hoote/article37156211.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More engineering seats filled this year under govt. quota||For the first time in three years, more seats have been filled under the government quota surrendered to the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA) committee. On Sunday, when the TNEA completed supplementary counselling, 95,069 of the 1,51,871 sanctioned seats had been allotted. This year 440 colleges, including self-financing ones, took part in the counselling. With the AICTE reducing the intake this past four years, the number of vacancies had also fallen. In 2018, after counselling, as many as 1,00,023 of the 1,77,117 seats remained vacant (77,094 seats were allotted). In the subsequent years, though the AICTE continued to reduce intake, there was only a marginal rise in admission numbers. In 2019, 83,396 seats were filled, and in 2020, only 78,682 were taken. Policy changes After the State government raised the tuition fee two years ago, aspirants steered clear of engineering programmes. The government had also announced the withdrawal of the SC/ST scholarship three years ago. The tide changed this year, after the government introduced the 7.5% reservation for government school students, and assured parents and students that it would absorb their tuition and hostel fees. As many as 7,876 candidates have been allotted seats under this quota. Though the measures have helped in admissions, some traditional disciplines, such as mechanical, electrical and civil, seem to have lost their allure. Computer science and new branches like data science and artificial intelligence have seen a rush. Educationists say the demand for new branches has prompted lower-rung colleges to introduce a capitation fee. Former Vice-Chancellor of Anna University E. Balagurusamy said: “This is only a temporary shift. It does not mean the importance of core branches has fallen. It is mob psychology. When biotechnology was introduced, there was a rush for it. Candidates began shunning it when graduates could not find employment,” he said. Focus on manufacturing With the country’s focus on ‘Make in India’, the manufacturing industry will be in demand, he said. “The problem of unemployment is because of the low competence of teachers and students. Low salary leads to poor quality of teachers and candidates,” he said. The TNEA will release the merit list for B. Arch on Monday, and candidates will have time till Tuesday for redress of grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-engg-seats-filled-this-year-under-govt-quota/article37156235.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 1,127 fresh infections and 15 fatalities||As many as 11 districts reported fewer than 10 fresh COVID-19 infections each on a day when the State logged 1,127 cases, taking its tally to 26,95,216. Its active caseload stood at 13,034. The number of cases in Chennai remained high, with 146 people testing positive. Coimbatore reported 128 cases and Chengalpattu 96. Among the districts with the lowest number were Ariyalur, Perambalur and Ramanathapuram, with each reporting two cases. Tenkasi and Theni logged three infections each. Five fresh infections were reported in Virudhunagar and Tirunelveli. Districts such as Ranipet (6), Tirupattur (7), Kallakurichi (7) and Sivaganga (9) also reported fewer than 10 cases. As many as 1,358 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total number of discharged patients to 26,46,163. Fifteen people succumbed to the infection. Five of the deaths took place at private facilities. The toll touched 36,019. Chengalpattu recorded the most number of fatalities at five. Among the deceased was a 34-year-old man who had no co-morbidity. He was admitted to the Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital on October 17, after testing positive on September 30. He died on October 22 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. An 82-year-old woman from Salem, who was diabetic and hypertensive and had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and a cardiovascular ailment, had tested positive on October 13. She was admitted the next day to a private hospital in Salem with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing for four days. She died on October 23 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. So far, 22,03,786 people in the 13-60 age group, 3,89,764 senior citizens and 1,01,666 children have been infected. They include 15,73,005 men, 11,22,173 women and 38 transpersons.  Chengalpattu recorded the most number of fatalities at five. Among the deceased was a 34-year-old man who had no co-morbidity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-1127-fresh-cases-15-fatalities/article37156215.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Breast cancer awareness campaign launched||Two private hospitals here launched initiatives on Sunday to create awareness on breast cancer and promote routine health check-up. The events were organised to coincide with October being observed as breast cancer awareness month every year. A release by the Kauvery Hospital said it would be organising free mammogram screening till October 31 at various locations for women aged over 40. Mobile units with a team from the hospital will be stationed for this purpose near Guru Nanak College in Velachery, Ashok Leyland plant in Ennore, Danfoss plant in Oragadam, IIT Madras, the Reserve Bank of India office in Parry’s Corner and Dr. Jayachandran Memorial Trust in Royapuram. Kirti Katherine Kabeer, consultant breast specialist and oncoplastic surgery at the hospital, said almost 60% of the breast cancer patients visited the hospital when they had reached Stage III or IV of cancer. “It is imperative for women above 30 years of age to have regular health check-up and to consult physicians if they notice symptoms like lumps in breast, pain, bleeding, or itchiness,” she said. The hospital organised a bike rally at Santhome on Sunday.  MGM Healthcare organised a cyclothon, walkathon and a yoga session on Sunday to create awareness on breast cancer. The cyclothon from War Memorial near Marina Beach was flagged off by Shankar Jiwal, Commissioner of Police. Anna Nagar MLA M.K. Mohan flagged off the walkathon from Anna Nagar Tower Park.  It is imperative for women above 30 years of age to have regular health check-up and to consult physicians if they notice any symptoms Kirti Katherine Kabeer Consultant breast specialist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-hospitals-launch-breast-cancer-awareness-campaign/article37156196.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 10,000 health insurance claims of govt. workers rejected||Over 10,000 claims made by Tamil Nadu government employees and pensioners under the New Health Insurance Scheme during the COVID-19 pandemic, especially between July 2020 and August this year, have been rejected. Since the number of claims rejected is huge, district-level teams have been constituted to audit the claims. At a meeting to review the cashless treatment provided under the NHIS between July 1, 2020, and August 31 this year, “it was found that around 10,929 claims had been denied for various reasons,” the Commissioner of Treasuries and Accounts informed the Collectors. The Commissioner asked the Collectors to constitute district-level teams to conduct sample studies of such cases and submit a detailed report before this month-end. The teams will each consist of the chief/senior medical officer, a treasury officer and a staff member of the insurance company. They will also undertake periodical sample studies (every two months) at major hospitals, and send reports to the office of the Commissioner of Treasuries and Accounts. “Almost every employee has had to fight to get the insurance claims. There are also some inherent flaws in the scheme,” said P. Frederic Engels, State coordinator of the Contributory Pension Scheme Abolition Movement. He highlighted a specific issue in the implementation of the scheme. Though the scheme was awarded to one company, there are two third-party administrators, he said. While one company had been earmarked for a few districts, the remaining districts had been allocated to another. “It has been effected with a mere circular. When a government employee is admitted to a hospital in another district while travelling or after an accident, the third-party administrator says the other third-party administrator manages the affairs of that district. This causes an unnecessary burden on the patient. The cashless treatment is never cashless. Reimbursement should not be allowed at all, since it dilutes the very concept,” he said. There are over 9.33 lakh State government employees and about 7.31 lakh pensioners in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-10000-health-insurance-claims-of-govt-staff-rejected/article37156209.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Several changes mooted to projects with external funding||Chennai Smart City Ltd. has suggested several modifications for many projects that are externally funded, to suit the local conditions in the city. With the tendering process for the JICA funded Intelligent Transport System is set to be launched next month, the board of Chennai Smart City Ltd. has suggested setting up of passenger information system (PIS) at bus stops. Accordingly, PIS is planned at bus stops. Final design report (FDR) and request for proposal (RfP) for the selection of system integrator for implementation has been submitted by the consultants. Based on the study, the project cost was estimated at Rs. 905 crore and subsequently and the State government has accorded administrative sanction. The FDR and RfP have been reviewed and concurrence obtained from JICA. Redesign and realignment of drains in southern parts of Chennai will be completed shortly. The project will be funded by KfW. Experts from Germany are part of the mission to assess the local challenges in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/several-changes-mooted-to-projects-with-external-funding/article37156194.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Employees of Information Technology sector want access to Nanban portal||Those working in Tamil Nadu’s Information and Technology (IT) sector and the Union of IT and ITES Employees (UNITE) pointed out that the IT Nanban portal that was launched by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin focuses only on employers. They demanded that the portal should be opened to employees and civil society so they can access information, get involved in policy making and file any issues faced by employees without any restrictions. At present, the website allows only employers to register. “The portal claims to be the bridge between the IT industry and the government of Tamil Nadu, but restricts the registration to use the portal’s facilities to only employers. The IT and ITES employees are the 99% stakeholders of the IT industry, but the portal acts as a single window system between the 1% of the industry and the government,” Alagunambi Welkin, General Secretary of UNITE, said. “The portal has the capability to file complaints the employers face, which will be routed to the right department and fast-tracked. We welcome such a single window system, but we also like to highlight that the same can be used to address employees’ issues, like lack of job security, forced resignation, discriminatory performance appraisals among others,” he said. Krishna, who works for an IT firm in the Old Mahabalipuram belt, said there were over 3 lakh employees in this sector, and the State government should open up the IT Nanban platform for employees to address their woes and concerns. Meanwhile, UNITE said the new government should hold periodic tripartite meeting between employers’ and employees’ bodies and other stakeholders for the betterment of the IT sector as a whole in Tamil Nadu.  The IT and ITES employees form 99% of stakeholders, but the portal acts as a single window between 1% of the industry and the government Alagunambi Welkin UNITE general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/employees-of-it-sector-want-access-to-nanban-portal/article37156242.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Country’s mindset on occupational health must shift from curative to preventive’||Stating that much needs to be done in the country in relation to occupational health and safety, Shrinivas Shanbhag, past president of Indian Association of Occupational Health, said there was an urgent need to move from a curative to a preventive mindset. Delivering the 17th Professor Arcot Gajaraj Memorial Oration through a virtual conference organised by The Arcot Gajaraj Educational and Training Program (TARGET) here on Saturday, he said in India, occupational health remained under the mandate of the Ministry of Labour and not the Ministry of Health. He said there was often a lack of coordination between the two ministries. Apart from ensuring workers’ safety, he said there was a need for companies to focus on occupational safety as it was in their economic interest as well. He recollected his experiences in implementing safety measures when he served as the group medical advisor for Reliance Industries. Girija Vaidyanathan, former Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu, said the unorganised sector, which accounted for a majority of the country’s economy, was largely not under the purview of any occupational safety standards. While the National Policy on Safety, Health and Environment at Workplace, introduced in 2009, largely covered the organised sector, she expressed hope that the new Labour Code on Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions, once implemented, would address some of the policy related gaps. Sudha S. Ramachandran, senior advisor, occupational health division of Lifetime Wellness Rx International Ltd. (Apollo Life), recollected her interactions with Arcot Gajaraj. A. Jaishree Gajaraj, chairperson, Kausalya Gajaraj Charitable Trust, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/countrys-mindset-on-occupational-health-must-shift-from-curative-to-preventive/article37156613.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Priests get monthly incentive||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department has started releasing a monthly incentive of Rs. 1,000 each to priests of temples funded under the one-time puja scheme. Funds for 9,860 priests who have shared their details with the Department have been sent to their bank accounts. The amount being provided to the priests is being sent from the Commissioner’s Common Good Fund. “Even if one priest stops coming in and is replaced by another, the one who is doing the service will get the payment,” said J. Kumaragurubaran, Commissioner, HR & CE Department. Though there are around 12,600 temples covered under the scheme, only 9,860 priests have sent in their details so far. “I have put up the list of temples and priests on the website and have circulated it among various groups so that people who have been left out can approach us. They can call the helpline for this. In cases where a priest does puja at several temples, we are paying for one temple only. We have instructed ACs to appoint priests wherever necessary, so that temples don’t go without puja ,” Mr. Kumaragurubaran said. A priest at the Kasi Viswanathaswami temple and Venugopalaswami temple near Poonamallee said he was very happy to have received the payment under the  I have put up the list of temples and priests on the website... people who have been left out can approach us J. Kumaragurubaran Commissioner, HR&CE Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/priests-get-monthly-incentive-of-rs-1000/article37156207.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||14.68 lakh people receive second dose of vaccines||Over 14 lakh of the 23.27 lakh people inoculated at the sixth mega COVID-19 vaccination camp on Saturday got their second dose. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said 14,68,457 of the 23,27,907 people got their second dose. The Minister, who took part in a bicycle rally organised as part of World Polio Day celebrations at the Queen Mary College by the Kilpauk Rotary Club on Sunday, said 8,59,450 people got the first dose, taking the percentage of population that has received the first dose to 69%. As on date, the State has 43 lakh doses. He lauded NGOs for their efforts in eradicating polio. Rotary Club members distributed pamphlets on polio prevention during the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1468-lakh-people-receive-second-dose-of-vaccines/article37156213.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 5,266-cr. credit plan for Tiruvallur district||The Potential Linked Credit Plan (PLP) for the year 2022-23 prepared by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) has assessed the credit potential for Tiruvallur district at Rs. 5,266.28 crore, a growth of 7% over the current year. Tiruvallur Collector Alby John Varghese release the document during the mega customer outreach campaign held by Indian Bank, the lead bank, on Friday in the presence of B. Suri Babu, general manager, Indian Bank; Shyampriya R., District Development Manager, Nabard; and T.A. Srinivasan, lead district manager. Regional Heads of various leading Commercial banks in the district and government department officials participated in the event, said a press release here. The district-level potential linked credit plan is prepared by Naard in consultation with officials at the block and district as also State-level departments. The share in the PLP estimates 2022-23 for agriculture sector is Rs. 3,433.52 crore with farm credit estimated at Rs. 2,889.98 crore. Keeping in view the policy initiatives of the Centre to push the MSME sector, Rs. 2,745 crore has been estimated for the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-5266-cr-credit-plan-for-tiruvallur-district/article37156233.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three-day course on colorectal surgery held||A three-day advanced fellowship course on colon and rectal surgery was organised by GEM Hospital here in association with the Indian Association of Gastrointestinal Endo Surgeons from Friday till Sunday. C. Palanivelu, chairman, GEM Hospital, said the course was aimed at reviewing all the best evidence available and fine tune the laparoscopic surgical skills of surgeons, a press release by the hospital said. S. Asokan, chief executive officer of the hospital, said such programmes were necessary for dissemination of knowledge so that the latest advancements in the medical field benefited more people. According to the press release by the hospital, the programme was inaugurated by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan in the presence of B. Krishna Rau, Professor Emeritus, Tamilnadu Dr MGR Medical University.  The course was aimed at fine tuning laparoscopic surgical skills of surgeons C. Palanivelu GEM Hospital chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-conducts-course-on-colorectal-surgery/article37156195.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ambergris worth Rs. 8 cr. seized in Tiruvarur||Forest Department officials seized 8.013 kg of ambergris at Muthupet in Tiruvarur district and arrested two persons. “One kg of ambergris costs Rs. 1 crore-Rs. 1.5 crore,” District Forest Officer K. Arivozhi said. Ambergris, used for making perfumes, is produced in the stomach of sperm whales when indigestible parts move into the intestines and bind together. They slowly become a solid mass, growing over many years. “When the animal vomits the mass, it floats a foot below the surface of the sea. Only those with knowledge of it can collect it,” he said. Mr. Arivozhi, with Chief Conservator of Forest Sathish, formed a team, posed as buyers, and arrested Nizamuddin and Jahir Hussain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambergris-worth-rs-8-cr-seized-in-tiruvarur/article37156168.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Insurance court cuts fine imposed on Vasantha Bhavan||The Employees Insurance Court has reduced by 75% the damages imposed on Vasantha Bhavan Hotels India (P) Limited by the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC). In its petition, Vasantha Bhavan sought to set aside the notice issued by ESIC, claiming damages of Rs. 13,29,854 for delay in making contribution for the period from July 2013 to October 2014. The firm will now have to pay Rs. 3,32,465. The Court said it found the action by ESIC was well within its power. However, it noted amid the COVID-19 pandemic, industries invariably suffered economically in the last two years. Three months time “Thus at this point of time, if we direct the petitioner to pay damages with higher percentage as stipulated, it will have serious impact on the very existence of the establishment,” the Court said, and directed the firm to pay 25% of the damages claimed within three months from its order dated October 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insurance-court-cuts-fine-imposed-on-hotel-chain/article37156190.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2 men pose as kin, loot gold from house||The Tambaram police are searching for two men who entered a house in Agaramthen on Saturday posing as the family’s relatives and took away seven sovereigns of gold jewellery. A police official of Tambaram station said Pushpalatha, daughter of Ravi and Suguna, residing in Kurinji Nagar, was alone in the house when two persons claiming to be relatives came to invite her parents for a function. They asked Pushpalatha for water and when she brought them water, the two men gagged her and took the gold jewellery kept in the cupboard. The girl was rescued by her parents when they came back home. Based on a complaint by Ravi, the police have filed a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-men-pose-as-kin-loot-gold-from-house/article37156205.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shanthi Ravindranath in panel||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday nominated Shanthi Ravindranath to the monitoring committee constituted to ensure social justice in education, employment, postings, promotions and appointments in the State. The Chief Minister wanted a woman on the panel. Dr. Shanthi Ravindranath was known for her contributions towards ensuring students’ and women rights, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shanthi-ravindranath-in-panel/article37156243.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS calls for hassle-free supply of urea||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Sunday urged the Tamil Nadu Government to ensure adequate supply of urea to farmers, without allowing private shops to impose any condition. In a statement, he said the demand for urea had been higher that that for other inputs such as di-ammonium phosphate fertilizer and potassium. He said farmers were complaining that private shops were forcing them to buy other products while purchasing urea. Farmers’ associations had urged officials to order the private shops to sell urea without forcing farmers to buy other products and cancel the licences of shops that violated the order, Mr. Panneerselvam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-calls-for-hassle-free-supply-of-urea/article37156208.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajini: sad that Balachander is not with us||Actor Rajinikanth, who will be receiving Indian cinema’s highest honour, the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, in New Delhi on Monday, said he misses his mentor, late film-maker K. Balachander. Speaking to reporters outside his house on Sunday, he said: “I am extremely happy to receive the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, which is the highest honour in Indian cinema. At this time, I feel sad that KB sir [Balachander] is not here with us,” he said. Mr. Rajinikanth said he would speak more after receiving the award, and said the honour bestowed on him was something he did not expect. The actor left for New Delhi on Sunday. His next, Annaatthe , produced by Sun Pictures, is set for a Deepavali release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajini-sad-that-balachander-is-not-with-us/article37156221.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for stealing mini-trucks||A two-member gang involved in stealing mini-trucks in various places of the city was apprehended by a police team of Arumbakkam station on Sunday. The names of the arrested were given as T. Augustin Eden Inbaraj of Kanniyakumari district and M. Thangapandian of Madurai. They have more than 40 cases of robbery and theft registered against them in various places in the State. Augustin used to steal vehicles parked on the roadside. A police official of Arumbakkam station said a complaint was filed by Navin Raj of Kannappan Nagar, after his mini-truck parked on the road near his house was stolen in August. Based on CCTV footage in the locality, the police identified the accused and nabbed them on Sunday morning. The police recovered eight mini-trucks, one heavy vehicle and two sports utility vehicles, together estimated at more than Rs. 1 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-stealing-mini-trucks/article37156203.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DME begins issuing applications||The Directorate of Medical Education (DME) will start issuing applications for 21 allied sciences undergraduate programmes from 10 a.m. on Monday. They include nursing, pharmacy, speech and learning programme, ophthalmology, physiotherapy, critical care technology, clinical nutrition, accident and emergency technology, cardiac technology and respiratory therapy among others, a release said. Candidates may download the applications fromwww.tnhealth.tn.gov,inand tnmedicalselection.org. The last date to download the applications is November 8 and the last date to submit the filled application forms is November 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dme-to-issue-applications-from-today/article37156252.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 held under Goondas Act||The police have arrested three history-sheeters involved in several robbery and chain snatching cases under the Goondas Act. The three offenders were Rajesh alias Rober of Zameen Pallavaram, D. Leonard of Chromepet and S. Sivashankar of Urapakkam. The three accused have several cases of robbery and chain snatching against them. A senior police official said 322 persons have been detained under Goondas Act this year till October 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-held-under-goondas-act/article37156204.ece
25 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Clean channels before NE monsoon sets in’||At Sai Nagar, Podanur, an earth mover is moving back and forth on the Vellalore canal bund. The machine operator is removing water weeds from the canal and bushes on the interior of the bund. The Public Works Department had deployed the earth mover a few days ago to plug a breach on the canal in the very area. Following southwest monsoon rain in the last couple of weeks, water flow in River Noyyal increased and as a consequence the flow in the canal too increased. But because of blockages, the water could not flow towards the tank and breached the bund at Sai Nagar, said R. Manikandan, coordinator, Kovai Kulangal Pathugappu Amaipu , a water conservation NGO. There was a breach in canal last year as well, no far from where the breach happened a few days ago, Mr. Manikandan recalled and pointed out that the reason for both the breaches was the same – canal choked with waste affecting water flow. In the 6.50 km-long canal that branches off River Noyyal in Anaimedu, near Athupalam, to take water to the Vellalore tank, solid waste is dumped both into the canal and on the bund, some of it by those who deal in scrap and are within the first four km of the canal. There are encroachments on the canal bund, including electricity poles and then the sewage flowing into the canal to aid the growth of water weeds and bushes. The presence of electricity poles and low hanging house connection wires made difficult the use of heavy machinery for dredging the canal and removing bushes, Mr. Manikandan said. The condition of Sanganoor Canal near Dhanalakshmipuram is no different. The residents there said that they had drawn the Coimbatore Corporation’s attention to solid waste choking the flow of water in the Canal. Saravana Kumar, a resident of the area, said the residents had taken up the issue with the Corporation on various platforms and sent reminders as well but the civic body had done little to remove the waste. With northeast monsoon only a few days away and Coimbatore predicted to receive good rain, the activists and residents say they want both the Public Works Department and Coimbatore Corporation to clean natural drains – remove bushes and blockages and dredge wherever possible to ensure that rain water reached the tanks in the River Noyyal system. Officials said they were aware of the problems and were working to clean the channels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clean-channels-before-ne-monsoon-sets-in/article37156270.ece
25 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Textiles ministry move to reduce compliance burden for industry, banks||In a move to reduce compliance burden for the textile industry and the banks, the Union Ministry of Textiles has decided to accept only single certificate from the bank concerned instead of multiple documents regarding evidence of payment for claimed machineries under the Amended Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme (ATUFS). Meeting held Union Minister of Commerce and Industry, Textiles, Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Textiles Darshana Vikram Jardosh took part in an inter-ministerial steering committee meeting organised by the Ministry of Textiles with different ministries, departments, textiles industry associations and banks on the scheme. It was also decided to rationalise GR-related to cases of consortium finance and consider stand alone embroidery machines for the scheme with effect from the inception of the ATUFS. Of the total settlements under ATUFS since inception, about 61% of claims were settled during the peak of pandemic period (2020-2021). Mr. Goyal suggested that the Ministry and Textile Commissioner should rework the physical verification mechanism to automated verifications through video conferencing mode. He said provision for self-certification of machinery by units and random verification by the Office of the Textile Commissioner may be considered in place of present physical inspection. At another virtual meeting on “Technology Gap and Way Forward for Textiles Machinery Manufactures”, Mr. Goyal called for developing 100 Indian textile machinery champions that will be recognised across the world. Interacting with textile machinery manufacturers, he said the industry should work jointly with the government to reduce import dependency for textile machinery. A modern and upgraded textile machinery eco-system will have a cascading impact on the unorganised segments of the Indian textile industry. The Heavy Industries Capital Goods Scheme is a pilot scheme to support the industry to modernise domestic technologies, he said. The Minister said there are still challenges such as liquidity, rising costs of raw materials, and freight movement for which the government is taking many steps for the benefit of the textile engineering industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textiles-ministry-move-to-reduce-compliance-burden-for-industry-banks/article37156254.ece
25 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||KMCH opens 750-bed facility in Coimbatore||Kovai Medical Center and Hospital (KMCH) on Sunday opened a 750-bed facility which has been named ‘KMCH Medical College General Hospital’, located adjacent to the main campus on Avinashi Road, Coimbatore. Thel Hospital will function as a stand-alone hospital, apart from the existing KMCH Main Centre, said a release. Chairman and Managing Director of KMCH Nalla G. Palaniswami inaugurated the hospital. The release said KMCH had established a medical college in the name of ‘KMCH Institute of Health Sciences and Research’ in 2019. Affiliated to Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University, the college has the capacity to accommodate 150 students a year. The 750-bed hospital has been inaugurated on the campus of the medical college. The infrastructure facilities include 750 general beds, 50 ICU beds, 30 emergency beds, 11 operation theatres and medical equipment such as CT scan, MRI, catheterisation laboratory, ultra sound scan and digital X-ray. The hospital will offer round-the-clock healthcare services and it has a separate entrance accessible from Avanashi Road, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kmch-opens-750-bed-medical-college-general-hospital/article37156255.ece
25 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 128 new cases||A total of 128 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday. The Health Department said that 149 persons recovered from the disease on Sunday and the district had 1,428 active cases. A 51-year-old man from Coimbatore died of COVID-19 at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Friday, taking the death toll to 2,401. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 1.4 % on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 78 new cases on Sunday. As many as 89 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 781 active cases on Sunday. The Nilgiris district reported 20 cases. With the latest infections, the total number of cases in the district stands at 33,442. The number of deaths in the district increased from 208 to 209 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-128-new-cases/article37156273.ece
25 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two, including minor, held for chain snatching||The Kuniyamuthur police on Sunday apprehended two persons, including a minor boy, on charges of snatching the gold chain belonging to S. Dhanalakshmi on KGK Road at Kuniyamuthur on October 20. The police said that Faizal Rahman (30) and a 17-year-old boy from Karumbukadai were taken into custody. The duo came on a motorcycle to a provision store run by the woman on KGK Road. One of them went to the store on the pretext of buying cigarette and snatched the woman's chain. They escaped from the place on the two-wheeler. The police collected several visuals of their movements from surveillance cameras in the area. The investigating team zeroed in on the accused on Sunday and apprehended them for investigation. One killed in accident A 23-year-old man was killed while two others were injured after being hit by a lorry at Sulthanpet on Pollachi – Palladam road on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as S. Muthukrishnan, a native of Pudukottai. Two others C. Prasanth and T. Praveenkumar from Thanjavur were also hit by the lorry. They were admitted to the Government Hospital, Palladam. The police said that the lorry that hit the three men did not stop. The Sulthanpet police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-chain-snatching/article37156261.ece
25 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Male elephant’s skeleton found with tusks missing near Coimbatore||A male elephant's skeleton, with both the tusks missing, was found within the limits of Boluvampatti forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division on Sunday. The skeleton of the tusker was found in Poondi south beat of Vellapathy section of Boluvampatti forest range. Field staff of the Forest Department, who went to the forest for a patrol on Sunday, spotted the skeleton and informed higher officials. District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar said the skeleton is presumed to be of a male elephant aged between 25 and 30. The elephant could have died around 40 days ago and the carcass was scavenged by animals including wild boar, he said. The DFO said the tusks of the elephant were missing from the skeleton. The tusks could have been removed and taken away by someone who spotted the elephant after it had died, he said. According to him, the base of the tusks in the skeleton did not appear as if they were axed or cut using a saw - the method done by poachers. The Department has registered a case under Sections of the Wildlife (Protection) Act and launched investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-skeleton-found-tusks-missing/article37156236.ece
25 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Now pay fine for traffic violations using digital payment apps||People, who were found involved in various traffic violations, in the city can now pay the fine amount using Unified Payment Interface (UPI) based digital payment apps such as Paytm, PhonePe and Google Pay. The new initiative enables people to pay fine by scanning the QR code in the e-challan devices that are used by the police. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) S.R. Senthilkumar said all the e-challan generators with the police have been modified to accept payment using digital payment apps. The e-challan devices with the ity Police earlier accepted debit/credit cards for the payment of fines. Now, the police have added digital payment apps in the payment options. According to Mr. Senthilkumar, remitting fines using payment apps is less time consuming. It also does not require the payer to enter PIN in the e-challan device as needed while using debit/credit card. The touch-free payment is safe in the time of COVID-19 pandemic, he said. He said the e-challan generators also show fines pending for previous offences, if left unpaid. There are around 40 e-challan generators with the traffic police in the city. All the 15 law and order police stations also have three each e-challan generators. A. Sitrarasu, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Coimbatore west, said the traffic police booked around 1,000 cases in the city a day for a range of violations, including over-speeding, driving under the influence of alcohol and riding two-wheeler without wearing helmet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-pay-fine-for-traffic-violations-using-digital-payment-apps/article37156260.ece
25 October 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore logs nil deaths, 21 cases||Cuddalore recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Sunday. As many as 21 persons tested positive, taking the tally to 63,956. With 62,865 recoveries, active cases stood at 224. In Villupuram, 11 tested positive, taking the total cases to 45,778. Kallakurichi reported 7 new cases, taking the tally to 31,298.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-logs-nil-deaths-21-cases/article37156621.ece
25 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Water released through canals of Echambadi anaicut||District Collector S. Divyadarshini released water through left-right canals of Echambadi anaicut on Sunday for irrigation purposes. The State government recently ordered release of water through the canals. According to officials, 70 cusecs of water was released initially from the anaicut to the canals, 35 cusecs through each canal. Aroor MLA V. Sampathkumar and other senior officials took part in the function. According to officials, water would be released from the anaicut built across Thenpanai river for 120 days or until there is inflow of water in the river. A total of 3,250 acres of land would benefit through the left canal and 3,000 acres of land would benefit from the right canal, officials said. About 32 villages in Aroor, Karimangalam and Uthankarai taluks in Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts would benefit from the discharge. The right side canal stretches for 30.30 km and left side canal stretches for 26.15 km. Officials from the Public Works Department advised farmers to use water judiciously for better yield. Officials said that the dates of discharge would not be extended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-through-canals-of-echambadi-anaicut/article37156357.ece
25 October 2021||Hyderabad,TAMIL NADU||Plenary will stamp KCR’s complete authority on TRS||The first plenary of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) after the pandemic will be the complete show of Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao and will stamp his complete authority on the party as well as the government. He will be elected as the party president yet again as no other candidate has filed nomination for the post. But the plenary is also being seen as focussing on revitalising the party cadre to penetrate into the people to create a smooth path for the next Assembly elections. As per the party bylaws, the president should be elected every two years and traditionally the plenary was being held on April 27. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic it was not held last year and it missed in 2019 too due to the Parliament elections. For various reasons it is postponed to October now. The plenary will begin at 10 a.m. and after immediate announcement of his election, the Chief Minister will thank the cadre where he will recall the 20 years’ journey as a party and seven years in the government with the party cadre ensuring that they were the lifeline of the party. Party leaders expect the Chief Minister to also give some indications of how the party will play an important role in the Centre in the near future since the party has made significant achievements for the new State. The governance is on the right path and there is no going back for the new State. The plenary with 6,000 invited guests from across the State assumes significance as the party celebrates 20 years of its existence starting from a sub-regional party and shaping up to firmly entrench itself in Telangana politics for decades to come. The city has been painted pink to invite the delegates while the HICC where the meeting is being held has been taken over by the party. The grandness with which the plenary is planned has a message of a new narrative for the opposition parties and the general public that the party can’t be taken easily. A senior leader said a little bit of complacency that has set in among in the public representatives due to series of political wins and near decimation of Opposition will be shaken a bit. The party’s year-long programmes to be taken up to be in touch with the general public will also shape up here in the plenary. As the TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao said this will be a precursor to showcase the party’s strength in the Maha Garjana to be held in Warangal on November 15 with 20 lakh people to celebrate two decades of its impact on Telangana and its very heart. The meeting is likely to propose several resolutions and a special song has been written by noted lyricist Suddala Ashok Teja. A photo exhibition is also planned that will feature the life history of the Chief Minister with thousands of photos starting from the Jaladrushyam days. Delicious food is also being prepared with nearly 30 dishes unique to Telangana to be served to the delegates and guests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plenary-will-stamp-kcrs-complete-authority-on-trs/article37156097.ece
25 October 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||New classroom block inaugurated||Minister for Electricity V. Senthilbalaji on Sunday declared open a new block of classrooms at the Municipal Higher Secondary School here. It has been constructed with Rs. 2.78 crore provided jointly by Karur Vysya Bank under its Corporate Social Responsibility initiative, and the Rotary Club of Karur Texcity. While the bank contributed a sum of Rs. 2.06 crore, the Rotary Club donated the remaining amount. Sixteen classrooms and two laboratories were the additions made to the building infrastructure. Amenities such as water sump and paver blocks were also provided. B. Ramesh Babu, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, KVB; and A. J. Suriyanarayana, Project Director of the classroom construction project of Rotary Club of Karur Texcity were among the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-classroom-block-inaugurated/article37156331.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Jacobite Church team to visit Beirut||A delegation of leaders of the Jacobite Syrian Orthodox Church will travel to Beirut in Lebanon early next month on an invitation from Patriarch Ignatius Aphrem II, universal head of the Church, to discuss various issues facing the Jacobite Church in Kerala, even as a meeting of the synod of bishops of the Church, planned for Saturday to consider an auxiliary for Catholicos Baselios Thomas I, was called off. A spokesman for the Jacobite Church said the two key decision-making bodies of the Church — the working committee and the managing committee — had recommended on October 9 that an auxiliary could be appointed to help Catholicos Baselios Thomas I, who is aged, in the administration of the Church. The recommendation was that the elected auxiliary could be considered the successor to the Catholicos. While the synod of bishops was expected to discuss the appointment of an auxiliary in Puthenkurisu on Saturday, the meeting was called off against the background of the invitation from the Patriarch to the senior Church leadership. Church sources said the Jacobite Church had no tradition nor did its constitution permit the appointment of a designated successor to the Catholicos. These and other issues would be in focus when the Church delegation meets the Patriarch in Beirut next month, the sources added. The meeting of the Jacobite Church working and managing committees early this month had reiterated that under no circumstances would it end its allegiance to the Patriarch of Antioch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jacobite-church-team-to-visit-beirut/article37156103.ece
25 October 2021||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain in Kodaikanal||The widespread rain in the upper Kodaikanal resulted in boulders blocking the ghat section between Adukkam and Kodaikanal on Sunday. As a result, villagers from the hamlets could not go to Periakulam and Kodaikanal as buses could not be operated. The incessant rains had also uprooted small trees on the roadsides at least in five locations blocking the road. After information was passed on, the Highways engineers reached the spot and removed the boulders. The villagers suggested to keep sand-bags available as the rainl may further lead to minor landslides since the soil had loosened in the edges. The Highways officials said that from Monday morning, normalcy would be restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-in-kodaikanal/article37156323.ece
25 October 2021||Kozhikode,TAMIL NADU||Climate talks, over a cup of coffee||Kerala has faced a series of natural disasters over the past decade and every one has something to say about climate change, which led to the situation we are in. However, mainstream discussions are often dominated by scientists and policy makers while the opinions of commoners are rarely heard. Well, you could now step into a Climate Cafe in your locality where you could chat about climatic conditions and the environment in general over a cup of coffee. At least a few interested ears are guaranteed. Climate Cafe is not a novel concept. It was introduced by Rebecca Nestor from Climate Psychology Alliance in her hometown Oxford in the United Kingdom around 2018 where anyone could join and talk about climate and problems caused by climate change. Now the concept is spread across the globe and the little-hole-in-the-wall cafes are often the venues for these discussions. In Kerala, Padhabhedam, a Kozhikode-based publication, has taken the initiative to organise Climate Cafes across the State. “Why should we leave the discussions on climate change to politicians and subject experts?” asks one of the posters on the Climate Cafe, which reflects its general theme. “There are no chief guests, and no one to give out advices or admonishments, no canvassing to be part of any protests or activist organisations and absolutely no pressure to change the way you think about anything,” activist and writer Civic Chandran explained the concept of Climate Cafe as it is being held across the State. “Just say what you have to say over a cup of tea and warm Parippuvada,” he added. So far, Climate Cafes have been held in around 20 locations in the State in which several organisations joined hands with Padhabhedam. It was held in Moozhikkulam, Annoor, Ponnani, Thiruvananthapuram and Koyilandi on Saturday while Kochi, Vellimadukunnu, Koottanad, Kalamasseri, Kottakkal, Elavur, Kormala and Vellikkulangara hosted Climate Cafe on Sunday. It will be held in Kattappana, Kottayam, Kuttippuram, Alappuzha and Kollam. Contact for details Those who wish to organise Climate Cafes in their locality could contact 8086205415 or 9633751353, if they need any pointers or help.  Padhabhedam, a Kozhikode-based publication, has taken the initiative to organise the cafes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/climate-talks-over-a-cup-of-coffee/article37156110.ece
25 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rains and choked roads do not dampen Deepavali shopping spirit||Thousands of shoppers are descending on Masi Streets every day for buying dresses, electronic goods and other materials ahead of Deepavali, choking the vehicular traffic, especially on South Masi Street and West Masi Street. Though the late evening sharp showers brought inconvenience to the shoppers, crowding continued on Sunday. Since all the Masi Streets are already following one-way traffic, vehicles could move only at a snail’s pace. “We restrict entry of cars and autorickshaws into South Masi and West Masi streets whenever the traffic movement gets choked. But two-wheelers are permitted,” a senior Traffic Police Officer said. Over 20 traffic wardens assist the City Traffic Police in regulating the vehicles. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said that additional police personnel had been posted and watch towers erected at vantage points for crime prevention. 100 more cameras “Over 100 additional cameras for closed circuit television camera networks have been put to keep a watch on movement of crowd and anti-social elements,” he added. The police are planning to make the stretch of Netaji Road between Jhansi Rani Park and Baladhandayuthapani Swamy Temple one-way to manage the crowd till Deepavali. “Since Deepavali shoppers from neighbouring districts such as Theni, Dindigul, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar come in large numbers in cars, we face difficulty in regulating traffic on this stretch of Netaji Road,” he said. Parking space Most of the vehicles leave the Masi streets after dropping the shoppers and parking is allowed, as of now, on East Veli Street. “As the crowd is increasing, we will provide parking lots at St. Mary's Higher Secondary School on East Veli Street and and Sethupathi Higher Secondary School on North Veli Street,” he added. People can also make use of the paid parking facility on Madurai railway junction premises. Some of the traders suggested that the vacant space at Periyar bus stand, under renovation, can be used for parking vehicles for the festival season. Meanwhile, the pothole-ridden East Marret Street and South Marret Street, among other roads, pose danger to the road users, especially two-wheeler riders. “People fail to notice the potholes and fall down as a thick sheet of rainwater cover the roads,” a police officer said.  The vacant space at Periyar bus stand, under renovation, can be used for parking vehicles for the festival season Traders||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rains-and-choked-roads-do-not-dampen-deepavali-shopping-spirit/article37156543.ece
25 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea in HC to allow use of first letter of mother’s name as initial||A woman from Karur district moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday seeking relief after the authorities of the government school where her daughter was studying had insisted that they should provide the first letter of the father’s name as initial of the girl, despite the fact that all government records carried the first letter of the mother’s name as initial. The petitioner, M. Pothumponnu of Kadavur taluk in Karur district, said her daughter P. Kaviya was studying in class IX in Kadavur Government High School. The petitioner said her husband had deserted the family and she was living with her parents. She was taking care of the family and the educational expenses of her daughter, she said. She said at the time of school admission itself she had provided the first letter of her name as the initial to her daughter and all government records, including Aadhaar card, carried the same. She said her daughter preferred the first letter of her mother’s name as the initial and not that of her father’s name. Under these circumstances, her daughter applied for a scholarship examination. But, the school authorities advised her to provide the first letter of her father’s name as initial. She said the authorities had told her that the issue would be raised at the time of class X public examination too. Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy sought a response from the State. The court adjourned the hearing till October 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-in-hc-to-allow-use-of-first-letter-of-mothers-name-as-initial/article37156245.ece
25 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Women must detect breast cancer through regular self-examination’||Symptoms of breast cancer do not always show up as a lump and neither do all lumps lead to breast cancer. That is why it is crucial for women to self-examine their breasts, go for regular screenings and get mammogram done annually, especially if they are above 40 years - this was the message reiterated by speakers at Pink October event held at Government Rajaji Hospital on Thursday. The programme, organised by the Department of Surgical Oncology, was part of Breast Cancer Awareness Month observed universally in October. The event saw participation of 100 policewomen across all ranks. They were reminded that as early detection of breast cancer guaranteed cure they should familiarise themselves with the shape, size and look of their breasts so that any anomaly could be instantly spotted. The chief guest, N. Kamini, Deputy Inspector General, Madurai range, spoke about how police personnel could help in spreading awareness. “Propagating public health information is important and our profession demands dealing with public all the time; if all of you talk about breast cancer with six others every day for the next three months, imagine the reach and service you will do,” she exhorted the gathering. M. Ramesh, Head of Surgical Oncology Department, said that breast cancer was a silent killer as it was often detected late, unless the women were aware and proactive. The World Health Organisation estimates that one out of every 28 woman ran the risk of developing breast cancer. He said that 20% of women patients coming to his clinic had breast cancer. Most common “It is one of the most common cancer that affects individual health and impacts the family and society. But it is amenable to early diagnosis, unlike several other cancers, and combination of chemotherapy, radiation and surgery will provide the cure,” he said. Recommending compulsory mammogram every year for all women, he said, it was one of the most accurate diagnostic tools that can detect earliest lesions even before a lump is fully formed. Dean A. Rathinavel urged women to quell their fear, reluctance and misconception about breast examination and come forward for regular check-ups for their own good. The hospital had the best of facilities on par with international standards for treating cancer patients, he said.  It is amenable to early diagnosis, unlike other cancers, and combination of chemotherapy, radiation and surgery will provide the cure M. Ramesh Head, Surgical Oncology, GRH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/self-examination-will-help-detect-breast-cancer/article37156535.ece
25 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Railway hospital staff baffled over training conducted in Hindi’||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has deplored the railway using Hindi as the only medium of instruction for an online training programme on Hospital Management Information System for employees of railway hospitals, including non-Hindi-speaking staff. In a memorandum addressed to Railway Minister Ashiwini Vaishnaw, Mr. Venkatesan said that only Hindi was being used for imparting the training that started on October 21. The non-Hindi-speaking employees from Tamil Nadu could not comprehend anything which defeated the very purpose of conducting the training programme. Stating that many employees had complained to him about the issue, Mr. Venkatesan suggested that separate training classes in English could be conducted for the non-Hindi-speaking employees. He said that it would be better if the classes were conducted in regional languages so that the purpose would be fully served. Till a separate training programme in English was conducted, the non-Hindi-speaking employees should not be compelled to attend the present training, he said. Land for NIPER Meanwhile, the MP met Union government officials requesting them to initiate efforts to take over the land for the proposed National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER) in Madurai. The MP met the Union Secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, S. Aparna, and Finance Secretary (Expenditure) T.V. Somanathan on Saturday and impressed upon them the need to take over the land. “The project was proposed in 2012 and and a parcel of 100 acres of land was identified for it. I fear that if the land is not taken over for NIPER, it might go for some other projects,” Mr. Venkatesan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-conducted-in-hindi-baffles-railway-hospital-staff/article37156541.ece
25 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Battery car service back at Madurai junction||Battery car service has resumed at Madurai railway junction from Saturday. There are two vehicles that ferry passengers from the main entrance (east entry point) to various platforms and vice-versa. The battery-operated car service was suspended after the outbreak of COVID-19 in March 2020. Earlier, it was a paid service and passengers, especially the aged, the differently abled, sick and pregnant women, used them for going to the different platforms to board trains or to return to the concourse after alighting from a train. “We have lifts and escalators for passengers who find it difficult to climb up and down the foot-overbridges,” a railway official said. The cars ferry passengers from the main entrance to platforms 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Since frequent shunting of trains happens on the middle tracks, the cars are not operated to platform 6 located on the western side of the railway station. Announcement about the availability of this service, now free, are made through public address system. A private organisation has been a five-year contract to operate the cars. People who want to use the facility can approach the help desk located on the station concourse. Besides, the drivers can be contacted on their mobile numbers which have been displayed at the concourse and on the platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/battery-car-service-back-at-madurai-railway-junction/article37156538.ece
25 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 136.80 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 5,250 cusecs and a discharge of 2,200 cusecs.The level in Vaigai dam was 57.91 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 2,475 cusecs and a discharge of 1,319 cusecs. Rainfall recorded in the region during the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was (in mm): Periyar dam 71.4, Kodaikanal 48.7, Natham 37.5, Palani 37, Gudalur 34.6, Thekkadi 16.4, Veerapandi 15, Uthamapalayam 12.4 and Sothuparai dam 10.    Sourashtra Small Business Association, Rotary Club of Madurai West and Madurai Heritage and Madura College conducted a job fair at Madura College on Sunday. Of the 4,186 participants, 633 were given offer letters. Among the 32 recruiting companies were HCL, Ekalaiv Tech, Royal Enfield and SBI Insurance. Graduates of arts and science and engineering colleges and polytechnics participated in the mela, said Lakshman Babu, an event coordinator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37156345.ece
25 October 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Two fishermen injured as Panama cargo ship hits boat||The Marine Police in Colachel on Sunday booked a case against the crew members of a Panama cargo ship after it allegedly collided with a mechanised fishing boat here two days ago. The action after a complaint from the mechanised boat owner, Rajamani. According to the complainant, about 17 fishermen were fishing 20 nautical miles off Colachel fishing jetty, when the cargo ship from Panama, reportedly on its way from Singapore to Mumbai, allegedly collided with the mechanised boat. In the impact, two fishermen, Arulraj of Melamanakudi and John of Colachel, suffered serious injuries, while 15 others escaped with minor injuries. The boat was badly damaged. After the fishermen communicated the development to Indian Coast Guard through a wireless set, they were rescued. The two seriously injured fishermen were admitted to Kochi Government Hospital and inquiries were on, the authorities said. Rev. Fr Churchill of South Asian Fishermen Fraternity condemned the incident and appealed to the Centre and the State to protect the fishermen. The Panama ship should be booked for recklessness and negligence. The authorities should register an attempt to murder case against the ship and should not let it go scot-free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-fishermen-injured-as-cargo-ship-hits-boat/article37156249.ece
25 October 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. intensifies patrolling in Kolli Hills||The Forest Department has intensified monitoring in Kolli Hills range after villagers complained of leopard movement. The residents in Pottireddipatti, Kombaikadu and Kajakombai villages recently complained of leopard movement in the area and demanded the Forest Department to take steps to capture the animal. However, forest officials said that they were yet to confirm the presence of a carnivore in the region and have intensified patrolling in the area. District Forest Officer K.Rajangam said that they have not received any confirmed inputs on the presence of leopard. He added that the animal might have strayed out of Trichy forest range and may have returned or moved to other forest ranges. He added that as a precautionary measure, three teams have been deployed in the area for monitoring purpose.  The carnivore’s presence yet to be confirmed Forest officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-intensifies-patrolling-in-kolli-hills/article37156250.ece
25 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Day-long inoculation drive in the Union Territory today||In a final push towards protecting its entire population with at least one dose of vaccine against COVID-19, the Puducherry government will launch a day-long drive across 100 session sites in the Union Territory on Monday. The drive, which will be held from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., involves for the first time NGOs, SHGs, educational institutions and private players. The target is to reach at least one lakh people. “We have an estimated three lakh people who are yet to receive even one dose and we hope to reach out to a third of them,” Health Secretary T. Arun said. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister N. Rangasamy issued personal appeals in an awareness video ahead of the campaign tag-lined “I am vaccinated; Are You?”. On Sunday, Ms. Soundararajan chaired a high-level meeting with officials at the Raj Nivas to finalise the strategy ahead of the vaccination festival. The intensified vaccination effort is geared up to ensure the entire target population of 10 lakh is covered with at least one dose before Deepavali. As on Sunday, the Union Territory has administered just over 11 lakh doses, including 3.82 lakh second doses. The Health Department has mapped the households of the unvaccinated population, and volunteers will go door to door and persuade them to take the vaccine. “We have enough stocks to administer one lakh doses. In fact, since the roll-out of vaccination, we have maintained a robust supply chain,” Mr. Arun said. Health officials are reaching out to people with a mix of reassurance about the safety of the vaccine and hard data showing that the unvaccinated people account for an estimated 97% of intensive care unit admissions for COVID-19. They are also hoping to cash in on the celebratory mood across the nation after it crossed the milestone of administering one billion doses recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/day-long-inoculation-drive-in-the-union-territory-today/article37156612.ece
25 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Orleanpet bus terminus in Puducherry in a mess due to lack of space||The lone bus terminus at Orleanpet in Puducherry is bursting at its seams due to want of space, especially during peak hours and weekends. With over 1,000 buses operating out of it every day, the bus stand is always congested with vehicles. Built in 1986, the bus stand had separate parking bays for buses bound to Chennai and neighbouring States. Although the number of buses has reached over 1,000, the facilities have not been upgraded proportionately. The bus terminus serves as a combined facility for both interstate and town buses. This has now become a source of trouble for passengers and the fleet operators. In the absence of bus bays, the interstate buses bound to Chennai and other destinations are parked haphazardly at the entrance. According to a municipal official, “The bus stand has only 28 parking bays for both interstate and mofussil buses. The area earmarked for mofussil buses could accommodate only 10 buses at a time. The parking of town buses and interstate buses in the same area causes congestion. Moreover, the parking of buses at the entrance/exit is also a perennial menace here. Two-wheelers are also parked in the bus bays, and a lot of space is wasted that way.” Maraimalai Adigal Salai, where the terminus is located, is already congested. Omni bus service operators, who run services out of Puducherry, have occupied the office spaces on both sides of the road, resulting in a huge increase in vehicular traffic and footfall. A section of the bus crew said it was difficult to enter the bus stand, particularly during peak hours. Due to lack of space, long-distance buses passing through Puducherry skip entering the bus stand. No attention to amenities “Not much attention is paid to provide amenities to passengers. The authorities have not provided proper drinking water facilities, adequate lighting and dustbins. There is no shelter or proper restroom facilities in the bus station,” said Lakshmikanthan, a resident of Pakkamudayanpet. According to residents, the severe space constraints coupled with poor passenger amenities in the bus station have necessitated the urgent need for the construction of a new terminus as well as a bus depot for mofussil buses in a suitable and spacious locality in the city. There have been pending demands for construction of a new bus stand to decongest the traffic in and around the existing bus stand. Authorities said they were pushing for the construction of a spacious second terminus in the city to ease congestion. “The Government had proposed a spacious bus terminus at Velrampet near Mudaliarpet. A vacant site was also identified on the East Coast Road for the bus station. However, there has been no progress. The government has proposed a modern bus station with amenities for passengers under the Smart City Project,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/orleanpet-bus-terminus-in-a-mess-due-to-lack-of-space/article37156619.ece
25 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Dialogue should resume between India, Sri Lanka: fisherfolk forum||The National Fisherfolk Forum (NFF) has urged the Centre to initiate the fifth round of dialogue between fisher representatives of India and Sri Lanka in the wake of recent rise in the incidents of incarceration of Indian fishermen by the neighbour’s navy. M. Ilango, NFF chairperson, in a memorandum to the Union External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, sought the early resumption of bilateral consultations while urging for the Prime Minister’s intervention in this regard to devise an acceptable protection of the right to livelihood of the fishermen of both countries. Increasing difficulty The fishermen from Ramnad, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur of Tamil Nadu and Karaikal of Puducherry were finding it increasingly difficult to fish in the seas between India and Sri Lanka due to the attack on fishing boats and incarceration of Tamil fishermen, which sometimes led to their languishing without proper food and clothing and being tortured, the memorandum said. The issue has flared up again with 23 fishermen arrested and incarcerated in Sri Lankan prisons despite a sort of agreement being in place since 2017 after several rounds of consultations from the time of the UPA government. The NFF recalled that after the fourth round of bilateral dialogue under the NDA government and instructions of the high-powered officials of the External Affairs Ministry, the Tamil fishermen avoided going to the controversial sea space for fishing. No criminal activities Since they were only fishing and were not involved in any criminal activities, the Indian government should immediately intervene and get them released without any court cases pending. Further, both governments should hold an inquiry about the reason for such incidents in recent days. The process of investigation should be held by the higher level officials of both the countries concerned, said Mr. Ilango, who also met Union Fisheries Minister Parshottam Rupala in Delhi to press the case for resumption of dialogue.  Both governments should hold an inquiry about the reason for such incidents in recent days M. Ilango National Fisherfolk Forum chairperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dialogue-should-resume-between-india-sri-lanka-fisherfolk-forum/article37156616.ece
25 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 61 new COVID-19 cases, two deaths||The Union Territory recorded two COVID-19 deaths and 61 new cases as the total number of vaccine doses administered crossed the 11 lakh mark on Sunday. Both the COVID-19 fatalities occurred in Puducherry, taking the cumulative toll to 1,857. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,453), Karaikal (250), Yanam (107) and Mahe (47). Puducherry logged 37 of the new cases, which were detected from 3,456 tests, followed by Karaikal (11), Yanam (1) and Mahe (12). With 49 patients recovering from COVID-19, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 467. Of this, 88 patients were in hospitals and 379 in home isolation. The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,27,735 cases, 1,25,411 recoveries. Of an estimated 18.94 lakh tests conducted so far, over 16 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 4,183 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. With this, the total vaccine doses administered in Puducherry aggregated to 11,00,316.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-61-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths/article37156335.ece
25 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Two men, including history-sheeter, killed in Vanarpet||A history-sheeter and his friend were killed by a gang at Vanarapet here on Sunday. The police said the victims ‘Bomb’ Ravi, 33, of Dubrayapet, and his friend Anthony, 28, were riding a two-wheeler when three unidentified persons on another motorcycle intercepted the duo at Allen Street and hurled a country-made bomb on them. The bomb exploded on Anthony’s head, causing grievous injuries. Ravi managed to flee, but the assailants gave chase and hacked him to death in a narrow lane before fleeing, the police said. ‘Bomb’ Ravi had around 30 cases, including six murder cases, against him. He had recently come out on bail. The Mudaliarpet police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-men-killed-in-vanarpet/article37156620.ece
25 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Pregnant women get nutritious food in Pudukottai villages||A not-for-profit organisation is working with single women to prepare nutritious food and provide it to pregnant women and their children in Pudukottai district. Working in association with anganwadis and Primary Healthcare Centres, the project aims to monitor child growth and keep a check on malnutrition. Centre for World Solidarity, a non-governmental organisation headquartered in Secundarabad has joined hands with Seva Trust based in Pudukottai to monitor child growth, mother’s well being and nutrition for both. The project includes sourcing, making and distributing ‘sathu maavu kanji’ (nutrient-rich porridge) for pregnant women and mothers of newborns and is currently working in 11 villages in the district. “Our aim is to care for the mother and child for the first 1,000 days. These days are the most crucial for both the mother and baby and we work along with the PHCs and anganwadi to provide them with necessary nutrition and guidance,” Vrinda Raman, Programme coordinator, Centre for World Solidarity, said. Single women - both widows and those who have been abandoned by their husbands in the villages - prepare this nutritious food for the mothers-to-be. “It is a beautiful way in which women support other women,” R. Vasuki, Managing Director, Seva Trust, told The Hindu . Raising and cooking Single women, who were part of previous projects with CWS, were taught how to grow the seeds, pulses and legumes for the ‘sathu maavu’ through organice farming. Another batch of single women would prepare it. The farming is done at Kunnandarkoil, while the preparation and distribution is done at 11 villages in Annavasal, Aranthangi and others. “The women farmers are able to sustain themselves. The ones making the ‘kanji maavu’ are compensated for their work,” Ms. Vasuki said. Once a week, the women prepare and provide the porridge flour to anganwadis and PHCs in the 11 villages. “We are trying to supplement the work done by the government. There are a few women who complain about not knowing how to prepare the ‘kanji,’ or not having time to prepare it," Ms. Vasuki added. Their work then is to be able to ensure that nobody is left behind. CWS also provides seeds, fencing and other material to these women so that they can cultivate and consume vegetables. “Many say that they are unable to purchase and consume healthy vegetables regularly. This way we ensure it is consumed,” she said.  Our aim is to care for the mother and child for the first 1,000 days as they are crucial for both the mother and baby Vrinda Raman Programme coordinator, CWS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pregnant-women-get-nutritious-food-in-pudukottai-villages/article37156327.ece
25 October 2021||RAJAPALAYAM,TAMIL NADU||MLA’s gesture to underprivileged children||A popular textile shop here looked like a park where scores of children were moving around with smiles writ large on their faces on Saturday. For the underprivileged children from three homes in and around the town, Deepavali arrived early with Rajapalayam MLA S. Thangapandian taking them to the showroom for them to select their favourite dress for the festival. The children from the homes, including Seithur, were brought in vehicles to the town. "Since, this is shopping season, we made special arrangement for shopping for the children with the help of the owner of the shop. The shop was opened one hour earlier the scheduled working time so that the children could move around freely and select the dress of their choice patiently," the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MLA said. Out of 230 children in the homes, 201 kids turned up at the shop and they completed the shopping before noon. "I was happy to see the ecstasy on their faces when they were able to choose the dresses of the colour and design of their choice. It is only to tell them that we are with them to support them in all their endeavours," the MLA said. Mr. Thangapandian said that he has been doing this ever since he became MLA in 2016. The gesture was true to DMK founder C.N. Annadurai's words of ‘Ezhaiyin sirippil iraivanai kanbom' (To see God in the smiles of the poor).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mlas-gesture-to-underprivileged-children/article37156342.ece
25 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Regulate yarn prices, governments told||The Tamil Nadu Fabrics Manufacturers’ Association has requested governments to take measures to regulate yarn prices and export of yarn until domestic needs are met. The association said that prices of yarn have increased by 30-45% and fabric manufacturers are suffering from order cancellation and low margins due to the hike. A. Alagarasan, president Tamil Nadu Fabrics Manufacturers’ Association, demanded that the State and Central governments should take measures to regulate export of yarn as its shortage has led to hike in production costs. The manufacturers lamented that they are unable to compete with countries like China, Bangladesh and Vietnam in terms of price and are facing challenges in export. The association said that they are unable to get new orders. The association demanded that the raw material must not be exported until needs of domestic market is met and urged governments to take necessary action in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/regulate-yarn-prices-governments-told/article37156358.ece
25 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Over 75,000 vaccine doses administered||As many as 75,363 COVID-19 vaccination doses were administered in the sixth mega vaccination drive in Salem. The drive was conducted at 1,392 places. Though the district administration targeted to administer 2 lakh doses through the drive, only 75,363 doses were administered on the day. In Namakkal, the vaccination drive was conducted at 750 places. The district administration targeted to administer 1.30 lakh vaccine doses on the day. However, 59,473 vaccine doses were administered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-75000-vaccine-doses-administered/article37156353.ece
25 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mettur dam water level touches 100 feet||The water level at the Stanley reservoir in Mettur touched 100 feet on Sunday. According to officials of the Public Works Department, the level touched 100 feet around 11.10 a.m. on Sunday, against the full reservoir level of 120 feet. The stored capacity stood at 64,428 mc ft and the dam received 28,650 cusecs. The inflow has improved after the recent rain. The discharge from the dam into the Cauvery was maintained at 100 cusecs, and 550 cusecs was discharged through the East-West Canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-dam-water-level-touches-100-feet/article37156224.ece
25 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Case against two persons for caste-based discrimination||The Thalaivasal police have registered a case against a hairstylist and woman after a video that showed the two discriminating a youth based on his caste went viral on social media platforms. The video shot by Poovarasan (26) showed the hairstylist Logu denying the former a haircut on the basis of his caste. Logu and Annakili, the owner of the building in which the salon was operating, had also abused Poovarasan. Based on a complaint lodged by Poovarasan, the police have booked Logu and Annakili.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-two-persons-for-caste-based-discrimination/article37156354.ece
25 October 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||58 new COVID-19 cases in Salem||Salem district on Sunday reported 58 new cases of COVID-19 and one death. Namakkal district reported 50 indigenous cases. Erode reported 70 fresh cases and one death. The district has 881 active cases.  While 16 indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri, there were 19 fresh cases in Krishnagiri. A total of 128 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday. Tiruppur district reported 78 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/58-new-covid-19-cases-in-salem/article37156352.ece
25 October 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Tributes offered to Marudhu brothers||A large number of people offered tributes to Marudhu brothers on the occasion of the 220th memorial day of the freedom fighters on Sunday. Sivaganga Collector P. Madusudan Reddy presided over the ceremony held at Marudhu brothers memorial at Tirupathur in the district. Minister for Rural Development K.R. Periakaruppan garlanded their statues in the presence of Manamadurai MLA A. Tamilarasi and others. The Directorate of Information and Public Relations had organised the function. Functionaries and cadres of various political outfits also visited the memorial and garlanded the statues of Periamarudhu and Chinnamarudhu. The Marudhu brothers had defied the British rule, and were captured after a long-drawn war and hanged. The public also paid homage to the memorial pillar situated near Tirupathur bus stand. A large posse of police were deployed in the district. Superintendent of Police Senthil Kumar supervised the bandobust arrangements. In Madurai, the statues of Marudhu brothers installed near Sri Mariamman Teppakulam were garlanded by functionaries of various political parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tributes-paid-to-marudhu-brothers/article37156220.ece
25 October 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Two killed||Two youth, who were riding a motorcycle, were killed after they collided head on with a TNSTC bus on Sunday. Police said that N. Aravind Bharati, 18, of Avarangadu, Muruganantham, 19, of Vanakaruppu SIPCOT and Rajesh, 19, of Tirupachethi were proceeding on a two-wheeler from Tirupathur to Sivaganga. After the bus hit their vehicle, the three were thrown off the vehicle.Aravind and Muruganantham died on the spot and Rajesh, who had suffered abrasion all over the body, was rushed to the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed/article37156540.ece
25 October 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Trickster held by cyber crime police||The cyber crime police on Sunday arrested a man, who allegedly cheated a person after promising to get him a job through a social media platform. Investigation revealed that the petitioner, Selvam of Alangulam in Tenkasi district, was cheated by a person, who contacted him on Facebook and assured him a job. He made the complainant transfer Rs. 40,000 to his bank account through Gpay. When there was no response, the complainant approached the police, who registered a case. Based on inputs, Cyber Crime ADSP Swaminathan and his team conducted the probe and zeroed in on the suspect.  Many other cheated After securing the man, identified as Karthikeyan of Bharatiar Street, Idayarpalayam, the investigators found that he had cheated many people in a similar fashion through facebook and other social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trickster-held/article37156347.ece
25 October 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Theni is ahead of other districts with 36.72 % forest cover, says Minister||With 36.72 % forest cover, Theni district stood ahead of many other districts in Tamil Nadu and the district’s figure is also higher than the State average of 33%. The government would take measures to maintain the green cover intact and at the same time protect the interests of farmers and tribal people, said Forests Minister K. Ramachandran here on Saturday. Addressing a review meeting at the Collectorate, which was presided over by Collector K.V. Muralidharan, the Minister said the demands placed before the officials by the farmers, tribal people and other stakeholders would be examined and the government would spell out its stand after his discussions with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. During the meeting, the farmers demanded roads inside the forest areas, permission for grazing their cattle, compensation to legal heirs of those who were killed after attacks by wild animals, permission for visitors in Suruli waterfalls and laying of Kurangani-Top Station road in the district. The Minister said the government had the responsibility of protecting both the forest cover and the habitations around them. Due importance would be given to the representations from the tribal community, he said.  Mr. Ramachandran said the effective management of the forests in Theni and Megamalai regions by joint patrolling teams and surveillance had resulted in rare birds visiting the region. There were also elephants, leopards, guars and other wild animals spotted deep inside the forests. Senior officers from the Forest department, including Ashok Uprithi, Sekar Kumar Neeraj, Deepak Srivatsava, V. Naganathan, Deepak S. Bilji, S. Anand and S. Vidya, and Theni Superintendent of Police Praveen Umesh Dongre participated in the meeting. Later, the Minister gave away cheques for Rs. 12.50 lakh to self-help groups under the revolving fund scheme to seven groups, comprising 15 members each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-is-ahead-of-other-districts-with-3672-forest-cover-says-minister/article37156248.ece
25 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Seasonal traders shy away from setting shop fearing COVID-19||A significant decline in the number of seasonal traders to the city to set up temporary garment shops is perceptible this year due to the unstable market condition in the aftermath of the second wave of COVID-19. Important commercial streets such as N.S.B Road, Big Bazaar Street, Nandi Koil Street, Singarathope that teem with large textile showrooms are also the favourite haunts of roadside vendors for their seasonal trade. While permanent showrooms attract customers from affluent to lower middle-class categories, economically poor customers entirely depend on the roadside vendors to purchase readymade garments. The commercial streets in the city would usually have a large presence of seasonal traders from Tiruppur, Erode, and Karur. Many traders from Kolkata, Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mumbai, Pune, Patna and Surat also set up temporary shops along the roadsides. They would generally arrive in the city at least 15 to 20 days before the Deepavali festival. The festival is just round the corner, but the numbers of temporary traders is still sparse. Though the North Indian traders have arrived, their number is just one-third the usual level. Insufficient transport services, fear of contracting COVID-19, uncertainly over business prospects, poor purchasing power among people due to loss of jobs are said to have kept the seasonable traders from setting up shops. “We notice very few Hindi-speaking seasonal traders this year. The unfavourable business prospects due to the impact of the COVID-19 virus have forced them to give this year a miss. It is understandable,” says M. Karthick, a pavement shopper on Big Bazaar Street. He said that several traders from different parts of the State, who usually set up shops during Deepavali season, had also chosen to keep away. This phenomenon is expected to help the local pavement traders. Expecting a good business, they have procured garments from Karnataka, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Tiruppur, Erode, Coimbatore and Karur. But they say that the business has not picked up for them yet. “We have done moderate business for just four or five days this season so far. We hope the business will pick up this week,” a pavement vendor selling readymade on NSB Road said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seasonal-traders-shy-away-from-setting-shop-fearing-covid-19/article37156330.ece
25 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||A draft policy on protecting human rights defenders gets ready||A draft policy on protection of human rights defenders will be submitted to the Tamil Nadu government on December 10. When enacted, such a policy would be in place for the first time in the country, Henri Tiphagne, Executive Director of People's Watch said on Sunday. The Declaration on Human Rights Defenders, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly was used as the background for formulating such a policy, which the State requires, Mr. Tiphagne told media persons after it was formulated at a workshop here. The workshop convened by Human Rights Defenders Alert - India, witnessed a gathering of activists across the State to discuss the draft policy for protecting human rights defenders. Offering such protection is the duty of the government, according to the United Nations. “The government needs to set a clear definition of ‘human rights defenders’ – who can be identified with that term and what the term entails”, said Thiyagu, General Secretary, Tamil National Liberation Movement. “The functioning of the State requires societal outlook and social monitoring, which the human rights defenders will perform,” Mr. Thiyagu said. For such a duty, they require recognition, approval and protection, he added. The defenders will be able to function as an early warning system, he added. The activists also said that they condemned the notification to restrict the usage of the words ‘human rights’ in the name of any organisation. Activists from various parts of the State have planned to take part in a protest in Chennai on October 30, seeking the Chief Minister’s direct intervention into the matter. Thirumurugan Gandhi, founder, The May 17 Movement, former Professor and anti-Sterlite activist Fathima Babu were among the several activists who took part in the workshop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-draft-policy-on-protecting-human-rights-defenders-gets-ready/article37156332.ece
25 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||JEE training for govt. school students sustained by district administration||The district administration has sustained its thrust on equipping students of government schools to perform well in JEE, through a Memorandum of Understanding it had signed in 2019 with National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi, in the wake of a beneficiary of the training programme securing admission in Indian Institute of Technology - Madras. The student of Government Higher Secondary School, Sevalpatti, P. Arunkumar, son of agricultural labourers, who had All India Rank of 12,175 and placed at 2,503 under OBC ranking, was provided with financial support by the District Collector S. Sivarasu. The Collector personally felicitated the students and provided him with Rs. 85,000. Last year, two participants of the training programme conducted by IGNITTE Club gained entry into the NIT-T. They constituted Sethupathi of Lalgudi Government Boy's Higher Secondary School and Pugalarasi of Government Girls' Higher Secondary School, Mannachanallur. The students will be provided with the training at NIT-T during week-ends for two years and on government holidays. The expenditure for travel and stay for the training will be borne by the district administration, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jee-training-for-govt-school-students-sustained-by-district-administration/article37156322.ece
25 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Defence civilian employees resent changes in working hours||Employees of defence armaments production units have resented what they term as ‘unilateral’ change in weekly working hours following the conversion of Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) into multiple Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs). Though the Department of Defence Production had assured to safeguard interest of employees during the deemed deputation period in the seven corporations, they were facing many problems in their service matters. The Corporations were taking decisions that were ‘in violation of existing government orders’, General Secretary of All India Defence Employees Federation Srikumar said. The OFB had specified that the normal working hours was 44 hours and 45 minutes per week irrespective of the category of employees. The corporations do not have any authority to change ‘arbitrarily’ any of the service conditions including the working hours of the employees, Mr. Srikumar said. Likewise the orders issued by TCL and Yantra India Ltd., to remove the ceiling limit of 75 percent of piece work profit defied the Presidential orders in this regard. This has been done only with an intention to exploit the workers, he said. Placing of Ordnance Factory hospitals and the employees under the Directorate of Ordinance (Coordination and Services) was another area of concern. The employees were struggling to get their medical needs fulfilled since only meagre amounts were allotted to the hospitals. Despite being deployed overtime, the hospital staff were not being provided with the wages stipulated for the extra durations. There were difficulties in General Provident Fund withdrawals and in enforcement of appointments on compassionate grounds under the new set up. Also, the requests of the employees for inter-factory/ inter-directorate transfers have been pending for long, and there is now an uncertainty due to the corporatisation. This needs to be settled, Mr. Srikumar said. These actions could result in far-reaching consequences in the industrial relations, and affect production. These issues must be addressed in right earnest, Mr. Srikumar said in a representation to the Secretary of Defence Production. The representation was made by the AIDEF, Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdor Sangh, and Confederation of Defence Recognised Associations.  There were difficulties in General Provident Fund withdrawals and enforcement of appointments on compassionate grounds under the new set up Srikumar General Secretary of All India Defence Employees Federation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/defence-civilian-employees-resent-changes-in-working-hours/article37156321.ece
25 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||202 fresh cases in central region||The central region reported 202 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. The number of cases continued to reflect a downward trend that was prevalent across most districts in the region. There was also a significant drop in the number of deaths due to the viral infection. The two casualties caused by the illness pertained to Thanjavur district. Thanjavur recorded lesser number of infection. On Sunday, 57 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Tiruchi reported 47 fresh cases, and Tiruvarur 29. In Nagapattinam, 22 patients reported COVID-19 positive. Karur district registered 21 cases, Pudukottai 12 and Mayiladuthurai recorded 10 cases. Both Ariyalur and Perambalur districts registered two fresh cases of the viral infection, the lowest in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/202-fresh-cases-in-central-region/article37156333.ece
25 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||37-foot-tall Hanuman statue installe d||A 37-foot statue of Hanuman (Anjaneyar), one of the tallest statues for the deity in the State, was installed on the banks of the Kollidam river at Melur in Srirangam on Sunday. The statue has been installed on a two-acre premises owned bythe Srirangam-based Sanjeevana Anjaneyar Swamy Trust. A large number of devotees from across the State witnessed the installation ceremony. The statue was sculpted at Thirumurugan Poondi near Tirupur. A team of sculptors led by Muthu and Ilayaraja worked for more than two years to chisel the 120 tonne statue out of a single rock. R. Vasudevan, Managing Trusty of the Sanjeevana Anjaneyar Swamy Trust, said that it had cost Rs. 40 lakh for designing it. A strong pedestal had been built in commensurate with the weight of the statue. The statue was brought on a customised trailer having 46 wheels about a few weeks ago. Though there were no major hurdles in transporting it till Srirangam, it took a few days to reach Melur due to the narrow width of the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/37-foot-tall-hanuman-statue-installed-at-melur/article37156247.ece
25 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||37-foot-tall Anjaneyar statue installed||A 37-foot-tall statue of Anjaneyar (Hanuman), one of the tallest statues for the deity in the State, was installed on the banks of the Kollidam river at Melur in Srirangam on Sunday. The statue has been installed on a two-acre premises owned bythe Srirangam-based Sanjeevana Anjaneyar Swamy Trust. A large number of devotees from across the State witnessed the installation ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/37-foot-tall-anjaneyar-statue-installed/article37156544.ece
25 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 100.21 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 65,113 cusecs and the discharge was 100 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article37156334.ece
25 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||CoP hands over essential goods to 17 Homes||Commissioner of Police Senthamarai Kannan on Sunday gave away essential goods worth about Rs. 20 lakh, which included bedspreads, mattresses and computers donated by philanthropists, to 17 Homes run with government approval in the city on Sunday. Appreciating the gesture of the donors, the Commissioner requested them to be present on the occasion at the Armed Reserve Police Grounds. During a recent review meeting, police officers found that many Homes required certain basic amenities for the inmates. Hence, after ascertaining the needs, they approached philanthropists, who readily agreed to contribute for the Homes. Festival gesture With Deepavali round the corner, some of the donors also came forward to gift new clothes to the inmates, which too were handed over to the beneficiaries. As a mark of communal harmony, a donor, Nizam from Melapalayam, gave away food packets to all inmates on the occasion. Deputy Commissioners Suresh Kumar and Shankar and other officers offered felicitation. In a brief chat with reporters, the Commissioner said that elaborate bandobust arrangements had been made ahead of Deepavali. Four watch towers had been installed in vantage locations for the benefit of shoppers. He also said that additional out-posts and personnel would be deployed in the markets where the public assembled in large numbers. The police had already appealed to all shopkeepers and chain store operators to install CCTV cameras and be watchful. In order to regulate traffic in markets, some stretches would be made one-way till the festival season got over. Similarly, parking of vehicles too shall not be permitted in narrow lanes and bazaar areas for loading and unloading activities, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cop-hands-over-essential-goods-to-17-homes/article37156659.ece
25 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||WhatsApp group friends come together to build house for couple||A group of friends at Ayyankolly in Pandalur managed to raise more than Rs. 6 lakh to help construct a house for an elderly couple. The members, who took the initiative, all members of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), had first learned that 80-year-old C.T. Pappachan and his wife Leela were living without a proper roof when they were distributing COVID-19 relief to residents in Pandalur. Mr. Pappachan and Ms. Leela, who have been living in Panadalur since 1967, have in the past taken part in agitations for land rights for poor people, and were earning a living as farmers, said K. Achuthan, one of the people who helped raise funds for the construction of the house. “When we visited the couple during the lockdown, we learned that Mr. Pappachan was unwell due to his advanced age. His wife was working and helping them through the difficult times. They did not have a proper roof over their house, and were using a plastic sheet to keep out the rain,” said Mr. Achuthan. Mr. Achuthan, along with K. Rajan, A. Yohannan, K.A. George, M.P. Joni and T.R. Subramaniam, all members of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), started a WhatsApp group to help raise funds for the initiative. More than 86 people, including local residents as well as students were part of the group, which led fundraising efforts. With the money raised by Mr. Achuthan and his friends, a 470 square-foot house was constructed for the couple. “We are extremely pleased to have been able to help out a comrade who was in need of help,” said one of the members who helped raise funds for the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whatsapp-group-friends-come-together-to-build-house-for-couple/article37156266.ece
25 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Flood alert issued in 25 villages in Vellore, Ranipet||The Collectors of Vellore and Ranipet districts have issued a flood alert for residents of 25 villages along the Palar after 4,500 cusecs of water was discharged from the Kalavagunta dam in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh on Saturday. This is the second flood alert issued in the two districts this month owing to the heavy rain for a fortnight in Chittoor and in the catchments of the Ponnai, the Palar, the Gundar, the Goundanya Mahanadi and the Malattar. Residents of Balekuppam, Thengal, Ponnai, Paramasathu, Madhanakuppam, Keeraisathu, Kollapalli, Melpadi and Veppalai in Vellore were asked to go to safer places. These villages are located on the western side of the Ponnai, a tributary of the Palar, in Katpadi taluk. “Since today [Sunday] is a holiday, we have warned the residents against entering the river for bathing, swimming or washing clothes. Taking selfies on the river banks and in the check-dams is prohibited,” Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian told The Hindu . Special teams were formed for rescue and relief as rain lashed Katpadi, Gudiyatham, Kannamangalam and K.V. Kuppam on Sunday. These teams would check low-level areas, ponds and the shutters of lakes and tanks for any breach and keep a close watch on the waterbodies. Sand-bags were kept ready the water-bodies vulnerable to flooding, he said. The Ranipet district administration issued a flood alert in 16 villages. Collector D. Baskara Pandian inspected low-level areas on Sunday. People were prevented from entering the river and other waterbodies. In neighbouring Tiruvannamalai, continuous rain in the past few days resulted in the breach of the Vengikkal and Sariyathal lakes. The excess water from these lakes inundated the Tiruvannamalai-Vellore High Road and the Tiruvannamalai-Avalurpettai Main Road, affecting traffic flow. Several residential areas near the Collectorate were inundated. Collector B. Murugesh inspected the Adiyur lake and the affected areas where relief work was going on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-alert-issued-in-25-villages-in-vellore-ranipet/article37156218.ece
25 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district reports 15 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,747, with 15 new cases reported on October 24. While a total 48,425 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 192. The district’s death toll is 1,130. In Ranipet, six cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,367. In Tirupattur, seven new cases were reported on Sunday, and the total number of cases stood at 29,251. In Tiruvannamalai, the number of new cases was 18, taking the total to 54,848. Out of this, 53,964 have been discharged, and the number of active cases stands at 217.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-15-new-cases/article37156663.ece
25 October 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Man held for setting fire to official’s vehicle||Kandachipuram police on Sunday arrested a 25-year-old man for setting fire to the vehicle of Tahsildar Karthikeyan at the taluk office in Kandachipuram. Public noticed the burning vehicle and alerted the police. The police analysed the CCTV camera footages and tracked down R. Ranjith of Indira Nagar. He reportedly confessed to committing the crime. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-setting-officials-vehicle-on-fire/article37156338.ece
25 October 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Use only permitted routes for Thevar guru puja: Collector||Leaders of registered political parties and representatives of organisations who intend to visit freedom fighter Muthuramalinga Thevar’s memorial at Pasumpon on the occasion of his guru puja on October 30 should get prior permission from Ramanathapuram Collector. In a statement, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said only five persons, including the leader, would be allowed to go on getting prior permission and vehicle pass. The vehicles would be allowed only on the permitted route on submitting all records for the own board vehicle, registration certificate along with details of the owner of the vehicle, mobile number address and driving licence of the driver. The vehicle pass should be pasted on the windscreen. With the Ramanathapuram district administration having promulgated prohibitory order under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, hired vehicles, two-wheelers and cargo vehicles would not be allowed to carry people. No weapons, crackers and liquor bottles would be allowed in the vehicles. Similarly, public address system would not be allowed on the vehicles. The district administration would not allow paying respects to photographs of the leader in public places. The vehicles should not carry any flags, posters or banners that could incite religious or casteist enmity. No permission would be granted for taking out sprouts procession and torch run. Vehicles proceeding from Rajapalayam, Srivilliputtur, Sivakasi, Sattur, Virudhunagar, Thoothukudi, Kovilpatti and Tirunelveli should go via Aruppukottai, Gandhi Nagar, Kalloorani, M. Reddiyapatti, Mandapasalai, Kanavilakku, Kamuthi and Pasumpon and return on the same route. Vehicles from Aviyur, Kariyapatti, Mallankinaru and Kalkurichi should take the same route after going via Palayampatti by-pass road. Vehicles coming from Tiruchuli should go through Kalloorani, Kanavilakku and Kamuthi. Vehicles from Narikudi should go through Veeracholan junction, Pidariseri, Parthibanur, Abiramam and Pasumpon. On return direction, they should take Kottaimedu, Nagaratharkurichi and Abiramam route. Vehicles should avoid going via Muthuramalingapuram-Pudur and Mandalamanickam, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-only-permitted-routes-for-thevar-guru-puja-collector/article37156253.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A show of solidarity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-show-of-solidarity/article37156199.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festive spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festive-spirit/article37156615.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Message through art||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/message-through-art/article37156112.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urged to draw water from dam||He said rainfall was heavy in the catchments of the Mullaperiyar dam. The water level had touched 133.45 feet on October 18. Soon, it reached the red alert level in Cheruthoni, forcing the government to open three dam shutters. It also released water from the Edamalayar dam. Mr. Vijayan said heavy flooding had caused loss of life and severe damage in Kerala from October 16 and reminded Mr. Stalin of the historically warm ties between people of both States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-urged-to-draw-water-from-dam/article37156222.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||24 October 2021Reader’s Mail -DGL||The Superintending Engineer of Ramanathapuram Electricity Distribution Circle announced in March last year that a 24-hour complaint cell would function with dedicated phone numbers and consumers can register their complaints using those numbers and they would be attended forthwith. Accordingly, I tried my best to make a complaint recently to 1912, 04567 260500, 1800 425 5280 and 04567 1912. But there was no response on any of these numbers. I request the authorities to announce the correct phone numbers. Asmabagh Anvardeen, Ramanathapuram.   Farmers have raised the nurseries for plantation in Ramanathapuram district. These farmers in the tail-end areas of the Vaigai expect water to be released from the dam at the earliest. V. Rajendran, Paramakudi.   As a member of Madurai Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee, I had sought extension of one of the three trains between Hyderabad and Chennai to Kanniyakumari. But the railway authorities have rejected it on the premise that Kanniyakumari station faces congestion, despite it having three platforms. But there is a plan to operate a train to Dibrugarh from Kanniyakumari via stations in Kerala. Why should a train which is of no benefit to Tamil Nadu originate from Kanniyakumari when it can be very well started from Kochuveli? B. Sivakumar, Nagercoil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-october-2021readers-mail-dgl/article37156339.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||In the evening, one can see a large number of school students waiting at bus stops to go home. The crowd is more at the bus stops near Sethupathi School, Simmakkal, Goripalayam, Tallakulam and ITI and K. Pudur, to name a few. On seeing their bus, the students run after it and in their rush to catch the crowded bus, one is afraid, they may come under the wheels. Most of these students have no other place but to travel on footboard. So I request traffic police and transport authorities to depute their staff at busy bus stops and regulate the crowd so as to prevent accidents. M. Sundararajan, Surveyor Colony   As a member of Madurai Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee, I had sought extension of one of the three trains running between Hyderabad and Chennai to Kanniyakumari. But the railway authorities have rejected it on the premise that Kanniyakumari station faces congestion, despite it having three platforms. But there is a plan to operate a train to Dibrugarh from Kanniyakumari via stations in Kerala. Why should a train which is of little benefit to Tamil Nadu originate from Kanniyakumari when it can be very well started from Kochuveli in Thiruvananthapuram?. B. Sivakumar, Nagercoil   Farmers have raised nurseries for plantation in Ramanathapuram district. These farmers in the tail-end areas of the Vaigai expect water to be released from the dam at the earliest. V. Rajendran, Paramakudi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article37156536.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||READERS MAIL||Residents of Kurichi, a hamlet located in Vannadu Panchayat on Pachaimalai hills have been inconvenienced by a damaged stretch of road to a length of about three kilometres. The stretch up to Pudur requires the attention of the authorities of Thuraiyur Taluk. The farmers will be a relieved lot if the stretch is black-topped. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti   Celebrating Deepavali during the COVID-19 pandemic warrants compulsory wearing of face mask. While shopping, it is important to maintain social distancing. Following social distancing norms is as much important while standing in bus shelters as in crowded places. It is also important to ensure that everyone in the family gets vaccinated against COVID-19. Avoid unnecessary travel and frequent washing of hands will also provide protection against the pandemic. M.A. Aleem Tiruchi   The task assigned to senior Railway Protection Officers to check alertness of train escort teams is a step in right direction. There are apprehensions in certain quarters that a general sense of complacency has set in among the escort teams. The visibility of the escort teams has to be improved for better deterrent effect, particularly in trains on overnight journeys. A.V. Narayanan Thillainagar   Use of plastic materials has risen again in the city in shops and hotels. There is a need to control usage of plastic bags in textile shops and other outlets. The authorities concerned have to be strict on this. Anjana Tiruvanaikoil   Formation of green slime in stagnating rainwater along Bewells Road has triggered fears among residents about infections arising from breeding of mosquitoes. The onus is on the Corporation to pump out the stagnating water in the interests of the residents and students in the area. M. Raja Tiruchi   As classes for students studying up to 8th standard start are set to start from November, parents are on their toes to collect the necessary certificates hurriedly, as advised by the schools to apply for scholarships. Since Aadhaar card is essential for those applying for these certificates, arranging for the early delivery of the card would be of immense help. M. Sheik Abdullah Budalur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article37156328.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Outreach programme on October 26||COIMBATORE The district-level bankers’ committee and the all- member banks will organise an outreach programme at Suguna Kalyana Mandapam here on October 26 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outreach-programme-on-october-26/article37156274.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Jansons Institute of Technology: Seminar on Ideate to Innovative , 2.45 p.m.  Avinashilingam Institute for Women and Higher Studies: International Workshop on artificial intelligence, 10 a.m.  Coimbatore Management Association: Talk on Industry 4.0, 6.30 p.m.  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Signing of MoU with TiE Univeristy, 10.15 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College: First Year BE/B Tech Orientation programme, NGGO Colony, 10.30 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Technology: First year induction programme, 10 a.m.  Sugarcane Breeding Institute: 110th foundation day, N Kumar, Vice Chancellor TNAU takes part, 10 am.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37156271.ece
25 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BJP govt. released funds for Kaginele: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai campaigned for party candidates in Sindgi and Hangal on Sunday. He held a roadshow in Kokatnur, Sindgi, and addressed a rally in Bommanhalli in Hangal constituency. He criticised Congress leader Siddaramaiah without naming him that he had claimed leadership of the Kuruba community without doing anything to develop the community. “The Kambali, woollen shawl, is a sacred cloth. One needs to be eligible to wear it on one’s shoulders. Just anyone cannot wear it. Several shepherds put in several hours of hard work while preparing a single shawl. Some people claim to be the leaders of the community without valuing such effort or without doing anything to help the hard working shepherds,’’ he said. Mr. Bommai said that it was the BJP government that had released money for the development of Bada and Kaginele, the places associated with Kanaka Dasa. He said that the Congress had used the backward classes, minorities and Dalits only for their votes, without doing anything worthwhile for the communities. It was the Congress that ensured the defeat of B.R. Ambedkar, he said. He said that the government has plans to build 7,000 houses for the poor in Sindgi constituency. The process of tendering work on canals in Korawar village under the Chimmalagi Lift Irrigation Project is already completed. The lift irrigation schemes in Indi will be rejuvenated to provide irrigation to 80,000 hectares of land in Sindgi, he said. The Chief Minister addressed a rally in Bommanahalli in Hangal constituency in favour of Shivraj Sajjanar, BJP candidate. He said that the Congress is making false allegations against the BJP. “The Congress keeps teasing us that we have won elections with money power. When they win polls, it is ‘people’s power’; but when we do, it is money power, is it?” he asked. “The Congress criticises milestones like 100 crore vaccines. But it goes to town campaigning that its leaders distributed food kits to the poor during the lockdown. Several organisations have distributed kits. Why should that be politicised? Anyway, I will not respond to the allegations and criticism of the Congress. The people will give them a fitting reply on polling day,” he said.  ‘The government has plans to build 7,000 houses for the poor in Sindgi constituency, while the process of tendering work on canals in Korawar village under the Chimmalagi Lift Irrigation Project is already completed. And, the lift irrigation schemes in Indi will be rejuvenated to provide irrigation to 80,000 hectares of land in Sindgi.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-govt-released-funds-for-kaginele-cm/article37156371.ece
25 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Congress roadshow in Sindgi||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar and other leaders held a roadshow in Sindgi on Sunday. Mr. Shivakumar, who rode atop a vehicle through the town, stopped in the middle and addressed the crowd. He asked the people to send a message to the anti-people policies of the Union and State Governments by defeating the BJP in the bypolls. “The people have suffered greatly due to the policies of these governments. They will send a message through the bypolls in Sindgi and Hangal,” he said. “The BJP governments have failed on all fronts. They have neither prepared schemes and programmes for the welfare and development of the common people nor have they implemented any such scheme. All their programmes are aimed at helping their friends in big business,” he said. “B.S. Yediyurappa, as Chief Minister, announced a Rs. 1,900 crore package for COVID-19-affected families. Did anyone of you get it? Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced Rs. 20 lakh crore package. Did anyone benefit from it? Mr. Modi announced that he will deposit Rs. 15 lakh in each citizen’s bank account. Has it been deposited? He promised to bring back black money. Did he do it?’’ he asked. “Did roadside vendors, small traders, drivers, workers get any subsistence amount or incentive? Did the government ask hospitals to charge less? Did the government refund the money spent on hospital bills during COVID-19? Has the government compensated families who have lost their bread winners? Has any leader come to you and consoled you? Has the government given houses or sites to the poor? No. You know the answers to these questions. You should communicate your discontent to the BJP government,’’ he said. “You should not only vote for the Congress candidate Ashok Manguli, but also ensure that five other people vote for him. This will ensure that we will win by 25,000 votes,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-roadshow-in-sindgi/article37156385.ece
25 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Wooing caste groups is name of the game||The bypoll-bound Sindgi Assembly constituency has seen a lot of political action over the past fortnight — visibly in terms of high-decibel campaign and less visibly in terms of caste calculations and strategies being worked out by political parties. As far as the BJP is concerned, much focus seems to be on targeting specific community voters in a methodical way. For instance, even before he was deputed in-charge in Sindgi, Lakshman Savadi, former Deputy Chief Minister, held a few meetings with the Ganiga Lingayats with the aim of ending internal differences that arose during the local polls in a bid to convince them to vote for Ramesh Bhusnur, the BJP candidate and a community leader. This subsect is said to constitute about 25% of the voting population in this constituency in Vijayapura district. “They are the largest group of voters in the constituency. The next three blocks are Scheduled Castes, Panchamasali Lingayats, and Muslims,” according to a BJP leader. Interestingly, Basavanneppa Ganiger, a community leader, said that a sizeable number think that Prime Minister Narendra Modi belongs to Modh Ghanchi caste of oil pressers, which is similar to the Ganiga community in Karnataka. The BJP has distributed copies of an Excel sheet with details of various caste groups among its campaigners. There is no source cited for this “data”, but it is widely used as a ballpark figure for campaigns. A BJP worker said it was based on police records and was “nearly correct”. AHINDA votes The Congress, on the other hand, is upbeat that its nominee Ashok Managuli, a Panchamasali, can draw voted from the community and beyond. But unlike the BJP, Congress strategists or workers are not working with any “data sheets”. They are banking on the assumption that the AHINDA groups (minorities, OBCs and Dalits) would also vote for the party. “Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has visited the constituency twice. He is likely to come again and hold meetings with AHINDA leaders,” said a leader. Senior Congress leaders are holding meetings of micro-communities in OBCgroup, said the leader. Their candidate is the son of previous MLA Mallappa Channaveerappa Managuli, who was with the JD(S). His death while in office necessitated the bypoll. The Congress has been saying that the late leader wanted his son to join the party and had made an emotional appeal for it — a claim denied by the JD(S). Interestingly, in the 2018 Assembly polls, the senior Managuli was the only JD(S) winner in the district of Vijayapura; all others were from the BJP. The BJP is hoping that the JD(S), which has fielded Najiya Angadi, a Muslim candidate, will significantly reduce the Congress vote share. “However, we are working to see that the secular vote base is not disturbed. Voting for the JD(S) would lead to the BJP’s win,” said Syed Mallik Sandal, a member of the local Muttahida Mahaj, a federation of voters. He said Muslims in Sindgi were upset with the treatment of Tablighi Jamaat during the COVID-19 first wave. A lot of Tablighi members from Sindgi had attended the meeting in New Delhi. “The police hounded them and the community has not forgotten this,” Mr. Mallik said. However, leaders of other Jamaats that The Hindu spoke to did not share this opinion. Mr. Asad Alimoddin, JD(S) leader, stoutly denied allegations that the JD(S) was trying to help the BJP by cutting into the secular vote share. “We are not here to help anyone. We are here to show that a Muslim woman can be elected from North Karnataka,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wooing-caste-groups-is-name-of-the-game/article37156183.ece
25 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||NSG commandos reach Hubballi||A team of NSG commandos visited Hubballi on Sunday, as part of the Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav rally. Police Commissioner Labhu Ram and other police officers greeted the team at the Rani Channamma Circle. The Police Commissioner flagged off their car rally later. The team has 25 commandos and 12 officers. Colonel O.S. Rathod, who is the team leader, said that the rally began in New Delhi on October 2. It will cover 7,500 kilometre before returning to the national capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nsg-commandos-reach-hubballi/article37156374.ece
25 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||KLE Society celebrates World Spine Day||World Spine Day was celebrated in KLE Society’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College in Belagavi on Sunday. The Department of Neurosurgery organised guest lectures by neurosurgeons Nupur Pruthvi, professor of Neurosurgery, NIMHANS, and Umesh Srikanta, Head of Spine Services, Aster CMI Hospital. They spoke on Craniovertebral Junction Spine Surgery and Minimal Access Spine Surgery. Vice-Chancellor, KAHER, Vivek Saoji, addressed the gathering. He said that with the upgradation of neurosurgery operation theatre at KLE’s Dr. Prabhakar Kore Hospital, the latest equipment are being used. These were earlier available only at metro cities. All complicated neurosurgeries can be safely performed in Belagavi now, he said. Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College principal N.S. Mahantshetti spoke about the daily activities that could affect one’s spine in the long run. She also spoke of measures to be taken to have a healthy spine. She spoke of the need for adapting minimal access spine surgeries. Medical Director M.V. Jali spoke. Earlier, a walkathon was organised from Rani Channamma Circle to the KLESPK Hospital. Chairman of KLE Society Prabhakar Kore flagged off the event. Registrar V.A. Kothiwale, Prof. Mahantshetti, Vice-Principal Rajesh Powar, Prakash Mahantshetti, Rajesh Shenoy, Prakash Rathod, Abhishekh Patil, post-graduate students, and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kle-society-celebrates-world-spine-day/article37156375.ece
25 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two men arrested for copying during exam||The police arrested two persons found copying in an exam for recruitment to civil police constables in Belagavi on Sunday. Invigilators found that two candidates were copying using electronic hearing devices. Two cases were registered in Khade Bazaar Police Station and Camp Police Station. The examination was conducted without any other problems, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-men-arrested-for-copying-during-exam/article37156376.ece
25 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Surprise police check at over 100 lodges||The police conducted surprise inspections at over 100 lodges in the city on Saturday night. Officers sought and checked records of lodges. They also visited rooms to ensure that there were no illegal activities. Owners and managers were asked to follow some strict rules, including setting up CCTV cameras in all important places, seek and obtain copies of customer identity cards. Over 50 personnel participated in the inspections that went on till Sunday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surprise-police-check-at-over-100-lodges/article37156372.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools take loans as offline classes for all grades start||With COVID-19 on the decline and ‘normal’ life slowly resuming, schools are struggling with inadequate teaching staff and infrastructure required to maintain social distancing and other safety precautions. Offline classes for all grades are scheduled to commence on Monday, and though many private schools have delayed the resumption of primary sections, the problem has become all the more urgent. Many school managements have decided to take loans as they are unable to increase fees. “We need to invest in infrastructure upgrades to ensure that students can return to classrooms safely without fear of cluster outbreaks,” said school principals. This means that they have to construct more toilets, create more space, and hire more staff. As a result of this, school managements have said that they need funds in the range of Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 70 lakh. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president of the Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said schools were forced to resort to such measures as the State Government had said that they could not increase the fees this academic year in view of the pandemic. In the 2020–21 academic year, schools were allowed to collect only 70% of tuition fees. They were also not allowed to charge fees under any other subheads. “Last academic year, we had cut the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff. But with the commencement of offline classes our staff are not willing to accept any salary cuts,” said Mr. Talikatte. Sumanth Narayan, founder of Shanthinikethana School, said they had decided to take an overdraft from financial institutions to restart their school transport and also invest in building repairs and maintenance. “It is almost like starting a new school altogether. We plan to reopen lower primary classes in the second week of November,” he said. Until now, schools with limited space were able to hold classes for students in higher grades in small batches. But with primary sections from standards I to V set to resume physical classes, this is no longer an option. Dinesh Kumar G.D., founder of the Shantiniketan Central School in Chikkamagaluru, said he had borrowed around Rs. 15 lakh from friends and family members as banks were not willing to give schools loans. “Banks are seeing us incur financial losses and do not want to give us loans as they have no guarantee of repayment,” he said. Mansoor Ali Khan, general secretary, Management of Independent CBSE Schools Association, said many management members of mid-sized schools were putting their personal assets as collateral. “Schools that have to pay rents and EMIs on their transport and buildings are in a huge mess. Management members are running from pillar to post to get some finances,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-take-loans-as-offline-classes-for-all-grades-start/article37156163.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Garment workers still waiting for VDA||About four lakh garment workers of Karnataka, most of them women, continue to wait for their Variable Dearness Allowance (VDA) fixed for the period of 2020-21. The garment industry is among the 82 scheduled industries that come under the Minimum Wages Act to whom this VDA is applicable. “Except in a couple of garment industries where workers are being paid VDA, most workers have been denied the allowance. In fact, VDA has been given in other scheduled industries,” said Garment and Textile Workers Union (GATWU) advisor K.R. Jayaram. Crucial component The VDA forms an important component for the workers coming under the Minimum Wages Act. However, the State Government had ordered a freeze of VDA of Rs. 417.60 per month or Rs. 16.06 a day that had been calculated for 2020-2021 based on inflation. The freeze order of July 20, 2020, meant the minimum wage worker would not get VDA between April 1, 2020, and March 31, 2021. This order, however, was stayed by the Karnataka High Court in September 2020. The union has been demanding payment of VDA citing the stay. However, the Clothing Manufacturing Association of India, the employers’ body, has justified non-payment of VDA for the period using the turbulence caused by COVID-19 pandemic and the fact that the matter is pending in court. Association secretary Naseer Humayun said, “Garment companies went through a tough time during the lockdown. The Government, to mitigate the hardship and to save jobs, froze the DA for 2020-21. But the matter was dragged to court and is still pending there.” When his attention was drawn to the fact that all other scheduled industries have paid VDA, Mr. Naseer said that it was a labour-intensive industry that had to compete with several low-wage countries such as Bangladesh, Myanmar, and Ethiopia, among others. “The cost of manpower in the garment industry is about 30% of the revenue, while in other industries it varies between 3% and 6%,” he justified. The association contended that though the court had stayed the order, there was no direction to the industry to make payment of VDA and that it would be bound by the final orders. The court had also observed that employees can always initiate proceedings in accordance with the law from the date on which the stay was granted by the court. The association, in a communication to its members, also said that unless the court quashes the VDA order, its operation is temporarily kept in abeyance. Productivity and quality D.A. Vijaybhaskar, general secretary of AITUC, which is the petitioner in this case in the High Court, said, “There has been no stay on the earlier order of the High Court. The industry and government are misleading workers on the issue.” On the competitive wages in the garment industry, he said, “Productivity and quality issues plague the garment industry in low-wage countries. The argument for non-payment of VDA to fight competition is not fair.” In May this year, the GATWU approached the Labour Secretary and said that as per calculations, each worker was to get Rs. 5,011 for the period between April 2020 and March 2021 as unpaid VDA. The Labour Department is learnt to have not acted on it and also informally asked the union representatives to make a claim before the labour officer. “It is a tough task to make about four lakh workers stake claim individually before the labour officer,” said Mr. Jayaram. The GATWU also wrote to major companies and international brands sourcing apparel from Karnataka, highlighting the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/garment-workers-still-waiting-for-vda/article37156180.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shivaram Karanth Layout: BDA plans to sell more than 30,000 sites||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has estimated that more than 30,000 sites of various dimensions will be available for sale in the proposed Dr. K. Shivaram Karanth Layout. To develop the layout, the development authority is acquiring 3,500 acres of land spread across 17 villages in Yeshwantpur hobli, Hessaraghatta hobli, and Yelahanka hobli of Bengaluru North taluk. BDA Commissioner Rajesh Gowda told The Hindu that of the land notified for formation of the Layout, an award for compensation was issued for 1,500 acres. “Land owners can either opt for monetary compensation or developed land in a 40:60 ratio. Owners of farmland are showing interest in development of the land as compensation,” said Mr. Gowda. He added, “For an acre of land, owners are likely to get developed land valued at Rs. 4 crore to Rs. 5 crore. As per the rules, we have to reserve land for common amenities, etc. Of the acquired land, only 45% will be available for the formation of sites. Of this, 40% will go to land owners if they opt for developed land as compensation.” The acquisition process is expected to be completed in the next one to two months. The BDA will then float a tender for the formation of the layout and infrastructure work. “As per our estimate, we may get 35,000 sites of various dimensions, including allotments for the economically weaker section,” the official added. When asked if the BDA has completed the environmental assessment for the project, Mr. Gowda said, “A consultant has been appointed for the job and the report will be ready within the next three months.” The proposed layout, located on the northern part of the city and around 25 km from Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), has been mired in controversy. The BDA had issued a preliminary notification for the formation of the layout on December 30, 2008. It was challenged in the Karnataka High Court, which quashed the preliminary notification in 2014. The BDA subsequently challenged the High Court order in the Supreme Court. The apex court cancelled the High Court order, and directed the BDA to issue the final notification for formation of the layout. The BDA had earlier sold a large number of sites in Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Layout, located between Mysuru Road and Magadi Road on the western side of the city. It made its first allotment of sites in 2016 but failed miserably to provide basic amenities for the site owners. Land owners are still struggling to construct a house on sites purchased from the BDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivaram-karanth-layout-bda-plans-to-sell-more-than-30000-sites/article37156151.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Farm lending in co-op. sector on track in Karnataka’||Nearly 12.35 lakh farmers in Karnataka have been provided with about Rs. 9,100 crore in farm loans through the cooperative sector this year so far, Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar said on Sunday. The State has set a target of lending Rs. 20,810 crore to about 30 lakh farmers this year. While Karnataka achieved 115% loan disbursement through DCC bank last year, it has set a target of achieving 125%. In a statement issued here on Sunday, the Minister said the State Government was working towards providing loans to all farmers through various programmes. “The Government is trying to ensure that no farmer is inconvenienced. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has directed us to make farm loan disbursal efficient,” he said. Achieving targets Mr. Somashekar added, “We have reached 72.76% of the target in the month of October. Substantial success has been achieved in disbursal of short-term, medium-term, and long-term loans.” Providing a break-up, the Minister said the Government has set a target of disbursing short-term loans of Rs. 19,370 crore to 30.25 lakh farmers, of whom 12.25 lakh have received Rs. 8,742 crore, which is about 45% of the target. For medium-term and long-term loan disbursal, a target has been set to provide about Rs. 1,440 crore to about 59,900 farmers, of whom about 10,000 have already received Rs. 395 crore. This is about 27.41 % of the annual target. “In all, a total of 12.35 lakh farmers have received Rs. 9,136 crore till October 23,” he said. The Minister said that a total of 26.19 lakh farmers had received a total credit of Rs. 17,901 crore during 2020-21 as against the target of providing Rs. 15,802 crore credit to 25.12 lakh farmers. “However, due to intense monitoring and good work of 21 DCC banks, 115% of the target was achieved. I am confident of achieving the target and more this year too. We are focused on achieving 125% of the target.” Mr. Somashekar also said that he would be convening a meeting of the CEOs of the DCC banks to review the performance and discuss the bottlenecks in their work to find solutions. Despite the COVID 19 pandemic and the tight financial condition of the Karnataka exchequer, the DCC banks and primary agriculture cooperative societies have been directed to ensure lending remain seamless to protect agricultural activities, he added.  The Government is trying to ensure that no farmer is inconvenienced. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has directed us to make farm loan disbursal efficient S.T. Somashekar, Cooperation Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farm-lending-in-co-op-sector-on-track-in-karnataka/article37156166.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Re-examine India’s policy on geopolitical alignment’||In light of the changing security scenario, the country’s policy on geopolitical alignment needs to be re-examined and aligned to the changing environment, said Air Chief Marshal V.R. Chaudhari on Sunday. He was speaking here at the concluding session of the three-day conclave organised here by the Indian Air Force as part of the 50-year celebrations of victory in the India-Pakistan war of 1971. He said that the security strategy should be a tailor-made one and that a uniform policy does not work in Indian conditions. “The geopolitical strategy needs to be refined accordingly,” he added. The Air Chief said that the inherent diversity of the country provides flexibility, which should be used accordingly in the interest of the country. On the occasion, the Air Chief also presented awards to the winners of a drone competition organised as part of the Arms Nirbhar Bharat initiative. As many as 154 teams took part in it. The awards were given to Newspace Research and Technologies Pvt. Ltd. (Best Swarm Architecture), Team Delhi Technological University-Flair Unmanned Systems Pvt. Ltd. (Best Communication Architecture), and Dhaksha Unmanned Systems Pvt. Ltd. from Anna University, Chennai (Best Drone Architecture).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/re-examine-indias-policy-on-geopolitical-alignment/article37156181.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Writers raise concerns over ‘party politics’ in Kannada Sahitya Parishat elections||The interference of “party politics” in the upcoming Kannada Sahitya Parishat (KSP) elections, scheduled for November 21 and for which campaigning is on in full swing, has caused concern among many writers, other candidates, and former office-bearers of the parishat. ‘Party directive’ BJP MLA for Gangavathi Paranna Munavalli recently told mediapersons that they had instructions from the party to support Mahesh Joshi for the post of State president of the parishat. Sources in the party said the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh had backed his candidature. Dr. Joshi, former deputy director-general at Doordarshan, is one of the 21 contestants for the president’s post. A host of writers, led by S.G. Siddaramaiah and K. Marulasiddappa, has released a statement condemning “party politics” in the parishat elections and appealed to both the party and the candidate to desist from the same. “The Kannada Sahitya Parishat, with over a century-long history, is a representative institution of Kannadigas and till date all candidates, office-bearers and political parties have exercised restraint and kept the space free of party politics and maintained the autonomy of the parishat. It is concerning that this is now being compromised. Though anybody can associate with any political party and such persons can be part of the parishat, carrying out elections in such a way that the autonomy of the parishat may be compromised is condemnable,” the statement said, appealing for all concerned to keep the parishat free of “party politics” irrespective of the political affiliations. Other candidates in the fray have also expressed concern over political parties “intruding” in the election process. Shekhar Gowda Malipatil, a contestant, said this trend would only ruin the cultural autonomy of the parishat in the long run, and in the short run skew the poll fray, denying other candidates a level- playing field. Another contestant, V.C. Channe Gowda, said if unchecked, parishat elections would degenerate to become “gram panchayat like” where parties fight through their proxies. ‘Politically neutral’ However, Dr. Joshi said as a candidate he had sought the support of members of all political parties as they were also members of the parishat and claimed he was “politically neutral”. “I recently met the former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda of the JD(S) who has also expressed his support for me,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/writers-raise-concerns-over-party-politics-in-sahitya-parishat-elections/article37156153.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Final decision on State anthem’s rendition time after bypolls’||Minister for Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar on Sunday said the department had made its recommendation on standardisation of the State anthem to the Chief Minister and a final decision would be announced soon after the bypolls to the Assembly. He was speaking in the city after inaugurating the ‘Kannadakkagi Naavu’ campaign in the run-up to Kannada Rajyotsava. The rendition of the State anthem will be standardised at either two minutes thirty seconds or ninety seconds, sources said. A decision in this regard has been pending for many years now. After inaugurating the campaign at Lal Bagh, the Minister said, “Kannada needs to be first promoted at homes. We should start using Kannada in all our transactions on the Internet, on mobile phones, and encourage signatures in Kannada”. He also distributed a Kannada speaking guide prepared by Kuvempu Bhasha Bharathi to members of the public. As part of the campaign on October 28 at 11 a.m., he appealed to people to gatherin small numbers wherever they are and sing Kannada songs. Noted writer S.L. Bhyrappa’s magnum opus Parva is being staged by Rangayana as part of the campaign in Bengaluru. Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot released the logo of the campaign at the Raj Bhavan and appealed everyone to promote Kannada by speaking in Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/final-decision-on-state-anthems-rendition-time-after-bypolls/article37156156.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pillion rider killed, two injured in road accident at Yelahanka||A 25-year-old man was killed and two of his friends were injured when a car mowed down the motorcycle they were riding at Yelahanka on Saturday night. The deceased, Zubair Mansoori, hailed from Uttar Pradesh. According to the police, Zubair along with his friends Aamir, 24, and Rohith, 24, were returning to their rented house at Byatarayanapura on their bike after work when the accident took place. While they were on B.B. Road, they were knocked down by a speeding SUV. Aamir, who was riding the bike, lost control and the trio crashed on the road. They sustained severe injuries. Passers-by, who witnessed the accident, came to their aid and took them to a hospital in the area. However, Zubair was declared dead on arrival. The Yelahanka traffic police registered a case against the driver of the SUV and seized the vehicle. The driver was subjected to a medical examination to ascertain whether he was intoxicated at the time of the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pillion-rider-killed-two-injured-in-road-accident-at-yelahanka/article37156149.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lower primary classes to reopen today after 19 months||After 19 months, lower primary classes are set to reopen on Monday. While government and aided schools are set to welcome students in standards I to V back to the classroom, many private schools have decided to defer the reopening after Deepavali. The resumption of physical classes has come as a huge relief to a majority of parents, especially those who had enrolled their children in government and aided schools that did not have the infrastructure to conduct online classes. Principals of private schools that have delayed the resumption of offline classes said they would do so only after taking consent from all parents. B.R. Supreet, secretary, Oxford School, Nagarbhavi, said although they had initially planned to reopen lower primary classes on Monday, they decided to start these classes on November 8. “We had asked for consent letters from parents who requested us to reopen after Deepavali,” he said. Many school managements said it would be difficult for them to run both offline and online classes. R. Vishal, Commissioner for Public Instruction, urged parents to opt for offline classes. He said midday meals for students in lower primary classes would start on November 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lower-primary-classes-to-reopen-today-after-19-months/article37156160.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Constable knocked down by car, injured||A traffic head constable escaped with minor injuries when a 26-year-old car driver tried to mow him down in a bid to escape a drunk driving check on HAL main road on Saturday night. The head constable, Mubarak Ali, sustained injuries onhis hands and legs. The driver, Anjaneyulu, was arrested and his car seized. “The driver, a resident of Nagarbhavi, was returning home from Yamalur after attending a party. He was driving rashly, following which Mr. Ali stopped him and asked for his documents,” said a police officer.After arguing with the police, Anjaneyulu, instead of submitting his documents started his car and knocked down Mr. Ali. “Fortunately,he fell on the safe side of the road away from traffic. His colleagues rushed to his help. Anjaneyalu lost control of the wheel and rammed the car into a wall,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/constable-knocked-down-by-car-injured/article37156146.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gym trainer found dead||A 29-year-old man who worked as a gym trainer was found dead at his residence in R.R. Nagar on Saturday. The police suspect he killed himself. “The deceased, Karthik B., lived at Marappa Layout and worked in a private fitness centre. He also ran a provision store,” said a police officer. According to the police, the incident took place on Saturday night. His mother discovered the body on Sunday morning and alerted family members. Boy rescued A team of Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel helped avert a tragedy and saved a boy’s life at KSR Bengaluru City Railway Station. On Friday evening, a relative of the boy approached the ‘Nanhe Farishte’ of the RPF at the entrance of the station in panic. He showed them a video clip of the boy who was lying under a train. In the clip, the boy said he had come to the station to end his life. RPF personnel swung into action. In a press release, South Western Railway stated that an alert was sent to all staff and officers at the station. Photos of the boy were distributed and six teams were formed to trace him. After a frantic hunt, they found the boy under the coach of 6527 Bengaluru City – New Delhi Express Special.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gym-trainer-found-dead/article37156147.ece
25 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 388 new COVID-19 cases, five deaths||Karnataka on Sunday reported 388 new COVID-19 cases. With this, the total number of cases rose to 29,85,986. Bengaluru Urban accounted for a majority of the new cases (194), while many districts reported just one or no incidence of COVID-19. With five deaths, the toll rose to 38,007. Four of the patients who succumbed to the infection were from Bengaluru Urban, while one hailed from Tumakuru. As many as 586 people were discharged on Sunday, taking the total recoveries to 29,39,239. The State has 8,711 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-388-new-covid-19-cases-five-deaths/article37156164.ece
25 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Appeal to notify bird sanctuary||Home Minister and Tirthahalli MLA Araga Jnanendra has appealed to the Chief Minister to notify Mandagadde bird sanctuary located in his Assembly constituency. The place, which has been attracting hundreds of bird lovers all these years, has not been declared a sanctuary officially. The Minister, in his appeal, said the sanctuary located in the forest area about 30 km from Shivamogga had been a tourist spot. Many people from different places had been visiting the place. “The bird sanctuary has to be declared officially”, he said. The Chief Minister has given his consent for the plea and referred the matter to the Principal Secretary of the Tourism Department for further proceedings. A senior official in the Forest Department said the government would have to make a gazette notification declaring it a sanctuary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appeal-to-notify-bird-sanctuary/article37156566.ece
25 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Quality legal aid must for people to have faith in the system, says judge||Shedding light on the fact that a overwhelming majority of the general public is not utilising free legal aid services due to many reasons, including the lack of awareness and poor quality of the aid offered, Supreme Court judge and Executive Chairman of National Legal Services Authority Uday U. Lalit has said that good quality legal aid must be ensured to reach people to make them have faith in the legal aid system. “Most of us who deserve or potential beneficiaries of free legal aid are not even aware of our rights. Only one per cent of the total criminal cases heard in courts of law get legal aid from the offices of Legal Services Authorities across the country. Is it that the remaining 99% of the general public doesn’t want legal aid? There could be two reasons for not getting legal aid. One, most of them are even not aware that it is their Constitutional right to be provided free legal aid. Second, they perhaps don’t have the confidence in the set-up of legal aid, which is more dangerous. Good quality aid must be ensured. Legal aid to the poor does not mean poor legal aid. There has to be better standard, better quality and better level [of legal aid offered through Legal Services Authorities]. He was delivering a keynote address at a legal awareness programme titled “Actualisation of Rights and Entitlements in Achieving Sustainable Development Goals - 2030” held at the PDA Engineering College auditorium here on Sunday. The programme, which was part of a pan-India outreach campaign, was organised by the District and State Legal Services Authorities. Stressing the need for the active involvement of good lawyers in ensuring quality legal aid to the people in need, Mr. Lalit called upon lawyers to increasingly join the State’s efforts to expand the legal aid services to reach more people. “Some of the leading and senior advocates in the Bar must take legal aid as a matter of choice and practice. We, in the Legal Services Authorities, may create awareness among the people about their rights to get free legal aid. But, the final legal aid when it comes to court-based litigation has to come from lawyers. Therefore, a larger number of good lawyers must come forward to offer legal aid. It will generate an atmosphere of confidence in the minds of the general public,” Mr. Lalit said. Mr. Lalit inaugurated Legal Services Clinics (off-campus) in law universities and colleges throughout the State and released the Standard Operating Procedure for them. Chief Justice of High Court of Karnataka Ritu Raj Awasthi delivered a special address during the programme. High Court judges B. Veerappa, P.S. Dinesh Kumar, Krishna S. Dixit and R. Devdas and Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quality-legal-aid-must-for-people-to-have-faith-in-the-system-says-judge/article37156378.ece
25 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Woman and two of her daughters found dead||A 28-year-old woman and her three daughters together jumped into a well in Aland taluk of Kalaburagi district on Sunday. However, one of the woman’s daughters has been rescued. Lakshmi Yekle, her daughters, six-year-old Gauramma, four-year-old Eshwari and one-year-old Savitiri, jumped into the well in Madiyal village of Aland taluk in district. Villagers rescued Eshwari. Later, they also retrieved the bodies of the woman and her two daughters. The villagers said that Lakshmi Yekle, dejected by mental harassment meted out by her husband and in-laws for not bearing a male child, took the extreme step. Nimbarga Police have registered a case. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-and-two-of-her-daughters-found-dead/article37156379.ece
25 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||One-way rule enforced in city without any authority for a month||The Traffic Police, who enforced a circular one-way traffic rule from Clock Tower to Clock Tower without any authorisation for over a month since mid-August, regularised it only after an application under the Right to Information Act was filed to know under what authority they were enforcing the rule. While the RTI application was filed on September 15, the Commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation wrote to the Police Commissioner on September 16, seeking declaration of the stretch as one-way. His request was based on the meeting of Smart City Board of Directors and not a City Corporation Council resolution. Responding to the query in the September 15 application as to from which date the one-way rule was being enforced, the Public Information Officer in the Traffic Sub-Division gave the date as September 23. The Police Commissioner, as the Additional District Magistrate, issued the notification on September 23 declaring the stretch one-way apparently to regularise the rule already in vogue for over a month. Sections 115 of the Indian Motor Vehicles Act and Section 3 of the Karnataka Traffic Control Act authorise designated authorities to prohibit or restrict the operation of motor vehicles in a specified area or road. If the restrictions last for more than a month, a notification in the official gazette is mandatory; otherwise, local publicity has to be given, the laws say. While enforcing the one-way rule till September 23, apparently on a trial basis, the authorities, however, had not given any publicity to it. To questions in the RTI query regarding traffic survey, traffic pattern study and expert opinions compelling the police to declare the stretch one-way, the police did not offer any reply. The Public Information Officer only reiterated the recommendations of the Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic), which, among other things, said that the move will ease traffic flow in the region. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra did not arrange any public consultation on the issue as promised before formalising the one-way rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-way-rule-enforced-in-city-without-any-authority-for-a-month/article37156551.ece
25 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi ZP organises Swatch Kalnadige campaign||Udupi Zilla Panchayat, in association with Kodibettu Gram Panchayat, on Sunday organised Swatch Kalnadige programme as a part of Azadi Ki Amrut Mahotsav. The drive began from Onthibettu Junction and ended at Pernankila Primary Health Centre, covering a distance of about 9 km. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Y. Naveen Bhat, Udupi Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu, Chief Planning Officer Srinivas Rao, Kodibettu Panchayat Development Officer Revathi and villagers participated in the campaign. The participants picked up trash while walking the stretch to spread the message of cleanliness. The Zilla Panchayat has undertaken a special drive of freeing the rural areas of black spots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-zp-organises-swatch-kalnadige-campaign/article37156549.ece
25 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Graduation Day at Shree Devi Institute of Technology||The graduation day of Shree Devi Institute of Technology for 11th batch engineering, MBA, MCA and M.Tech students was held here on Saturday. The rank holders of the institution Veekshitha Kumari (second rank, MCA), Meghala (sixth rank, MCA), Ashwini (second rank, MBA), Sohan Shetty (ninth rank, M.Tech.) and Prathima (10th rank, MBA) were felicitated. Speaking on the occasion, Moodbidri-Mulky MLA Umanath A. Kotian asked students to remember their alma mater and keep in touch with the college. The MLA asked students to develop soft skills. Registrar (Evaluation) of Mangalore University P.L. Dharma asked students to keep learning and make study a part of life. The knowledge obtained in college should be used to rebuild the economy of the nation post-pandemic, he said. Speaking on brain drain, Mr. Dharma stressed on the need to work within the country for its development instead of migrating abroad. Vice-Chairman of Shree Devi Education Trust Nidish S. Shetty and Principal and Director of the college K.E. Prakash were present, a college release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/graduation-day-at-shree-devi-institute-of-technology/article37156555.ece
25 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Performance assessment method to change||The performance assessment method of students will be revised under the new National Education Policy - 2020 which Mangalore University will implement in the academic year 2021-22. Accordingly, the assessment will be in the ratio of 60:40. It means 60 marks will be for written examination and the balance 40 for internal assessment. The present performance assessment ratio stands at 70:30. The duration for writing the examination will be reduced to two hours from the three hours now. Vice-Chancellor of the university P.S. Yadapadithaya told The Hindu that the questions will be set in such a manner to assess the creative, critical and higher order thinking and conceptual understanding of the subject by students. The marks for internal assessment have been increased to 40 from 30 for the continued evaluation and formative assessment of students. Mr. Yadapadithaya said that the university has now prepared the syllabi for those joining the undergraduate courses in 2021-22 for two semesters (for one year). The regulations are also ready. Delay in classes He said that the new academic year in the university will begin on November 8, instead of on October 29. It is because the evaluation of answer scripts of sixth semester examinations of undergraduate courses of 2020-21 academic year will go on from October 29 to November 7. In addition, the examinations scheduled on October 19 (Id-Milad) have been postponed to October 29. College teachers who are not on evaluation duty will have to go to the colleges starting November 6. Mr. Yadapadithaya said that the university will conduct a workshop for teachers, students and other stakeholders on NEP-2020 at the Town Hall here on Monday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. It is to create awareness among all. Principals from 207 affiliated colleges, NEP nodal officers in colleges, five students from each college and teachers have been invited for the meet. Later, the varsity will hold an interaction with representatives of five autonomous colleges at the University College to discuss matters related to the next level of implementing the NEP - 2020. Principals, NEP nodal officers and a management representative will participate in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/performance-assessment-method-to-change/article37156559.ece
25 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||A circuitous journey||The enforcers of Clock Tower-to-Clock Tower one-way rule have now prohibited a right turn from Mangaladevi Road (from Pandeshwar) at A.B. Shetty Circle towards the Fire Station, thus forcing vehicle users to take a circuitous route via the narrow Old Kent Road. Even vehicle drivers from the district office (Hamilton Circle) are affected as they have to either drive via Rao and Rao Circle and Clock Tower Circle to reach the Fire Station or go via Rosario Church, Pandeshwar Katte and Old Kent Road. The 300-metre drive thus has been extended to more than 1.5 km journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-circuitous-journey/article37156550.ece
25 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Cyclothon marks World Polio Day||Rotarians of Rotary Clubs of Zone 2 and 3 in Mangaluru on Sunday organised End Polio Cyclothon to mark the World Polio Day. Nearly 50 members of Mangalore Bicycle Club (MBC) participated in the cyclothon from Mangala Stadium to Surathkal Light House and back, a distance of about 35 kms. Rotary past district Governor Ranganath Bhat spoke about the Rotary movement and its efforts to eradicate polio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cyclothon-marks-world-polio-day/article37156557.ece
25 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Police raid pub, seize sound amplifiers||The Mangaluru City police on Saturday night raided a popular watering hole in the city on complaints of public nuisance and seized sound amplifiers among other things. Central Crime Branch inspector Mahesh Prasad and Barke inspector Jyotirlinga Honnakatti led the raid on Onyx Pub located at Mahatma Gandhi Road late in the night. There were frequent complaints against the pub operators of keeping the establishment open beyond stipulated hours, playing loud music and disturbing residents, and indecent behaviour by tipplers causing nuisance to residents and students, etc. The seized equipment included one DJ console, one pro-voice DJ console, one laptop and one processor, worth Rs. 7.65 lakh. The Barke police have registered cases under the Excise Act, 1944, Police Act, 1861, and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, against pub operators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-raid-pub-seize-sound-amplifiers/article37156558.ece
25 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Jewellery, cash missing from house in Udupi||The front door of a house at Vadabhandeshwara in Udupi was found broken open on Saturday with golden ornaments, silver articles and cash reportedly missing. According to Malpe Police, the owner of the house, a woman, who lived alone, had gone to Bengaluru to visit her son when the incident took place. The woman, Jayalakshmi, was away from her house from October 16. Her relative, Sumithra in Vadabhandeshwara, who noticed the front door broken open, soon informed her. The police suspected that some anti-social elements might have struck at the house after observing that none lived there. Based on the woman’s compliant, the police said, gold ornaments worth Rs. 5,61,600, silver items worth Rs. 90,000 and Rs. 70,000 in cash were stolen. A case has been registered under Sections 454, 457 and 380 of Indian Penal Code at Malpe Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jewellery-cash-missing-from-house-in-udupi/article37156552.ece
25 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Infection Prevention Week||Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, observed International Infection Prevention Week from October 18 to October 23 to spread awareness on infection prevention and control among healthcare workers. More than 100 healthcare professionals, including doctors, nurses and other healthcare providers, attended the valedictory programme held in the hospital on Saturday. Vice-Chancellor of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) M.D. Venkatesh inaugurated a post-graduate certification course on the occasion. Infection control is a team effort, he said. As a part of the week, various events including, role play for patients and their relatives, quiz competitions for housekeeping staff, case presentation for nurses, were organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/infection-prevention-week/article37156556.ece
25 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccination campaign taken up||A door-to-door campaign to expand vaccination coverage was taken up in areas coming under the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA), here on Sunday. The MUDA authorities launched the campaign following a directive from the Deputy Commissioner and the Health Department officials so as to increase the vaccination coverage in the city and the district. The campaign covered MUDA layouts such as Vasanthnagar Layout, Sathgalli, Vijayanagar 4th stage, etc. The authorities said a vehicle stocked with vaccines were stationed and the public was encouraged to take the jab in case they were yet to be vaccinated. The campaign is expected to continue for a few more days and is beneficial to senior citizens and people with mobility issues, according to the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-campaign-taken-up/article37156569.ece
25 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Plan is to win 2023 polls independently’||Even though he expressed confidence of the party performing well in the ensuing bypolls in Hangal and Sindgi, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said the main focus of the JD(S) was on winning the 2023 Assembly polls in Karnataka independently. Participating in an interaction with reporters organised by Mysuru District Journalists’ Association (MDJA) here on Sunday, Mr. Kumaraswamy said the byelections will help the organisational work of the party, which has a strategy to come to power in the State without the support of either the BJP or the Congress. He said the party had begun preparation for the 2023 Assembly polls about 18 months in advance and referred to the seven-day workshop organised by his party at Bidadi earlier this month. A total of 126 shortlisted candidates had been instructed to begin work in their respective constituencies. As part of Vision 123, the strategy chalked out to win a minimum of 123 seats in the next Assembly elections, Mr. Kumaraswamy said the JD(S) will present before the people programmes for health, education and agriculture among other sectors by January 2022. While the programmes in the field of education envisages a strategy for payment of children’s fees and helping their education, the programmes in the field of agriculture will ensure that farmers do not fall in to the debt trap. However, he said the party was campaigning for the victory of its candidates in the bypolls to Hangal as well as Sindgi Assembly constituencies. Mr. Kumaraswamy said the party has a chance of winning particularly in Sindgi, where the Congress has remained relegated to the third place for the last 20 years. The fight has always been between JD(S) and BJP, he argued. In Hangal, the party has fielded an M.Tech graduate, who is campaigning hard by visiting villages. Though it had secured only 1,200 votes in the last elections, the late Minister C.M. Udasi of the BJP, who represented the constituency, was earlier with the JD(S), Mr. Kumaraswamy pointed out. Nevertheless, he said the campaign will help lay the foundation for the party’s victory in a triangular contest in the 2023 elections. He accused the Congress and BJP of indulging in a propaganda war in the campaign in the two constituencies by claiming to have taken up development work. “But, if you visit the constituencies, you will hang your heads in shame”, he said claiming that the villages had no proper roads, underground drainage system or toilets.  With all the Ministers in the poll-bound Assembly constituencies, the Vidhana Soudha has been virtually closed, leaving people with complaints high and dry, he regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plan-is-to-win-2023-polls-independently/article37156572.ece
25 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Dept. has taken all steps to reopen classes’||The scheduled reopening of classes for I to V from Monday, was preceded by a series of meetings and conferences to iron out the issues related to ensuring safety of the children besides shoring up their academic performance. Ramachandra Raje Urs, Deputy Director of Public Instruction, Mysuru, said that the department had taken all necessary measures for the reopening of classes. There were a series of meetings to thrash out issues followed by teleconferences and video conferences with the higher authorities including the Education Minister and the district in-charge Minister, said Mr. Urs. A mechanism is in place to comply with the guidelines and also 10 teams have been constituted to conduct random inspection by visiting various educational institutions to ascertain the process of reopening and whether the COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and other modalities are being complied with. There are instructions that only 50% of students be allowed inside the class to ensure social distancing and this means conducting classes in batches. The DDPI said children of classes I to V will be taught for half a day only and hence classes will be held in two batches. However, for teachers it will be a full-day work. Once the midday meals are also introduced from November 1, then the students of the morning batch will be given packed lunch to be taken home while the second batch will be served lunch first before classes. The syllabus of the current academic year prescribed for the students will not be taken up straight away and the first three to four weeks will be a bridge course, Sethubandha, comprising revision of the fundamentals, said Mr. Urs. He said a majority of the children, especially those from the rural areas or coming from disadvantaged sections, may have forgotten the lessons due to the long gap. Hence the revision and assessment will be conducted before the syllabus is covered, according to the DDPI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dept-has-taken-all-steps-to-reopen-classes/article37156567.ece
25 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||The Big Tech Show@ Mysuru to be held today||The city renowned as the cultural capital of the State will host The Big Tech Show@ Mysuru on Monday. It is part of the Karnataka Digital Economy Mission’s Beyond Bengaluru initiative. The objective is to promote emerging technology clusters in tier 2 & 3 cities across the State and this is being supported by policy interventions and by creating a ecosystem with focus on infrastructure development, increasing the talent availability, and bettering market access, according to authorities. The event will be held from 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. at the Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel and it will be inaugurated virtually by Nirmala Sitharaman, Union Minister for Finance. C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Minister for Electronics, IT/ BT, and S&T, will throw light on opportunities to invest in the city A release said the show comprises sub-event of recognising selected companies and signing of MoUs between KDEM & Bherunda Foundation, KDEM & ISAC, Felicitation of Glowtouch, Felicitation of industry anchors of Mysuru and KDEM Mysuru proposal of setting up the Center of Excellence (COE) on cyber security. The expo has gained significance with Mysuru being the first non-capital city to have software technology parks of India (STPI) centre in India and an emerging IT hub with the second-largest software exports in the State. Adding to this, STPI Mysuru also has shown significant progress in nurturing the software industry in the city, and with the city being a prominent educational centre has also gained a lot of momentum in Electronic System Designing & Manufacturing (ESDM), according to the organisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-big-tech-show-mysuru-today/article37156157.ece
25 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘JD(F)’: HDK slams ex-CM||Hitting out at former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s barb against alleged domination of JD(S) patriarch H.D. Deve Gowda’s family in the party, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy questioned the Congress leader’s moral right to field his son Yathindra from Varuna Assembly segment in Mysuru. He was reacting to Mr. Siddaramaiah statement replacing the ‘S’ with an ‘F’ in JD(S) to highlight the domination of the family. The JD(S) leader sought to know Siddaramaiah’s reason behind bringing Yathindra into politics. Though his elder son Rakesh, who died, was in politics, Yathindra was a doctor. “If you did not wish to contest, you could have fielded a party worker. Why your son? Your son was not in politics. He was not even a GP member. Why did you field him from Varuna? Is only Deve Gowda’s party a family party,” he questioned. To the accusation that the JD(S) had fielded Muslims in the bypolls in Hangal and Sindgi only to defeat the Congress and questions over why it had not fielded Muslims in Ramanagaram or Channapatna, Mr. Kumaraswamy asked the Congress leader why he could not field a Muslim from Chamundeshwari in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jdf-hdk-slams-ex-cm/article37156383.ece
25 October 2021||Special Correspondent,KARNATAKA||Man drowns in lake while fishing||A 30-year-old construction labourer drowned in a lake at Anneshwara village, Devanahalli, while fishing on Friday. According to the police, the deceased, identified as Nandeshwar from West Bengal, had gone to the lake with his friends. “He ventured into the lake and lost his footing. He did not know how to swim and drowned,” said the police. Fire and Emergency Services personnel recovered the body after a six-hour search operation. The Airport police have taken up a case of unnatural death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-drowns-in-lake-while-fishing/article37156148.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mishap at metro site||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mishap-at-metro-site/article37156155.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A queen’s story||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-queens-story/article37156381.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||What’s in a flex laminate board besides some plastic, ink, and a wooden frame? A great deal of political capital, as the people of Belagavi Rural Assembly constituency know well. Lakshmi Hebbalkar(in picture), MLA and Congress leader, had launched some works in Mahabaleshwar Nagar in the constituency a few weeks ago. With the assistance of the contractor, her supporters and local residents she put up a flex board poster at the spot. After some time, some BJP activists opposed this. A group led by Dhananjay Jadhav, who is an aspirant for the party ticket from the constituency, said the works being partly funded by the Centre, the MLA should have put up a picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other Ministers concerned. They also got a poster of the same size printed that had the photos they desired and pasted it on top of the old one. Mr. Jadhav also made a short speech asking the legislator and others to respect senior leaders and abide by the protocol laid out for publicity material. However, a group of local residents and followers of Hebbalkar gathered at the spot the next day and pasted another poster on the poster that the BJP workers had pasted. The new poster was a copy of the original poster, with Ms. Hebbalkar’s photo and the details of the development works taken up by her. A senior citizen inaugurated the “renovated” flex board. A couple performed aarti to it. However, the MLA herself remained aloof and stayed away from the controversy.   The Karnataka Chamber of Commerce of Industry (KCCI), which had sought the construction of an elevated corridor at the busy Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi, later expressed reservations about it, primarily because of the way it was designed. It is mostly likely to further add to the traffic chaos rather than easing it, they contended. As a good number of industrialists, businessmen, engineers, architects, and urban designers also took exception to it, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi arranged a consultation meeting and a committee has also been set up. But with politics playing the upper hand, the KCCI (which has sizeable number of ruling party supporters) has now issued a statement saying it is “not opposed to the project completely” but wants the flaws in design to be rectified. However, a good number of engineers, architects and urban designers are of the opinion that the flyover is not at all necessary. Meanwhile, the work has already been initiated, even as the expert committee is yet to meet. And upset with the KCCI’s changed approach, other stakeholders are thinking of filing a PIL petition.  Rishikesh Bahadur Desai   Girish Pattanashetti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article37156178.ece
25 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Floodwaters start to recede in Kuttanad||With floodwaters receding, people have started returning to their homes in Kuttanad and other parts of the district. On Sunday afternoon, water level remained above warning level but below the danger level at Kidangara, Neerattupuram, Pallathuruthy, Nedumudy and Kavalam. The water level at Thanneermukkom, Karumady and Thottappally remained well below the warning level. The flow of floodwaters into the sea through the Thottappally spillway has decreased following a considerable drop in the level of runoff water from the eastern side. After a gap of six days, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has partially resumed bus services through Alappuzha- Changanassery (AC) road on Saturday. Floodwaters have receded from most parts of the road. However, the KSRTC will not be conducting direct bus services between Alappuzha and Changanassery due to the traffic restrictions imposed on the AC road in view of the ongoing road reconstruction work. Officials said that several families had returned to their homes from relief camps and a number of camps were wound up. As of Sunday evening, 11,799 people belonging to 3,633 families were staying in 107 relief camps in different parts of the district. “Twenty-four relief camps have been closed so far. As the situation continues to improve across the district, we expect most of the people in the camps to return to their homes in the coming days,” said an official. Heavy downpour and subsequent flooding have resulted in property damage and crop loss. For compensation, farmers should either submit an application directly to the respective Krishi Bhavan or online at www.aims.kerala gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/floodwaters-start-to-recede-in-kuttanad/article37156519.ece
25 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Canals to be cleaned: MLA||Waterbodies and small canals in the Alappuzha Assembly constituency will be cleaned with government assistance and people's participation, P.P. Chitharanjan, MLA, has said. He was inaugurating the cleaning and deepening of Thiyyassery pozhi and its tributaries on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/canals-to-be-cleaned-mla/article37156520.ece
25 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki reservoir is a garbage receptacle too||Idukki reservoir, one of the largest in Asia, has turned into a dumpyard for non-biodegradable wastes, with plastic and glass bottles, sanitary waste, and pesticide bottles flowing into the residential areas of Ayyappancoil, Kanchiyar, and Upputhara grama panchayats. When the water recedes, the waste gets deposited there. Local residents say they face this problem every year when the water inflow increases during monsoon. Come summer, and the garbage is either deposited on the banks or floats on the waterbody posing a threat to human life and fish. “This year the situation has become worse,” says Jiji V.K., a resident of Ayyappancoil. Tardy waste collection by the grama panchayat during the pandemic might be a reason for the massive dumping of garbage in the streams and rivers that flow to the reservoir. The three panchayats are on the embankment area of the reservoir where water spreads to a large area by mid-monsoon. Once the water recedes, the area is spotted with heaps of non-bio degradable waste. Urban waste According to George Mathirapally, a resident of Ayyappancoil,  red-labelled pesticide bottles used in the cardamom hill areas of Elamala are the biggest threat. They arrive through the Periyar. Most of the aluminium bottles contain pesticides, which spread in the water. “There have been instances of large-scale fishkill in the reservoir. No studies have been conducted yet to find the reason. Urban waste from far away towns like Vandiperiyar and Kattappana too find their way to the reservoir.” Anchuruly, where the Kattappana river joins the reservoir, too has its share of piled up waste that come from the Kattappana municipal area. “No agency has taken up waste collection. People bathe in the reservoir water and skin irritation is often reported. Not to mention the odour emanating from the waste, including those from slaughterhouses,” says Mr. Jiji. Santhosh Kumar, resident at Anchuruli, said the waste collection from households by local bodies should be strengthened. “Then people will not dump garbage in streams. In developed countries, there are gates on the face of tunnels and streams to prevent waste reaching reservoirs,” he said. Animals in sanctuary The Idukki Wildlife Sanctuary also faces the threat of garbage getting deposited on the banks. The scale is less when compared to the human-inhabited areas since the sanctuary is downstream of the dam. “However, the wildlife at the sanctuary is at risk since the reservoir is their main water source,” according to a Forest Department official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-reservoir-is-a-garbage-receptacle-too/article37156480.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Watersports get impetus post-floods||Frequent floods, landslips, and other disasters that have been rocking Kerala of late and the State’s increasing vulnerability to them have made youths and others enrol for training in swimming and adventure sports, lest they should be caught napping. Watersport enthusiasts, clubs, and academies that impart training in swimming, paddling, kayaking, and other activities have been kept busy, especially after what was termed as the ‘deluge of the century’ of 2018. “The floods were an eye-opener, since realisation dawned that most deaths due to drowning could have been prevented, had the victims known swimming,” said Wg. Cdr. (retd.) Unnikrishnan Palat, a 72-year-old Indian Air Force veteran who is also a skydiving enthusiast-cum-trainer. He trained an emergency response team at Erattupetta following last week’s floods. A similar training session at Bharananganam is set to follow suit as part of the State Government’s efforts to raise Emergency Response Teams in various panchayats. “Apart from its health benefits, swimming, which can be learned in a day’s time, is a must-know for the people of Kerala which is surrounded by sea. I train hundreds of people, including IT professionals, every year in swimming and water-based adventure sports. Most rivers and beaches in the State have immense potential for watersports. It is sad that youths are unaware of it,” he said. According to him, the Kerala Tourism has failed to sustain the initial momentum of adventure tourism activities. Parents and schools should take the lead in helping children shed inhibition for watersports. It is better to train youths in disaster management, since local interventions can save substantial number of lives, well before Government teams arrive, he added. Self-protection The latest to join the league of organisations promoting watersports / kayaking is Cochin Paddle Club. “Watersports are good for protecting oneself and others during disasters like floods. Such activities will also wean youth away from drug use and bring them close to nature, making each of them a stakeholder in the conservation of waterbodies. In Kochi, we have mapped launching points for such activities in different waterbodies,” said Nommy Paul, president of the club.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/watersports-get-impetus-post-floods/article37156440.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to dismantle bund near Vaduthala rail link||Close on the heels of a high-level meeting chaired by Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve deciding on Friday to examine the technical and legal aspects of dismantling a temporary bund built in 2009 as part of constructing the rail link to the Vallarpadam container transshipment terminal, demand is rife that disaster management funds or the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) be released to dismantle the structure which has been causing floods in Kalamassery, Eloor, Aluva, and Mupathadam. The meeting, which was attended by Cochin Port Trust (CPT) chairperson M. Beena and District Collector Jafar Malik, held that urgent measures should be taken to ensure that water from the Periyar flowed unhindered into the sea, failing which floods would occur. Study report A study report prepared by the Irrigation Department in June this year had said that the inordinate delay in dismantling the bund and the subsequent accumulation of vast amounts of construction debris were to blame for the areas getting flooded often. Greater Cochin Development Watch, a city-based NGO which has been in the forefront of seeking speedy dismantling of the bund, has demanded that the expenses be borne from the CMDRF. “This is crucial because a litigation in this regard is pending before court. Both Rail Vikas Nigam Limited [RVNL] and the contracting firm which executed the rail connectivity work are responsible for the situation. The intense flooding in the municipal areas could have been averted if RVNL had acted in time and dismantled the bund a decade ago when the rail connectivity was established,” said Ebenser Chullikkat, an office-bearer of the NGO. This is relevant, since the company which built the railway bridge linking the container transshipment terminal had contended that RVNL had issued them a document certifying it was “taking over” the structure, in 2010, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-dismantle-bund-near-vaduthala-rail-link/article37156475.ece
25 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KSRTC faces flak for building ill-conceived bus terminals||With massive bus terminal complexes of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) ending up defeating their very purpose, and becoming a perennial strain on the exchequer, the latest being the fiasco about the twin-tower bus terminal in Kozhikode, the demand is rife that the State Government be doubly cautious while constructing new bus terminals. Especially so since the KSRTC is in the process of relocating its bus stand in Ernakulam to adjacent Karikkamuri and what was conceived as a Rs. 2-crore modern garage-cum- administrative office and ticketing office of the agency on the land abutting Karikkamuri had to be abandoned in 2015, after it developed gaping cracks and fell into disuse even before it was commissioned. As per a tentative plan readied in 2020, the bus terminal ought to be relocated to Karikkamuri and the shoddily-maintained buildings at the existing stand demolished, to pave the way for a multi-storied commercial structure. The Rs. 2-crore funding for the garage-cum-office complex came from the MLA funds of Hibi Eden, presently Ernakulam MP, from which Rs. 65 lakh was paid to the contractor who built the crack-ridden structure which would have to be demolished. “Release of the balance Rs. 1.35 crore was stopped once the cracks were detected. I raised three submissions before the Legislative Assembly during the time of the previous LDF regime, demanding that the contractor be blacklisted from all government works, and seeking disciplinary action against the then chief engineer of the KSRTC. But no punitive action was taken against the culprits,” Mr. Eden said. “This and the spree of other failed mega bus terminal projects of the KSRTC show that the agency’s engineering wing is a total failure. It is high time it was disbanded, erring officials taken to task and replaced with a team of professionals having integrity. Else, it will add to the mess that the RTC finds itself in. The Rs. 1.35-crore unspent funds should be used for the new bus terminal proposed at Karikkamury, wherein primacy must be accorded to ready modern passenger amenities and ample space to park buses and other vehicles,” he added. Engineering wing A senior KSRTC official admitted that unscrupulous officials in the agency’s engineering wing are to blame for the state of affairs of its bus terminals and stands. “At least, consecutive CMDs ought to have taken care to avoid such fiascos.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-faces-flak-for-building-ill-conceived-bus-terminals/article37156457.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CIAL to commission hydel project||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL), which has taken pioneering steps for sustainable energy production, will commission its hydroelectric project on November 6. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will dedicate the power generation facility to the nation at an online function at 11 a.m. on the day. CIAL has the distinction of being the only airport in the world to be run fully on solar power. The run-of-the-river project across the Iruvazhinji river has an installed capacity of 4.5 MWp and can generate 14 million units a year. The power generated at the unit will be fed to the KSEB grid, said a communication from CIAL here on Sunday. The hydroelectric unit at Arippara near Kozhikode was awarded to CIAL by the Government in keeping with the Kerala Small Hydro Power Policy under the build-own-operate-transfer (BOOT) basis for a lease period of 30 years. CIAL completed the project in September 2021, and the trial run began this month. CIAL purchased five acres from 32 residents for the project, the communication added. Rs. 52-crore project The total cost of the project is Rs. 52 crore. The powerhouse will generate around 1.08 lakh units of power a day during peak flow days, and it is estimated that the plant could be operational in full capacity for 130 days in a year. The Arippara hydroelectric project is the biggest initiative after the airport achieved power neutrality in 2015. “When the country is deliberating on power crisis, it is the leadership and guidance of the Chief Minister as chairman of CIAL which turned out to be decisive in speeding up the project implementation. We are sure that this will impart further momentum to set up hydro projects across the State, which has 44 rivers and numerous streams,” said CIAL managing director S. Suhas. “The potential of renewable energy is immense. If we use our imagination, we can work to set up joint ventures to harness the sun, wind, and rushing streams,” he added as he recalled the role played by former CIAL managing director V.J. Kurien for the realisation of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-to-commission-hydroelectric-project/article37156442.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Shreshttam to promote talents of differently abled||When India put up one of its finest performances in the Paralympics held in Tokyo earlier this year, there was not a single person from Kerala among its contingent of 54 athletes. Whether that led to an introspection or not, the Social Justice Department is all set to roll out Shreshttam, a project to promote the artistic and sporting talents of the differently abled. Though their promotion by recognised institutions had found mention in the policy address of the State Government for 2019-20, it did not take off. The project, for which Rs. 14 lakh has been sanctioned for the current fiscal, resonates with Section 16 (1) of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, which calls for ensuring equal opportunities for the differently abled in arts and sports. “To begin with 10 persons, five each from arts and sports fields, already undergoing training on their own will be given a financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 each. Later on, the project envisages identifying talents at a young age and grooming them in association with reputed institutions. The idea is to encourage the talents of the differently abled and bring them into the mainstream of society,” said K.K. Subair, Social Justice Officer, Ernakulam. The assistance will be released on December 3 coinciding with World Disability Day. There were not many programmes to encourage the artistic and sporting abilities of the differently abled in the State except for Empower, a project run by magician Gopinath Muthukad’s Magic Academy in association with the Social Justice Department four years ago. Six of the 23 participants chosen under the programme were absorbed by the Academy, and they have since then staged over 3,000 magic shows across the country and aboard. The annual family income of the applicants under Shreshttam should not be more than Rs. 1 lakh. They should be training in recognised institutes and should have put in notable performances at the State or national level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shreshttam-to-promote-talents-of-differently-abled/article37156460.ece
25 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CSML’s road, footpath repair works to gather pace||Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) will try to complete a bulk of its road and footpath/drain renovation works by December, barring smart road works in Fort Kochi and the renovation of Banerjee Road, which may take a few more months to get over, official sources said. The agency had attributed the inordinate delay in completing the works to the pandemic situation and the termination of the services of a contracting firm which had been vested with executing smart road works in Fort Kochi. The firm was thereafter provided time till October end to complete the works, after it approached the High Court. Even then, it is unlikely that it will be able to complete smart road works in Fort Kochi, they added. Encroachments The plethora of utility lines beneath roads and footpaths, which have to be relocated, is yet another reason for the delay in completing the works. Subsequently, CSML had to opt for wide tubes to route them, in places where building utility ducts was tough. Rampant permanent and semi-permanent encroachments into public spaces is yet another reason for the slow progress of works, what with up to 40% of footpaths and roads being encroached in locales like Fort Kochi, it is learnt. Flex boards In the meantime, Ernakulam Vikasana Samiti has expressed its angst at the Kochi Corporation, police, and CSML doing little to remove flex boards and hoardings of political parties that occupy almost the entire width of the newly renovated footpaths of smart and other roads in the city. “Such instances abound on Mullassery Canal Road and TD Road, forcing pedestrians to walk through the tarred road. Even worse, vendors and other encroachers have occupied almost the entire width of the footpaths of the recently renovated smart road corridor, Abraham Madamakkal Road that links the High Court Junction and the Chathiath Road,” said K.S. Dileep Kumar of the Samiti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/csmls-road-footpath-repair-works-to-gather-pace/article37156467.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Congress welcomes activists from other political parties||People from all walks of life are joining the Congress and strengthening the organisation, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran has said. Speaking at a meeting convened here on Sunday to welcome those who joined the party from other organisations, Mr. Sudhakaran said the people of India wanted the Congress to lead the country. Opposition parties too are of the view that the Congress should lead the nation. On some party leaders in Kerala leaving the organisation, Mr. Sudhakaran said thousands would join the party in their place. He blamed the Centre for selling off national assets, including banks, public sector companies, and ordnance factories. The Congress will oppose the move, he said. The CPI(M) has degenerated into a party of loyalists who bow before the tyrant. The CPI, which had earlier corrected the CPI(M) on several issues, has stooped to the level of the supporter of the latter in all its wrongdoings. The CPI could not even raise its voice against the physical attack on one of its women student leaders by the SFI, he said. ‘Comeback soon’  Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the Congress would soon stage a comeback at the national and State levels. He urged party workers and democratic forces to stay united to fight for the protection of women. Party leaders claimed that around 1,000 activists from various organisations joined the Congress on Sunday. A procession was taken out from Manappattyparambu to the venue of the meeting at the Ernakulam Town Hall. District Congress Committee (DCC) president Muhammed Shiyas presided over the meeting. All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Sreenivas Krishnan, Hibi Eden, MP, and MLAs K. Babu, T.J. Vinod, Anwar Sadath, Roji M. John, and Eldhose Kunnappilly were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-welcomes-activists-from-other-political-parties/article37156473.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Child adoption case to take a legal turn||The raging controversy over the alleged forced separation of an infant from its mother and the subsequent move to put the child up for adoption without the consent of the parents will take a decisive legal turn on Monday as a family court will consider the case. The row over the ‘forced adoption’ of the baby hit the headlines after the young mother, a former Students Federation of India (SFI) activist and the granddaughter of a Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State committee member, went public demanding the return of her child. She had also alleged that her consent to choose adoption for the baby was obtained through illegal means. Final order Incidentally, K. Biju Menon, the trial court judge, was scheduled to deliver his final order on the adoption on Monday. In the changed circumstances where the mother has raised the plea that her consent for giving the baby in adoption was obtained through devious means, the court may have to take note of the new developments. The biological mother, who now demands her baby back, too can move the court to stop the proceedings through an impleading petition. However, it would be up to the court to decide on entertaining the petition, legal sources indicated. The court may also have to consider the petition of the State Government and the Women and Child Development Department (WCD) to put the proceedings on hold as some complaints regarding the legality of the proceedings have been raised. The inquiry report into the legality of the proceedings followed in the adoption would decide the fate of the case. It has to be ascertained whether the baby was abandoned or surrendered, as the proceedings to be followed in both the cases are different. If the family court clears the adoption, the affected parties, including the mother and the WCD, may have to move the Kerala High Court against the decision, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-adoption-case-to-take-a-legal-turn/article37156482.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,481 new COVID-19 cases in Ernakulam||A total of 1,481 fresh cases of COVID-19 cases were reported in Ernakulam district on Sunday. The district reported a test positivity rate of 11.74%, said a communication from the Health Department. Among the new cases are two people who arrived from outside the State and 1,462 who got infected through local contact. There are nine cases in which the source of infection is not known. Eight health workers are among the infected. Thrikkakara reported the highest number of cases at 57. Thripunithura had 54 new cases, Kothamangalam had 30, North Paravur 29, Angamaly 24, Piravom 21, Palluruthy 19, Edappally 16, Kalamassery 15, Nedumbassery 14, Eloor 11, Kadavanthra, Kaloor and Maradu nine each, Fort Kochi eight, and Vyttila and Thoppumpady six each. Less than five cases Aluva, Edavanakkad, Okkal, Pachalam, Panampilly Nagar, Ponekkara, Mulavukad, Edakochi, Kumbalanghi, Thammanam, Mattancherry and Vennala reported less than five cases. A total of 676 people were declared cured of the infection on Sunday and 2,817 were brought under observation in the district. A total of 39,922 people are under observation in their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1481-new-covid-19-cases-in-ernakulam/article37156465.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Drive to make Kochi bike-friendly||The Kochi Corporation on Sunday organised a cycle rally as part of its ‘Cycle with Kochi’ project that aims at developing the city into a bike-friendly one. Organised with the participation of various cycling clubs in the city, the rally was flagged off from the Corporation’s main office premises. 200 cyclists The cyclists rode through M.G. Road, Madhava Pharmacy Junction, High Court Junction, Abraham Madamackal Road, Queens Walkway, and back to Kacheripady Junction. As many as 200 cyclists participated. Cochin Smart Mission Limited CEO S. Shanavas flagged off the rally. Mayor M. Anilkumar said the Corporation proposed to develop all roads into bike-friendly ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drive-to-make-city-bike-friendly/article37156459.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||4 held for robbing maddalam artiste||The Aluva Police on Sunday arrested four youths on the charge of assaulting a maddalam artiste at the Aluva Manappuram and robbing him on October 18 night. Balu Kunnammel, 22, Sharath Kidangayath, 20, Akhil Plakka, 18, and Anit Joy, 21, all from Chalakudy in Thrissur district, befriended the artiste who plays maddalam for Kathakali performances as he was returning to Aluva after a performance at Cherpulassery in Palakkad. He accompanied them to the Aluva Manappuram, where he was allegedly assaulted and robbed of a gold chain, mobile phone, and motorbike. A special probe team was formed by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik to track down the offenders. Over 25 CCTVs and vehicles were examined to track them. The police said Balu was the gang leader and was facing charges in eight criminal cases. The bike was recovered from Kalamassery, while the accused sold the gold chain in Thrissur for Rs. 80,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-held-for-robbing-maddalam-artiste/article37156462.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Legal awareness meet held||A legal awareness programme for the councillors of the Kochi Corporation was held here on Sunday. Kerala High Court Judge K. Vinod Chandran inaugurated the programme. C.S. Sudha, High Court Judge, was the chief guest. Kochi Mayor M. Anilkumar presided. Additional District Judges Honey M. Varghese and K. Soman led the discussions. Congress leader in the council Antony Kureethara, tax appeal standing committee chairperson Priya Prasanth, Bar Association president Anil S. Raj, sub judge P.M. Suresh and Corporation Secretary A.S. Naizam spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/legal-awareness-meet-held/article37156463.ece
25 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Passenger-friendly facilities sought||Agencies that extend loan for bus terminal-cum-shopping complexes must ensure that the structures are passenger friendly and are devoid of too many floors, since such multi-rise structures that the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) built at Thampanoor in Thiruvananthapuram, Angamaly, and the controversial twin towers in Kozhikode, have proved to be a damp squib, said D. Dhanuraj, chairman of city-based think tank Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR) which helped realise Vyttila Mobility Hub, an inter-modal hub for buses, ferries and Kochi Metro. Ill-equipped “The ill-conceived bus terminals, which have become a liability for the KSRTC, have proved yet again that the agency is ill-equipped to construct them and to rent/lease out the premises. “Their terms of reference must be properly framed and their design and construction entrusted to private agencies, much like the way IT parks were built in Kerala. In addition, transport/urban planners must be roped in from their planning stage. This will not only prevent loss, but help the KSRTC earn revenue in the long run,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/passenger-friendly-facilities-sought/article37156464.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||In Lakshadweep, no fresh cases||COVID-containment measures taken up in Lakshadweep have led to no positive case being reported from the islands during the past 24 hours, the Directorate of Health Services of Lakshadweep Administration said, in a bulletin released at 7 p.m. on Sunday. The zero-positive rate was reported based on tests done on 43 people. The islands have recorded a total of 10,365 cases and 51 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-lakshadweep-no-fresh-cases/article37156471.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New round of trials begins||After its maiden sea trials in August, Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC)Vikrantheaded out for the second round of sea trials from here on Sunday. The trials will be for a longer duration than in August. Updates would be known during the week as the trial progressed, said Navy sources. The 40,000-tonne carrier built at the Cochin Shipyard has the capacity to carry 30 assorted aircraft, including combat jets and helicopters. The biggest warship built indigenously in India, it has an overall length of 263 m and a breadth of 63 m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vikrant-begins-second-round-of-sea-trials/article37156470.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kerala Travel Mart Society reconstituted||The Kerala Travel Mart (KTM) Society has reconstituted its managing committee by re-electing unopposed Baby Mathew as president and Jose Pradeep as secretary in the election held on Saturday. Elected members James Kodiyanthara and Jibran Asif too were elected unopposed to the posts of vice president and treasurer respectively. Hari Kumar C. is the new joint secretary. The other newly elected members are S. Swaminathan, Silendran M., Vinod V., Mallika Dineshkumar, Jobin Joseph, Jose Scaria, Zaheer E.N., Manoj Babu, Rakesh O.M., Riaz U.C., Janeesh Jaleel, and Nirmala Lilly. The KTM Society has been working towards reviving the State’s tourism sector hit hard by the pandemic, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-travel-mart-society-reconstituted/article37156461.ece
25 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy, Coast Guard vessels visiting Sri Lanka||Indian naval ships of the First Training Squadron are visiting Sri Lanka as part of overseas deployment from October 24 to 28. Navy ships Magar and Shardul arrived in Colombo, while naval vessels Sujata, Tarangini and Sudarshini, along with the Coast Guard ship Vikram, entered Trincomalee harbour on Sunday. Bilateral training During the visit, the ships will undertake bilateral training familiarisation and sail training capsules for the Sri Lankan Navy, said Navy sources. The vessels will also participate in a joint exercise (PASSEX) with ships of the Sri Lankan Navy prior to their departure from the respective ports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-coast-guard-vessels-visiting-sri-lanka/article37156468.ece
25 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||SC/ST seats vacant at Maharaja’s||The Ernakulam Maharaja’s College Principal has said that those who need admission to vacant degree seats reserved for SC/ST should appear before the college authorities on October 26 with their original certificates. They may visit www.maharajas.ac.in for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scst-seats-vacant-at-maharajas/article37156472.ece
25 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Ujjwalam project for Class X students launched||Kollam District Panchayat and General Education Department have jointly launched Ujjwalam, a project that aims to provide stress-free learning experience to Class 10 students. As part of efforts to reduce the stress of students and improve the pass percentage, study guides will be distributed in schools. Experts from District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) have prepared the guide that includes questionnaires and answers related to the lessons. Separate study guides will be made available for English and Malayalam medium students in various subjects that include English, Hindi, Science, Mathematics and Social Science. The copies will be distributed in 86 government and 127 aided high schools and the distribution will be based on the number of teachers. The soft copy of the study guide has been already mailed to schools and the district panchayat has spent Rs. 9 lakh for the project. “Unlike previous years, students from aided schools too are included in this project,” said district panchayat president Sam K. Daniel who inaugurated the distribution. The district panchayat is also implementing a scheme in association with Consumerfed to provide notebooks to Class X students. District Panchayat vice-president Sumalal presided over the function held at Jayan Memorial Hall. Education standing committee chairman P. K. Gopan, secretary K. Prasad, Deputy Director of Education Subin Paul, DIET principal S.Sheeja and teachers from various schools were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ujjwalam-project-for-class-x-students-launched/article37156524.ece
25 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Flooded island on edge||The residents of Munroe Thuruthu are used to water invading their houses. While they have been facing the adverse consequences of tidal flooding for long, the erratic and intense rainfall too has added to their woes. Though nearly 100 families from the ecologically fragile island are badly in need of rehabilitation, the authorities are yet to formulate a feasible plan. While many parts including areas of Kidapparam and Pattamthuruthu are unfit for habitation, the residents are left with no other options. According to officials, around 40% of the island technically falls into CRZ-IB zone, making it a very vulnerable. At present torrential rains and tidal flooding are having a very devastating effect on the lives of the islanders. “We have been enduring this ordeal for years and now the condition has deteriorated further. Since attached toilets won't work during high tide, most families depend on bio-toilets erected above water level outside houses. We have to wade through waist-deep water to reach the toilet and it's a very nasty experience,” says a resident. Construction of elevated structures was proposed as a solution in the early years when flooding was not very frequent. In the beginning it was limited to a couple of months and over the years steady subsidence of the land and structures has made the situation worse. Since some wards in the island have an equal share of land not prone to flooding, there were plans to rehabilitate the affected families. But the floods of 2018 brought everything to a standstill and though many infrastructure development projects took off later, the proposal remained on the back burner. “At present even a moderate rain will cause severe waterlogging and last year it continued for seven-eight months. Rehabilitating the families to higher areas is the only solution and for that we should identify safe places that are located nearby. There was a plan to rehabilitate the worst-hit families in 2018, but it wasn't pursued due to back-to-back floods and COVID-19,” says former panchayat president Binu Karunakaran. He adds that ensuring a livelihood is very important while planning such projects. Agriculture is not a profitable option any more due to change in salinity levels and tourism, the only hope for the islanders, has just started looking up after a long lull. Tourism “We must go for a tourism-based rehabilitation as the residents don’t have much choices,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flooding-puts-an-island-on-edge/article37156513.ece
25 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Scrutiny of projects under DLP planned||In a bid to assess their condition and unearth structural defects, Public Works Department (PWD) will carry out a State-wide scrutiny of all projects currently under Defect Liability Period (DLP). The Department has decided to initiate corrective measures after coming across thoroughfares and other structures left unmaintained by contractors who are liable to take remedial measures. Reportedly, deteriorated stretches of Hill Highway under valid DLPs have been included in Sabrimala road renovation project causing considerable financial loss to the Department. Discrepencies in works “The decision was taken after finding discrepancies in some works and at present the vigilance wing of PWD is investigating the matter. If we find a project under DLP accommodated in another for repair or maintenance, stringent action will be taken against those responsible,” Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas told The Hindu . The Department has been receiving a bevy of complaints on unscientific constructions and alignment-related issues and the Minister says everything including media reports and social media inputs are being probed. “Apart from direct complaints, we identify a lot of issues during site visits. Recently I noticed a project that was left in a shoddy condition for several months and when inquired we found that the culvert and road were still under DLP. All aspects of such constructions will be re-examined and there will be no compromise,” he adds. Mr. Riyas has already visited more than 80 Assembly constituencies across the State to appraise various projects. “During site visits we interact with the residents and people's representatives to get a clearer picture of the state of affairs. We take note of each flaw they point out and also check the authenticity of allegations,” he said. Daily reviews of projects The Department had launched ‘Accelerate PWD’, an initiative to expedite all major projects in the State. As part of the initiatives, around 75 projects have been selected from various parts of the State for daily reviews. A team that includes the Minister, higher officials and chief engineers have been evaluating the progress every two weeks. PWD 4U mobile application launched by the Department for the public to report real-time issues has so far received over 15,000 complaints. The app was launched in June and at present the complaints are monitored by a six-member control room team. The Minister's office has been directly supervising the grievance redressal mechanism to warrant timely intervention. “These measures were introduced to make the Department more public-friendly and they are working well,” adds Mr.Riyas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scrutiny-of-all-projects-under-dlp-planned/article37156521.ece
25 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||554 new COVID cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 554 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,135 recoveries on Sunday. While 551 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include three health workers. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 12.02 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/554-new-covid-cases-in-kollam/article37156525.ece
25 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Crop-specific map warned of landslides||The deadly mudslides that hit the eastern high-ranges of Kottayam last week might came as a shocker to many but a recent document published by the Rubber Board had clearly forewarned the State on the susceptibility of these locations to landslides. The document, which classified the total area under rubber in the State to different zones and was released in the official website of the Board in July this year, stated that at least 12 panchayats in the Meenachil and Kanjirappally taluks had been highly susceptible to landslides. The initiative, which originally was intended to minimize the impact of the landslides on the natural rubber plantations, had been taken up in the aftermath of a massive landslide in Nilambur during the 2019 floods. As per the classification , Poonjar Thekkekara panchayat in Meenachil Ttluk (659 ha) has the largest area in the highly susceptible zone, followed by Mundakayam panchayat in Kanjirappally taluk (438 ha). Koottickal panchayat in Kanjirappally taluk, which was devastated by a series of landslides last week, too was observed to have a substantial area in this category (381 ha). Thalanad and Poonjar panchayats in Meenachil taluk too has a considerable area (376 and 209 ha respectively) in this zone. An advisory of good agricultural practices, published along with the document, also stated that extreme caution should be taken to minimise disturbance of ecosystem while cultivating crops or for infrastructure development. “Zero tillage practices need to be adopted in landslide vulnerable areas in synchrony with natural processes and systems in rubber cultivation. Indiscriminate use of heavy machinery for land preparation should be avoided,” it added. Commenting on the initiative, Dr. Jessy M D, director in-charge, Rubber Research Institute of India, said plans were afoot to develop a mobile app on the classification of the rubber plantations to help farmers adopt suitable agricultural practice. Official sources pointed out that the map, which covers more than 22% of Kerala's gross cropped area across the undulating and sloping terrains of the Western Ghats, is too crucial to be ignored in the wake of these back-to-back tragedies. Heavy machinery “The issues that it highlights are certainly hard to miss. For instance, it has advised against the indiscriminate use of heavy machinery in an area, which ironically has the highest number of granite quarries,” noted an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crop-specific-map-warned-of-landslides/article37156527.ece
25 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Safety issues at two ecotourism destinations to be addressed||Responding to complaints from residents and local body representatives, the district administration has decided to address safety concerns at two prominent ecotourism spots in the foothills of Kakkayam from where recurring incidents of drownings are reported. Kariyathumpara and Thonikkadavu, which are known for water springs and naturally formed water pools, will soon have lifeguards to take care of visitors. The district administration comes up with a series of action plans in the wake of 13 drowning cases around the ecotourism spot within the past two-and-a-half years. One of the main reasons for the increased number of deaths is the absence of any first-aid mechanism with the support of trained lifeguards at the spot, and emergency transportation facilities to nearby hospitals. In the last week also, there was a drowning incident in which a 17-year-old boy lost his life. A police aid post is likely to be opened in the area. The District Tourism Promotion Council and local administrators are now checking the possibility of securing clearance for the facility. In the absence of the police, visitors have been reportedly entering even the most dangerous stretches unmindful of the previous incidents of drowning and warning boards. The Irrigation Department, which owns the property, had done many things in the past to prevent the entry of tourists into risky stretches, but in vain. There were many occasions when adventurous sightseers crossed the safety railings around the stretches and created scary moments. Local residents too had complained that the visitors were simply ignoring their warnings. The two tourism spots, which are now remaining closed in the wake of safety concerns, will be reopened shortly after auditing the other safety issues as well by local administrators. To control the crowd, ticket counters will be opened. At Thonikkadavu, a boating facility is also on the cards. The long-pending waste management issues, which have been affecting the prospects of the ecotourism spot, will also be addressed with the support of the Koorachundu grama panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-issues-at-two-ecotourism-destinations-to-be-addressed/article37156452.ece
25 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Quota misuse rampant in Kerala||Tough mechanisms have been mooted to check students from the creamy layer category illegally cornering benefits of Other Backward Classes (OBC) and Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) to secure admissions in professional colleges. Incidentally, even well-off Non-Resident Indian (NRI) students in Gulf countries apply in these categories to gain admissions at National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). The matter would be more complicated from this year with the Centre in August approving 27% reservation for OBC-Non Creamy Layer and 10% EWS categories within the all-India quota for National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), the uniform entrance examination for medical and dental colleges across the country. The National Testing Agency (NTA), a government agency conducts the NEET as well as the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) - Main for admission to NITs. “In the engineering stream, the preference is for the institution, while for medical, it is the MBBS seat. A strong mechanism is necessary to check this,” a former chairman of admissions said. OBC and EWS quota To qualify for the OBC and EWS quotas, the gross annual family income of the candidate should be below Rs. 8 lakh (income from any farming sources not included). However, the eligibility criteria for the EWS for those in unreserved category differs in many States, including Kerala, but it is uniform across India. Usually the certificate is issued by the Tahsildar when the candidate applies through the village office after submitting documents with an affidavit. Applicants from better-off and wealthier business families who should be actually treated in general category manage to obtain OBC and EWS certificates to clinch seats in prestigious government colleges. “Thus deserving candidates are deprived of the quota eligibility. Institutions basically rely on these certificates,” a professor at NIT-Calicut said. Previously, when the NITs admitted students in State-wise quota, students even had secured domicile certificates from other States especially from North East to unlawfully gain admissions. Now admissions are based on home quota and other States quotas. Also, he said, lobbies used to operate to provide admissions to BTech courses in the category under Direct Admission of Students for NRI, Person of Indian Origin and Overseas Citizen of India when the system of first-come-first- serve basis existed. Later the admission was conducted based on Scholastic Assessment Test. But from this year onwards, candidates had to qualify JEE (Main).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quota-misuse-rampant-in-kerala/article37156478.ece
25 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Yellow alert till Thursday||The Kozhikode district administration has called for caution in low-lying areas, river banks, and hilly areas prone to landslips after the Indian Meteorological Department issued a yellow alert predicting isolated heavy rainfall here till October 28. Members of a family in Kodenchery in Thamarassery taluk were shifted to safer locations on Sunday after earth caved in following heavy rainfall. The family of Thankachan of Palakkamattathil at Melemaruthilav are now staying at a relative’s place. They had already shifted from their home earlier in view of a landslip threat. The surrounding wall near their house had collapsed in heavy rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-till-thursday/article37156450.ece
25 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two in judicial custody for assaulting minor girl||Two persons from Kozhikode who were booked on the charge of sexually assaulting a minor girl from Rajasthan were remanded in judicial custody on Sunday. The case was investigated by the Chevayur police following a complaint by the girl’s parents. The suspects — Saseendra Kumar, 53 of Koyilandy and Santhosh, 52 of Chevarambalam — were charged under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Section 354 (Punishment for assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code. According to the police, the incident leading to the arrest of the two took place on Saturday. The two allegedly assaulted the girl while she was trying to fetch potable water from a house at Malaparamba. The girl belonged to a migrant labourers’ family engaged in selling ornamental umbrellas along city roads. She managed to escape even as some local residents came to her rescue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-in-judicial-custody-for-assaulting-minor-girl/article37156448.ece
25 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Forest squad arrests sandalwood smugglers||A Forest Department squad from the Thamarassery range office on Sunday arrested three persons who were allegedly involved in a series of sandalwood smuggling cases. The suspects, K. Abdurahiman, 35, T. Basheer, 43, and K. Abdulla, 67, were nabbed while they were trying to cart off the illegally purchased sandalwood in two separate vehicles. The vehicles were impounded along with 50 kg of sandalwood. According to Forest officials, the three were suspected of involvement in a series of sandalwood theft cases under investigation in the Malabar region. They mainly targeted ripened trees nurtured by local landholders in private plantations. They also confessed to the investigation team that they had carted off sandalwood trees from private properties at Karanthur, Machukulam, Vellannur, and Koyilandy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-squad-arrests-sandalwood-smugglers/article37156449.ece
25 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Cattle fair set to reopen||Vaniyamkulam cattle fair, one of the biggest such fairs in the State is getting ready to reopen after 19 months. Vaniyamkulam grama panchayat officials said they planned to restart the fair in November. Panchayat president K. Gangadharan said that the governing council would soon formulate conditions for the conduct of the fair. An auction to find a person to conduct the fair was held on Friday. A meeting of the panchayat council will decide on how the fair should be conducted considering the pandemic protocol. The venue of fair has transformed into a forsaken land with bushes and thick undergrowth. The grama panchayat will have to provide basic facilities before reopening the fair. The Cattle Merchants Welfare Association (CMWA) has complained to the grama panchayat against the plight of the fair ground. The Vaniyamkulam cattle fair used to enjoy a special position among animal fairs in the State by hosting buffaloes and oxen from States such as Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Haryana, and Karnataka. The fair used to do cattle business to the tune of Rs. 3 crore every week on an average. During Bakrid and Id-ul-Fitr, the business would soar up to Rs. 10 crore. “We used to bring about 150 loads of cattle from other States. But lockdown and closure of fairs have reduced the movement of cattle into the State,” said Yusuf Appakkattil, State secretary of the CMWA.  On an average, the fair used to do cattle business to the tune of Rs. 3 cr. every week||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cattle-fair-set-to-reopen/article37156518.ece
25 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Landslips, flash floods in Palakkad||Heavy rain caused landslips and flash floods at Mezhukumpara, near Mannarkkad, on Saturday night. Some houses were damaged and properties and crops destroyed. There was no human casualty. Several houses were flooded in the region. Thekara panchayat president Shoukath, block member Rama Sukumaran, and revenue officials supervised the rescue operations. Hundreds of coconuts stocked at a plantation near Kalladikode were washed away in the rain. The heavy rain at Meenvallam flooded the Thuppanad river. Two people bathing in the river escaped in the nick of time as the floodwater gushed into the river from the hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/landslips-flash-floods-in-palakkad/article37156605.ece
25 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Mohiniyattam workshops to be held||The Gowri Creations will conduct a year-long Mohiniyattam workshop for budding dancers from the State. The workshops will be held in all districts with the objective of creating a better cultural awareness through the classical art form. Mohiniyattam exponent Sitara Balakrishnan, who is a disciple of noted dancer-choreographer Kanak Rele, will lead the workshop. “We want to reach out to our new generations with Mohiniyattam, the State’s own classical dance form,” says Dinesh Koduvayur, president of the Gowri Creations. Assembly Speaker M.B. Rajesh will inaugurate the workshop series at Thiruvananthapuram on Friday. The Thiruvananthapuram edition of the workshop will take place at Bharat Bhavan on October 29, 30 and 31. Those wishing to attend the workshop can register their names at the following number: 9447624790. Mr. Dinesh said that the year-long workshop series would not only bring out a large number of new dancers, but also impart the solid curriculum of Mohiniyattam to the new generation. He said it would also strengthen the bond between Mohiniyattam and Natyasasthra. “Children can learn Mohiniyattam from the beginning. We will have special training for them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/speaker-to-open-mohiniyattam-workshop-series/article37156446.ece
25 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Landslips: 5 families rescued in Pathanamthitta||From crossing a river in surging waters to negotiating the forest routes amidst heavy rains in the night, a joint team of government officials and locals emerged as saviours when a fresh spell of heavy rains coupled with landslides struck Pathanamathitta on Saturday evening. Safer locations As many as 26 people of five families who had been caught in the landslides near the Panamkudantha waterfalls in Kurumbanmuzhy forests and the Kottamonpara bridge near Seethathodu were rescued during the rescue operations that lasted several hours. The families rescued were shifted to safer locations while efforts are now on to assess the damage sustained. According to officials, a team of Fire and Rescue Services left for Kurumbanmuzhy following reports of a landslide near the waterfalls by 6.30 p.m. By the time they reached the Kurumbanmuzhy causeway, the pathway had already been submerged by the swollen river. Based on inputs relayed by the Village Officer Sajan Joseph, who had reached the disaster zone by braving the heavy currents, a 30-member team comprising locals and government officials was soon mobilised and was rushed through the forest route. The rescue team, which left on board three off-road vehicles with rescue gears, reached the location after an arduous drive lasting over an hour. “The temporary footbridge that connected the four families to the world outside had been washed away while the flash floods also eroded the top soil on its upper part, further worsening the situation. The Fire and Rescue personnel soon built a wooden bridge across the water body and shifted the stranded persons , which also included a pregnant woman and bedridden patient, to a settlement on the forest fringes,” explained an official. In Kottamonpara, five members of a family who had been stranded near the site of a major landslide were rescued and shifted to a relative’s house. The flash floods triggered by the landslip had claimed the family’s car while the flood waters also destroyed a rubber sheer drying unit run by them. District Collector Divya S. Iyer coordinated the various departments during the rescue missions while the Tahsildars of Konni and Ranni taluks coordinated the operation of the Revenue Department at the grassroots. District Fire Officer K.Harikumar led operations of the Fire and Rescue Department. As per estimates, the Konni region received 7.4 cm of rains in a span of two hours on Saturday. The flood waters also damaged the Angamoozhy-Kottamonpara bridge near Seethathodu. Minister visits site Health Minister Veena George visited the disaster struck locations on Sunday. As per preliminary assessment, several houses were damaged and at least three bridges were washed away during the heavy rains and the landslips that hit the district on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/landslips-5-families-rescued-in-pathanamthitta/article37156529.ece
25 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Second phase works on Konni medical college set to begin||In a major boost to the public health network in Pathanamthitta, authorities are all set to begin the second phase expansion of the Government Medical College in Konni on Monday. An amount of Rs. 241.01 crore has been sanctioned through the Kerala Infrastructure and investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for the second phase expansion of the hospital. Works worth Rs. 199.17 crore has been awarded to a Rajasthan-based company. The second phase of construction envisages a slew of projects including a hospital building with 200 beds, a three-storey annex to the academic block, a five-story building with accommodation for 200 boys and a six-storey building for 235 girls, 11-storey quarters with 40 apartments in four sections etc. An auditorium with 1,000 seats, an autopsy block and a laundry block for mortuary and post-mortem facilities, a sewage treatment plant with a capacity of 2 lakh litres, effluent treatment plant with a capacity of 7,000 litres, the Dean villa and a playground with a 400-meter track also forms part of the second phase. Health Minister Veena George on Sunday visited the construction site and reviewed the preparations in place. According to the Minister, the National Medical Council has already accepted in its file an application for opening the medical college and an inspection by the Kerala University of Health Sciences too was complete. NEET ranklist “Hopefully, students who appear in the NEET ranklist from next year onward will be able to be given admission here,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-phase-works-on-konni-medical-college-set-to-begin/article37156514.ece
25 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF will have some answering to do||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) Government might have some tough answering to do when the Assembly reconvenes on Monday after a rain-havoc impelled week-long recess. The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition is reportedly poised to haul the ruling front over the coals on a slew of issues. They include the Government’s “poor” disaster response, its “dismal” women and child protection record and the “non-viability” of the semi-high-speed railway project, SilverLine. The UDF felt the Government had attempted to heap blame on the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) for “inaccurate” weather warning three years in a row to cover up its recurrent incompetence in climate risk mitigation. Disappointing response The Opposition felt that Revenue Minister K. Rajan, as in the past, had attempted to whitewash the Government’s “disappointing” disaster response in flood-ravaged Kottayam by claiming that the IMD’s rain forecast for the district was wide of the mark. Allegations of pilferage of disaster aid and the seemingly unstoppable cycles of extreme weather, lost lives, flooded homes, washed away crops, evacuation to “crowded” government shelters and “failed” rehabilitation would possibly give an edge to the Opposition’s attack in the immediate aftermath of last week’s rain havoc. So might the Government’s “inadequate” allocation of funds for flood relief and the “poor” living condition in camps. The UDF would also attempt to dissect the LDF’s track record on women welfare. The Opposition could weaponise the compelling tale of an unmarried mother whose child born out of wedlock was allegedly taken away forcibly and given up to adoption without her consent against the Government. Misogyny in SFI The UDF could also highlight the “ingrained” misogyny in the Students Federation of India (SFI) as “evinced” in the attack on an All India Students Federation (AISF) Dalit woman leader in Mahatma Gandhi University in Kottayam. The SFI and AISF, reckoned to be sister organisations, had warred on the issue publicly. The rape of a 17-year-old girl student at Kuttiyadi in Kozhikode might also become handy for the UDF to assail the Government on women safety. SilverLine The Centre’s refusal to give a financial guarantee to the SilverLine might prompt the UDF to step its opposition to the LDF’s flagship project. The UDF could also spotlight LDF Independent legislator P.V. Anwar’s “long absences” from the House for “private business.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-will-have-some-answering-to-do/article37156483.ece
25 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Professional tax payment to go online||The Local Self-Government Department has decided to implement an online professional tax payment system for all urban local bodies in the State. A prototype model of the system, developed and implemented by the IIITM-K, is being run in the Municipal Corporations in the State. Based on the performance of the prototype, it has been decided to roll it out in all urban local bodies, including 87 municipalities and six corporations. The expenditure for the project is expected to be met from the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme’s reform incentives. Project cost The project cost is Rs. 15.34 crore and includes provision for technical manpower, stationery and communication, faculty supervision cost, training, maintenance cost (recurring) and security audit charges (through CERT empanelled agency). The implementation of the new system is happening at a time when efforts are on to iron out the issues in the online system for building tax payments. The rolling out of the ‘Sanchaya’ online revenue collection system, designed by the Information Kerala Mission (IKM), began in the local bodies around 2014. By 2018 or so, many local bodies had implemented the system, with the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation being one of the earliest ones to implement it. Database issues However, right from the initial days, there have been issues with the database in many local bodies, with hardly any effort being taken up for data cleaning, to remove the ambiguous or duplicate entries. Though much of the recent instances of fund misappropriation has happened due to offline payments, which gives a leeway for corrupt officials, some payments made in the the online system itself are hard to be tracked. In some cases, bills for the payments made through the online system are visible to the tax payer, but are not traceable at the website interface in the local body office. This had led to some people getting inflated bills, as the earlier payments were not registered in the system. Such systemic issues are currently being traced and all the tax payments made in recent years are also being scrutinised.  Based on performance of the prototype, it will be rolled out in all urban local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-professional-tax-payment-system-to-be-implemented/article37156444.ece
25 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kattakada floats industrial development council||The Kattakada Assembly constituency has given shape to the Kattal Industrial Development Council (KIDC) to spearhead industrial ventures by utilising the local resources of the region. While the body is envisaged to serve as a liaison between industry and job-seekers, the agrarian region hoped to leverage its agro-industrial potential and market value-added farm products through e-commerce and other platforms. Transport Minister Antony Raju formally launched the council by presenting its action plan to district panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar on Friday. Kattakada MLA, I.B. Satheesh, who is spearheading the project, says the constituency that comprised six grama panchayats – Kattakada, Malayinkeezhu, Maranalloor, Vilappil, Vilavoorkkal and Pallichal – is blessed with abundance of human and natural resources, but its potential remained grossly untapped despite being situated close to the capital city. Survey A survey conducted ahead of KIDC’s launch found nearly half of its population to be unemployed. Among the sample size of 8,701 youths, 4,508 people lacked a steady source of income. Besides, 3,958 lacked work experience of any kind. The survey evaluated responses from people of age groups 18 – 25 (3,908 people), 25 – 40 (4,719 people) and 74 people aged above 40 years. They included 2,145 graduates, 932 postgraduates and 19 PhD holders. “The findings highlighted the need to identify job opportunities by exploiting regional possibilities. However, only around one-fourth of the participants (2,573) were inclined towards become entrepreneurs. We hoped to equip nearly 90% of the youth with necessary skills to float their own ventures and generate jobs,” Mr. Satheesh said. The target is crucial for the success of the proposed ‘Oru Veedu, Oru Samrambham’ (One house, One Enterprise) project to market home-made products as well as agricultural produce under the ‘KIDC’ brand. Snacks, soft drinks, pickles, handicrafts, garment, soaps, sanitisers, carry bags, dairy products and powdered spices are some of the products that will be encouraged for sale. The project also aimed at utilising the two mini-industrial estates in Koonthani and Marukil that housed 19 enterprises, of which two were defunct. General council The council will be governed by a general council chaired by the legislator and comprising local body leaders, a technical advisory committee and an implementation committee. The government has been urged to appoint a special officer to oversee its activities. Mr. Satheesh said the constituency hoped to derive inspiration from its Jalasamrudhi project that is viewed as a model initiative for water conservation in the state.  A survey conducted ahead of KIDC’s launch found nearly half of the region’s population to be unemployed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kattakada-floats-industrial-development-council/article37156637.ece
25 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Accident victim’s organs donated||Thirty-year old Thrissur native Albin Paul, who died following an accident a few days ago, will live through six people who received six of his organs. The organ transportation extended as far as Chennai with the authorities being unable to find a matching recipient for Albin’s heart in the State. Accident According to a release issued by the Office of the Minister for Health, Women and Child Development Veena George, the deceased was involved in an accident at 3.15 a.m. on October 18 when he and his brother Sebin Paulose had gone to see off a relative at the Cochin International Airport. On their way back, their car collided with a lorry and both were admitted with grievous injuries at the Apollo Adlux Hospital in Angamaly. While his brother Sebin recovered and left hospital, Albin succumbed to his injuries a few days ago. His father Paulose consented to organ donation after he was declared brain dead. Albin, a Gulf returnee from Chaipankuzhi in Thrissur, is survived by his wife, a four-month old child, parents and brother. His heart, liver and a pair of kidneys and cornea were subsequently harvested for organ donation through the government’s Mrithasanjeevani programme coordinated by the Kerala Network for Organ Sharing (KNOS). NOTTO In the absence of a matching heart recipient registered under the Mrithasanjeevani, the same was reported to the National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO) that shared details of the case with the Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (ROTTO). Soon, a recipient was identified at Rela Hospital in Chennai. A kidney was allocated for a patient who is being treated at the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accident-victims-organs-donated-to-six-people/article37156530.ece
25 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||All steps for school reopening by Wednesday||School headmasters and principals should ensure that activities in connection with school reopening are completed by October 27, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. A report should be submitted to the district administration through Assistant Education Officers and District Education Officers, the Minister’s office said in a statement on Sunday. Schools should be cleaned and disinfected. Sanitisers, thermal scanners, and oxymeters should be made available. Teachers should be given responsibility for each class. A meeting of parent-teacher associations (PTA) should be called on October 27 to review the arrangements. Representatives of local bodies should be included in the meetings. A decision should be taken on the cooking and distribution of mid-day meals. Homoeo medicines should be provided to students. The services of at least one doctor should be ensured in each school. Pravesanotsavam Arrangements should be made for Pravensanotsavam in each school according to COVID-19 protocol. Teachers and local body representatives should welcome students at the main gate. School should be ready with helplines by October 28. Fitness certificates are mandatory for schools. It should be examined if students of schools not receiving fitness certificates can be accommodated in nearby schools. Academic guidelines for reopening will be published in two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-steps-for-school-reopening-by-wednesday/article37156486.ece
25 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Child welfare council secretary summoned||Kerala State Council for Child Welfare (CWC) general secretary Shiju Khan was summoned by Women and Child Development Director T.V. Anupama on Sunday afternoon in connection with the case of the alleged forced separation of a child from its mother and its adoption through the council. The mother Anupama S. Chandran had alleged that her parents had taken away the child and handed it over to the council without her consent. She had also alleged that despite approaching the District Child Welfare Committee with a complaint on her missing child, the procedures for adoption were not halted. The Women and Child Development Department is carrying out a departmental probe to ascertain the procedures adopted and their timeline from the time the child, thought to be Anupama’s, was received at the council. Mr. Shiju Khan told mediapersons after meeting the Women and Child Development Director that all procedures taken by the council in connection with the case were legal. He refused to say anything more as the matter was under official investigation. The council has been under a cloud over allegations of incorrect reporting of the sex of the child. The department is also learnt to have sought a detailed report from the council on the issue. To approach court Meanwhile, Anupama and her partner Ajith are planning to move the family court which will take up the case on Monday. The Women and Child Development Department has also filed a petition in the family court apprising it of Anupama’s demand to get the child back, and the departmental probe into the adoption proceedings. The parents of Anupama and the others booked by the police in connection with the case have moved the district court seeking anticipatory bail. The police have been asked to make clear their stance on the bail petition on October 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-welfare-council-secretary-summoned/article37156487.ece
25 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Unique fabric heater fetches NIIST scientist CSIR award||Achu Chandran, a scientist at the CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) here, received this year's Young Scientist Award instituted by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) for developing printed electronic materials and devices for strategic and commercial applications. In-house Dr. Chandran and his team at NIIST's Materials Science and Technology Division has developed a low-power consuming, self-sterilising printed fabric heater using a conductive silver ink, which too was developed in-house. In simple terms, printed flexible heaters are heating elements screen-printed on to materials such as fabrics. They warm up when electricity is applied. Following the COVID-19 outbreak, they applied the technology in a face mask and demonstrated its capability of annihilating pathogens at 120 degree Celsius by resistive heating using a 5-Volt power supply.  Patent Dr. Chandran’s team has now filed for a patent on this technology, the NIIST said in a statement. ''Printed fabric heater technology is effective against all types of pathogens, including SARS-Cov-2, as the device achieves standard sterilisation temperature (120 degree Celsius) in a few seconds. A face mask integrated with the fabric heater can be reused after sterilisation of the same by connecting to a mobile phone charger or a 5-V power bank,” said Dr. Chandran. Potential uses The technology has potential in smart textiles. For instance, normal, light-weight clothing equipped with printed fabric heaters can replace bulky jackets used for warmth in cold locales. They can also be incorporated in, say, gloves and socks for providing warmth. Dr. Chandran, who hails from Chemmakkad, Kollam, joined the NIIST in 2019 after a three-year stint with the Central Electronics Engineering Research Institute (CEERI). Meso-scale hotplates At CEERI, his team had developed printed meso-scale hotplates for use in the centres of the DRDO's Defence Institute of High Altitude Research (DIHAR). These hotplates were successfully integrated with micro-farming units developed by the DRDO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unique-fabric-heater-fetches-niist-scientist-csir-award/article37156650.ece
25 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Colleges reopen today||Educational institutions functioning under the Higher Education Department, including engineering colleges, are set to resume offline classes in full swing on Monday. It is after nearly 18 months since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic that the classes of all semesters are held simultaneously on campuses in the State. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu instructed university and college heads to adopt necessary steps to comply with the pandemic norms. In a statement, she said the heads of institutions had been permitted to take a call on the class timings and shift pattern to minimise the chances of crowding. Expedite vaccination They were also required to expedite vaccination under the supervision of COVID-19 jagratha samitis. While the dwindling COVID-19 caseload was favourable for the reopening, the inclement weather conditions that had necessitated the slight deferment of the occasion persisted in certain areas. Under such circumstances, college managements were required to ensure the safety of students, Dr. Bindu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/colleges-reopen-today/article37156488.ece
25 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||8,538 new cases in State||The State on Sunday logged 8,538 new cases of COVID-19 when 79,100 samples were tested in 24 hours. The active case pool has 77,363 patients, with 11,366 recoveries on the day. According to the Health Department, only 10% of the active cases are currently admitted to treatment centres. The official cumulative case fatality now stands at 28,592 with the State adding 363 deaths to the official list. These include 71 deaths which occurred in the past few days, 211 undeclared deaths of the period before June 2021 and 81 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. Current ICU occupancy in both public and private hospitals declined to 1,214. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 545. The total number of persons currently admitted with moderate or severe COVID in hospitals has declined to 8,629. The cumulative case burden now stands at 49,15,331 cases. District-wise cases Among districts, Ernakulam has the highest number of new cases with 1,481 cases, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 1,210, Thrissur 852, Kottayam 777, Kozhikode 679, Idukki 633, Kollam 554, Malappuram 430, Kannur 419, Palakkad 352, Pathanamthitta 348, Alappuzha 333, Wayanad 311 and Kasaragod 159.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/8538-new-cases-in-state/article37156490.ece
25 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Give damages to kin of zoo-handler: SHRC||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed that compensation and other benefits should be given without delay to the family of A. Harshad, an animal keeper at the city zoo who died of a snake bite while cleaning the reptiles’ enclosure on July 1 this year. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic issued the direction to the Chief Secretary and the Zoo Director. Complaint Acting on a complaint from Harshad’s father M. Abdul Salam who suspected mystery in Harshad’s death, the commission asked the Museum police station house officer (SHO) to examine Mr. Salam’s statements in the case registered at the police station before preparing the final report. Central guidelines The commission said the complainant had argued that the zoo authorities did not follow the Central guidelines that more than one employee should be posted while cleaning the enclosures of reptiles such as king cobra and it should be done under the supervision of the zoo superintendents. The allegation that safety guidelines were lacking should also be probed. The commission also observed that the Museum Director’s report did not mention anyone being around to help Harshad. Safety guidelines as per rules should be ensured by the government to prevent such accidents in future, it said. Facilities The Museum Director’s report said that all modern equipment for safety of employees were present at the zoo. Gumboots, gloves, sticks to catch snakes, and walkie-talkie to pass on any information had been provided for cleaning of the reptile house. The official rejected Mr. Salam’s allegation that Harshad was under job-related pressures.  Safety guidelines as per rules should be ensured by the government to prevent such accidents in future, the panel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-orders-damages-for-zoo-handler/article37156645.ece
25 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Unarvu’ will help students keep off drugs||In a major initiative to wean schoolchildren away from the growing scourge of alcohol, narcotics and substance abuse, the Vimukthi Mission, under the Excise Department, is launching a project to channelise the energy of students into creative pursuit of arts and sports, besides helping them improve their academic performance. The project named Unarvu will be carried out in association with Parent Teacher Associations of schools, representatives of civic bodies, and residents associations besides traders and businesspeople of the locality. Unarvu, which translates into ‘Awakening’ in Malayalam, seeks to dissuade children from using drugs, instil confidence and train them in creative pursuits and identify and nourish their talents in arts and sports. To begin with, the project will select four schools from each of the 14 districts of the State. Excise officials will visit the education institutions, study the drugs-related issues and form a committee that will chart out an action programme. The activities will be carried out under the guidance of a high-powered panel at the Excise Commissionerate that includes sports experts. Vimukthi Mission will provide counselling and treatment to children suspected to be using drugs and students will be given training in arts and sports. Unarvu will also provide basic infrastructure and training facilities in schools. The pilot project is being implemented in four schools in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unarvu-will-help-students-keep-off-drugs/article37156610.ece
25 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three KTU students bag placements in U.S. firm||Three students of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) have bagged lucrative offers in an international placement drive. The placement, organised for the 2022 BTech batch, was the second such drive by U.S.-headquartered information technology company Virtusa. The firm had last year recruited students in KTU’s first-ever international recruitment programme. Following a series of evaluations, Ria Fily Mathew of the Muthoot Institute of Technology and Science, Swati Suresh Nair of the TKM College of Engineering and Emil George of the Amal Jyothi College of Engineering have been selected this time. CTC According to an official release, they will work from home for the first nine months of their induction during which they will be offered a CTC (cost to company) of Rs. 5 lakh per annum. They are expected to later relocate to the U.S. when their salary will hike to $45,000 (approximately Rs. 33 lakh) per annum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-ktu-students-bag-placements-in-us-firm/article37156648.ece
25 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Seven injured in separate accidents at Navaikulam||Seven persons were injured in road accidents that took place within a short distance of each other along National Highway 66 at Navaikulam early Sunday. In the first accident, two youths were injured after the parcel van they were travelling in rammed a goods lorry from behind at Valiyapally around 5.30 a.m. Those injured were identified as Jobin and Akhil of Ernakulam. The van was headed for Thiruvananthapuram from Ernakulam while the lorry was transporting poultry feed from Pollachi to Vembayam. Five injured In another accident that occurred half-an-hour later, five persons were injured when a KSRTC bus, a container lorry and a car collided at the 28th Mile. The KSRTC bus, which was headed for Palakkad from the Vizhinjam depot, collided with the container lorry that was coming in the opposite direction. Following this, the driver’s cabin of the container lorry slid towards the right and hit the car. The car driver was attempting to overtake the lorry. The drivers of the vehicles and two passengers on the bus sustained injuries in the accident. The condition of none was critical. There were around 35 passengers on the bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-injured-in-separate-accidents-at-navaikulam/article37156638.ece
25 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rain alert: funds to be given to village officers||The State Government on Friday issued orders for disbursing Rs. 25,000 each to village officers for undertaking disaster management-related activities in view of the rainfall forecast for Kerala. The funds, to be issued as advance by district collectors, will be used to make immediate arrangements for relief camps, remove uprooted trees and undertake other works of similar nature and to provide refreshments to emergency workers, an order issued by the Disaster Management Department said here on Friday. IMD forecast The decision was taken on account of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast that a cyclonic circulation persisting over coastal southern Tamil Nadu is likely to bring widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall across the State over the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-alert-funds-to-be-given-to-village-officers/article37156641.ece
25 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Water level to be kept within safety limits’||Chief Secretary V.P. Joy has said the Government would ensure that the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam remained within the safety threshold. Mr. Joy said there was no ground for any panic. The Government had factored in the inflow from the catchment area and promptly managed the water level in the dam in tandem with Tamil Nadu officials. Following the rain warning on October 16, the Government reviewed the situation in the Mullaperiyar dam on an hourly basis. Officials of the State were in constant communication with their counterparts in Tamil Nadu to keep the water level in the reservoir at optimum, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-to-be-kept-within-safety-limits/article37156484.ece
25 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New loan scheme by NoRKA||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal will formally launch the NORKA ‘Pravasi Bhadratha Micro’, an entrepreneurship scheme for small enterprises implemented through the Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE), on Tuesday. ‘Pravasi Bhadratha Micro’ envisages self-employment loans up to Rs. 5 lakh. Capital subsidy Upto 25% of the project cost (up to a maximum of Rs. 1 lakh) will be provided as capital subsidy. An interest subsidy of 3% is on offer for the first four years to beneficiaries whose repayments are prompt. Applications can be filed through the 600-plus KSFE branches. The State Government has also plans to expand the ‘Pravasi Bhadratha Micro’ scheme through the Kerala Bank and cooperative societies and nationalised banks. NORKA Resident Vice Chairman K. Varadarajan will preside. K. Elangovan, Principal Secretary, NORKA Department, will deliver the keynote address. NORKA CEO K. Harikrishnan Namboothiri and KSFE chairman Philippose Thomas will attend. Assistance scheme ‘Pravasi Bhadratha Micro’ is one of three entrepreneurship assistance schemes envisaged by NORKA and announced by the State Government in August designed for helping non-resident Keralites rendered jobless by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Pravasi Bhadratha Pearl scheme that offers loans up to Rs. 2 lakh and implemented through the Kudumbashree Mission was launched in August.  The scheme envisages self-employment loans up to Rs. 5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pravasi-bhadratha-micro-to-be-launched/article37156445.ece
25 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Anganwadi staff to get uniform IDs||The government will provide all anganwadi workers in the State a uniform identity (ID) card. This is the first time that anganwadi workers across the State will be given ID cards that look the same. As many as 33,115 permanent anganwadi workers and 32,986 helpers will get the ID cards. The Women and Child Development Department has received administrative sanction for Rs. 66.1 lakh for the initiative. Details Complete details of the workers and helpers will be included in the digitally printed card. The expense for one card is expected to be Rs. 100. Temporary workers will be given be given paper cards on the same model. The Women and Child Development Officers should complete all steps in this regard by the end of November, says an order of the Women and Child Development Director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anganwadi-staff-to-get-uniform-ids/article37156533.ece
25 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One killed in accident||An elderly pedestrian was killed after being hit by a speeding car near Akkulam along the NH-66 bypass on Sunday. The deceased was identified as G. Subashithan, 84, of Kulathoor. He was injured while he was crossing the road at SN Nagar in Kulathoor around 7.30 p.m. The pedestrian was knocked down by a car that was headed towards the city from Kazhakuttom. Despite being rushed to a hospital, his life could not be saved. Subashithan, a former teacher at the Kolathukara Government Higher Secondary School, is survived by wife and three daughters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-killed-in-accident/article37156639.ece
25 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three arrested with 6 kg of ganja||Excise officials arrested three people with alleged possession of 6 kg of ganja near Kazhakuttom on Sunday. The accused were identified as Hussain alias Mittu, 25, of Kulathummal, Robinson 40, of Varkala, and Muhammed Harris, 23, of Kadinamkulam. Hussain was initially apprehended by a group of Excise officials during an inspection in Andoorkkonam with a bag containing 1.3kg of ganja. Later, he revealed information about his accomplices. This led to the arrest and seizure of 4.7kg of ganja from a hideout at Channankara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-arrested-with-6-kg-of-ganja/article37156640.ece
25 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||T.M. Jacob memorial journalism awards||Mahesh Gupthan, chief reporter, Malayala Manorama, and K. Arun Kumar, chief reporter, Asianet, have been selected for the T.M. Jacob memorial award for excellence in print and electronic media. The awards are instituted by the T.M. Jacob Memorial Trust in memory of former Minister T.M. Jacob. The selection was made by a panel headed by senior journalist Sunnykutty Abraham. The awards will be presented on October 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tm-jacob-memorial-journalism-awards/article37156651.ece
25 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Start-ups get Central funds||Start-ups from the Kerala Agricultural University have bagged Central grant-in-aid worth Rs. 1.96 crore. Eight start-ups in the seed stage category received grant-in-aid of Rs. 1.71 crore while five start-ups under pre-seed stage received Rs. 25 lakh. The incubation was under Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana — Remunerative Approaches for Agriculture and Allied Sector Rejuvenation (RKVY RAFTAAR) agri-business incubators. Two programmes KAU’s RAFTAAR agri-business incubators (KAU RABI) has launched two-phase incubation programmes. Pre-seed stage agripreneurship orientation programme nurtures an idea to prototype development with funding support up to Rs. 5 lakh. Seed stage start-up incubation aids early-stage start-ups for product scale-up, and commercial launch with funding support up to Rs. 25 lakh. Under seed stage funding a neera tapping device by Charles Vijay Varghese, biodegradable coconut leaves straws by Saji Varghese, and cashew sprout-based products by Brijith Krishna received grant-in-aid. Priya Rao, who designed a dryer using microwave technology, is among the recognised candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/start-ups-get-central-funds/article37156443.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||An evening on the beach||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-evening-on-the-beach/article37156516.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Long road to cleanliness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/long-road-to-cleanliness/article37156477.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Keeping it clean||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keeping-it-clean/article37156438.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In abundance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-abundance/article37156656.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Urban alternative||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/urban-alternative/article37156607.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Speaking up for scribes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/speaking-up-for-scribes/article37156644.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Soul recharge||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soul-recharge/article37156654.ece
25 October 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 held for killing man over inter-faith affair||Two persons have been arrested over the murder of a man, who was in a relationship with a woman of another faith, at Almel village in Karnataka’s Vijayapura district. The two arrested are the woman’s brother and her uncle and they are from the same village. The police had questioned eight persons, including the woman’s kin, in connection with the incident and the arrests were made on Sunday. Woman files complaint Ravi Nimbaragi, 33, went missing on October 21 and his body was found in a well in a farm on Saturday. The woman filed a complaint with the police suspecting the involvement of her family members. She alleged that her relatives kidnapped Nimbaragi and killed him as they were opposed to their relationship.  The woman has been sent to a government home for women where she has been given security, the police said. Based on the injuries on the body, the police suspect that the accused strangled the victim. This incident comes a month after Arbaz Mulla, a youth who was in love with a Hindu girl, was hacked to death allegedly by members of the Sri Rama Sene Hindusthan in Khanapur of Belagavi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-held-for-killing-man-over-inter-faith-affair/article37156108.ece
25 October 2021||Chintoor(East Godavari),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Address malnutrition, anaemic conditions in Chintoor Agency’||East Godavari District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran on Sunday directed the health, women and child welfare authorities to address the anaemic conditions among pregnant women and malnutrition rate among children in the Chintoor Agency. Mr. Hari Kiran and Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Chintoor) Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana on Sunday inspected Primary Health Centre at Edugurallapalli and inquired about the medical facilities and infrastructure. Maiden visit In his maiden visit to Chintoor Agency, Mr. Hari Kiran has directed the medical and health staff to ensure timely medical services to the tribals. The Chintoor Agency has a huge number of Gutti Koya tribal families who migrated from Chhattisgarh during the conflict with the Maoists. At Edugurallapalli PHC, the Collector has inaugurated an ambulance service. In a review meet with the officials, he asked them to come up with an action plan to prevent the rising rate of malnutrition and anaemic conditions in the Agency. Feedback sought He also sought feedback on the facilities from the pregnant women admitted to the PHC. The Collector has interacted with the Kommu Koya tribal dancers who performed their traditional dance at the ITDA campus. Mr. Hari Kiran spent a few minutes with the tribal dancers by wearing the traditional hat with two horns of Indian Bison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/address-malnutrition-in-chintoor-agency/article37156588.ece
25 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 T.N. red sanders operatives nabbed, 11 logs seized||A flying squad of the Andhra Pradesh Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (APRSASTF) from Tirupati on Sunday nabbed six smuggling operatives from Tamil Nadu, and seized eleven red sanders logs, four two-wheelers, an SUV and a luggage van near Anjeramma Kona toll plaza, 10 km from Puttur. According to the Task Force officials, the squad party, acting on a tip-off about the movement of the consignment towards Chennai, laid in wait at Anjeramma Kona ghat, a few meters away from the toll plaza in the morning. Two youth, who were serving as pilots on motorbikes, were stopped and taken into custody. On information from the duo, the police intercepted two more youths on bikes, followed by the SUV and luggage van. In all, six accused – identified as Balasubramanayam of Sirkai; Saravanan of Tiruvallur; Ramesh, Sanjiv, Ramky of Pallipattu and Srijith of Chennai (all in the age group of 25-45) were nabbed. The task force officials said that as per preliminary investigation, the accused had procured the logs from the foothills of Seshachalam in Tirupati and were proceeding to Chennai. A case was registered and the accused were sent for remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/6-tn-red-sanders-operatives-nabbed-11-logs-seized/article37156576.ece
25 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman murdered at Nagalapuram||A mother of two children was found murdered at her house in Nagalapuram mandal headquarters, about 90 km from here, on Sunday. Her husband is at large. The police said the woman, identified as Santhi (32), had married Suresh (35) five years ago, and the couple had two children aged 4 and 3. Suresh, a daily wager and a liquor addict, allegedly used to suspect the fidelity of Santhi. The neighbours informed the police that the couple had a bitter tiff on Saturday night too. The body of Santhi was found in a pool of blood, with a head injury and deep abrasions on the face. The police shifted the body to the area hospital for autopsy. Man ‘slits’ wife’s throat In another incident, a man allegedly slit the throat of his wife near Punganur on Sunday. Condition critical The injured woman was rushed to the Government Hospital in Punganur in a serious condition. The police said that Bhanusri (22) and Venkatadri (27) of Chinna Upparapalle village of Somala mandal were married recently. They had a nine-month-old son. The woman was said to be ill for the last few days. On Sunday, Venkatadri took Rs. 200 from his father-in-law on the pretext of taking Bhanusri to a hospital at Somala. On the way to Somala, Venkatadri had allegedly dragged his wife behind the bushes near Adusumilli village and slit her throat with a knife. When she shrieked for help, a few farmers in the vicinity rushed to spot, forcing the accused to escape. The farmers took the woman to the government hospital in an ambulance. The police registered a case and were investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-murdered-at-nagalapuram/article37156574.ece
25 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||10% cybercrime cases are from Telangana||The widespread use of electronic devices that enable Internet access has increased the exposure of individuals and organisations to cybercrimes. In recent years, there has been a massive jump in the number of cases registered under Cyber Crime and Telangana contributed to over 10% of cybercrimes reported across the country in 2020, according to the report released by the National Crime Record Bureau. Most of the victims are falling prey to cybercrooks due to lack of awareness and their poor knowledge of technology. Educating the public “Prevention is the first step in countering cybercrimes. The primary tool for such prevention is undoubtedly education aimed at establishing greater awareness and knowledge regarding cybercrime in the society,” Cyberabad’s Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) Rohini Priyadarshini said. She said that the cybercrime police station has been actively conducting awareness programmes at educational institutions, corporate offices, shopping malls, theatres and bus stations. Posters (memes) stating different cybercrime modus operandi were posted and circulated on official social media accounts. Awareness videos featuring popular personalities and also police officers were also recorded and circulated through social media accounts. “At least 70 programmes are being conducted each month,” she said, adding that an emergency helpline number: 155260 facilitating Citizens to report Cyber Fraud immediately to mitigate financial losses, was also launched recently. Ms. Rohini said that in spite of heavy losses in cyber frauds that occurred in Cyberabad limits, immediate reporting by cyber victims through the helpline members had led to the freezing of Rs. 55,64,301 in the fraudster accounts, which will eventually be refunded to victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-cybercrime-cases-are-from-ts/article37156417.ece
25 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Air disinfection and purifying device launched||An air disinfection and purifying device called “Bipolar Air Disinfectant and Purifier”, made by Hyderabad-based Jaitra Devices and Systems LLP, was launched by Union Minister of Tourism and Culture Kishan Reddy at an event held in the city on Sunday. The device can inactivate pathogens like SARS-COV-2 , Influenza, Legionella virus, Rhinovirus, Varicella-zoster virus, TB bacteria, Staphylococcus bacteria, E Coli bacteria, Pseudomonas bacteria, Bacillus cereus bacteria, fungi and moulds, as per a press release. Scientists at the Jaitra Devices said that apart from them, one more company abroad uses bipolar ionization technology to remove pathogens. Founder and CTO of the firm N. Ramachandra Moorthy said that three products, including wall mounted device, rooftop and HVAC, can be used in hospitals, schools, malls, ambulances, trains, buses, and gyms. Prices range from Rs. 9,000 to Rs. 31,500, depending on the type of product. The Union Minister spoke at length about the potential to manufacture various products in India and stop relying on other countries. Co-chairman of Jaitra Devices and Systems Dr. Kasu Prasad Reddy, chairman of Trivitron Healthcare Group Dr. GSK Velu and founder and MD of KIMS Dr. Bollineni Bhaskar Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/air-disinfection-and-purifying-device-launched/article37156095.ece
25 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||VEM Tech to set up Rs. 1,000 cr. defence factory in Sangareddy||VEM Technologies, the city-based firm that became the first private sector unit to make a central fuselage for Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas being manufactured by Hindustran Aeronautics Limited (HAL), is scaling up its defence manufacturing capabilities by setting up a Rs. 1,000 crore integrated defence facility at Yelgoi near Zaheerabad in Sangareddy. Job generation Spread over 511 acres, this exclusive defence factory, to come up in the next five years, will be involved in making next generation weapon systems end-to-end, including missiles, radars, seekers, engines, avionics, fighter planes, helicopters and the likes, employing close to 2,000 persons. This will also serve as a defence export processing zone to cater to the overseas market, said VEM Technologies Chairman and Managing Director V. Venkata Raju on Sunday. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the State government was signed by Mr. Raju in the presence of IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao, DRDO chairman G. Satheesh Reddy, Niti-Aayog member V.K. Saraswat, TS Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) VC and MD E.V. Narasimha Reddy and IT principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan. Dr. Reddy, also secretary of the department of defence R&D, said that the government was keen on opening up the entire defence production for the private sector and an entire missile weapons system to be made by the latter. Akash Missile being manufactured by BDL has 85% private sector contribution with several ‘tier 2 and tier 3’ contributing. ‘More orders coming’ “This is an ideal scenario where we want small scale sector to contribute and not large monopolies. Hyderabad is going to be the centre for several production facilities, including anti-drone technologies, electronic warfare and others, with at least Rs. 1 lakh crore orders coming by as more key technologies will be transferred by the ministry,” he said. Mr. Raju stated that aerospace and defence company currently functions from two locations — for design and development and manufacturing facilities here. It has been a production partner with defence public sector units like BEL, HAL and others in making various systems for BrahMos, LRSAM/MRSAM, Astra missiles and so on. In fact, it has been working on its own weapon system, ASIBAL – an anti-tank guided missile system. Govt. support Mr. Rama Rao hailed the pact and reiterated the Telangana government’s support for the project and also in establishing the proposed skill development centre at Zaheerabad. The city has become a hub for defence manufacturing over decades with several public and private units established, he pointed out, and called for collaborative efforts between the Centre and State to give impetus to defence sector putting aside ‘ideological differences’ for the sake of the nation. Dr. Saraswat recalled the growth of VEM Techologies in the last three decades and expected it to become the aerospace-defence akin to US-based ‘Lockheed Martin’. Former Union Defence Minister Pallam Raju was also present on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vem-tech-to-set-up-rs-1000-cr-defence-factory-in-sangareddy/article37156098.ece
25 October 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Villages on Periyar banks in alert mode||In the wake of the increasing water level in the Mullaperiyar dam in Idukki district of Kerala, officials of the Revenue Department and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) visited houses on the banks of the Periyar to create awareness of the precautionary measures to be adopted in case the shutters of the dam are opened. The team visited the houses at the Inchikadu, Vikas Nagar and Manjumala areas of the Periyar village which are on the downstream of the dam. An official of the Revenue Department said the team cleared doubts of residents regarding the opening of the dam and the steps taken by the Government. The NDRF team was led by team commander T. Rajan. Water level in the Mullaperiyar dam reached 136.85 ft on Sunday. The dam in Idukki district is under the control of the Tamil Nadu Government as per a British-era lease agreement. Tamil Nadu issued the first warning regarding the opening of the dam on Saturday when the water level reached 136 ft. The maximum water level is 142 ft. Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 2,200 cusecs while there was an inflow of 2,900 cusecs on Sunday. Steady at Idukki Meanwhile, the water level at the Idukki dam was almost stagnant at 2,398.26 ft on Sunday. One of the shutters of the Cheruthoni dam remained open and the power generation was at maximum at the Moolamattom power plant. The full reservoir level is 2,403 ft. The red alert level is 2,398.31 ft. The India Meteorological Department on Sunday issued an orange alert to four districts, including Idukki, for October 26. The orange alert denotes rainfall of 6-20 cm of heavy rain. The other three districts are Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/villages-on-periyar-banks-in-alert-mode/article37156101.ece
25 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Counselling for game design course at Dr. YSRAFU begins today||Counselling process for students seeking admission into Dr. YSR Architecture and Fine Arts University(Dr. YSRAFU)’s B.Tech(Game Design Technologies) course begins on Monday. Most sought-after Game Design Technologies, a multidisciplinary field of computer science/programming, graphic design, animation and multimedia, and the most sought-after course in the animation industry, is one of the 13 offered by the varsity in tune with the changing needs of the industry by providing work-integrated learning opportunities to the students. “The video game industry is home to diverse job opportunities where high salary packages are on offer. Students who study game design will be on their way to a career that thrives on creativity and imagination,” says P. Usha Madhuri, a faculty member of the department. Those graduating the course can make a career as graphic designer, game designer, game developer, game animator, VFX artist, tester, director, programmer, VR unity developer and concept artist. These apart, they have higher education opportunity in the form of M.Tech in multimedia and animation, game technology, design and development. The university charges Rs. 35,000 per annum for the course. Admissions are under way for the course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/counselling-for-game-design-course-at-dr-ysrafu-begins-today/article37156579.ece
25 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eyeing TDP vote bank||The Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) is keen on turning the TDP’s vote bank in its favour at the hustings ahead of the by-election to the Badvel (SC) Assembly constituency. With the TDP opting out of the race on compassionate grounds, the BJP-Jana Sena combine entered the fray citing its opposition to family politics. BJP State president Somu Veerraju, Andhra Pradesh co-incharge Sunil Deodhar, vice-president C. Adinarayana Reddy are already in a campaign mode in support of the party candidate Panathala Suresh. Having left with no other option, a part of the TDP’s second-rung leadership is learnt to be moving towards the BJP. “The TDP has ditched its cadre by not contesting. The party leaders who will not vote for the YSRCP are naturally moving towards us,” said Mr. Veerraju, who also accused the YSRCP of offering plum posts to lure the ‘influential’ TDP leaders to its side. The cadre is visibly buoyed after the visit of Union Minister of Fisheries L. Murugan to the constituency on Saturday. A number of youth leaders from Badvel and Porumamilla towns evinced interest towards joining the BJP. Land grab allegations On the other hand, a couple of instances of the ruling party supporters’ alleged involvement in land grab cases surfaced in the constituency, causing embarrassment to YSRCP leadership that is aiming at a landslide victory. As one of the victims of land grab attempting suicide, the BJP campaign managers were quick to project it among the voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eyeing-tdp-vote-bank/article37156592.ece
25 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Election to Kakinada Mayor, Deputy Mayor posts today||The council members of Kakinada Municipal Corporation will elect new Mayor and Deputy Mayor during the election, scheduled to be held on Monday. The State government has recently issued a notification in this regard. Mayor Sunkara Pavani (TDP) and Deputy Mayor K. Sattibabu (TDP) lost the no-confidence motion moved against them by the council members during a special meeting chaired by Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha on October 6. The present council has recently completed four years of its five-year term. East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran is likely to conduct the election during a special council meeting at the KMC buildings here. The new Mayor and Deputy Mayors would be elected by the corporators and ex-officio members by raising their hands in support of the candidates in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/election-to-kakinada-mayor-deputy-mayor-posts-today/article37156590.ece
25 October 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Monson staffer held under POCSO Act||The Kerala Crime Branch team that is probing the case against fake antiquities dealer Monson Mavunkal has arrested Joshi, his makeup man, under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on Sunday, on the basis of a statement given by a minor girl who was reportedly raped by him. Monson, who is in police custody charged with selling fake antiquities and hoodwinking people, was earlier charged under POCSO Act, for sexually abusing the girl, the daughter of his domestic help, on multiple occasions. Police sources said Joshi was arrested from his house at Kaloor in Kochi. He will shortly be produced in the court. Crime Branch personnel reportedly collected material evidence from Joshi’s house based on the girl’s statement. According to unconfirmed reports, Joshi had gone into hiding outside the State following Monson’s arrest. ‘Whale skeleton’ Meanwhile, personnel of the Forest Department raided a house that Monson had reportedly rented at Vazhakkala and found, among other items, what appeared to be the skeleton of a whale. The raid followed information provided by the Crime Branch investigators. The team is probing whether it is indeed a whale skeleton, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/monson-staffer-held-under-pocso-act/article37156102.ece
25 October 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctors give new lease of life to twins with low birth weight||The doctors of the KIMS Hospital here saved the lives of the premature twins born in the 25th week of pregnancy. A couple from the Kadapa district—Rama Subba Reddy and Sowjanya—opted for IVF procedure as they remained childless ten years after their marriage. The medical officers at the KIMS said that both the babies weighed only 735 gram each. After the delivery, they were admitted to the Neo-natal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) owing to the premature delivery and extremely low birth weight. The babies were closely monitored in a specialised incubator, equipped with respiratory support, nutrition support with total parenteral nutrition (TPN) facility and intravenous antibiotics for infection. Both the babies had multiple complications including laboured breathing, anaemia that required blood transfusions and milk intolerance. The neo-natal team monitored these babies closely. The twins had cardiac issues(PDA) which is associated with premature babies. The second twin was treated with medications and the cardiac problem was resolved. However, it did not work for the first twin. The baby developed breathing problems and was not gaining weight. Emergency cardiac care services was extended to the babies by an expert team from Hyderabad. They performed a procedure to solve the PDA issues. Both the babies spent two months in the NICU and they were under constant supervision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctors-give-new-lease-of-life-to-twins-with-low-birth-weight/article37156577.ece
25 October 2021||Mysuru,ANDHRA PRADESH||ensure All set for class reopening today||Classes for I and V will commence from Monday across the State and nearly 1.98 lakh children and 1,2800 primary school teachers in Mysuru district will return to schools after almost 20 months. The schools were closed owing to the outbreak of COVID-19 and there has been a graded reopening of educational institutions with PG and degree colleges reopening first. Last month, classes for VI to VIII students were opened. Mysuru in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar has issued directives to officials of the Education Department to take all precautionary measures including enforcing covid appropriate behaviour in schools. He said though the number of new cases was declining and the active cases were also dipping, there can be no room for complacency. He said that the officials should ensure that all classrooms and equipment should be sanitised. The imperatives of ensuring adequate social distancing in classrooms was also emphasised by the Minister. The guidelines issued by the Department of Education should be strictly adhered to and all teaching and non-teaching staff should have received both doses of the vaccine, said Mr. Somashekar. Besides, students should compulsorily produce a no objection letter from their parents. The Minister also appealed to the parents to ensure that they comply with the norms and submit the letter. Mr. Somashekar allayed any apprehensions on the part of the parents and said all precautionary measures are in place. Hence parents should not worry about sending their children to classes, he added. Deputy Commissioners of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar have also been instructed to ensure that they visit some of the schools to oversee the preparations in place for reopening of classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-all-set-for-class-reopening-today/article37156120.ece
25 October 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||31 new COVID cases in South Coastal A.P.||South Coastal Andhra Pradesh reported 31 new COVID-19 cases and zero deaths in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Sunday. The death toll remained static at 2,172 in the region, including 1,051 in SPSR Nellore district, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. As many as 22 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 9 in Prakasam district contracted the infection during the period while 104 persons were declared recovered from the disease in the region, including 62 in SPSR Nellore district. Recoveries Over 2.81 lakh persons have won the battle against the disease in the region since the pandemic broke out last year. The recovery rate stands at 98.86%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/31-new-covid-cases-in-south-coastal-ap/article37156580.ece
25 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur Range DIG stresses on regular medical check-up||Guntur Range Deputy Inspector General C.M. Trivikram Varma emphasised the need for regular medical check-up as early detection is a cure to cancer. After flagging off “The Global Grace Cancer Run - 2021” organised by Grace Cancer Foundation here on Sunday, he instilled confidence in cancer patients by telling them that they could conquer the disease with the help of a proper treatment and reminded them that they were not alone in their fights. He along with Nellore District Superintendent of Police Ch.Vijaya Rao and police personnel and their families took part in a 5 km run to raise awareness among public on the disease at an event part of the Police Martyrs’ week. The DIG said breast cancer was more prevalent among women aged above 40 and its incidence was relatively more in urban areas than in rural areas. Given the disturbing trends, the DIG underscored the need for maintaining a healthy diet, keeping fit and periodic medical check-ups. Early detection is the cure to cancer, he said which was seconded by cancer surgeon Chinababu Sunkavalli who feared an increase in the global cancer burden. Mr. Vijaya Rao spoke about the ill-effects of consumption of alcohol and tobacco-related products and exhorted the youth to maintain a healthy lifestyle. A screening camp was held at the Police Convention Hall on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-range-dig-stresses-on-regular-medical-check-up/article37156582.ece
25 October 2021||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polio vaccination is important: DMHO||Srikakulam District Medical and Health Officer K.C. Nayak on Sunday said that polio vaccination should not be neglected since many new cases were being found in countries such as Pakistan and Afghnaistan. He formally inaugurated an awareness rally organised in association with the Rotary Club on the occasion of World Polio Day. Speaking on the occasion, he lauded the Rotary Club’s contribution for eradication of the disease across the globe. Srikakulam Rotary Club president P.S.V.S.N. Varma, Rotary Regional Secretaries C.V. Rajulu and M.R.K. Das promised to extend support to the district administration in taking up the polio vaccine drive in all the 38 mandals of the district. They gave away prizes to winners of essay competition organised over polio and other diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polio-vaccination-is-important-dmho/article37156626.ece
25 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaidyanathan takes oath as TTD board member||Krishnamoorthy Vaidyanathan took oath as a member of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Trust Board on Sunday. At a brief ceremony organised at Bangaru Vakili inside the Lord Venkateswara temple complex, TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy administered Mr. Vaidyanathan the oath of office. Mr. Vaidyanathan was accommodated in the temple trust board in the place of Prashanti Reddy who recently was appointed as the president of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam’s Local Advisory Committee (LAC), New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaidyanathan-takes-oath-as-ttd-board-member/article37156593.ece
25 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP govt. unleashing terror using police machinery: TDP||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders came down heavily on the YSRCP government accusing it of unleashing ‘a reign of terror’ and targeting the opposition leaders by ‘misusing the police machinery’. They said that the TDP cadre would have paid them back in the same coin, had the party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu not restrained them. TDP senior leader N. Amarnatha Reddy accused the YSRCP of taking governance to ‘a new low’ by muzzling the voice of dissent. “The opposition leaders are being arrested and innocent people are being framed in frivolous charges. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has made violence the new norm. TDP activists were arrested for making social media posts, while the law mandates serving notices seeking explanations. TDP leaders are not drug peddlers. Why is the hurry to put them behind bars, if it is not for harassment?” Mr. Amarnatha Reddy told the media here on Sunday. Referring to the ‘spate of attacks on party cadre across Chittoor district, Mr. Reddy appealed to the TDP activists not to get disheartened, instead question the police if they have proper warrants for arrests. “The TDP has engaged an advocate in every Assembly constituency to safeguard the party cadre from harassment, thanks to the misuse of the Police Department by the YSRCP government,” he said. Tirupati parliamentary constituency in-charge G. Narasimha Yadav recalled the recent incident at Renigunta when YSRCP activists allegedly attacked his car with a boulder, causing grievous injury to him and Srikalahasti in-charge Bojjala Sudheer Reddy. “Instead of arresting the culprits, the police registered cases against us on baseless charges,” said Mr. Narasimha Yadav. ‘Comments misinterpreted’ MLC B.N. Rajasimhulu accused the YSRCP of making a ruckus by ‘misinterpreting’ the comments made by party leader K. Pattabhiram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-unleashing-terror-using-police-machinery-tdp/article37156595.ece
25 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama gets new secretary||Ramakrishna Mission’s Belur Math (Calcutta) headquarters has appointed Swami Sukritananda as the new Secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Tirupati. He formally took charge at a function here on Sunday from his predecessor Swami Anupamananda, who has been transferred to Chandigarh Ashrama. Swami Sukritananda, who earlier headed the mission’s Cuddapah Ashrama, announced to carry forward the good work undertaken by his predecessors. Speaking on his stint of six years, Swami Anupamananda recalled the conduct of personality development programmes in educational institutions, conduct of summer camp for students and distribution of food and provisions to the needy during the lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-chief-takes-over-at-ramakrishna-mission/article37156585.ece
25 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student chapter of ACCE-I formed at AITS||With the intention of strengthening design skills in civil engineering students, Annamacharya Institute of Technology and Science (AITS) proposed to form the student chapter of ‘Association of Consulting Civil Engineers India’ (ACCE-I). Speaking at a meeting organised at the campus here on Sunday, Roman Babu, professor of civil engineering at IIT-Tirupati spoke on ‘Performance-based design’ and explained his research innovations and standard codes evolved to make seismic resistant structures, which he said was essential in earthquake prone countries to minimise damage and to increase the life of structures. Consultant B. Reddeppa Naidu shared his experience on the latest practices and suggested the creation of a forum of students and faculty ahead of having a student chapter of ACCE-I. Group Chairman C. Gangi Reddy, Principal C. Nadhamuni Reddy and head A. Anil congratulated the students on forming the chapter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-chapter-of-acce-i-formed-at-aits/article37156583.ece
25 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 5 crore vaccine doses administered in State||The State crossed another milestone by administering more than five crore doses of vaccine against COVID-19 on Sunday, according to the CoWin portal. As of 9 p.m., about 3.12 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the State, taking the total count to 5,02,24,248 doses. Around 3.17 crore people have received at least one dose of the vaccine while 1.84 crore people have been administered two doses. More than 80% of the eligible population (18+) have received at least one dose and more than 46% of the eligible population received both the doses. About 1 crore doses have been administered in October so far. Of the total doses, more than 2.68 crore were administered to women while 2.33 crore were administered to men and 9,486 were administered to people listed in the ‘others’ category. More than 85% of the doses administered were of Covishield and 14.3% were of Covaxin. Only 0.12% of them were of Sputnik vaccines. In East Godavari, more than 52.61 lakh vaccine doses have been administered, the highest among 13 districts in the State, while in Vizianagaram, 22.20 lakh doses have been administered so far. The vaccines were allocated to districts as per population and half of the doses were administered in six districts including East Godavari, Guntur, Visakhapatnam, Krishna, Chittoor and West Godavari, which reported a majority of the COVID-19 infections. Adverse effects The cases of Adverse Effects Following Immunisation (AEFI) stand at 0.002% in the State. During the past month, 104 such cases were reported in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-crosses-5-cr-covid-19-vaccine-doses/article37156099.ece
25 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Good diet, physical exercise will help prevent cancer’||Th Andhra Pradesh Police, in association with the Grace Cancer Foundation, organised a ‘Cancer awareness run’ here on Sunday. Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Ravi Shankar Ayyanar, Additional DG (Battalions) Shankabrata Bagchi, and Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu flagged off the run at Benz Circle. Speaking on the occasion, the officials said that cancer could be prevented by consuming good diet, doing physical exercise, and by keeping away from smoking. ‘Early diagnosis must’ “Early diagnosis can completely cure cancer,” said Grace Cancer Foundation representative and retired IPS officer Sujatha Rao. The run was conducted up to the Armed Reserve Grounds. Dr. Sumitra Shankar, OSD (Police Welfare), P.V.S. Ramakrishna and other police officers participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-diet-physical-exercise-will-help-prevent-cancer/article37156132.ece
25 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh decries demolitions at Pathapatnam temple||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national general secretary N. Lokesh has condemned the demolitions of structures at the Sri Neelamani Durga Ammavari temple in Pathapatnam of Srikakulam district. In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Lokesh decried the demolition of the temple ‘Simhadwaram’ (main entrance) and its compound wall abutting the highway. He alleged that despite the pleas of devotees seeking time to move the idols of the temple to a suitable place, the authorities did not oblige. “The Anjaneya Swamy and Ganesh temples were demolished on the pretext of road widening works. The devotees were deploring that the local MLA did not bother to intervene despite the issue was taken to his notice,” alleged Mr. Lokesh. He expressed concern that too many untoward incidents took place at temples including desecration of idols, burning of chariot and theft of valuables during the YSRCP rule. “The burning of chariot at the Antarvedi temple still remains a mystery. The desecration of the idols at the Ramatheertham temple had hurt the sentiments of devotees,” said Mr. Lokesh. He said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagam Mohan Reddy had made many promises to all sections of the people before the 2019 elections.“The YSRCP will pay a heavy price for its omissions and commissions,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-decries-demolitions-at-pathapatnam-temple/article37156602.ece
25 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCERT to set common question papers for FA tests||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), henceforth, will prepare a uniform question paper for the formative assessment tests conducted by schools as part of the Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) pattern of education. The Formative Assessment (FA) comprises 50 marks, ten marks each for a student’s response in the classroom, project works and writing works (30 marks) and a written slip test for 20 marks. Reports of malpractice resorted to by private schools in awarding marks is said to be the reason for the move. Formative Assessment is used by the teacher to continuously monitor a student’s progress in a congenial environment, while Summative Assessment (SA) comes at the end of a course of learning to see how much a student has learned. Deviating from the traditional examination system where students wrote four unit tests and one quarterly, half-yearly and final examination in an academic year, under CCE, they write four formative and two summative examinations. There are reports that teachers in some private schools had been buying question papers belonging to other schools available with private printers. “Moreover, question papers put together by private persons fall short of standards and their variation from district-to-district is another issue,” said B. Pratap Reddy, Director, SCERT, adding that the SCERT-designed question papers were being supplied to schools on an experimental basis. The original plan was to send a soft copy of the question papers one hour before the commencement of the test, but they are being sent well in advance for the convenience of teachers who do not have Internet facility. “It is important to ensure that the question papers reach all students,” he said, adding that based on the results, the teachers should identify their focus areas. “A common question paper will bring in a discipline,” said Suresh, a grade-II headmaster. Lalith Mohan, secretary, District Common Examination Board, said these tests are important as the internal marks are given weightage in the 10th class board examinations. Teacher unions oppose Teacher unions such as Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation (APTF) oppose the move. “Formative tests should be held by the teachers concerned as they know the syllabus covered. A common question paper, especially in the Coronavirus times when a large number of students are staying away from classroom teaching, would make things difficult for them,” said federation’s general secretary P. Panduranga Varaprasad Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scert-to-set-common-question-papers-for-fa-tests/article37156604.ece
25 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials bust myths associated with Civils||Interest, not fear, should rule the mind while preparing for the Civil Services examination, said C.V. Pavan Kumar, Income Tax Commissioner, Andhra and Telangana region. Addressing an awareness meeting on Civil Services examination organised by Sarat Chandra IAS Academy in city on Sunday, Mr. Kumar tried to bust some of the myths associated with the exams. “Success cannot elude if you (aspirants) set a goal and work with commitment to achieve it,” he said, adding that there was a steady increase in the number of students cracking the UPSC exams over last few years from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and attributed it to the growing interest among young to pursue a career as an IAS officer. He said it was a popular misconception that it was almost next to impossible to crack the Civils exam. “Study with a great deal of interest and plan your schedule,” he advised the aspirants. Andhra Pradesh Health Systems Strengthening Project (APHSSP) Project Director V. Vinod Kumar said many aspirants discontinue mid-way after starting their preparation. “Determination is the key and if you (aspirants) combine it with hard work, success will be yours,” he said. Sarat Chandra Academy Managing Director T. Sarat Chandra said at least 60 % in every 100 people dream of cracking the exam, but the number of people actually joining the services comes down significantly. Many parents give up encouraging their children to pursue a career in this line as they think that the coaching involves a huge cost. Mr. Sarat Chandra said quality coaching was available today for a very reasonable fee. Later, P. Gautami and G. Thirupathi Rao, students of the Sarat Chandra Academy, who secured 317 and 441 ranks respectively, were felicitated. South Central Railway Divisional Engineer B. Vijaya Keethi was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-bust-myths-associated-with-civils/article37156665.ece
25 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drug parcel booked on fake address: SP||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and the West Godavari police probing the pseudoephedrine drug smuggling case have said that the racket has no link to Andhra Pradesh. The NCB officials had seized 3 kg drug concealed in ‘lehengas’ a couple of days ago. The parcel was allegedly booked on the address of Narsapuram in West Godavari district. The NCB officials picked up the consignor, a native of Chennai. With the NCB officials alerting the A.P. Police, the West Godavari police swung into action to find out if there was any connection with A.P. “According to the investigation officers of the Central agency, the accused produced fake Aadhaar card and fake documents to book the consignment. The address on which the drug parcel was booked is false,” West Godavari district Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma said on Sunday. Investigation officers are trying to find out the origin and destination of the drug racket, and whether any consignments have been delivered earlier, and, if so, from which State and place. “We have not registered any case so far. As the smuggler used the address of Narsapuram in A.P., the police are investigating. But it is found to be fake,” the SP said. Instructions had been given to the police to probe deep into the case, he added. “A detailed investigation into the racket is on,” Mr. Rahul Dev Sharma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drug-parcel-booked-on-fake-address-sp/article37156318.ece
25 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP seeks appointment of eligible voters as polling, counting agents||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has written a letter to Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) of India Sushil Chandra on Sunday, requesting him to allow the appointment of eligible voters of Kadapa district as polling and counting agents for the bypoll to Badvel (SC) Assembly constituency. Mr. Veerraju, in his letter, alleged that the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leaders were threatening the BJP cadre by foisting false cases and pressuring them to support it or stay away from the election altogether. “The police are supporting the YSRCP workers . Hence, we have requested to the Election Commission to allow appointment of eligible voters as polling and counting agents, and to deploy CRPF to ensure a free and fair election ,” he said. Mr. Veerraju said that the election rules were clear that the candidates could appoint polling and counting agents from the nearby areas. Representations in this regard were submitted earlier for the sake of having a peaceful poll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-seeks-appointment-of-eligible-voters-as-polling-counting-agents/article37156599.ece
25 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union Minister lauds State’s energy efficiency measures||Union Minister of Power R.K. Singh and Secretary Alok Kumar appreciated the efforts being made by the Andhra Pradesh government to promote energy efficiency and energy conservation on a mission mode by adopting the best practices. In a national-level review meeting organised by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) on Sunday, Mr. Singh said India had announced its commitment to achieve 40% of its cumulative electric power installed capacity from non-fossil fuels by 2030 and of the 388 Gigawatts (GW) of installed capacity, 38% (147 GW) is accounted for by renewables. Mr. Singh stressed the need for introduction of the National Carbon Market for large-scale promotion of clean energy technologies in India, which will lead to decarbonization of the economy and help mobilise international finance for mitigation of greenhouse gases, according to an official release. ‘Role model’ Mr. Alok Kumar said Andhra Pradesh had become a role model by setting up a dedicated, standalone State Designated Agency (SDA) i.e. the Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (AP-SECM) for facilitating energy saving measures. He said the Union Ministry of Power would amend the Energy Conservation Act, 2001 by making establishment of State Energy Efficiency Agencies mandatory, and commended Energy Secretary (A.P) N. Srikant for promoting energy efficiency programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-minister-lauds-states-energy-efficiency-measures/article37156600.ece
25 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘COVID-19 created new social inequalities in education sector’||Coronavirus has created new social inequalities in the education sector, said national convener of Mamidipudi Venkatarangaiah Foundation R. Venkata Reddy. Addressing a State-level convention on ‘Corona-Its Impact on Education Sector’, jointly organised by United Teachers Federation (UTF), Jana Vignana Vedika (JVV), Student Federation of India (SFI) and Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), Mr. Reddy said schools inculcate a questioning spirit in them, give them some sense of social justice and teach them how to socialise. But coronavirus shattered it all. It kept children away from schools and forced them to go to work instead. Many parents got their young girls married when the schools remained shut for two years, he said. Children were also deprived of the mid-day meals and the digital classes that the government conducted during the lockdown period remained inaccessible to children from the lower strata of the society, he pointed out. Mr. Reddy demanded allocation of 30 % of the budget to the education sector and measures to create a congenial atmosphere in schools. Progressive Democratic Forum MLC V. Balasubramanyam said surveys had shown a steady decline in educational standards since 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-created-new-social-inequalities-in-education-sector/article37156667.ece
25 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four more succumb to virus in 24 hours||The State reported four COVID-19 deaths and 400 infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The cumulative tally and toll reached 20,63,577 and 14,343 respectively. The number of active cases had come down to 5,102 with 516 patients recovering during the period. The total recoveries increased to 20,44,132 and the recovery rate stood at 99.06%. The daily positivity rate of the 37,744 samples tested in the past day was 1.06% and that of the 2.92 crore samples tested so far was 7.05%. Chittoor, Guntur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts reported one death each in the past day. Chittoor reported 73 infections in the last 24 hours. It was followed by Krishna (68), Guntur (50), West Godavari (42), Visakhapatnam (33), East Godavari (31), Srikakulam (29), Kadapa (25), Nellore (22), Prakasam (9), Anantpaur (8), Vizianagaram (7) and Kurnool (3). The overall district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,93,232), Chittoor (2,46,419), West Godavari (1,78,843), Guntur (1,77,796), Anantapur (1,57,805), Visakhapatnam (1,57,500), Nellore (1,46,233), Prakasam (1,38,379), Kurnool (1,24,117), Srikakulam (1,22,977), Krishna (1,18,926), Kadapa (1,15,541) and Vizianagaram (82,914).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-more-succumb-to-virus-in-24-hours/article37156596.ece
25 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials rescue baby girl ‘abandoned’ at PNBS||An unidentified woman abandoned a one-year-old girl at the Pandit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS) here on Sunday. On receiving information, officials of the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) of the Women Development and Child Welfare Department rescued the baby girl and shifted her to a private child care institution. “The baby is in good health. A complaint has been lodged with the Krishnalanka police,” said DCPU protection officer Y. Johnson. According to the passengers, a woman loitered some time in the bus station and later abandoned the baby girl on a platform. The baby would be produced before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and sent for medical examination on Monday, said District Child Protection Officer Ch. Vijay Kumar. Efforts were being made to trace the woman through the CCTV footage, Mr. Johnson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-rescue-baby-girl-abandoned-at-pnbs/article37156130.ece
25 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attack on Pattabhi’s house: 7 more get notice||The Patamata police, who were investigating the alleged attack on Telugu Desam Party leader K. Pattabhiram’s house, served notices on seven more persons on Sunday. ‘House ransacked’ A group of people had attacked and ransacked the house of the Telugu Desam Party leader K. Pattabhiram who allegedly made derogatory comments against Chief Minister, in city on October 19 The police had served notices on 11 persons earlier. Notices were served under Section 41 of the CrPc on Sunday, the Patamata police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/attack-on-pattabhis-house-7-more-get-notice/article37156666.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourism sector sees signs of revival after COVID second wave||The tourism sector in Visakhapatnam region is seeing a revival after the COVID-19 second wave. There has been an increase in the number of tourists visiting the region in the Dasara season. According to sources in the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC), from October 1 to 19, the corporation had generated a revenue of about Rs. 1.61 crore, which is a very significant improvement after the COVID-19 second wave. “APTDC hotels and cottages in Visakhapatnam city and in the hill stations in the Agency area had an Occupancy Ratio of about 85% to 90% this Dasara season. A large number of tourists had arrived from Odisha, West Bengal, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Telangana, apart from several districts like Guntur, Krishna, Prakasam and twin Godavari in Andhra Pradesh,” said an official. Borra Caves, Padmapuram Gardens, tribal museum, Katika, Kopthapalle and a few other waterfalls in the Agency and boating services operated at various beaches in Visakhapatnam, received a very good number of tourists. Thousands of tourists thronged Lambasingi, the tribal hamlet in Chintapalle mandal. Similarly, local tourist attractions like TU-142 aircraft museum, Kursura submarine museum, Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP), Kailasagiri, R.K Beach and Rushikonda Beach, had seen a huge rush. The tourism officials said that the tourism sector suffered a loss of around Rs. 12 crore due to the COVID second wave in the region. After the Dasara season, they hope for a revival of the tourism sector. In general, the Visakhapatnam district receives a good number of tourists right from Dasara holidays. The months of November, December, January and February are considered to be the peak tourist season. “With Dasara holidays and weekends coming together, we had a good season. The online bookings for hotels, cottages and special tourism packages for November, especially during Diwali holidays, and December, during winter, are being done,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tourism-sector-sees-signs-of-revival-after-covid-second-wave/article37156623.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Passengers seek predawn bus services from railway station||The jostling while making one’s way through the rush of passengers at the exit, non-availability of city buses and having to shell out a huge amount on autorickshaws proves to be the bane of rail passengers, who arrive before dawn at Visakhapatnam junction. The half-closed entry/exit gates at Visakhapatnam railway station is a major irritant to passengers arriving by originating and terminating trains like AP Express and Godavari Express which bring in loads of passengers. “I came by Godavari Express from Secunderabad . Only one of the two halves of the large glass exit gate (near the Ticket Booking Office) was open, while the other was kept closed and this led to passengers trying to crowd around the narrow gate,” says S. Babu of Visakhapatnam, a frequent traveller. “The non-availability of buses from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. from the railway station to different corners of the city is another major drawback for Visakhapatnam. This apart, the absence of police personnel to regulate the autos during the predawn hours is adding to our woes. I had to shell out Rs. 300 to go to Arilova, a distance of about 5 km,” he says. “I had to pay Rs. 100 to go to my home, which is barely 2 km away from the station,” says Ch. Srinivasa Rao, a resident of Madhuranagar. “The erection of barricades was done as part of the Station Redevelopment work, which got delayed due to COVID-19,” said Station Director Rajgopal, when the issue was brought to his notice. Night services on long distance routes like Simhachalam and Gajuwaka from Visakhapatnam railway station, which used to ply a couple of decades ago were withdrawn due to limited response. “We will conduct a survey on the demand and take it to the notice of the higher authorities for resumption of late night and predawn services,” Deputy Chief Traffic Manager (Urban) M. Sudhabindhu told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/passengers-seek-predawn-bus-services-from-railway-station/article37156680.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Experts: cancer preventable with modifications in lifestyle||A cancer awareness run was organised by the Grace Cancer Foundation (GCF) and the AP Police on Beach Road here on Sunday. The theme for this year’s run is ‘Freedom from cancer.’ Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha flagged off the run at the Kalimatha temple in presence of DCP Zone-1 Gowthami Sali, GCF director Ram Mohan and surgical oncologist Kalyan. Mr. Ram Mohan said that the objective of the run was to sensitise the people to combat the killer disease and to reduce the incidence of cancer. Dr. Chinnababu Sunkavalli said that cancer was preventable with modifications in lifestyle and diet. COVID-19 has relegated cancer treatment and this could have serious repercussions in the days to come, he said. Dr. Kalyan said that early detection and lifestyle modifications were the key to conquering cancer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/experts-cancer-preventable-with-modifications-in-lifestyle/article37156677.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Need to eradicate polio from world: expert||An awareness rally was organised by the Rotary Clubs in the city on the occasion of World Polio Day, on Beach Road, on Sunday. The polio awareness rally was organised after a skit by Rotary Club Visakha Bay view and Tiger dance by children of Lebenshilfe, an association for the Mentally Challenged. A number of Rotarians participated in the rally, which concluded at the YMCA. Rotary past district governors D. Varada Reddy, Ch Kishore kumar, D.Rajgopal Reddy and D.V. Raju participated in the flagging off function. “There is no cure for polio, but there are treatments. Treatment of polio often requires long-term rehabilitation, including occupational therapy, physiotherapy, braces, corrective shoes and, in some cases, orthopaedic surgeries. Heat and physical therapy can be used to stimulate the muscles and antispasmodic drugs are used to relax the affected muscles. This can improve mobility but does not reverse permanent polio paralysis,” says Dr. Manoj Kumar, consultant paediatrician, KIMS ICON Hospital, in a statement issued. Patients with abortive polio infections recover completely. In those who develop only aseptic meningitis there are chances of complete recovery. In cases of spinal polio, if the affected nerve cells are completely destroyed, paralysis will be permanent. Pulse Polio is an immunisation campaign to eliminate polio by vaccinating all children under the age of five years. As long as a single child remains infected, children in all countries are at risk of contracting polio. Failure to eradicate polio from these last remaining strongholds could result in as many as 2,00,000 new cases every year, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-to-eradicate-polio-from-world-expert/article37156670.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Volleyball tourney begins||The Customs, Central Excise and GST team defeated the ECoR, Khurda team in two straight sets in the first match of the second DRM Cup Invitation All India Volleyball Tournament – 2021 that began at the Railway Stadium here on Sunday evening. The second match was won by the EcoRSA Waltair team with 2-1 score against Vizianagaram team after a tough fight. The matches are of league-cum-knockout type and held in the flood lights. Eight teams representing Waltair Railway Division, Waltair Sports Academy, Khurda Division, Customs, Central Tax and GST, East Godavari, West Godavari, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts are participating in the tournament. Divisional Railway Manager (Waltair) Anup Satpathy said that the division has unmatched sports infrastructure. Visakhapatnam West MLA P.G.V.R. Naidu, who is the president of the Andhra Pradesh Volleyball Association, expressed satisfaction over the infrastructure . Sports Officer Pradeep Yadav was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/volleyball-tourney-begins/article37156672.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cricket bookie arrested||Ahead of the T-20 cricket match between India and Pakistan, as part of T-20 World Cup, officials of the Divisional Task Force( DTF) Wing of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) conducted raid on an apartment complex at Madhavadhara and arrested a person, who was allegedly involved in organising cricket betting online here on Sunday. The Task Force officials have seized Rs. 88,000, two mobile phones and a laptop from him. The arrested was identified as L. Prabhakar, a native of Anakapalle and living at Madhavadhara in the city. According to Inspector, DTF, Visakhapatnam, K. Suresh, the accused is a sub-bookie, and kingpin and the main bookie is based in Bengaluru. After receiving instructions from the bookie, Prabhakar conducts betting online, using mobile applications and software. Investigation by the DTF police revealed that about 13 punters were placing bets with him. The Inspector said that the accused organises bets for sessions (per five overs) and also on total match results. The accused was earlier a punter and has now become a bookie. Earlier, he was arrested in gambling (playing cards) cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cricket-bookie-arrested/article37156632.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sale of public sector units has left many jobless, say VSP leaders||The BJP-led NDA government’s policy of sale of public sector units to the corporate groups has extended to all sectors such as aviation, Railways and coal mines, and has thrown several workers out of jobs, Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee leaders Mantri Rajasekhar and D. Adinarayana have alleged. They were addressing the workers who were on a relay hunger strike that entered the 255th day demanding that the Centre revoke its decision on strategic sale of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), at Kurmannapalem on Sunday. The leaders alleged that the Union government had put up for sale 400 railway stations, 90 passenger trains, 1,400 km of railway track and 265 goods sheds in the country. They deplored the attitude of the Centre in declaring that it would sell 120 coal mines in the next four years. Already, some States were facing power shortages, they said. “The BJP government has failed to implement the assurances given to Andhra Pradesh in the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014,” they alleged. The committee leaders said abnormal increase in the prices of petroleum products had a cascading effect, resulting in the prices of all essential commodities going up exorbitantly. They appealed to all sections of people to oppose the “lopsided policies of the BJP government.” VSP representatives M.S.V. Umamaheswara Rao, K.V.R.K. Raju, D. Narasinga Rao, Appalaraju, K.V. Satyanarayana, D.S.R.C. Murthy and A. Srinivas were among those who participated in the hunger strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sale-of-public-sector-units-has-left-many-jobless-vsp-leaders/article37156105.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Breast cancer survivors felicitated||Omega Hospitals, Visakhapatnam, felicitated Balamma, Satyavathi and Lowis Poolavathi, patients who fought breast cancer disease and won over it by getting treatment at the hospital as part of the ongoing breast cancer awareness month. B. Ravi Shankar, Managing Director and Radiation Oncologist of the hospital, explained about various aspects pertaining to breast cancer. The disease, if detected early, could be cured completely and enable survivors to lead normal lives, he said. Dr. Ravi Shankar called upon all women to be aware of the disease and also conduct breast self-examination at regular intervals in order to detect the disease early. Those affected by the disease should take treatment under the guidance of specialists, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/breast-cancer-survivors-felicitated/article37156681.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to oppose hike in civic taxes and petrol prices||Members of the Visakhapatnam Apartment Resident Welfare Association (VARWA) and the Greater Visakha Residential Colony Association’s Federation (Nivas) Zone III committee held a conference here on Sunday. P. Ramarao, a former DM & HO, who inaugurated the meet, called upon the people to strongly oppose hike in taxes and petrol prices. VARWA general secretary B.B. Ganesh said that VARWA – Nivas had organised campaigns against the steep hike in taxes and change in system of property tax calculation and garbage charges through dharnas, protests, webinars, signature campaigns and objections to the notification by the GVMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-to-oppose-hike-in-civic-taxes-and-petrol-prices/article37156678.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-LTT special to leave at 9.35 a.m. today||The train No. 08519 Visakhapatnam-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (Mumbai) special, scheduled to leave Visakhapatnam, at 11.20 p.m. on Sunday (October 24) is rescheduled to leave at 9.35 a.m. on Monday (October 25) due to the late running of the pairing train from LTT. It has already been announced by the railways that train no.08519/20 Visakhapatnam-LTT- Visakhapatnam special will run in diverted route via Secunderabad- Nizamabad – Nanded- Manmad-Igatpuri-LTT due to safety-related works. The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway has appealed to the travelling public to make a note of the changes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-ltt-special-to-leave-at-935-am-today/article37156631.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Head constable ‘ends life’||G. Ramesh Naidu (45), a head constable at the Malkapuram Police Station here, allegedly committed suicide at his quarters in the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant area late on Saturday night. The police said that no suicide note was found. Preliminary investigation revealed that family issues were responsible for the incident. The body was shifted to the hospital for a post mortem examination. Those with suicidal tendencies can contact ‘100’ for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/head-constable-ends-life/article37156138.ece
25 October 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman dead, another injured in firecracker blast||A woman died while another was severely injured in a blast, which occurred when firecrackers were being manufactured in Ravikamatham mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday night. The deceased was identified as Ponagalla Nookaratnam (65), a resident of Medivada village. According to Kothakotha Police Station Inspector Lakhshmana Murthy, the family was manufacturing firecrackers at their house without a licence. The crackers exploded while they were being made killing Nookaratnam on the spot. The blast led to the collapse of a wall, which resulted in injuries to another elderly woman. The police reached the spot and are conducting preliminary investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-dead-another-injured-in-firecracker-blast/article37156674.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One virus death in district||The district recorded 33 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning, taking the cumulative tally of cases to 1,58,009. The death toll rose to 1,095 after one more person succumbed to the infection during the same time period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-virus-death-in-district/article37156675.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make use of opportunities, women told||A national seminar and workshop of the Akhil Bharatiya Terapanth Mahila Mandal (ABTMM) was inaugurated by Chattisgarh High Court Judge Gautam Chourdiya, Odisha Transport Commissioner Arun Bothra and ABTMM president Neelam Sethia at Rajasthani Sanskritic Mandal here on Sunday. The speakers told the participants on how to make use of the opportunities for achieving one’s goals and on the challenges being faced by women in the seminar on ‘Safar Sankalp Sai Saflta Ki Aur.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-use-of-opportunities-women-told/article37156669.ece
25 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State-level NGOs meet held in city||The first executive meeting of the NGOs Association of Andhra Pradesh was held at the Public Library here on Sunday. Representatives of NGOs from various districts participated in the meeting. State honorary president Narava Prakasa Rao said that though several development works were being taken up by the governments, NGOs were not being involved like in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-level-ngos-meet-held-in-city/article37156673.ece
25 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CPS detrimental to interests of employees’||Andhra Pradesh Contributory Pension System Employees’ Association president R. Appala Raju on Sunday urged the State government to introduce the old pension system immediately, claiming that the CPS was detrimental to the interests of the employees who joined the service after 2003. Releasing a poster for the ‘Simhagarjana’ in connection with the agitation planned in Vijayawada on December 10, Mr. Appala Raju said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had assured to scrap the CPS during his padayatra in the run-up to the 2019 general elections. “The Thakkar Committee appointed on the CPS has submitted its report long ago. The government must take the necessary steps now. We will intensify the agitation across the State unless the issues are addressed at the earliest,” said Mr. Appala Raju. Association Vizianagaram district president R. Shiva Kumar and his Visakhapatnam counterpart K. Satish said that the meagre pension amount offered under the CPS would not ensure the social security of employees after their retirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cps-detrimental-to-interests-of-employees/article37156586.ece
25 October 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers’ delegation to meet MPs, MLAs||Forum of Registered Teachers’ Organisation (FORTO) Chairman Karanam Harikrishna and Secretary General Samala Simhachalam on Sunday said that FORTO delegations will meet MPs and MLAs in their respective districts and constituencies between November 2 and 5, seeking their support over issues of teachers. The public representatives will be urged to raise the issues of teachers in the next Legislative Assembly and Council sessions. In a press release, Mr. Simhachalam said that thousands of secondary grade teachers, school assistants and Low Female Literacy (LFL) headmasters could not get promotions with the delay in implementation of service rules. He said that all the secondary grade teachers should be given promotion as school assistants as the government wanted to merge third, fourth and fifth classes with the nearby high schools as part of implementing the National Education Policy (NEP). “The school assistants who completed 12 years of service will have to be given promotions as LFL headmaters. The existing LFL HMs can be considered for the next level posts with higher pay scales,” Mr. Simhachalam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-delegation-to-meet-mps-mlas/article37156627.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Burning a hole||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/burning-a-hole/article37156134.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,TELANGANA||Heart flown in from Kochi for 51-year-old||The heart of a brain-dead person from Kochi was brought to Chennai in less than two hours on Sunday and transplanted to a 51-year-old man at Rela Hospital here. A release by the hospital said the heart was harvested from a 30-year-old man, who was declared brain-dead on Saturday night after a road accident. With his family agreeing to donate his organs, his heart got allocated to the patient at Rela Hospital as per organ transplant protocols. Other organs were given to recipients in Kerala. The recipient at Rela Hospital was diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy, a condition that decreased the heart’s ability to pump blood. He was on the organ registry waiting for a transplant since February this year, the hospital said. A team of four people from the hospital led by Dr. Arumugam, heart and transplant surgeon, flew to Kochi on Sunday morning to harvest the organ.  The organ was taken to Kochi airport with the local police forming a green corridor. Soon after it reached Chennai airport, the ambulance brought the organ to the hospital in five minutes time through the green corridor formed by Chennai city police, the release said. A team led by Sandeep Attawar, programme director, Heart and Lung Transplant at the hospital, performed the transplant surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heart-flown-in-from-kochi-to-save-51-year-old-man-in-city-hospital/article37156197.ece
25 October 2021||HUZURABAD,TELANGANA||‘Will KCR make a dalit as TRS chief?’||Huzurabad bypoll campaign reached a feverish pitch on Sunday with Congress and BJP leaders targetting TRS supremo and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and the latter’s followers ridiculing their rivals over policy matters. BJP State chief and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay made a blistering attack on Mr. Rao and questioned him if dalits were not eligible for the post of TRS party president. “For the past 20 years, Mr. Rao is continuing as TRS president, son is working president, daughter is sitting president, nephew is standing president and close relative is sleeping president...what is this?”, he said addressing an election meetings at Rachapalli and Tekurthi in Ellandakunta mandal on Sunday evening. Mr. Sanjay accused Mr. Rao of cheating dalits by promising three acres of land to each dalit family and for not making a dalit as Chief Minister. “Can you prove your commitment by making a dalit as party president?” he challenged the TRS president. H e found fault with MLC Kavitha for using KCR’s photo while playing Bathukamma at Burj Khalifa. He commented that TRS lost hopes of winning Huzurabad bypoll and hence has started playing up its plenary as a bigger event than the bypoll. While several youngsters sacrificed their lives for separate Telangana, now many are ending their lives in the same Telangana for want of jobs, he charged. Phone-tapping: Cong. Meanwhile, TPCC president and Malkajgir MP A. Revanth Reddy said that police department got divided over social groups issue. Even the DGP’s phone is being tapped and the latter is helpless, he said addressing a press conference in Huzurabad. He charged one retired police officer Narsing Rao of keeping a tab on the DGP while another retired officer Venugopal Rao is keeping a tab on Congress leaders. “This government is trying to trouble us by hiring retired police officers. He came down heavily on Finance Minister T. Harish Rao alleging that the latter was acting like Qasim Razvi of Nizam period. He charged that Eatala Rajender deceived people by praising KCR while being his Cabinet colleagues are now challenging the latter following disputes over sharing ill-gotten money. Harish’s posers Meanwhile, Mr. Harish Rao, addressing a public meeting, asked people to question Mr. Rajender as to why they should vote for him. “Should we vote for jacking up prices of diesel, petrol, edible oils?”, he said. The BJP government is privatising and selling public sector organisations. “Should we vote for BJP for destroying the economy?” he said. TRS congress nominee Gellu Sriivas Yadav said that he would always be available and accessible to people in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-kcr-make-a-dalit-as-trs-chief/article37156426.ece
25 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kin over self turning lethal for breast cancer patients||Women suffer the most from breast cancer. And, there are several ‘avoidable’ reasons that keep them away from getting diagnosed at an early stage. Worse so, a few women are even abandoned by their families at government hospitals when they are in critical stages of cancer. All of this calls for a need to generate more awareness about breast cancer. According to the “Profile of Cancer and Related Factors - Telangana”, released by National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR) of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the leading site of cancer among woman is breast. In the State, around 35 out of every 100 cancer patients has malignant tumour in breast. One of the main factors why families abandon women with breast cancer is the myth that cancer is contagious. Some others think that cancer is not treatable. Also, some families do not want to spend on its treatment. Multiple reasons are keeping women away from getting diagnosed in early stages. Those who provide palliative care said that some women prioritise their family needs before their health, some hesitate to talk about lumps in breast, lack of awareness about early symptoms of the cancer, and not consulting doctors or healthcare workers at the first inkling, were leading to disastrous consequences and eventually death. Palliative care centres, and MNJ Institute of Oncology and Cancer Research Centre witness regular flow of patients who are terminally ill. Senior counsellors at the Pain Relief and Palliative Care Society at Kukatpally attend hundreds of terminally ill patients, including women with breast cancer. Founder member of the society Dr. Gayatri Palat said that they have come across many cases where women were diagnosed with breast cancer in late stages as they wanted to consult a doctor or undergo tests after their children’s marriage or construction of home. “In some cases, women with advanced stages of cancer were abandoned at hospitals. If cancer is detected in early stages, it is curable. People should come forward for early check ups,” said Dr. Gayatri, who is also a consultant, and palliative care physician at MNJ Hospital. Senior counsellor at the rehabilitation centre S. Anuradha said that apart from being shy of talking about cancer, other reasons for late diagnosis are relying on alternative medicine, brushing away early symptoms when lumps are not painful. “We have come across cases where husbands tried to dump women when cancer resurfaced. When a man marries another woman, it deeply impacts a terminally ill woman,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kin-over-self-turning-lethal-for-breast-cancer-patients/article37156404.ece
25 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre to promote seaweed culture||Union Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Information & Broadcasting L. Murugan has stated that seaweed culture is being promoted across the country and steps were being taken to identify places for establishing such units. Speaking after visiting the National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) here on Sunday, the Union Minister said that seaweed culture and cage aquaculture were new age techniques that were being promoted under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) for the empowerment of fishermen, particularly women. Empowerment “There is a great demand for seaweed in the country and abroad, since it has several medicinal properties. Seaweed cultivation helps empowerment of the fishing community, particularly,” he said, adding that a seaweed economic park was coming up in Tamil Nadu. More such parks would be established across the country, the Union Minister said while speaking to the media after reviewing the activities of NFDB and inaugurating new activities funded and implemented by the board. The Union government was working out strategies to drastically increase earning from fishing and with an eye on boasting fishing activities, the Centre had allocated Rs. 20,000 crore under Aatma Nirbhar Bharat for developing among others, landing centres, fishing harbours, processing units and cold storages. Besides encouraging new age fishing techniques, the Centre was also supporting inland fishing and was keen on increasing export of fish through projects proposed under PMMSY, Dr. Murugan said. KCC to fishermen Dr. Murugan stated that every fisherman would be issued Kisan Credit Cards (KCCs) soon. The standard operating procedures were being prepared and the proposals were in the advanced stage of consideration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, he explained. Further, he stated that the foundation stone would be laid soon for five fishing harbours with international standards as announced in the annual budget 2021-22. They were proposed at Kochi, Chennai, Visakhapatnam and Paradeep. Earlier, the Union Minister, virtually, launched a giant freshwater prawn hatchery established at College of Fisheries in Dr. Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University (RPCAU) at Dholi in Bihar with NFDB funding. He felicitated the award winners of a recipe competition organised by NFDB in connection with ‘Poshan Maah’ (nutrition month) 2021. Among the winners was Shravani from Telangana who won the third prize.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-to-promote-seaweed-culture/article37156399.ece
25 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR deceived all sections of society, charges Sharmila||President of YSR Telangana Party (YSRTP) Y.S. Sharmila has reiterated that her party would not have poll alliance with any party for the next general elections and would go it alone. She alleged that the ruling Telangana Rshatra Samithi (TRS) has a tacit understanding with both Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress. She walked for 12.6 km covering Kotha thanda, Dabilguda, Mansanpalli and Kothwal thanda in Maheshwaram constituency interacting with people and learning about their problems as part of the fifth day of her ‘Praja Prasthanam Maha Padayatra’ on Sunday. She started off the walkathon from Nagaram, where she stayed overnight and ended at Kothwal thanda for the day. Speaking to people en route she reminded them of crop loan waiver implemented by late Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy when he was the Chief Minister of combined State and said it was Mr. Reddy who thought of Aarogya Sri and 108 Ambulance schemes for free and emergency healthcare to the poor. He also introduced fee reimbursement scheme to enable students from poor families pursue higher and professional education. She stated that people are pouring out several problems before her and she was moved with travails of students, farmers, women, aged persons and widows. Late YSR had thought of every such section and introduced schemes for their welfare and development. However, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had deceived all such sections including on his promises of double-bedroom houses and 12% reservation to Muslims, she alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-deceived-all-sections-of-society-charges-sharmila/article37156425.ece
25 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Protect identity of whistle-blowers: Minister||Identity of the people who pass information about narcotics suppliers has to be confidential. And they should be incentivised suitably. The directions were issued by the Telangana Prohibition and Excise Minister V Srinivas Goud to the Excise officials. The officials and staff who work efficiently would be awarded and rewarded, he said. The Minister on Sunday felicitated the Excise team from Medchal who have seized 4.9 kgs of mephedrone worth around Rs. 2 crore. A raid conducted in a flat at Kukatpally, which was turned into a spot where people used to consume narcotics, has led to seizure of 4.9 kg of mephedrone by the Excise Medchal team on Saturday. They have conducted the raids in Kukatpally, Ibrahimpatnam, and Nagarkurnool district, and caught three people. It was suspected that the narcotic substance was manufactured in a sick pharma unit around Hyderabad. Two suppliers of the narcotic are absconding. Mephedrone was seized in the State after a long time. The strong narcotic is also called as ‘M-Cat’, ‘Meow-Meow’, which is sold at around Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 4,000 per gram. Medchal District Prohibition and Excise officer Vijay Bhaskar, O Sahadevudu from the District Task Force, constables involved in the raids, were felicitated. Mr Srinivas Goud has said that based on Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s directions to increase vigilance to stop the transportation of ganja from Andhra-Chhattisgarh, Odisha, the Excise department officials have formed a separate task force. Pan shops raided Rachakonda Police raided about 60 pan shops and booked 38 cases against the owners for selling ganja in roller papers, gum stickers, hookah flavours and banned tobacco products. Meanwhile, two drug peddlers who were in possession of ganja were arrested by the Habeeb Nagar police here on Sunday. Police seized 900 grams of ganja from the accused, Arjun Singh (39), a pan shop owner from Dhoolpet and K Ramakrishna (21) from Jummerath Bazar of Nampally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protect-identity-of-whistle-blowers-minister/article37156412.ece
25 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Drug Awareness’ campaign held at Osmania University||Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar on Sunday flagged off a Drug Awareness campaign at Arts College, Osmania University. He participated in the morning walk with over 1,000 students and spoke about the ill-effects of cannabis. He asked the students to provide information about drug abuse among the students with an aim to protect them from getting addicted to drugs. “Hyderabad has low drug problem compared to other cities in the country, but vigilance is needed. So, mainly students should not fall prey to drugs. They should be careful, while true Indians should stay away from drugs,” Mr.Kumar said. University Vice-Chancellor Prof Ravinder, Amberpet and Uppal legislators Kaleru Venkatesh and B.Subash Reddy, respectively, Joint Commissioner of Police (East Zone) M Ramesh and other officers participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drug-awareness-campaign-held-at-osmania-university/article37156416.ece
25 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cos. told to stock adequate seed for alternative crops||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has exhorted the seed companies to procure and stock adequate quantities of seed for alternative crops like pulses and oilseeds for Yasangi (rabi) season. Crops like groundnut, green gram, black gram, Bengal gram, caster, bajra , seasmum and oil seeds had good potential in the State in Yasangi. The decision to encourage alternative crops comes in the backdrop of Food Corporation of India announcing that it would not procure paddy during the Yasangi season. Mr. Somesh Kumar made the request to the seed companies during a meeting with the representatives of 36 seed companies held here on Sunday. He said the district collectors had been asked to hold meeting with agriculture and horticulture departments officials and scientists on Monday to discuss about alternative crops in view of the FCI’s decision. At the same time, steps should be taken to create awareness among farmers on opting for alternative crops in Yasangi through 2,603 rythu vedikas. Intensive campaign would be taken up for three days from October 27 at cluster level with farmers and agriculture extension officers to encourage alternative crops. The Chief Secretary asked the seed companies to be ready with adequate stocks of seed to meet the demand in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cos-told-to-stock-adequate-seed-for-alternative-crops/article37156433.ece
25 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR operated 500 Kisan Rails till date||The South Central Railway (SCR) successfully ran more than 500 Kisan Rails from different railway stations covering the three States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra -- moving more than 1.6 lakh tonnes of agricultural products across the country till date. General Manager Gajanan Mallya on Sunday informed that most of the commodities have been moved to the eastern, northern and north-eastern States. He said that the Kisan Rail concept was announced in the Union Budget last year to double the income of agricultural community where safe, secure and fast mode of transportation with least enroute damages to the agricultural products is ensured with 50% concession in freight charges. First Kisan Rail in SCR and also the first from south India was flagged off on September 9 last year from Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh while Telangana’s first Kisan Rail was on February 8 from Warangal and from Nagarsol in Maharashtra on January 5. Varieties of vegetables and fruits transported has been giving major support for the agricultural farmers/traders to market their produce especially during the pandemic time of COVID-19. In total, 359 Kisan Rails have been transported from Maharashtra, 78 from Andhra Pradesh and 63 Kisan Rails from Telangana. Mr. Mallya expressed satisfaction on Kisan Rail concept being huge success across the zone, complimented the teams involved and called upon the officials concerned to extend all possible assistance to farmers and traders in transporting their products, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-operated-500-kisan-rails-till-date/article37156430.ece
25 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||135 COVID cases found, only 26,842 samples tested||The daily COVID-19 case load has dropped to 135 on Sunday, as only 26,842 samples were tested. Usually, around 30,000-40,000 samples are tested. One more COVID patient died on Sunday. The fresh cases include 64 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), and 11 from Rangareddy. No infection was detected in 12 districts. From March 2, 2020 to October 24, 2021, 2.73 crore samples were tested and 6,70,274 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 3,950 were active cases, 6,62,377 have recovered, and 3,947 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/135-covid-cases-found-only-26842-samples-tested/article37156402.ece
25 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 31 crore sanctioned to fight fire at govt. hospitals||The TS government has sanctioned Rs. 31 crore to address inadequate fire-fighting systems in government hospitals. An order to this effect was issued on Friday. For several years, fire safety measures have been inadequate at major government hospitals. The Fire Services department pointed out deficiencies at hospitals under the Director of Medical Education (DME), Telangana Vaidya Vidhana Parishad (TVVP). All of this was mentioned in Fire Services audit reports. When minor fire accidents occurred at government hospitals in the last few years, doctors and staff flagged the potential damage to thousands of lives. Several news reports have been published highlighting the inadequate fire safety measures, including in this publication. As major government hospitals such as Gandhi Hospital, and Osmania General Hospital, are always packed with patients, their attendants, doctors, nurses, and other Health Care Workers (HCW), there was a dire need to have robust fire safety measures. Health officials said that all these concerns would be addressed as over Rs. 31 crore was sanctioned. TS Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMIDC), DME, and Commissioner of TVVP were directed to take necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-31-crore-sanctioned-to-fight-fire-at-govt-hospitals/article37156405.ece
25 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ramagundam police organise medical camp||A medical camp was organised at Dandepalli, an interior tribal village in the Mancherial district by Ramagundam police here on Sunday. As many as 15 super-specialist doctors conducted medical check-ups for over 1,000 people. “Tractors were sent for tribals so that they can come to camp. We have also provided medicines and food to them,” Assistant Commissioner of Police, Mancherial, Akhil Mahajan said. The camp was inaugurated by Commissioner of Police Chandrashekhar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ramagundam-police-organise-medical-camp/article37156432.ece
25 October 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||COVID positive voters can cast their votes: Collector||Election Commission of India wants every election in the country to be fair and free. While ensuring a fair and free poll, authorities decided that Huzurabad bypoll to be a ‘safe’ election as well in the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic. Karimnagar District Collector and Election Officer R.V. Karnan is taking all steps for the safety of voters, all polling personnel, candidates, their agents and even their drivers. Not leaving anything to chance, the district administrative head is monitoring every aspect of the bypoll with minute details. Accompanied by Additional Collector (Local Bodies) Garima Agarwal and Additional Collector G.V. Shyam Prasad Lal, he reviewed arrangements at the counting centre located at SRR Degree College in Karimnagar city on Sunday. He inspected the two counting halls and two strong rooms where EVMs would be kept. The Collector even went to the points where food would be arranged for the polling staff and the electronic sign board meant for public to follow the progress of counting of votes. Mr. Karnan told the authorities to keep in mind the likelihood of rain and make arrangements accordingly. Can voters who tested positive for Coronavirus exercise their franchise? Surely. There are no restrictions for voters who contracted COVID-19. We announced the option of postal ballot for such persons but no one opted for it. Still, persons with coronavirus can come to polling booth and cast their vote. We are providing PPE kits at each polling station with the health desk. However, they are allowed to vote during the final hours of voting, like around 6 p.m. They should inform the health desk personnel, who in turn would alert the presiding officer. We don’t have any restrictions for voters. What about candidates, their polling, counting agents? They need to be double vaccinated. However, if double vaccination is not done, they should take RT-PCR tests 48 hours to 72 hours ahead of counting/polling. We ourselves will take samples. What precautions are taken for safety of polling personnel in the backdrop of Nagarjunasagar by-poll experience? Each polling station would have a four-member team. All of them are double vaccinated. For 306 polling stations, we required 1,200 plus employees. Generally, we take 25% reserve but due to COVID-19, 40% reserve is maintained and that too with employees who took second dose of vaccination. Any special security arrangements for polling, counting? Three tier security layers. Inner circle would be monitored by central para military forces. Secondary layer would be in the hands of State special security forces, and local law and order police would be in charge of the outer layer. Any changes in voters list? Earlier, the voters list was up to January, 2021. As per the latest, voters enrolled till September 28, 2021 are eligible to vote.  Supplementary rolls were prepared and given to political parties. R.V. Karnan, Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-positive-voters-can-cast-their-votes-collector/article37156428.ece
25 October 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Fake news spreaders trigger tension||Police are facing a fresh challenge in the form of ‘fake news’ spreaders in Huzurabad bypoll. Already, four First Information Reports (FIRs) have been registered till Saturday over such instances. These persons are creating fake news templates using the names of noted Telugu television news channels/newspaper with the statements of public representatives like a MP or a Minister. In once instance, they posted a statement in the name of Nizamabad MP Aravind Dharampuri with the logo of a Telugu newspaper. “A person seeing this would mistakenly believe the statement having potential to trigger communal tension was made by the public representative,” Karimnagar Police Commissioner V. Satyanarayana said. He clarified that the MP did not make any such statement. In another instance, a template was created posting baseless news that authorities seized huge sums of money from BJP candidate Eatala Rajender using the logo of a TV news channel. In fact, no money was seized, the Commissioner stated. In yet another template, a fake news was being circulated stating that Minister Gangula Kamalakar accepted that State government was collecting more tax on gas cylinders. The offenders are using social media to circulate these fake news. “With polling a week away, people would be naturally interested in learning political developments. Taking advantage of this, offenders are spreading false information creating differences,” the Commissioner explained. The offenders are using mobile apps like Breaking News Photo Editor, News Paper Photo Frame, Breaking News Reporter Photo and Video and Breaking News Video Maker. “ One person was already detained in a case. Probe indicated that one of the fake news was created by a person in Hyderabad. Efforts are on catch all involved in the offences. Technical teams are engaged to identify, track and catch such persons, the Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fake-news-spreaders-trigger-tension/article37156422.ece
25 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Additional Collector comes in for praise||Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar on Sunday heaped praise on Additional Collector (Local Bodies) M Sneha Latha for setting an example worthy of emulation by giving birth to her baby (first child) at the government headquarters hospital in the town two days ago. Ms Sneha Latha gave birth to a baby girl at the Maternal and Child Health Care wing of the government hospital here on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/additional-collector-comes-in-for-praise/article37156434.ece
25 October 2021||Mysuru,TELANGANA||JD(S) blames Cong. tie-up for rout in previous bypolls||Janata Dal (S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday blamed his party’s alliance with the Congress for its rout in the series of bypolls held after the 2018 Assembly elections. Participating in an interactive programme organised by the Mysuru District Journalists’ Association here, he expressed regret over the fact that the JD(S) bit the dust in the series of bypolls to the Assembly held after the 2018 polls, “all because of the alliance with the Congress”. Claiming that the party had lost its strength because of the alliance with the Congress, he said the JD(S) was now forced to build itself up from the scratch for the 2023 Assembly elections. Vowing not to go anywhere near the Congress or BJP, Mr. Kumaraswamy said he would strive to bring the JD(S) to power independently. Recalling the hurt he experienced during his association with the Congress even after the 2004 Assembly polls, he said an answer to all the insults heaped upon the party would be given in 2023. Though he expressed confidence that the JD(S) would perform well in the coming bypolls to Hangal and Sindgi, Mr. Kumaraswamy was hopeful of the winning the constituencies in 2023. He recalled the victory of the Congress party in the bypolls to Gundlupet and Nanjangud in 2017 and then its loss in the Assembly elections in the subsequent year. The former Chief Minister also said that Congress leader Siddaramaiah, during the campaign for the bypolls, had sought to share the credit for the loan waiver extended during the coalition Government’s tenure. “But the Congress was only particular that the Bhagya programmes launched by the Siddaramaiah Government were not discontinued. It was I who increased the Budget from Rs. 2.09 lakh crore, presented by Mr. Siddaramaiah before the elections, to Rs. 2.19 lakh crore subsequently to accommodate the loan waiver. There was no support from the Congress for the loan waiver.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jds-blames-cong-tie-up-for-rout-in-previous-bypolls/article37156185.ece
25 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Young couple succumb after suicide attempt||A young couple hailing from Tirumalagiri Sagar breathed their last at Nalgonda general hospital on Sunday, two days after they allegedly consumed pesticide, reportedly because the woman was engaged to another man in a family-arranged match. Both 19-year-old Sandhya and 22-year-old Kondal from Thettekunta village in the mandal belonged to the same Yadava community and were also distantly related. According to the police, the teenager was engaged to a person from outside the village on Thursday and the next day, the families had gone for the lagna patrika rituals. Since no elders were around, the young couple consumed a pesticide and fell ill. They were soon rushed to Nalgonda town for emergency treatment. Police, however, said the couple never told the parents about their love and were filled with anxiety. Their friends too were shocked knowing about their extreme decision. A case was registered for full probe. Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/young-couple-succumb-after-suicide-attempt/article37156634.ece
25 October 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Create awareness on legal remedies available to public: judge||Supreme Court Judge and Executive Chairman, National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) Uday Umesh Lalit said that legal awareness should be increased among the public and quality service must be ensured for them. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating a camp module as part of pan-India legal awareness and outreach programme from October 2 to November 14 held at the district headquarters on Sunday, Justice Lalit said that extending free legal aid service commenced about 25 years ago. “If we look at statistics, out of 100 cases not even one case is coming to legal services authority seeking legal aid,” he said, adding that legal aid should be ‘Raja Marga’ for entering the temple of justice and people should have confidence in the system. He stressed the need to reach all villages at least thrice in the 45 days campaign. Referring to the video that was presented in the programme on the activities of Telangana State Legal Services Authority (TSLSA), Justice Lalit said that two clips – para legal volunteer stopping a justice seeker from paying amount to a lawyer and extending him assistance and extending help to acid attack victim and compensation – have moved him very much and pointed out where the legal services authority stands for. He opined that these need to be translated to other languages. Stating that he was not against lawyers, Justice Lalit said that free quality legal aid should be part of profile for them. Justice Ujjal Bhuyan, while welcoming the gathering, said that equal justice and free legal aid was aim of the programme. NALSA has been making efforts for access to justice and deliver it at the doorstep of the needy. Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, Chief Justice, High Court for the State of Telangana and Patron-in- Chief, Telangana State Legal Services Authority (TSLSA), Justice Ujjal Bhuyan, Judge High Court, Executive Chairman, TSLSA, Justice Vinod Kumar, Judge, High Court, Justice A. Abhishek Reddy, Principal and Sessions Judge Justice B. Papi Reddy have participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-to-create-awareness-on-legal-remedies-available-to-public/article37156420.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Is it a conspiracy or strategy?||Three major political parties in Telangana – Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party – have been accusing each other of colluding with the other, ever since the schedule for Huzurabad by-election was announced by the Election Commission. The blame game went up a notch recently when working president of TRS K.T. Rama Rao alleged that BJP candidate Eatala Rajender had a ‘clandestine’ meet with TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy only to reach at an “understanding” to defeat TRS together in Huzurabad. Prior to that, several Congress leaders have alleged that TRS and BJP are colluded to defeat Congress, and BJP leaders have alleged that Congress and TRS have joined hands to defeat BJP. “In the process, every party has forgotten a basic political reality that defeating a party is a prime objective for an opposition party even if it necessitates to join hands with another party to defeat one party. If two parties join hands to defeat a third party, it would be more of a political strategy rather than a conspiracy,” a senior politician who lost the last Lok Sabha election observed.   The State government’s reported decision to allow replies to queries raised under the Right To Information Act only after the senior officials give their consent has come as a jolt to the information seekers and RTI activists. The activists are expressing concern that the spirit of the well-intentioned Act aimed at ensuring transparency in public issues will be diluted with steps like this. Moreover, the decision comes at a time when there is huge pendency of RTI applications with different departments. Activists and those supporting the RTI Act are also raising questions about the efficacy of the RTI implementation mechanism created in the State with full team of information commissioners in place. The government hopefully will reconsider its decision so that at least some amount of transparency continues in public domain.   The State government seems to have woken up to the reality that outsiders are destroying the precious forest cover, and not the tribes inhabiting the forests for ages. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao himself has acknowledged that “forces from outside” are indulging in destruction of the forests while the “adavi biddalu” (tribes, the children of forests) are trying their best to protect the forest cover. The Chief Minister in the process had directed the officials to invoke provisions under the Preventive Detention Act (PD Act) against those found guilty of destroying the forest wealth. He went ahead to announce constitution of committees to take applications from eligible tribals for allowing podu cultivation, delineating the boundaries where it can be taken up, and said the government would erect forest trenches to prevent destruction of forest cover forthwith. Hopefully, these words will translate into action to protect forest cover as well as rights of the tribes. (B. Chandrashekhar  and M.Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/is-it-a-conspiracy-or-strategy/article37156423.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Sparkling nights ahead||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sparkling-nights-ahead/article37156411.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail||Minister for Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao had earlier advised his party cadre not to display flexis, banners and cut-outs for any occasion and GHMC even fined those resorting to such activities. However, many flexis, banners and huge cut-outs of Ministers, MLAs and other ruling party leaders are seen all over Telangana for various government programmes. And even days after these programmes get over, these are not removed either by the partymen concerned or municipal authorities. Some traffic signals are found to be blocked with such giant size flexis. I urge municipal authorities to give strict instructions not to display such banners, or remove them voluntarily as soon as the programme gets over. J.P. Reddy Nalgonda   Most footpaths are occupied by street vendors and shopkeepers in commercial areas. In residential areas, people are putting fences in the name of planting trees and illegal telephone poles are erected without anybody’s knowledge, forcing pedestrians to walk on roads and risk their lives. I would like to request the municipal officials concerned to observe ‘Pedestrians’ Day’ at least once a week. Only then such illegal encroachments on footpaths will disappear. T. Kailash Ditya Barkatpura   More than a month back, work on the road started opposite RR Village Pointe gated community apartments. But, the work has not been finished and left like that. As a result, people are unable to use it. It is strange that when properties are registered, a hefty amount is charged as development fee. I request the authorities concerned to complete the road work at the earliest. N. Nagarajan Alkapur   Telangana Mee Seva is doing yeoman service for citizens. Unfortunately, all forms are in Telugu and filling them up leads to errors in information provided for availing the services. I request the authorities concerned to provide applications in English also for the convenience of all citizens. R.G.C. Sekhar Yapral   There seems to be no uniformity in putting speed breakers on roads in the twin cities in terms of ideal location, length, height or width. The result is these may be able to stop the vehicle altogether or serve as back-breakers leading to accidents, especially for two wheeler riders and pillion riders. One wonders whether the coordinating bodies like GHMC or R&B or HMDA have any standard procedures with regard to where and how a speed breaker should be structured. D. Nagarjuna Kushaiguda  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-the hindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail/article37156409.ece
25 October 2021||AHMEDABAD,||HC raps officials as Sabarmati river remains highly polluted||Gujarat’s Sabarmati river remains highly polluted despite the spending of nearly Rs. 200 crore that the Centre had allocated to curb pollution in the river from 2014-15 to 2017-18. But the situation has only worsened, inviting wrath from the High Court. The Gujarat High Court has reprimanded the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) for the pollution on the Sabarmati riverfront, and admonished that officials accountable for the functioning of laboratories in sewage treatment plants (STP), who failed to keep a check on polluted water dumped into the riverfront, will be “dealt with strictly”. The High Court observed that the root cause of pollution in the Sabarmati was the lack of accountability on part of the authorities, as there appears to be a nexus between the officials and industries that discharge untreated effluents into the river stream, polluting its water. The Division Bench of Justices J.B. Pardiwala and Vaibhavi Nanavati is hearing a suo motu petition on large-scale pollution in the river due to the discharge of untreated sewage and industrial effluents. The court has also constituted a joint task force (JTF), which submitted its report highlighting the failures of STPs and effluent treatment plants. The JTF brought out systemic flaws in the running of STPs. The Bench has learnt that the laboratories inside STPs across the city, which were supposed to keep a check on the water dumped into the Sabarmati river, were almost non-functional. The JTF and the Amicus Curiae Hemang Shah submitted that the Sabarmati riverfront was in poor state due to the “legal” as well as the illegal release of untreated industrial effluents and sewage water in Ahmedabad city. A JTF member and leading environmental activist Rohit Prajapati told the court that the treatment plants were not functioning properly and there is no monitoring system in place. He suggested that while the civic body can outsource the functioning of treatment plants, it must not outsource their monitoring, and there must be continuous monitoring of the functioning of the treatment plants. “Effluents and sewage from industrial units are continuously being discharged into the Sabarmati river. Despite all this, industrial units have been provided legal permission to carry out these activities,” Mr. Prajapati submitted, demanding strict action against industries that violated environmental norms. This is not for the first time the issue of critical levels of pollution in the Sabarmati has surfaced. In 2019, a report by non-governmental organisation Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti (PSS) revealed that 120 km of the river, before it meets the Arabian Sea in Gujarat, was ridden with industrial effluents and sewage. Originating from the Aravalli hills in neighbouring Rajasthan, the Sabarmati meets the Arabian Sea in the Gulf of Khambhat area, after traversing a distance of 371 km, passing through districts like Udaipur in Rajasthan, and Aravalli, Sabarkantha, Gandhinagar, Ahmedabad and Kheda in Gujarat. It has a total catchment area of 21,674 sq. km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-raps-officials-as-sabarmati-river-remains-highly-polluted/article37156296.ece
25 October 2021||Bhopal,||Over 43 lakh people skip second vaccine dose in M.P.||Madhya Pradesh’s State Health Department is struggling to motivate people to get their second dose of COVID-19 vaccine. According to the latest data, more than 43 lakh people have not taken the second dose despite reminders. According to senior health officials monitoring the vaccination drive, more than 1 crore people will be given the second dose at the prescribed time in the State. However, 43.60 lakh of them have not taken it. “We have sent reminders on the registered mobile numbers to those who have not come forward to take the second dose as per schedule,” Dr. Santosh Shukla, State Expanded Programme on Immunisation Officer (SPEIO), Madhya Pradesh told The Hindu . Agrarian population One of the biggest reasons why more people are skipping the second dose is primarily because Madhya Pradesh is an agricultural State where more than 72% of total working population is engaged or directly associated with agriculture as farmers and farm labourers. Currently, harvesting of kharif crops is under way, a senior doctor posted in a rural area of Bhopal district said. “After taking the first dose, most of them had to take rest. As these days are very important during the harvesting period, no one wants to waste a single day,” he added. “The wheat harvest has begun in the State. It’s an important time of year when the foodgrain gets collected and tailed,” said Laxman S. Thakur, a farmer from Bagrasia village, on the outskirts of Bhopal district. Once the harvesting and festival seasons are over, people will automatically get their second dose, a senior health official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-43-lakh-people-skip-second-vaccine-dose-in-mp/article37156317.ece
25 October 2021||Bhopal,||Leopard released into the wild||A female leopard, rescued from a forest in Madhya Pradesh's Raisen district over two months back, has now been released in the Satpura Tiger Reserve in Hoshangabad district, a forest official said on Sunday. It was found injured in Jujharpur forest beat of Raisen on August 9 this year, he said. The feline was subsequently brought to Bhopal’s Van Vihar National Park where it was treated by a team of veterinarians, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/leopard-released-into-the-wild/article37156293.ece
25 October 2021||Bhopal,||Rescued leopard released into the wild||A female leopard, rescued from a forest in Madhya Pradesh’s Raisen district over two months back, has now been released in the Satpura Tiger Reserve in Hoshangabad district.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rescued-leopard-released-into-the-wild/article37156508.ece
25 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha continues its long fight against practice of witch-hunting||For five years, Tribeni Sandha, 45, has done everything she can to return to her remote Gobarlundi village in Odisha’s Ganjam district. But a homecoming is still a far cry for her. For fellow villagers, she is a witch and can harm others. “In 2017, we, three families in the Gobarlundi village, were paraded naked and forced to consume excreta of human and animals. A penalty of Rs. 2 lakh was imposed on each of us as penalty. As we could not pay the penalty, we were thrown out of the village. Since then, we have moved the State Human Rights Commission and knocked on the door of courts, but I cannot return [to the village],” said Ms. Sandha. In 2019, four Dalit women were driven out from the same village after being branded as witches. They, too, now lead a nomadic life. Last week, Haripada Patra lodged a complaint at the Joda Police Station in Keonjhar district, stating that he feared for his life. Fellow villagers had twice attempted to attack him by accusing him of practising black magic. Despite the State government coming up with the Odisha Prevention of Witch-hunting Act, 2013 and the Composite Action Plan to Prevent Witch-hunting-2017, the inhumane trials of witch-hunting, as may have been practised in medieval times, continue to haunt people living in rural pockets of the State. 344 people killed In the seven years between 2014 and 2020, as many as 344 people have been killed on suspicion of performing witchcraft in Odisha. This year, 18 persons have already lost their lives. The State government has directed all District Collectors to carry out training and sensitisation of anganwadi workers in villages on the evils of witch-hunting and various preventive measures for it. The administration hopes these anganwadi workers can later go on educating other villagers. Women self-help groups (SHG) have also been roped in to educate villagers on the issue. “Though the government has enacted an Act to punish people who are involved in the heinous act, this, however, cannot be enforced in all cases. A larger awareness is required to do away the evil practice,” said Debendra Sutar, a rationalist who has been following witch-hunting cases for several years. According to Mr. Sutar, while tribal tradition can be blamed for the existence of such an archaic practice, in many cases, organised and influential groups of villagers perpetrate the crime. “The main motive behind branding someone as a witch is to gobble up the property of others, seek sexual favours from widows or unmarried women, and create village funds. In most cases, the victims are scared of approaching the police to complain against such influential groups,” he said. Story-based lessons While the Women and Child Welfare Department has taken on the responsibility of educating anganwadi workers and women SHGs, the School and Mass Education Department has been asked to include story-based lessons on the evils of witch-hunting in the school syllabus. The Health Department has been given the task of generating awareness on the symptoms of simple diseases and their treatment, instead of taking the help of “witch doctors”, another aspect to the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/odisha-continues-its-long-fight-against-practice-of-witch-hunting/article37156507.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Close clergy’s personal trusts in T.N.’||Expressing concern over the “tendency among the Catholic clergy in Tamil Nadu to establish and manage independent trusts”, Archbishop Leopoldo Girelli, Apostolic Nuncio to India, has instructed Bishops to close the existing personal trusts. Archbishop Leopoldo Girelli, who visited the Diocese of Kottar, said the trusts were being registered as NGOs, ostensibly to provide assistance to those in need. “Even if the aim of such trusts may appear to be praiseworthy, all too often they become financial and political power bases for the priests involved,” he said in a letter to the Archbishops and the Bishops and the Tamil Nadu Bishops’ Council (TNBC) on October 8. He said that according to the canon law 286, “clerics are prohibited from conducting business or trade personally or through others for their own advantage or that of others, except with the permission of legitimate ecclesiastical authority”. “Clerics or religious who exercise a trade or business contrary to the prescripts of the canons are to be punished according to the gravity of the deceit,” he said, quoting canon law 1392. ‘Find out the details’ Urging the TNBC to find out the details of the personal trusts held by priests in the diocese, the Apostolic Nuncio instructed the Bishops to close them and not to allow any new one. He made it clear that no trust should be under the sole control of a member of the clergy. “Bring under the control of the diocesan trust or the diocesan social services trust those trusts that are of genuine benefit to the life and mission of the diocese.” Bishop Thomas Aquinas, Bishop of Coimbatore, has already circulated the Apostolic Nuncio’s letter to the priests and asked them to close their trusts. “Our diocese is not willing to bring them under the diocesan control,” he said in his letter to the priests on October 16. Asked for his opinion, Peter Alphonse, chairman, State Minorities Commission, said the issue had already been brought to his notice. “It is the right time for the Catholic community... to keep their house in order. The purpose of the mission is to help the downtrodden, and not individuals, whoever they may be,” he said. Former IAS officer M.G. Devasahayam said that according to the canon law and the Bible, the clergy should take care of only spiritual and ecclesiastical affairs, and are not supposed to handle properties and material affairs. He said that it was the failure of the project to open a medical college and hospital at Muttom, Kanniyakumari district, on a huge loan, that had necessitated the visit of the Nuncio and his subsequent instructions. ‘They lack knowledge’ “That is why I have been pressing for the constitution of a committee of faithfuls, with professional knowledge, to look after the properties and other issues. Of course, there are non-corrupt priests. But they lack knowledge,” said Mr. Devasahyam, who was involved in the restoration of church properties at the Boat Club and the properties of D’Monte Trust in Chennai.  That is why I have been pressing for a committee of faithfuls, with professional knowledge, to look after the properties M.G. Devasahayamformer IAS officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/close-clergys-personal-trusts-in-tn/article37156297.ece
25 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||A fight for motherland on a foreign land: Vishal||Just out of his teens, Vishal Jood, left his home in Haryana’s Kurukshetra four years back to pursue his dreams of a bright career in Australia. But he ended up convicted on three charges after a brawl with the Sikh community in his host country, which he says was to protect the honour of his motherland — India. “No doubt, all this has hurt my career and future prospects, but I can’t stand disrespect to the nation and the Tricolour. Everyone should respect their country,” said Vishal Jood, now returned back in his village in Haryana following intervention by the Indian government. Son of a farmer, Mr. Jood was working as a stocks manager in a private firm in Australia for the past two years after completing a diploma course in business and management when a series of incidents, coinciding with the farmers agitation in India led to his arrest by the New South Wales police in April this year ona dozen charges. Eight of these charges, including racial hatred, were later dropped. It all started with a farmers rally at Quakers Hill in Sydney in December 2020, when a group of Sikh men tired to “trample” the Tricolour and raised pro-Khalistan slogans, Mr. Jood told The Hindu over phone. “I managed to snatch the flag from them and unfurled it, following which they surrounded and assaulted me. It did not end here and was followed by numerous threats to me on social media,” he said. On Republic Day this year, an attempt was made to disrupt a Tiranga rally held by Mr. Jood and his friends in Sydney, he claimed. This was followed by an attack on February 14 at another Tiranga car rally. “At the end of the rally, a large number of men armed with baseball bats and golf sticks attacked me at Harris Park. But I managed to snatch their baseball bat and ran away after breaking the windscreen of one of their cars,” said Mr. Jood. He was also injured his left arm in the attack. Naseeb Singh, president, Akhil Bharatiya Ror Mahasabha, said initial reports depicted Vishal as “villain” for targetting the Sikhs, but the perception changed after his video unfurling the Tricolour went viral. Support pours in Soon support from many quarters, especially Rajputs poured in, and pressure was mounted on State political leadership to intervene with growing agitation across the sSate seeking release of Mr. Jood. Mr. Singh said Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal and Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh met the Union Ministers to facilitate Mr. Jood’s release. Alex Hawke’s tweet Following his return, Australia’s Immigration and Citizenship Minister Alex Hawke, in a tweet, said that “attempts to undermine Australia’s social cohesion will not be tolerated” hinting that Mr. Jood’s act was seen as one causing communal disharmony. A news item by IndiaLink NEWS, shared by Mr. Hawke on his Twitter handle, said: “It is believed that there was lobbying undertaken at very senior levels in the Indian government to secure the release of Vishal Jood due to political pressure from the ruling BJP in the state from which he hails.” Returning to hero’s welcome to India a week ago, Mr. Jood said he was reluctant to be part of the road show fearing a backlash from Sikhs, especially in view of the Singhu border murder case. He said he grew up with Sikhs being in majority in his locality in Kurukshetra’s Govindgarh and lamented being labelled as anti-Sikh. Busy meeting people who had supported him during his stint in jail, Mr. Jood said his Australia dream seemed over and he had no plans to go back at least for a couple of years, but was ready to serve his country in any capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-fight-for-motherland-on-a-foreign-land-says-vishal-jood/article37156300.ece
25 October 2021||Jaipur,||Owner of coaching institute arrested||The police on Sunday arrested a private coaching institute owner for allegedly selling fake question papers to aspirants of Patwari recruitment exam and held a government school clerk on the charge of impersonating as a candidate. The two-day exam for recruitment of village-level revenue officers concluded on Sunday. Jaipur Rural SP Shankar Dutt Sharma said Praveen Gurjar, who ran a coaching institute in the Chandwaji area of Jaipur had promised to provide some aspirants question papers of the exam in advance for Rs. 10 lakh each. Gurjar had taken Rs. 4 lakh advance from the candidates and also their documents, the officer said, adding the question paper provided by Gurjar was fake. He has been arrested, Mr. Sharma said. Meanwhile, Sunil Godara, a lower division clerk of a government school was arrested for appearing in the examination as a dummy candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/owner-of-coaching-institute-arrested/article37156510.ece
25 October 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra govt., British Council partnership trains 1.46 lakh teachers||The British Council, the United Kingdom’s international organisation for educational opportunities and cultural relations, and the Government of Maharashtra’s 10 years of partnership in driving teacher training programmes have trained nearly 2,000 master trainers and 1,46,000 teachers, benefiting 4.38 million students in the government schools. An independent evaluation report on the programme unveiled on Thursday assesses the extent of reach and measurable impact of British Council’s work in Maharashtra over the past decade. It offers a thorough review of its contribution to the transformation of teacher education in terms of its relevance and coherence with state’s needs and objectives, its effectiveness, impact and potential sustainability. The report also provides evidence-based recommendations and predictions guiding future teacher education programmes in the State, ranging from consideration of gender-related factors and opportunities for the increased adoption of technology. Over the period 2012-2021, the State government commissioned four projects that aimed at improving English language proficiency of in-service primary and secondary school teachers, and students, across Maharashtra which were designed and delivered by the British Council. State’s School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad who was present the unveiling of the report said, “Our partnerships with the British Council, such as Tejas and English for All Mumbai (EfA), have led to a significant improvement in the competency of the teachers, which has resulted in higher quality education for our students year on year. We are confident that through our continued partnership, we will equip our government schools ecosystem with highly skilled teachers, leading to improved learner outcomes and young students of the State becoming successful global citizens.” Dr. Jovan Ilić, Director West India, British Council said, “Teachers are at the centre of driving change and preparing students for their futures; and we are glad to have the Government of Maharashtra’s trust to upskill their biggest assets – the teachers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-partnership-that-trained-146-lakh-teachers/article37156504.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||Heroin seizure takes the lid off inter-State drug cartel network||The seizure of 10 kg of crude heroin from two persons near Nigambodh Ghat on Ring Road last year by the special cell of Delhi Police has laid bare a well-oiled network of inter-State drug cartel operating between Manipur, West Bengal, and Delhi. The details of the inter-State drug network came out in a judgment delivered by the Delhi High Court last week in which it rejected the bail plea of a man from Malda in West Bengal, who allegedly was also part of the cartel. Tip-off and seizure On June 22, last year, the special cell got a tip-off that one Md Samiual alias Raj and Md Mukhtiyar, both residents of West Bengal, were bringing heroin from Manipur to Delhi. The special cell was informed that the duo would be supplying heroin at Nigam Bodh Ghat on Ring Road towards ISBT Kashmere Gate and they would be in a pick-up vehicle. A raiding party was set up. About 11.30 a.m., one pick-up van was spotted coming from Yamuna Bazar flyover. The vehicle was stopped and the two people who de-boarded the vehicle were overpowered. After serving notices under Section 50 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, a search of their bags was carried out. Five kg of heroin was seized from a black backpack carried by Mr. Samiual while another five kg was found in a black backpack carried by Mr. Mukhtiyar. A case was registered. During investigation, the duo revealed that they were part of a narcotics syndicate. They also said that they worked for one Manju Didi, a resident of Manipur, and the seized heroin was taken from her. The duo claimed that the contraband was crude heroin. They further said that they had been working in the heroin trade for the last one to one-and-a-half years with Manju Didi and they had supplied the drug to Abul Kalam alias Sultan, a resident of Malda in West Bengal. Code words The special cell told the court that on receipt of information, some mobile numbers were put on surveillance after obtaining requisite permissions. After monitoring the interception, it was revealed that all the accused were communicating with their associates in code words. On June 27, 2020, Mr. Samiual was made to call Mr. Kalam from his mobile number about the supply of four kg of heroin. The next day, a special cell team arrested Mr. Kalam in West Bengal and later, brought him to the Capital. However, during a search, no drugs were seized from his possession. Further investigation revealed that all the accused had taken SIM cards by furnishing fictitious addresses so that they could not be traced. Mr. Kalam’s mobile number was found in the name of one Phutu Tudu, a resident of Shampur Tapan village, Dakshin Dinajpur, West Bengal. On verification, Mr. Phutu Tudu said that he had never purchased the said number and it did not belong to him. Similarly, the mobile number found with Mr. Samiual was in the name of one Kanai Mahanta of Gangarampur Naya Bazar, Dakshin Dinajpur. On verification, it was revealed that no person in the name of Kanai Mahanta resided in the village. Bail rejected Grant or rejection of bail under the NDPS Act is governed by Section 37 of the Act. On behalf of Mr. Kalam, it was argued that no contraband was seized from his possession and that he was arrested based on the disclosure statement of Mr. Samiual and Mr. Mukhtiyar. Justice Subramonium Prasad, however, said that the facts of the present case disclosed that the accused had taken mobile numbers on the basis of fictitious addresses so that they could not be traced. “All this indicates that the petitioner (Mr. Kalam) and his associates are part of the well-organised syndicate and are involved in inter-State transport, supply and sale of drugs,” the High Court said. “Material placed at this juncture is sufficient to indicate that the petitioner (Mr. Kalam) herein is part of the criminal conspiracy to commit offences under the NDPS Act,” Justice Prasad said while rejecting his bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/heroin-seizure-takes-the-lid-off-inter-state-drug-cartel-network/article37156291.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||Two days after minor’s rape, 20-year-old held in Haryana||Two days after a seven-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted in central Delhi’s Ranjit Nagar, the Delhi police on Sunday arrested a 20-year-old man in Haryana in connection with the incident. The accused has been identified as Dinesh Shah, a resident of Raghubir Nagar. After the incident of rape was reported on Friday, a case under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the POCSO Act was registered at Ranjit Nagar police station and a police team was constituted. DCP (Central) Shweta Chauhan said that the police checked footage from around 800 CCTV cameras and zeroed in on the suspect. “It was found that the suspect was neither related to the victim nor he was a resident of the area. The police even did not have his mobile number,” she said. With the help of dossiers, local sources and technical surveillance, the suspect was identified by the police team. The DCP also said that another team of the Central District found out that the accused had been arrested in another case of rape. He was on an interim bail in that case. After raids were conducted at all the possible hideouts of the accused, Mr. Shah tried to flee but the police tracked him till Rohtak district in Haryana where he was eventually nabbed, Ms. Chauhan said. In a CCTV footage, the girl could be seen crossing the street alone, but a little while later, the accused could be seen walking with her and talking to the child. After the girl went home and narrated the incident to her mother, the latter approached the police. The girl, who was admitted to a hospital, is now stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-days-after-minors-rape-20-year-old-held-in-haryana/article37156285.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||E-waste disposal, a mounting headache||For a little over 10 years, Sakir Mohammad, a ragpicker in the city’s Patparganj Industrial Area, has been collecting electronic waste from nearby companies. A growing concern for Delhi despite measures in place for collection and recycling, the industry has been dependent on informal players like ragpickers for e-waste disposal. As per the data provided by the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), 39 pickup requests were made for e-waste collection to Attero Recycling, a private firm roped in by the municipal body, from July 29 to September 30 this year. However, 25 of these requests were cancelled. Only “12 pickups were done” and “129.97 kilograms” of e-waste were collected during the period. It further said that “lots of calls” were made for “picking up material in working condition” and that users’ “expectation of cost was high”. Lack of awareness EDMC Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said that “people lacked awareness”. “We are working to create awareness through various mediums and by getting in touch with resident welfare associations. I agree that a significant portion of the e-waste goes to the informal sector, and they are also welcome to join the formal sector, but only if they meet the requirements,” he said, adding that more private players for e-waste collection will be invited in the near future. South Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Mukesh Suryan said “they have already taken the initiative” to collect e-waste through a private player. “It will take some time for people to understand and follow the system. We are trying to create awareness regarding collection and recycling of e-waste  in colonies through various methods. We have an online portal which people can make use of,” he said. Staggering numbers According to a 2018 report by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM), India had generated close to two million metric tonnes of e-waste, with a significant portion of the waste going to the informal sector. Delhi was among the top e-waste contributors in the country with 9.5% and a future estimate of three million metric tonnes in India was quoted. Thirty-year-old Mohammad is one among the city’s many informal waste collectors, who collects old and unusable electronic items with regular scrap materials. “I collect whatever comes in the scrap, including old phones, air conditioner parts and compressors. Once collected, I sell it to whoever is willing to buy — mostly shopkeepers who want to resell it. Otherwise, I send the remaining waste to a place near the Ghazipur Dairy Farm,” said Mr. Mohammad, who has no knowledge of what happens to the e-waste after he sells it. While Mr. Mohammad said he does not have a licence to collect e-waste, he is not keen on acquiring one. “Sometimes, I end up paying a meagre fine to the municipal corporation authorities but the matter does not escalate beyond that. I have monthly expenses to maintain my business, which includes paying police officers every month. They keep our set-up safe when we are not around and also give us tip-offs prior to any raids that are going to be conducted by civic bodies,” he said. Sahil Khan, an e-waste collector of old computer parts, wonders “what happens to the e-waste generated by big tech companies”. “We follow a system where we dismantle the waste we collect and recycle it at plants outside Delhi. We also keep a record by taking videos of the recycling process. Every electronic waste item has a different method of dismantling and recycling, but one should visit the recycling plants that handle e-waste from big tech firms,” Mr. Khan said, adding that he suspected a foul play in their process of handling the waste. Broader issues In the city’s Seelampur, a hub of the informal sector, one can see scores of local shops selling outdated and discarded electronic waste, from old mobile phones, phone batteries to motherboards, hard disks, fridges and compressors. A shopkeeper in the area said he dealt with “old mobile phones” which he would dismantle and sell “to buyers who resell the same in the market”. “We only dismantle and sell the core parts of the device; we sell it in bulk quantities and the demand for these parts is quite high,” he said. A cart puller, who regularly transports the waste to these shops, said, “We only pick up and drop the waste as instructed. For us, it is a matter of daily earnings and we do not get into the specifics of what happens after that.” Satish Sinha, associate director at Toxics Link, a city-based group focusing on environmental issues, said the role of informal players cannot be denied and they should be included as part of the solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/e-waste-disposal-a-mounting-headache/article37156289.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||Work on for early landslide warning system||Widespread devastation, numerous road crashes and deaths caused by landslides in several parts of the country throughout the year have turned the spotlight on the urgent need for its early detection or monitoring systems. Several groups of researchers in the country are working upon solutions to reduce landslide-induced fatalities by providing early and accurate warnings so that traffic can be stopped on certain routes and the people are relocated to safer places on time. Landslides are the third biggest natural disasters in the world, with India experiencing the biggest bulk of them — 15% of the country is prone to landslides and India has the highest number of landslide deaths in the world. Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mandi, who claim to have developed the cheapest solution for landslide monitoring system across the globe are now experimenting with the same system across railway tracks. “We have patented a surface-level motion sensor-based early warning system developed by our team. The device gathers information about weather parameters, soil moisture, and soil movement and when it detects a large displacement of soil which could result in a landslide, it sends SMS alerts,” Varun Dutt, Associate Professor, IIT Mandi said. “The sensors alerted officials about an imminent landslide on the Mandi-Jogindernagar highway, which helped the police turn away vehicles from the road before it was washed away. The cost of installing our system is around Rs. 80,000 which is the cheapest for such systems across the globe with the usual costs roughly being around Rs 2 crore,” he added. Currently, 13 landslide monitoring systems are installed across Himachal Pradesh. ‘Systems deployed’ “Three systems have recently been deployed in Dharampur along the Kalka — Shimla track with Indian Railways. Several other deployments are in the pipeline, which include several districts in HP, Maharashtra and Kerala,” said Mr. Dutt. Among the ongoing experiments for early detection of landslides is by Coimbatore-based Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, which has set up real-time landslide monitoring and early warning systems in Munnar (Kerala) and Gangtok (Sikkim).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/work-on-for-early-landslide-warning-system/article37156506.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||Home guard sustains gunshot injuries in east Delhi||A home guard sustained gunshot injuries after a few people, who were caught slaughtering a cow in east Delhi’s Madhu Vihar, fired upon him and a head constable, the Delhi police said on Sunday. DCP (East) Priyanka Kashyap said around 4 a.m. on Sunday, some passersby informed the police picket staff that cow slaughtering was taking place. Head constable Naveen Kumar and home guard Joginder rushed to the spot and tried to stop the people involved in it. However, they resisted and tried to flee in their four-wheeler. The policemen intercepted them, but the accused hit their bike and the duo fell down, the DCP said, adding that they also fired upon the police party, injuring Mr. Joginder. He is out of danger, the DCP said. A case was registered. A few suspects have already been identified and raids are being conducted to arrest them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/home-guard-sustains-gunshot-injuries-in-east-delhi/article37156284.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||HC denies bail to woman found with 600gm of methamphetamine||The Delhi High Court has refused bail to a woman in a case under the anti-drug law, saying that a “clean and tidy track record” would not absolve her from being in possession of 600 gram of methamphetamine and there is a “greater presumption” against a highly educated person in such cases. Justice Subramonium Prasad said that a “commercial quantity” of drug was recovered from the woman-petitioner and the material on record disclosed that she is “part of a network which deals in supply/sale of narcotics”. The court also noted that the petitioner’s disclosure statement resulted in the arrest of two Nigerian accused persons, who were found living illegally in India on fake passports and possessing narcotics. “The clean and tidy track record of the petitioner does not absolve her from being in possession of 600 gram of methamphetamine,” it said. “An uneducated person may claim no knowledge of the substance found in his or her possession and may raise a defence of the substance being planted on them, but being a highly educated person, there is a greater presumption that carrying large quantities of narcotics is a crime and that it would entail consequences in law which could be harsh and irrevocable,” the judge said in the order, dismissing the petitioner’s bail plea. The petitioner was arrested in February 2018 after the police received a tip-off that she would be travelling to Mumbai by train from Hazrat Nizamuddin Station, carrying contraband in her baggage. Seeking bail, the petitioner contended that as she was searched by the police in a toilet inside the train and her bag was not there with her, the possibility of the bag being tampered with could not be ruled out. It was further said that the petitioner was an educated woman with no criminal record. The prosecution opposed the release of the petitioner and told the court that the commercial quantity of the drug was kept clandestinely and recovered from one of her baggages marked as ‘baby carrier’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-denies-bail-to-woman-found-with-600gm-of-methamphetamine/article37156286.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||Minister kicks off campaign||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday kicked off a campaign to promote physical activity and walking and encourage people not to follow a sedentary lifestyle. The campaign, Ayurwalk, was aimed to promote Ayurveda and Yoga as disciplines to help lead a healthy life. The walk began at Central Park, Connaught Place, and ended at Ayurvedic and Unani Tibbia College, Karol Bagh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/minister-kicks-off-campaign/article37156287.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||Light showers improve city’s air quality||Several parts of the Capital received light showers on Sunday, keeping the air pollution in check. The air quality index (AQI) settled at 160, which is in the ‘moderate’ category. According to the AQI bulletin for Delhi, the city’s air quality is likely to range between the ‘moderate’ and ‘satisfactory’ categories on Sunday. It will remain in the ‘moderate’ category throughout the week. The weather station at Safdarjung, which keeps the official record for the city, received 0.6 mm rainfall until 5.30 p.m. on Sunday. The maximum temperature recorded was 31.5 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature was 19 degrees Celsius, two degrees above this season’s average. The forecast for October 25 reads partly cloudy sky with the maximum and minimum temperatures ranging between 31 and 18 degrees Celsius respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/light-showers-improve-citys-air-quality/article37156292.ece
25 October 2021||Pune:,||Sena, BJP spar over Centre’s 100-crore vaccination claim||A slanging match has erupted between the estranged saffron parties, the Shiv Sena and the BJP, over the Centre’s assertion that 100 crore doses had been administered thus far with Sena MP Sanjay Raut challenging the BJP-led Centre’s claims on the “milestone achievement”. Mr. Raut told a party meeting on Saturday that the Centre’s claims were “utterly false” and that not more than 23 crore doses were given to eligible citizens so far. Saying he would also give proof to support his allegations, the Sena’s chief spokesperson hit out at the Centre without naming it: “How much will you lie? In the last fortnight, 20 Hindus and Sikhs have been killed [in Kashmir], 17 to 18 soldiers have been martyred, China is creating problems in Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh, but we are celebrating 100 crore vaccinations which is not true.” In a sharp riposte, BJP’s chief Maharashtra spokesperson Keshav Upadhye on Sunday dubbed the allegations ‘bizarre’ and ‘laughable’. ‘Outrageous claims’ “The Sena’s leaders in general, and Mr. Raut in particular, have a history of making outrageous claims…even after the Centre has laid down all facts regarding the vaccination milestone of 100 crore jabs in such a transparent manner, it beggars belief how someone can decry it as ‘false’ and come up with fantastic claims?” said Mr. Upadhye. The BJP leader said Mr. Raut’s statements mocked the dedicated efforts of healthcare personnel across the country who had striven tirelessly to make the drive such a success. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lauded the collective effort behind the achievement with the one billionth dose being administered on October 21 about nine months after the start of the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sena-bjp-spar-over-centres-100-crore-vaccination-claim/article37156294.ece
25 October 2021||Thane,||1 dead in Thane building slab collapse||One person was killed after a portion of the slab of a five-storey residential building collapsed in Maharashtra’s Thane district, a civic official said. The incident took place in Ulhasnagar town around 10 p.m. on Saturday when the slab of an apartment’s bedroom located on the fifth floor crashed on the fourth floor, Thane Municipal Corporation’s Regional Disaster Management Cell chief Santosh Kadam said. Nareshlal Poptani, 24, received injuries and died on the spot, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/1-dead-in-thane-building-slab-collapse/article37156315.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Nature’s bounty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/natures-bounty/article37156302.ece
25 October 2021||Kabul,||Taliban offer jobs for wheat to tackle hunger||The Taliban Government in Afghanistan launched a programme to tackle hunger on Sunday, offering thousands of people wheat in exchange for labour. The scheme will be rolled out around Afghanistan’s major towns and cities and employ 40,000 men in the capital alone, the Taliban’s chief spokesman said at a press conference in southern Kabul. “This is an important step for fighting unemployment,” Zabihullah Mujahid said, adding that the labourers must “work hard”. Afghanistan — which is already suffering from poverty, drought, electricity blackouts and a failing economic system — is now facing the onset of what may be a harsh winter. The Taliban’s food-for-work scheme will not pay labourers, targeting those who are currently unemployed and most at risk of starvation during the winter. The two-month programme will see 11,600 tonnes of wheat distributed in the capital, with about 55,000 tonnes for elsewhere in the country, including Herat, Jalalabad, Kandahar, Mazar-i-Sharif and Pol-i-Khomri. Work for the labourers in Kabul will include digging water channels and catchment terraces for snow in the hills to combat drought. Mujahid and other senior officials, including Agriculture Minister Abdul Rahman Rashid and Kabul Mayor Hamdullah Nomani, cut a pink ribbon and dug a small ditch at a ceremony in the rural Rish Khor area of the capital to launch the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-offer-jobs-for-wheat-to-tackle-hunger/article37156049.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Climate vulnerable nations will go to COP26 with a view to restructuring debt’||Mohamed Nasheed , Parliamentary Speaker and former President of the Maldives, who survived an explosion just outside his residence in capital Male on May 6, is back in the country following medical treatment abroad for grave injuries. He spoke on the lingering threat of religious extremism, his political plans amid differences with President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, Maldives-India ties, and the coming COP26 summit where he will make a strong case for climate vulnerable nations. Excerpts:  You had vowed to come back stronger. How are you feeling you now? I am much better. I am very fortunate to be back at home. Of course, cautious. The government is conducting investigation. They have already charged about a dozen people. But the investigation is not yet over. We are hopeful that we will be able to find all the perpetrators, including those who might have schemed it, funded it, or had other links with terrorism. Are you concerned about your safety? Well, yes, my security detail has got bigger and bigger and bigger. Of course, I am very concerned about my safety. But we all have to have normal lives and see that our way of life is defended, and that we proceed with the work that we are entrusted to do by our people. I hope to keep on doing that as long as I can. You have openly criticised the government’s response to religious extremism and asked President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih to “course correct before it is too late”. Has that happened? The government is trying to see if they can come to a ground where safety and security become the most important issues; where terrorism is not at all tolerated. And any acts or missions to encourage terrorism is also legislated against. I think the government will find ways to correct its path and to see that they maintain the MDP [Maldivian Democratic Party] policies of progressive development, and to see that the people of the country have a prosperous life. I am confident that the government will be able to do that with the Parliament and with other political parties. You sound more hopeful than you did in July. What has changed in this time? Well, I am back. I am able to now therefore have discussions and conversations with the people on the ground. I think we all understand where we stand. We all are very clear on what will happen if we are unable to find amicable solutions. I think therefore, it is possible for us to resolve differences and move forward. You have been pushing for a switch to a parliamentary system from the current presidential rule, while also indicating that you might run for the MDP’s presidential primaries. Which of these do you see happening first, realistically? We had the new Constitution in 2008. And this Constitution had created two power centres. The bulk of the Constitution was largely drafted for a parliamentary form of government. But at the very last stage, President [Maumoon Abdul] Gayoom decided to have a referendum and prescribe a presidential form of government. We have run this Constitution for the past 12, 13 years now, and it is obvious that it has contradictions. What I am suggesting is a manner in which we can share power with the Parliament and the Executive. And to see that there are no two power centres. And that governance is streamlined and smooth. I will have discussions with the President. Will I seek election as a presidential candidate? Even if I do, that would be to change to a parliamentary system. My rationale for any political contest would be to get a mandate to change. I believe that once we have the fundamentals laid, it is not so much about my political future, but the political future of this country. The government’s close ties with India are under growing scrutiny. Is there a domestic political cost for the Solih government’s close relationship with India? Well, sections of the political society in the Maldives have always thought that xenophobic ideas would win them acceptance from the people. The MDP has never had that view. We still don’t have that. We are very, very convinced that people in the Maldives do understand the political realities of the Indian Ocean, the geopolitical situation in the Indian Ocean, and the part that the Maldives has to play in these conditions. Our people are asking a basic question — how do we ensure safety and security for our people? What is the best way of going about that? Would it be better to remain neutral in the Indian Ocean, or should we take a side? We have clearly taken a side. We have decided that our foreign policy should be ‘India first’. You are headed for the COP 26 summit at Glasgow. You have been calling for an urgent restructuring of debt owed by climate vulnerable nations. Are you expecting some good news? Of the 48 CVF [Climate Vulnerable Forum] countries, a number of countries already pay 20% of our budget for debt repayment, and another 30% on adaptation. The first impact of climate change, the very quick impact of climate change, would be a default on debt by country after country. All the vulnerable countries will default on their debt. That would not be in the interest of anyone. If you do not have a Maldives, Maldives cannot pay their debt back. I am expecting good news. I hope that the COP presidency would understand that these 48 countries have had their internal discussions, regional discussions, and we will go to the COP with a singular view. And that singular view would very definitely include restructuring debt. ( For full interview, visit https://bit.ly/NasheedCoP26)   We have decided that our foreign policy should be ‘India first’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/climate-vulnerable-nations-will-go-to-cop26-with-a-view-to-restructuring-debt/article37156044.ece
25 October 2021||COLOMBO,||Adani to meet Gotabaya in Colombo||Gautam Adani, chairman of the Adani Group that was chosen to develop a major port terminal project in Sri Lanka, is scheduled to meet President Gotabaya Rajapaksa in Colombo on Monday, according to official sources in Colombo and New Delhi. “It is a private visit and Mr. Adani is expected to meet the President to discuss the West Container Terminal project,” a senior official told The Hindu on Sunday night. The source requested anonymity while confirming the “high profile visit” that is said to include meetings with “top Sri Lankan dignitaries”. Mr. Adani’s visit comes less than a month after the Adani Group, in a virtual ceremony, signed a Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) agreement with its Sri Lankan partner in the project John Keells Holdings, and the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA), to jointly develop the West Container Terminal (WCT) at the Colombo Port. According to sources in India familiar with the development, Mr. Adani “is interested in projects related to ports, power and renewable energy” in Sri Lanka. “Mr. Adani will discuss possible projects in these sectors when he meets President Rajapaksa,” a source said. Following Sri Lanka’s controversial decision early this year to scrap a 2019 trilateral agreement with India and Japan to jointly develop the East Container Terminal at the Colombo Port, the Rajapaksa government offered the WCT project as “a compromise”. Private investor Unlike in the ECT project envisaged earlier, there is no Indian governmental role in the WCT project, with the Adani Group entering the picture as a private investor, amid questions from Sri Lankan experts on the apparent lack of transparency in how the investor was chosen.  Confirming the project in a tweet on March 15, 2021, Mr. Adani said: “Grateful to the leaders of GoI, GoSL, SLPA & John Keells for the opportunity to build WCT, Colombo. This partnership is a symbol of the deep strategic relations between countries with great intertwined history. It will launch decades of container growth.”   ( With inputs from Mahesh Langa in Ahmedabad )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/adani-to-meet-gotabaya-in-colombo/article37156050.ece
25 October 2021||Islamabad,||‘U.S. sabotaging CPEC with India’s support’||The chief of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) Authority has accused the U.S. of sabotaging the multi-billion dollar project, the economic lifeline of Pakistan, a media report said. The ambitious CPEC was launched in 2015 when Chinese President Xi Jinping visited Pakistan. It aims to connect western China with the Gwadar port in southwestern Pakistan through a network of roads, railways and other projects of infrastructure and development. “From the point of view of the emerging geo-strategic situation, one thing is clear: the United States supported by India is inimical to CPEC. It will not let it succeed. That’s where we have to take a position,” Khalid Mansoor, the Special Assistant to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on CPEC affairs said at while addressing the CPEC Summit in Karachi on Saturday. Islamabad is the seventh largest recipient of Chinese overseas development financing with 71 projects worth $27.3 billion under way as part of the CPEC. Mr. Mansoor said the U.S. and India continue to “make attempts to manoeuvre Pakistan out of” China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) under which the Chinese government has been investing heavily in about 70 countries, the Dawn reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-sabotaging-cpec-with-indias-support/article37156051.ece
25 October 2021||Bogota,||Colombia’s most-wanted drug lord ‘Otoniel’ captured||Colombia’s most-wanted drug trafficker “Otoniel” has been captured, officials said on Saturday, a major victory for the government of the world’s top cocaine exporter. Dairo Antonio Usuga, who headed the country’s largest narco-trafficking gang known as the Gulf Clan, was captured near one of his main outposts in Necocli, near the border with Panama. Images released by the government showed Otoniel, 50, in handcuffs and surrounded by soldiers. “This is the hardest strike to drug trafficking in our country this century,” President Ivan Duque said in a message, adding that the arrest was “only comparable to the fall of Pablo Escobar”, the notorious Colombian narco-trafficking kingpin. Some 500 soldiers backed by 22 helicopters were deployed in the Necocli municipality to carry out the operation, which left one police officer dead.  Colombia’s police chief Jorge Vargas said during a press conference that authorities carried out “an important satellite operation with agencies of the United States and the United Kingdom”. The U.S. had offered a $5 million bounty for information leading to the arrest of Otoniel, one of the most feared men in Colombia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/colombias-most-wanted-drug-lord-otoniel-captured/article37156046.ece
25 October 2021||Addis Ababa,||New air raids target west, north Tigray||Ethiopia’s military on Sunday launched two air strikes on what a government official said were rebel-held facilities in Tigray, the seventh and eighth bombardments in its war-torn northern region in a week. The strikes, far from the regional capital Mekele, signalled the military was potentially widening its campaign of air strikes which has drawn international rebukes and disrupted UN flights to the famine-threatened region. “Today the western front of (Mai Tsebri) which was serving as a training and military command post for the terrorist group TPLF has been the target of an air strike,” government spokeswoman Selamawit Kassa said. The same mission destroyed a facility in the northern town of Adwa used to manufacture “military equipments”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-air-raids-target-west-north-tigray/article37156047.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||In Glasgow, all eyes on 2030||The stage is set for the 26th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) in Glasgow, starting October 31. Major preparatory conferences and bilateral meetings have been held to persuade countries to raise their emission reduction commitments from the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) under the Paris Agreement. Some positive outcomes have been achieved. Yet, many high-emitter countries are woefully short of the emissions reductions required by 2030 to restrict global temperature rise to “well below 2°C” or the now de facto goal of 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. The loudest buzz now, however, is around net zero emissions by 2050 i.e., greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions equalling absorption by sinks such as forests, even though the substance is much less than the slogan suggests. Net zero mirage Media reports and commentary in India and abroad greeted the Sixth Assessment Report (AR6) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released in August 2021 with shock and awe, but the revealing scientific data were glossed over. Far from emphasising net zero alone, AR6 emphasised that to keep temperature rise within 1.5°C, global emissions should be reduced by 45% from 2010 levels by 2030, on the way to net zero 2050. Importantly, in the net zero drumbeats spurred on by the U.S. and the UN Secretary General, the foundational principle of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which is common but differentiated responsibilities (CBDR), has been forgotten. Developed countries, responsible for over 75% of accumulated atmospheric GHGs causing climate change, should shoulder most of the burden for reducing emissions, while developing countries should do what they can, with technological and financial assistance from the former. So, if the goal is global net zero emissions by 2050, all countries cannot be obliged to reach that goal by the same year. CBDR would imply that developed countries should reach net zero by, say, 2035-40, while developing countries can get there later. Net zero 2050, as currently posed, is at best a distracting message and at worst deliberately diverts attention away from the urgent 2030 target that COP26 should focus on. The net zero 2050 target is also no proverbial silver bullet, as clearly shown by numbers put out in the UNFCCC Synthesis Report on the updated NDCs, released in September 2021. 2030 targets critical One hundred and thirteen parties out of 194 submitted updated NDCs by end-July 2021. The UN NDC report tells us that even accounting for these, global emissions in 2030 are expected to be 16.3% above the 2010 level, whereas the IPCC has called for 2030 emissions to be 45% less from 2010 levels for the 1.5°C goal. The report therefore calls for “a significant increase in the level of ambition of NDCs” till 2030. Several large emitters have announced deeper emission cuts than in the Paris Agreement. The U.K. and the European Union have raised their targets to a significant 68% and 55%, respectively, compared with 1990 levels by 2030. The U.S. is still lagging behind, even as U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry tours the world pushing other countries for deeper emission cuts. The U.S. has now promised net zero emissions by 2050 compared to the 80% reduction that it had promised earlier. The Biden administration has also promised to reduce emissions by 50–52% below 2005 levels by 2030. This is grossly insufficient as the U.S. is the world’s second largest emitter, and the 2005 baseline makes its commitment considerably lower than those of the EU, the U.K. and others using the Kyoto 1990 baseline. Others standing in the way of rapid reductions are Russia, Brazil under Jair Bolsonaro ravaging the Amazon forests, and China, the world’s largest emitter, whose relentless push to add maximum infrastructure, industrial and power-generation capacities before peaking in 2030, may use up much of the cumulative global emissions available for 1.5°C. The gravity of the situation may be better appreciated through the more scientific metric of carbon budgets, as highlighted in AR6 and AR5. Carbon budgets represent the quantum of CO2 the atmosphere can hold for a given global temperature, best assessed through cumulative emissions and not annual flows. The report of updated NDCs states that “the cumulative CO2 emissions in 2020–2030 based on the latest NDCs would likely use up 89% of the remaining carbon budget, leaving a post-2030 carbon budget of around 55 Gt CO2, which is equivalent to the average annual CO2 emissions in 2020–2030.” Although negotiators and analysts are steeped in using annual flows, estimates based on carbon budgets should be used at Glasgow, if only to assess flows-based arrangements arrived at. As the NDC report says, reaching net zero is necessary to stabilise global temperature rise at a particular level, “but limiting global temperature increase to a specific level would imply limiting cumulative CO2 emissions to within a carbon budget.” Whither Glasgow COP26? To reiterate, COP26 must focus sharply on reducing emissions till 2030, rather than on net zero 2050, which is too distant and with possibilities of gaming the system. If COP26 does not focus on achieving the 45% emission cuts from 2010 levels required by 2030 for limiting temperature rise to 1.5°C, and continues with geopolitics as usual, then the world may well have squandered away one of its last chances to avert disastrous climate impacts. Pressure will undoubtedly come from Africa, Least Developed Countries (LDCs), Small Island States and others, but will that tilt the scales against the powerful status quo? It was suggested some years ago that the COP ensures that Parties iteratively raise their commitments till they add up to the requisite 45% reduction by 2030. But who will hold their feet to the fire? Or will the U.S. and others succeed in focusing on the false net zero 2050 solution, escaping their own obligations for 2030 and dangerously kicking the can down the road? As usual, India is in its own double-edged position. The country emits 7% of global emissions, has extremely low per-capita emissions that are far below the global average and yet ranks as the world’s third largest emitter. It is a G20 member and reputed economic and industrial power. India has so far resisted pressures to raise its Paris Agreement emission reduction commitments. But it has not yet submitted its updated NDC as required and may face difficulties at Glasgow, especially from LDCs and most vulnerable countries feeling existentially threatened even as powerful nations wheel and deal. The well-known website Climate Tracker has now placed India in its second- worst performing category of countries regarding conformity with global 1.5°C goals, down from the top category for 2°C just after the Paris Agreement. India can, without much difficulty, raise its NDC pledge of reducing Emissions Intensity (ratio of emissions to GDP) by 33-35% from 2005 levels by 2030 to 38-40%. This is quite achievable since India has been averaging around 2% p.a. reduction in EI as per its own NDC. Given the net zero chorus, India could also offer to achieve that by 2070-75, invoking CBDR and comparing well with China’s 2060 pledge. If pressed on a peaking year, a 2040-45 guesstimate may not be far off the mark, especially if increasing forest and tree cover are stepped up instead of undermined. For India to convert its ambitions of installing 450GW of renewable power by 2030, adding green hydrogen or increasing electric vehicles into commitments may require more homework than done so far. Will India have the gumption to leverage these offers to push the U.S. and other developed country laggards to step up their commitments and actions towards the 2030 goal, without trade-offs on promises of financial assistance? Only time, of which the world has little left, will tell. D. Raghunandan is with the Delhi Science Forum, a constituent of the All- India Peoples Science Network||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-glasgow-all-eyes-on-2030/article37155895.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The only way to halt the BJP juggernaut||The stakes are high for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has to ensure that it retains power in four (Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur) of the five States which go to the polls early next year. In Punjab alone, the Congress is in power, albeit in a mess. Nature of contest This will be the first Assembly election after the second wave of COVID-19, which resulted in the loss of thousands of lives and attracted a lot of criticism of the BJP government. The ongoing farmer’s agitation and the recent incident in Lakhimpur Kheri, where four farmers were crushed to death allegedly by the son of the Union Minister of State (Home), seems to have only added trouble for the BJP. But if anyone believes that these reasons will cause the BJP’s defeat in these elections, they would be mistaken. In these four States, the BJP may not be as popular as it was during the 2017 Assembly elections, but the nature of the electoral contest could give the party an advantage. A possible multi-cornered contest in these States could result in fragmentation of anti-BJP votes, which will give the BJP an edge. The Congress will find it hard to attract all the anti-BJP votes and defeat the BJP, but it could emerge as the main opposition party in many States after the 2022 Assembly elections. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Trinamool Congress (TMC), which are making serious efforts to contest elections in some of these States, could damage the prospects of the Congress as they may be able to corner some votes. This will be enough for the BJP to retain power even if its vote share declines. Therefore, what the opposition parties need in order to minimise splitting of the anti-BJP votes is an alliance. The BJP’s dominance in U.P. Those who think that Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and her announcement that 40% of the tickets in U.P. will be given to women candidates can be a game-changer for the party are mistaken. It will be impossible for the Congress, which has performed miserably in the State in recent years, to bounce back merely through protests and symbolism. The party’s decision of giving 40% tickets to women is a bold step, but it is too late and too little to mobilise women voters. The Congress may be able to increase its vote share, but it may still be far from posing any challenge to the BJP if it contests the election alone. The challenge to the BJP can come neither from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) nor from the Samajwadi Party (SP) if these parties contest against each other. Both these parties command roughly 20% each of the vote share in U.P. The SP’s core supporters are Yadavs, while Dalits, especially Jatavs, constitute the BSP’s core support base. Both these parties compete against each other for the Muslim votes, which results in a split in these votes with the SP gaining an upper hand. At least these two parties need to form an alliance to minimise the splitting of anti-BJP votes in U.P. This alliance should ideally also rope in the Congress and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) to mobilise additional votes. Only a united opposition can defeat the BJP in U.P. in 2022. An alliance of the SP and RLD will not be enough. In order to defeat the BJP, which polled 39.6% of the votes in the 2017 U.P. Assembly elections, about 7-8% votes need to be pulled away from it. This can be accomplished only by the largest opposition party, but there is a very remote possibility of the SP, the largest opposition party during the 2017 Assembly election, gaining about 8-9% votes on its own at the cost of the BJP. Only a united opposition can achieve this. In Uttarakhand, despite getting a massive majority in 2017, the BJP government has been unstable. The State has seen three Chief Ministers since that election. If the 2022 Assembly election becomes a bipolar contest between the Congress and the BJP, the Congress has a good chance of defeating the BJP. But things do not seem so simple for the Congress with AAP’s entry in the electoral contest. The AAP may not be able to win the election on its own, but may poll enough votes to damage the prospects of the Congress, thus giving an advantage to the BJP by default. The entry of the TMC and AAP in the electoral fray in Goa might result in a multi-cornered contest in the State. A divided opposition will again give the BJP an advantage. Also, the Congress in Goa is no longer the Congress of 2017 as many leaders have left the party and joined other parties, mainly the BJP. In Manipur, a lot depends on how the BJP manages to form an alliance before or even after the election. The BJP has been ahead of the Congress in forming post-post alliances in many States, even with a lower number of seats. Lessons from history In India, whenever a political party has become extremely dominant, it has been challenged only by a united opposition or by pre-poll or post-poll alliances of opposition parties. The Congress received a setback in the 1977 Lok Sabha election when the Janata Party defeated it. In the 1998 and 1999 Lok Sabha elections, the Congress was challenged by the BJP which had formed alliances with various regional parties; the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) won both these elections. The NDA government was challenged by the Congress in the 2004 and 2009 Lok Sabha elections when the Congress formed alliances with regional parties. Thus, the dominant party of the present times, the BJP, can only be challenged by a united opposition. Nothing else can push back the BJP in an electoral race given the current political mood of the people of India. Sanjay Kumar is Professor and Co-Director of Lokniti, a research programme at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-only-way-to-halt-the-bjp-juggernaut/article37155902.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Transcending borders and boundaries||The domains of peacebuilding and protest are ordinarily seen as occupying separate and discrete worlds. Yet in the women’s movements in South Asia, beginning with the 1980s but more visibly in the 1990s, these became increasingly intertwined as scholars and activists forged synergies and cross-border solidarities. Feminist icon Kamla Bhasin, who passed away in September, contributed to this denouement. She invested her unique energy towards transcending borders and boundaries, past monocultures of the mind that reinforce stereotypes, mistrust and militarism, and reflect the cartographic anxieties of nation states. Bhasin famously said, “ Main sarhad par khadi deewar nahi, us deewar par padi daraar hoon [I am not the wall that stands at the border, I am the crack in that wall]” . This captured the spirit with which women conflict “resolutionaries” in South Asia, often in the face of stiff opposition, bricolaged around cordons of territoriality to join forces and mobilise across fault lines of country, caste, religion, class and gender. The recognition that women across South Asia face a continuum of violence — both structural and overt — as they confront the patriarchies of the family, the community and the state, and “the complicities between them”, sustained networks unfettered by national identities. Bhasin’s book with Ritu Menon, Borders and Boundaries , and Urvashi Butalia’s The Other Side of Silence , both published in the 1990s, were path-breaking in their accounts of the narratives of pain, loss, displacement and violence that the Partition of India had wrought on women on both sides of the border and the similarity of their experiences. These works revealed how community and even national honour were inscribed on the bodies of women and the gendered nature of citizenship. It triggered explorations around what country, religious identity or even nation really meant for women. It also opened the space for research and activism that interrogated the “sanctity of borders”. Singular experiences Several ethnographic narratives that gave voice to the singular experiences of women in situations of conflict — in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Afghanistan and Pakistan — added to the repertoire, enabling civil society transversal engagements across South Asia around the issues of justice, rights, patriarchy, militarisation and nuclearisation. Through periods of adversarial face-offs between different Governments and their neighbours — especially between India and Pakistan — feminists like Bhasin were hard at work to ensure that people-to-people contact and a form of public diplomacy sustained dialogue and nurtured synergies. With women in the lead, initiatives like the Women’s Action Forum (WAF) in Pakistan that reached out to their sisters in Bangladesh to apologise for the atrocities of the Pakistan army in 1971; the Women’s Peace Bus undertaken by the Women’s Initiative for Peace in South Asia (WIPSA) from Delhi to Lahore in 2000 to demand a war-free South Asia; Women in Security Conflict Management and Peace (WISCOMP) bringing young South Asians together in workshops on conflict transformation; and Sangat with its innovative regional gender training conclaves, to name a few, persevered with the mission to expand constituencies for peace. In recent decades, South Asia has been witness to collectives of “disobedient women” articulating peace and defying state-centric notions of security and order. They have been visible in the mother’s movements in Sri Lanka, the Thappa Force in the “ Malki ya Maut [ownership or death]” farmers struggle in Pakistan, and in the Chipko, Narmada, Bhopal and Kudankulam movements in India. Demonstrations like the Meira Paibis (women with torches) in Manipur, and the congregation of women at Shaheen Bagh and at the farmers’ protests are also part of these traditions of dissent. Drawing from the experience of activists like Bhasin of making a woman’s place “in the resistance”, these movements have largely entered the peacebuilding arena through the corridors of human security — voicing democracy and reclaiming citizenship. Core of their engagement Highlighting the tensions between people’s security and what often passes as national security, opposition to war and the cultures of militarism have been at the core of their engagement. Foregrounded is also the need to link issues of peace and security to development in order to address the structural causes of conflict.  Feminist scholars have often made the connections between the formal security discourse and certain types of hegemonic masculinity, and how policy priorities and (techno) strategic discourse are skewed to preserve power hierarchies nationally, within the international system and the world economic order. Women’s movements have interrogated the conventional peace metaphor of the figure in white, passively holy or wholly passive. To “wage conflict non-violently”, transgressing received notions of security, in their everyday resistances against injustice and oppressive socio-political institutions in order to build structural peace, has been their clarion call. The feminist “weapons” they bring to their engagement blend the cerebral, the celebratory and the performative. Bhasin herself, with her extraordinary communication skills, drew in large numbers of young enthusiasts, “deploying” slogans and art, music and humour, making her succinct, accessible primers on gender, patriarchy and peace resonate across groups, while unpacking the most complex of feminist concepts. These forms of protest and peace praxis draw from the global palimpsest of feminist activism chiselled by women the world over. Feminist peace activists today recognise that the search for common ground involves acknowledging differences, while building on commonalities. Women’s experiences of conflict and violence are mediated by their “location” and the intersectionality of caste, class, region, religion and gender. Bhasin’s genius lay in her ability to work past these different fault lines and build diverse coalitions and communities of practice. Since the mid-1980s, South Asian women activists have sought to “engender” peace by drawing in larger numbers even from perceived “hostile” neighbourhoods into safe “disarmed”, empathic spaces of trust. This was well before the landmark United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) 1325 in 2000 had set the global normative template of the Women Peace and Security (WPS) Agenda. Did South Asian feminist peace activism then offer crucial conceptual alphabets for the international template on positive peace (peace with justice) as an inclusive public process, and not just “brokered” in closed negotiations only by men? The story of their seminal contributions to the WPS discourse needs to become more visible. A people’s peace is a perpetual work-in-progress. It also an invitation to civil society to continuously fine-tune the song of democracy. Nurturing a South Asian identity was Bhasin’s labour of love. With love, she strove to inscribe it into the lives of others. And she did it, as we all must, with “passion, compassion, humour and style”. Meenakshi Gopinath is Chair, Centre for Policy Research (CPR) and the Director of Women in Security, Conflict Management and Peace (WISCOMP), New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/transcending-borders-and-boundaries/article37156038.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s Central Asian outreach||The dramatic developments in Afghanistan have catalysed new geostrategic and geoeconomic concerns for the region. The evolving situation has also thrown up renewed challenges for India’s regional and bilateral ties with Central Asia and the Caucasus, prompting India to recalibrate its rules of engagement with the region. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar was in the region earlier this month — his third within a span of four months. In Kyrgyzstan, Mr. Jaishankar extended a credit line of $200 million for the support of development projects and signed an memorandum of understanding (MoU) on High-Impact Community Development Projects (HICDP). His next stop was the Kazakhstan capital, Nur Sultan, where he attended the 6th Foreign Ministers’ Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia (CICA). At CICA, Mr. Jaishankar targeted China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Admonishing China’s methods in promoting the BRI, he said while greater connectivity was essential for the promotion of regional stability, it must not be pursued for parochial interests. He also confronted Pakistan for its support towards cross-border terrorism. Before reaching Armenia on October 13, Mr. Jaishankar met his counterparts from Russia, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan to discuss regional cooperation. India-Armenia ties Mr. Jaishankar has become the first Indian External Affairs Minister to visit Armenia. The Minister and his Armenian counterpart, Ararat Mirzoyan, agreed to enhance trade and cultural exchanges to boost bilateral relations. During the visit, Mr. Jaishankar also supported efforts for a peaceful solution of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia under the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe’s (OSCE) Minsk group. The Taliban re-establishing its supremacy over Afghanistan has also exposed the weaknesses of coalitions such as the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), created in response to the threats of terrorism that sprang from Afghanistan. However, the SCO has been used by most member countries for their own regional geostrategic and security interests, increasing the trust-deficit and divergence within the forum. As the SCO failed to collectively respond to the Afghan crisis, the Central Asian leaders met in Turkmenistan in August to voice their concerns over the Afghan situation, and also discussed the presence of Central Asian terror groups within Afghanistan and along their borders. After the breakup of the Soviet Union and the formation of the independent republics in Central Asia, India reset its ties with the strategically critical region. India provided financial aid to the region and established diplomatic relations. New Delhi signed the Strategic Partnership Agreements (SPA) with Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan to stimulate defence cooperation and deepen trade relations. In 2012, New Delhi’s ‘Connect Central Asia’ policy aimed at furthering India’s political, economic, historical and cultural connections with the region. However, India’s efforts were stonewalled by Pakistan’s lack of willingness to allow India passage through its territory. China took advantage of the situation and unveiled the much-hyped BRI in Kazakhstan. The growing geostrategic and security concerns regarding the BRI’s China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and its violation of India’s sovereignty forced New Delhi to fix its lethargic strategy. Soon after assuming office, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited all the Central Asian countries in July 2015. Eventually, Central Asia became the link that placed Eurasia in New Delhi’s zone of interest. India signed MoUs with Iran in 2015 to develop the Chabahar port in the Sistan-Baluchistan province that was in the doldrums from 2003. Most of the Central Asian leaders view India’s Chabahar port as an opportunity to diversify their export markets and control China’s ambitions. China’s assertive approach led to rising social discontent on the ill-treatment of their ethnic brethren in neighbouring Xinjiang. Central Asian countries have been keen to have India as a partner as they have sought to diversify their strategic ties. They have admitted New Delhi into the Ashgabat Agreement, allowing India access to connectivity networks to facilitate trade and commercial interactions with both Central Asia and Eurasia, and also access the natural resources of the region. Rising anti-Chinese sentiments within the region and security threats from the Taliban allow New Delhi and Central Asia to reimagine their engagement. India cannot afford to lose any time in recalibrating its regional engagements. Harsh V. Pant is Professor of International Relations at King’s College London and Director of Research at Observer Research Foundation (ORF), New Delhi. Ayjaz Wani is a Fellow at ORF, Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indias-central-asian-outreach/article37156042.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||On the future of the Congress||Kanhaiya Kumar’s joining, and the exit of Sushmita Dev, Jitin Prasad and Jyotiraditya Scindia, present an interesting context to interrogate the Indian National Congress’s relevance in politics today. Jignesh Mevani also spoke strongly in support of the Congress, but is yet to join the party formally. Some have celebrated the decision as an attempt to introduce fresh blood into the party. What these two young faces could bring to the party, or vice versa, is a bit too early to forecast. There is a fair chance that Mr. Kumar might do to the Bihar Congress what senior leaders like Pranab Mukherjee and P. Chidambaram did to the West Bengal and Tamil Nadu Congress respectively, which is not much other than self-aggrandisement Any attempt to examine the future of the Congress or its relevance must begin with a caveat — the present party led by Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi is not the same as the one that was once led by Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru. Former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi transformed it into a dynastic party. It is a family firm, though the family has occasionally been generous enough to let non-family members lead its Government. But the party’s ideology or its internal democracy are at the mercy of the whims and fancies of the family. The assumption that the present party is the legitimate heir of the one that brought freedom to India has been the potential source of numerous grand illusions. Once this fact is recognised, then all the illusions, including that the present Congress will be able to restore India’s secular polity, can easily be addressed. That does not, however, imply that the party cannot not play a significant role in checkmating the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). At this juncture, the Congress continues to enjoy the advantage of being an alternative coalition to the BJP. It is the only national party that has legitimate regional character, represented by its social bases in a few major States. Nearly all regional parties are one State-based parties. What has further created a vacuum in the national pool of political leadership is that the so-called regional leaders have limited ambitions. They aspire only to be Chief Minister. Consider Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav, a politician who barely understands the value of being a former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister. If he had used the opportunities presented by the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests or the farmers’ movement, he would have been a contender for the prime ministerial post. Given the stunted growth of regional parties, the Congress remains unrivalled with respect to leading an alternative coalition. What is the prospect of such a role in the 2024 parliamentary election? One answer is that it is too early to take a call. There is solid evidence of the Narendra Modi-led Government’s unpopularity. However, Mr. Modi, along with Home Minister Amit Shah and the BJP, have changed the ground rules of India’s electoral politics — that a mere defeat in an election does not foreclose the possibility of the formation of a BJP Government. This has been the case in Karnataka, Madya Pradesh and elsewhere. This rule remains valid for New Delhi as well. Hence, any attempt to prevent Mr. Modi from becoming the Prime Minister for a third term means that the BJP’s margin of defeat has to be significant in terms of seats. But it is plausible to engineer a defeat and put the country back into coalition mode, which might shake up the Hindutva momentum, even if the BJP Government returns. To achieve this, the Congress has to make the election candidate-centric and win between 80 and 100 seats in 2024. The party will have to select competent candidates early and have a large heart in granting concessions to coalition partners. There seems to be a small window to puncture the Hindutva balloon. But no one knows how the BJP is going to use the Ram Mandir, which is being built in Ayodhya, in its campaign. It is expected to be spectacular, which might neutralise issues that have undermined the BJP’s rule today, particularly in north India. Shaikh Mujibur Rehman teaches at Jamia Millia Central University, New Delhi. He is the author of the upcoming book, Shikwa-e-Hind: The Political Future of Indian Muslims||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/on-the-future-of-the-congress/article37156039.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||No change||In a repetition of its decisions over the past three years, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) said that members of the 39-member grouping voted to retain Pakistan on its ‘grey list’ of jurisdictions under increased monitoring. The FATF, which evaluates countries on efforts to check terror financing and money laundering, also placed Turkey on the grey list and cleared Mauritius from it. The FATF found that Pakistan had cleared 30 of a total of 34 tasks assigned in two batches, and would face another review in February 2022. In particular, the FATF President, Marcus Pleyer, said that Pakistan had failed to resolve the single task that remains from the first batch, of demonstrating that effective investigations and prosecutions are being pursued against the senior leadership of United Nations-designated terror groups. From New Delhi’s perspective, the most significant of these are Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar, Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) chief Hafiz Saeed, Dawood Ibrahim and other command and control chiefs of terror groups that target India, that have yet to be brought to justice for the 26/11 Mumbai attacks in 2008, the IC-814 hijacking in 1999 and several major attacks and bombings in Jammu and Kashmir. It is indeed disappointing that the increased monitoring by the FATF of Pakistan — from 2008-2009, 2012-2015, and 2018-2021 — has failed to ensure that while some of these leaders have been tried and convicted for terror financing charges in Pakistani courts, none of them has been effectively prosecuted for violence in India. These much-delayed outcomes speak as much to Pakistan’s lack of credibility on terrorism as to the FATF’s own lack of effectiveness. Despite Pakistan’s failure to fulfill its task list, the FATF President has made it clear that they are not considering placing Pakistan on the ‘black list’, as they say it “continues to cooperate”. On the other hand, the FATF has also said that it will not remove Pakistan from the grey list, despite the country completing 26/27 of the original tasks it was assigned. The actions open the world body to accusations of ‘politicising’ the process, both from those who would like to see tough action for non-compliance by Pakistan, and from Pakistan itself, which has accused India of turning the technical process into a political one by “targeting” Pakistan. As a result, the FATF must stop kicking the proverbial can down the road. It must ensure that the investigation of Pakistan is not an open-ended process, and is brought to a credible and effective conclusion at the earliest. In light of the developments in Afghanistan, and concerns over the growth of transnational terror groups such as al-Qaeda and ISIL, as well as JeM and LeT taking advantage of the Taliban takeover to build new safe havens and financing networks, it is particularly important that the FATF keep its commitment from 2001 (when it added terror financing to its mandate) to prevent all terror groups from accessing these funding networks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-change/article37155896.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Mitigating a crisis||In a week, heads of state from at least 120 countries are expected to convene in Glasgow for the 26th meeting of the United Nations Conference of the Parties (COP). The annual two-week-long exercise was disrupted last year due to COVID-19. The year 2020 was to have been an important year in the COP calendar as most of the major economies were expected to review the actions undertaken so far in meeting voluntary targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with the Paris Agreement of 2015. However, the disruption has meant that these discussions will now move to Glasgow. Following the exit by former U.S. President Donald Trump from the Paris Agreement, the Biden administration is making a concerted effort to commemorate the country's return. To this end, it has sent emissaries and multiple delegations to several countries to coax them into committing to some sort of a deadline or a 'net zero’ timeline by when their emissions would peak and eventually abate. To limit global warming to 1.5°C, net zero emissions would have to be achieved by 2050 and emissions would need to be drastically cut by at least 45% from 2010 levels by 2030. India and China are the major emitters of the world that haven’t committed to any 2050 deadline. Their argument, which has been consistent for many years, is that the climate crisis exists because of excess emissions by the developed West for more than a century. Any attempt at solving the crisis would involve the western countries doing much more than what they have committed to and, at the very least, making good on promises already enshrined in previous editions of the COP. As years of COP negotiations have shown, progress is glacial and the effort is more on delivering a headline announcement rather than genuine operationalisation of the steps that need to be taken. In real terms, for developed countries, complying with the demand by developing countries to pay reparations means shelling out sums of money unlikely to pass domestic political muster. And for developing countries, yielding to calls for ‘net zero’ means that governments such as India will appear as having caved into international bullying. The COP, despite all the media interest it generates, can at best incentivise adaptation that aids a transition to clean energy. But even without immediately retiring fossil fuel assets, the world needs to frame a meaningful response to a warming globe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mitigating-a-crisis/article37155899.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The Portuguese revolution||A British official despatch from Lisbon says that the new Government has been constitutionally formed under a presidential decree. A proclamation which has been issued in Lisbon announces the assassination and says that the victims are to have a state funeral. A state of siege has been declared for a fortnight. Steps are being taken to punish the assassins and disarm the ruffians who somehow have obtained weapons for the outbreak of the revolution. The British Warship “Calypso” has arrived. The whole country is quite. A Lisbon telegram states that the revolutionary movement in Lisbon was directed by the Colonel commanding insurgent troops. The Revolutionaries liberated Corta who murdered President Paes in 1918, but President Coilhow has stated that he ordered his arrest. A Vigo telegram to the “Echo-De-Paris” declares that the revolutionary movement in Portugal is of a Bolshevist character. General Rosa commanding Oporto division is reported to be marching on Lisbon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-portuguese-revolution/article37155904.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Pak. High Commission evacuation||Pakistan is preparing for what appears to be mass evacuation of its staff in the High Commission in New Delhi. According to diplomatic sources, orders have been issued to 56 members of the staff to be ready to move to Pakistan at short notice. The High Commission has, in its mass transfer order, expressed “regret” for the inconvenience caused to the staff due to the short notice “necessitated by the extraordinary circumstances prevailing at present”. The order requires the officials to keep their luggage ready for onward transportation to the border. Arrangements would be made by the High Commission to collect them on the day of their departure. The order does not, however, stipulate the actual date of departure. The fifty-six members of the staff under orders of transfer include all the remaining Bengali staff of the mission numbering about 10. When contacted about the evacuation, a spokesman of the Indian External Affairs Ministry said he had no comment to make on the reported decision. The Government had not been intimated about any such evacuation by the Pakistan High Commission. Normally, members of the staff on transfer are given six days as joining time to make preparations for their departure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pak-high-commission-evacuation/article37156035.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Take a shot at target maturity funds||The fundamental approach to building one’s investment portfolio is to have an appropriate allocation to equity, debt and any other asset you may want to have, for example gold. The basic premise is that the different investments i.e. equity, debt and gold have different profiles of variability in returns; in other words, volatility is a given. By making appropriate allocations, you bring about balance in your investment portfolio, also known as ‘optimising’. The appeal of debt mutual funds in the overall picture is that it is relatively less volatile than equity, but yields lower returns in comparison. In other words, the relatively more stable component of your portfolio is debt. In India, it is known as debt investments, but abroad it is called fixed income investments as there is a fixed coupon or interest on the instruments. ‘Volatility concerns’ To be noted, in fixed income mutual funds, returns are not fixed as such as it moves along with the market, but it sees lesser volatility than equities. On debt funds, there are two concerns that people have. One, what if interest rates move up? Mind you, interest rates moving up is not the same as equity stock prices moving up. When bond interest rates move up in the secondary market, bond prices come down, and consequently the NAV of your debt mutual funds are impacted. Somewhere down the line, the RBI will have to raise interest rates from the very low levels of today, which would rather be rate normalisation than increases in the usual sense of the term. Typical debt fund investors expect visibility on returns, like with a bank fixed deposit. The other concern among investors is about the credit quality; the incidents of credit defaults that happened earlier are avoidable. In this backdrop, is it possible to have a debt fund that cushions against volatility risk when interest rates move up, have a very high portfolio credit quality and also provide some visibility on returns? There is a relatively new genre of debt funds called Target Maturity Funds (TMFs). ‘Hold till maturity’ There is only one minor condition — you have to hold the fund till maturity. But do not worry about this condition — there are multiple funds available with various maturity dates. If you require liquidity prior to maturity, that is available. Let us understand the concept of TMFs. As the name suggests, there is a target or a stated date on which the fund would mature. Upon maturity, money flows back to the investors. TMFs are similar to fixed maturity plans (FMPs), in that they mature like a bond or a bank fixed deposit. However, TMFs are significantly better than FMPs. The drawback of FMPs is that though it is listed on the exchanges, there is no liquidity. If you intend to sell prior to maturity, you may not get a buyer. Moreover, the usual maturity of FMPs is three years. This means that the choice of investors is limited to a one time horizon. We will mention in a while, the various TMFs available and their maturity dates. Accordingly, you can space out your investments. The other aspect of TMFs to understand is how these funds are structured. An Index Fund is one that follows an index, and the fund manager does not play an active role in fund management. An Index Fund could be an equity fund based on, say, the Nifty or the Sensex. In debt TMFs, the index is custom-built as these funds do not follow an existing index but have a particular mandate. The indices for TMFs are run, in most cases, by the NSE, and sometimes by Crisil. The other structure on which a TMF can be built i.e. other than the Index Fund format, is the Exchange Traded Fund (ETF). In this structure also there is an index to be replicated. The difference is, units of ETFs are listed on the exchanges. You cannot purchase from or redeem with the AMC, which you can do with other funds, including Index Funds. You can purchase/sell ETF units on the exchange, similar to how you transact in equity stocks. Liquidity is generally there in ETFs; at least it is better than with FMPs. The condition here is similar to trading in equity shares: you need to have a demat account and an account with a stock broker. Not a tough ask, but some like senior citizens or people who are not used to it may prefer TMFs structured as Index Funds. In Index Funds, you can transact in the units in the normal course with the AMC, like you do in other funds. ‘Different shades of value’ The portfolio credit quality of TMFs is top notch. To understand this, we have to see the available classes of debt securities. The best instrument is the one issued by the Government of India, popularly known as G-Secs. A more-or-less similar category, is the one issued by State Governments, called SDLs. SDL stands for State Development Loans. Then, we have bonds issued by PSUs that have the highest credit rating, which is ‘AAA’. In the Index Fund format, for example, ICICI Prudential AMC has come out with an NFO called PSU Bond plus SDL 40:60 Index Fund — Sep 2027. The portfolio comprises 40% AAA-rated PSUs and 60% SDLs. We have IDFC Gilt 2027 Index Fund and Gilt 2028 Index Fund, portfolio comprising G-Secs. Maturities of these funds are 6-7 years from now, and you can redeem easily if you require liquidity earlier. The portfolio yield of ICICI is a little higher than IDFC as G-Secs carry rates that are slightly lower than SDLs or PSU bonds. In the ETF format, there are Bharat Bond ETFs of various maturities — April 2023, April 2025, April 2030 and April 2031; portfolios comprise AAA-rated PSU bonds.  (The writer is a corporate trainer and author)   As the name suggests, there is a target or a stated date on which the fund would mature. Upon maturity, money flows back to the investors. The indices for Target Maturity Funds are run, in most cases, by the NSE, and sometimes by Crisil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/take-a-shot-at-target-maturity-funds/article37155890.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||To buy-and-hold or rebalance?||The stock market is on a continual uptrend. Your biggest risk now is complacency. Having seen the market go up higher each time it declines, you may be tempted to hold your equity investments. It is not uncommon to see reports that suggest you would have doubled your return in less than one year if you had bought and held stocks or mutual funds. In this article, we discuss the buy-and-hold approach. As you will see, this approach presumes that you expect the market to continue its uptrend. Do you? Volatility game Volatility can spoil your returns experience. If a stock moves up 50% in one year, and then continues to go up another 20% in the next year, your two-year return will be 80%. But if the stock moves up 50% in one year and then declines 25% next year, your two-year return is only 12.5%! This leads to a simple observation. If the market continues to move up, buy-and-hold is a good strategy. But if you expect the market to decline after a prolonged rise, you should consider rebalancing your portfolio. Of course, this is easier said than done. Many took profits and moved into cash when the Nifty Index was at 15,000 levels only to see the index scale new highs thereafter. It is, therefore, understandable if you are reluctant to take profits on your equity investments. The issue is that it is difficult to forecast a market turn. There will be always a few who will get the market turn correctly. But we may not know whose forecast will accurate till the market declines! So, it is highly likely that you may not catch the market turn. What should you do? Strategic rebalancing? Rebalancing refers to annual adjustment of investments in your portfolio to align with your target allocation. Your portfolio is likely to have two asset classes — equity and bonds. You will likely invest in mutual funds for your equity allocation and in bank fixed deposits for your bond allocation. Suppose you start a goal-based investment with 60% allocation to equity and 40% allocation to bonds. Also, suppose you expect 12% return on equity and 5% return on bonds. If the actual return is equal to your expected return, the proportion of equity in your portfolio will be 61.5% at the end of the first year. But if the actual return on equity is 25%, the weight of equity will increase to 64% because of the size of unrealised gains. This means you are exposing more of your risky investments to market risk. You must strike a balance between letting your equity investments accumulate wealth and yet not risk too much of unrealised gains. A simple way to is to rebalance your equity investments based on the expected returns- take out excess gains over 12% (expected returns) in a year and move them to fixed deposits that pay annual interest. Conclusion If you are confident that the market will continue its uptrend, then you should hold your equity investments. But if you are nervous about losing your unrealised gains, then consider strategic rebalancing discussed above. Note that you cannot take out all your unrealised gains; for then, your equity investments may not accumulate the desired wealth at the end of the time horizon for your life goal. True, strategic rebalancing will lead to reduced wealth accumulation compared to buy-and-hold strategy if the market continues its uptrend. But holding on to your unrealised gains for long could leave you with the anxiety of whether those gains will be wiped out. Life is full of trade-offs. Rebalancing is one such trade-off that you may have to accept.  (The author offers training programmes for individuals to manage their personal investments)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/to-buy-and-hold-or-rebalance/article37155892.ece
25 October 2021||DUBAI,||Pakistan finally gets it right against India in the World Cup||aheen Shah Afridi rattled India’s top-order with his fiery left-arm pace to lay the foundation before the opening combination of Babar Azam (68 n.o., 52b, 6x4, 2x6) and Mohammad Rizwan (78 n.o., 55b, 6x4, 3x6) built on it to help Pakistan register its maiden win in a World Cup match against India in their ICC T20 World Cup opener at the Dubai International Stadium on Sunday night. The victory by 10 wickets and 13 balls to spare was Pakistan’s first against India in a World Cup after having lost 12 previous contests (seven in ODIs and five in T20 World Cups). Once Afridi struck a double blow to dismiss India’s openers Rohit Sharma and K.L. Rahul in his first two overs after Babar asked India to bat, the Indian innings — just like Kohli’s knock — couldn’t really take off. With Kohli (57, 49b, 5x4, 1x6) and Rishabh Pant (39, 30b, 2x4, 2x6) staging a recovery after the team lost three wickets in the PowerPlay, India put on 151 for seven. Babar and Rizwan then pulverised the Indian attack to take the team home in style. Such was the dominance of the two that all five of India’s specialist bowlers — Bhuvneshwar Kumar was preferred over Shardul Thakur as the third pace option — looked ordinary in conditions that favoured the batters as the evening progressed. No wonder then that by the time captain Babar sprinted for the winning run, almost all the Indian supporters had disappeared from the stands, with Green replacing the Blue at the Ring of Fire. The game was, however, set up by Afridi’s impressive spell up front. The lanky left-armer’s fourth ball, Rohit Sharma’s first, was a perfect inswinging yorker that thudded into the opener’s backfoot. In his next over, Afridi castled K.L. Rahul, the batter guilty of attempting to whip a fuller delivery on the leg-side. At six for two in the third over, Suryakumar Yadav cleared the long-leg boundary with a pull off Afridi. Hasan Ali’s introduction in the last over of the PowerPlay saw Suryakumar nick to ’keeper Mohammad Rizwan, who lunged to his left to pouch his 100th catch. Though the PowerPlay yielded just 32, Pant and Kohli batted sensibly for the next five overs before the former switched gears by going after Hasan. Pant hit audacious one-handed sixes off successive balls — over square-leg and mid-off — hinting at a momentum swing in the contest. However, the left-hander’s double-handed swat off leggie Shadab Khan’s googly did him in. At the other end, Kohli rotated the strike well and also played the conventional strokes with aplomb. An on-drive off Afridi in the PowerPlay and a classic cover drive off Hasan were the pick of the shots. But, India’s innings turned out to be similar to that of Kohli’s — one that didn’t take off till the end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/clinical-pakistan-finally-gets-it-right-against-india-in-world-cups/article37155878.ece
25 October 2021||Belgrade,||New-look Indian squad eyes strong show||With a largely fresh-faced squad, the Indian men’s boxing team would be in for a challenging time at the AIBA World championships beginning here on Monday. Despite the top-notch field, the Indians will look to equal or better the two medals secured in the previous edition. World No. 1 Amit Panghal, who claimed the country’s maiden silver at the event’s 2019 edition, and Manish Kaushik, bronze-winner the same year, are absent. Asian medal-winners Deepak Kumar (51kg), Shiva Thapa (63.5kg) and Sanjeet (92kg) form the experienced core of the squad. While Sanjeet is reigning Asian champion, Deepak is a former silver-medallist and Shiva is a record five-time podium finisher at the continental showpiece. But, Shiva is the only one with prior experience at the Worlds, having claimed a bronze in the 2015 edition. The remaining 10 in the squad are newly-crowned national champions, eager to make a mark. The boxers are accompanied by a rejigged support staff led by high performance director Santiago Nieva and newly-appointed head coach Narender Rana with former Commonwealth Games silver-medallist L. Devendro Singh among the assistant coaches. This would be Nieva’s final assignment with the Indian team after the Boxing Federation of India decided against giving him a long-term extension at the end of the Tokyo Olympics. More than 600 boxers from 105 countries are set to fight it out in the tournament where gold-winners will walk away with $100,000, silver medallists $50,000 and bronze-medallists $25,000. It will feature AIBA world champions, including Andy Cruz Gomez, Roniel Iglesias, Arlen Lopez, Julio La Cruz, as well as Lazaro Alvarez, all from Cuba.  The Indian squad: Govind Sahani (48kg), Deepak Kumar (51kg), Akash (54kg), Rohit Mor (57kg), Varinder Singh (60kg), Shiva Thapa (63.5kg).   Akash (67kg), Nishant Dev (71kg), Sumit (75kg), Sachin Kumar (80kg).   Lakshya (86kg), Sanjeet (92kg) and Narender (+92kg).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-look-indian-squad-eyes-strong-show/article37156306.ece
25 October 2021||HISAR,||Nitu and Ankushita in last eight||Former World Youth champions Nitu and Ankushita Boro continued their winning run to book places in the quarterfinals of the National women’s boxing championships at the St. Joseph’s International School here on Sunday. Haryana girl Nitu got past Purabi Karmakar of West Bengal 5-0 in a 48kg bout, while Assam’s Ankushita thrashed Amandeep Kaur of Punjab to win by the referee stopping the contest in the first round of a 66kg contest. World championships medallist Manju Rani, Asian champion Pooja Rani and South Asian Games gold medallist S. Kalaivani also reached the last eight stage.  Important results (preliminary rounds): 48kg: Nitu (Har) bt Purabi Karmakar (WB) 5-0, Manju Rani (RSPB) bt Sobha Kahali (Utk) 5-0, Minakshi (Pun) bt Sushma Tamang (Sik) RSC-R2, S. Kalaivani (TN) bt Shital Dataniya (Guj) RSC-R1.   63kg: Parveen (Har) bt Chaoba Devi Hemam (AIP) 4-1, Nomita Kachari (Asm) bt Indira Singh (Cht) 5-0.   66kg: Niharika Gonella (Tel) bt Bhagyashree Purohit (Mah) RSC-R2, Jyoti (RSPB) bt Devika D. (Ker) RSC-R2, Ankushita Boro (Asm) bt Amandeep Kaur (Pun) RSC-R1, LalbuatSaihi (AIP) bt Jyoti Rani (Har) 5-0.   70kg: Arundhati Choudhary (Raj) bt P.Sandhya (TN) RSC-R1, Sohini (Chd) bt Komalpreet Kaur (Pun) 5-0.   75kg: Shalakha Singh (Del) bt Pranshu Rathore (Chd) 5-0, Saweety Boora (Har) bt Bhawna (AIP) 4-1.   81kg: Lalfakmawii Ralte (Miz) bt Shaily Singh (UP) 3-2, Pooja Rani (Har) bt P.Parvathi (Ker) RSC-R1.   81+kg: Lipakshi (Raj) bt Naganika Gonella (Tel) 5-0, Kavita Goyat (AIP) bt R.Jeevitha (TN) RSC-R1, Anisha (Chd) bt Arpita Shukla (MP) 4-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nitu-ankushita-in-last-eight/article37156228.ece
25 October 2021||Sharjah,||Asalanka, Rajapaksa steer Sri Lanka home||Half-centuries by Charith Asalanka and Bhanuka Rajapaksa rallied former T20 World Cup champion Sri Lanka to a five-wicket victory over a sloppy Bangladesh side in its bad-tempered opening Super 12 match on Sunday. Asalanka made a splendid unbeaten 80 from 49 balls and Rajapaksa smashed 53 from 31 to help carry Sri Lanka to 172 for five with seven balls to spare. Earlier, Bangladesh posted a challenging total of 171 for four after being put in to bat. Bangladesh got off to a fiery start with opening batsman Liton Das getting involved in an altercation with Sri Lanka fast bowler Lahiru Kumara after the fast bowler dismissed him. Both players came face to face before being separated by Sri Lanka players as Mohammad Naim also got involved, shoving Kumara. Das and Kumara exchanged heated words before the Bangladesh opener left the field. Sri Lanka was cruising at 71 for one when Shakib Al Hasan’s twin strikes in his first over pulled back the 2014 World Cup winner. Shakib became the T20 World Cup all-time leading wicket-taker with 41, two ahead of Pakistan’s Shahid Afridi, when he clean bowled Pathum Nissanka and Avishka Fernando. His earlier on-field altercation seemed to affect Das, who dropped both Asalanka and Rajapaksa, which proved costly later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asalanka-rajapaksa-steer-sri-lanka-home/article37155876.ece
25 October 2021||Manchester,||Liverpool runs riot against an abject Man United||Real Madrid piled renewed pressure on Barcelona coach Ronald Koeman as David Alaba scored a scintillating goal to help it seal a 2-1 victory in the Clasico at Camp Nou on Sunday. Alaba’s bending shot had Madrid in front for the majority of an end-to-end contest, with Lucas Vazquez making it two in injury-time before Sergio Aguero tapped in his first goal for Barcelona with seconds left. Barca has now lost a fourth consecutive Clasico for the first time since 1965 and stays a lowly eighth in La Liga, five points behind Madrid, which surged back to the top of the table. After beating Valencia and winning a crucial Champions League game against Dynamo Kiev this week, it represents a fresh set-back for Barca and Koeman, whose future will again come under scrutiny. Madrid, meanwhile, see its own recovery bolstered, after backing up a thumping win over Shakhtar Donetsk to leave a rocky run in the rear-view mirror. This was the first league meeting between these clubs without either Lionel Messi or Sergio Ramos since 2005 and while there were still veterans on show — Luka Modric, Toni Kroos, Karim Benzema, Gerard Pique and Sergio Busquets all starting — it was a Clasico more about the future. For the first time in 65 years, six players younger than 22 began the game while Gavi, a 17-year-old midfielder, was the youngest Barca starter in a Clasico in almost a century. The promotion of a duel between Ansu Fati and Vinicius Junior perhaps felt a little forced, but both players have become symbols of hope. Fati endured one of those games to be expected sometimes of an 18-year-old, with the occasional threat dotted across a quieter display than he would have liked. Vinicius, though, was electric from the start, a constant thorn in Barcelona’s side, especially in the first half, and instrumental in Alaba’s superb, counter-attacking opener.  The results: Premier League: Brentford 1 (Jorgensen 60) lost to Leicester 2 (Tielemans 14, Maddison 73); West Ham 1 (Antonio 72) bt Tottenham 0.   La Liga: Barcelona 1 (Aguero 90+7) lost to Real Madrid 2 (Alaba 32, Vazquez 90+3).   Serie A: Atalanta 1 (Malinovskyi 56) drew with Udinese 1 (Beto 90+4); Fiorentina 3 (Biraghi 21-pen, Gonzalez 42, Vlahovic 49) bt Cagliari 0; Verona 4 (Simeone 30, 36, 62, 90+2) bt Lazio 1 (Immobile 46).   Bundesliga: Cologne 2 (Modeste 63, 82) drew with Bayer Leverkusen 2 (Schick 15, Bellarabi 17).   Saturday: Premier League: Brighton 1 (Mac Allister 81-pen) lost to Manchester City 4 (Gundogan 13, Foden 28, 31, Mahrez 90+5); Crystal Palace 1 (Benteke 56) drew with Newcastle 1 (Wilson 65).   La Liga: Cadiz 0 lost to Alaves 2 (Joselu 6-pen, 90+1); Elche 2 (Boye 23, Benedetto 84) drew with Espanyol 2 (Morlanes 51, De Tomas 52); Athletic Bilbao 2 (Raul Garcia 14, Muniain 77-pen) bt Villarreal 1 (Coquelin 32).   Serie A: Bologna 2 (Ibrahimovic 49-og, Barrow 52) lost to AC Milan 4 (Leao 16, Calabria 35, Bennacer 84, Ibrahimovic 90); Salernitana 2 (Ranieri 48, Ismajli 55-og) lost to Empoli 4 (Pinamonti 2, 45-pen, Cutrone 11, Strandberg 13-og); Sassuolo 3 (Berardi 37, Henry 50-og, Frattesi 67) bt Venezia 1 (Okereke 32).   Bundesliga: Hertha Berlin 1 (Richter 40) bt Borussia M’Gladbach 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-madrid-heaps-more-misery-on-barcelona/article37155885.ece
25 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||I have developed a bridge between India and Europe, says coach Jignesh Rawal||For professional players, travelling is as much a test of character as playing their best tennis on any given day. Zeel Desai, the top seed in the Fenesta National tennis championship, was at the DLTA Complex on Saturday morning, after a tough journey back from Germany, where she had beaten Karman Kaur Thandi. “I reached on Saturday morning. It was hard travel. We were in the aircraft for about four hours before it took off, because of some technical reason. “Then, there was eight hours of flight,” said Zeel, cheerful despite the ordeal. Even though she will be playing only from Monday, Zeel was at the court to meet her coach Jignesh Rawal and other players. Jignesh, who guides a bunch of players with potential at the Altevol Academy in Ahmedabad, was watching another trainee, Riya Uboveja, along with the finalist of the last National championship Vaidehi Chaudhari. The coach was understandably happy with the European stint of Zeel and another of his trainee, Paras Dahiya. The Academy has a tie up with Alexander Waske Tennis University in Germany, which gives an European base for the players apart from access to the latest training methods. “Thanks to the collaboration with Alex, we speak the same tennis language, as to what they teach in Germany. “We plan 20 weeks of tournaments for our players, and the rest of the time is devoted towards training in Germany and India in equal measure,’’ revealed Jignesh. The coach stressed that the German academy played a key role in “tuning the fitness of the players and helps them develop a professional approach to their career.” Jignesh also said that finance management was an important aspect of player development. “Alex has helped both Zeel and Paras sign with clubs in Germany that would help them earn money by playing week-end matches,” said Jignesh. Quite proud Quite proud of the fact that a bunch of players from Gujarat had played in junior Grand Slams in recent years, like Zeel, Akanksha Bhan, Mann Shah, Dev Javia and Vipasha Mehra, or were eligible like Vaidehi and Megh Patel, Jignesh said that the next step was to ensure success of the players in the professional circuit. “For becoming tennis professionals, off-court work plays a bigger role than on-court training,” said Jignesh. We have developed a bridge between India and Europe, so that our players train and compete in Europe,” said Jignesh, quite clear that tuning the players in terms of their “character, attitude, commitment and finance” was crucial to ensure success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-have-developed-a-bridge-between-india-and-europe-says-coach-jignesh-rawal/article37156304.ece
25 October 2021||Austin,||Verstappen takes pole in Austin||Max Verstappen in a Red Bull stormed to pole position for the US Grand Prix, edging out title rival and Mercedes’ world champion Lewis Hamilton in front of an estimated 120,000 people on Saturday. Verstappen, who leads Hamilton by six points in the championship race, claimed his ninth pole of 2021 with a time of 1min 32.910sec, just two-tenths faster than the Brit. Sergio Perez, in the second Red Bull, was third, only 0.15sec behind Hamilton. Valtteri Bottas, in the other Mercedes, was fourth quickest, but will drop to ninth on the gird for Sunday’s race after changing his engine. Hamilton has won five of the eight races held at the Austin track since its 2012 debut. He also wrapped up world titles at the Texan circuit in 2015 and 2019. Bottas was victorious once, in the last event held in 2019, before the 2020 race was dropped from the schedule due to the pandemic. Verstappen has finished fourth, third and second. Despite Hamilton’s love of the track, Red Bull does at least have one win in Texas courtesy of Sebastian Vettel in 2013. The rest of Sunday’s top half of the grid is made up of Ferrari duo Charles Leclerc and Carlos Sainz followed by Daniel Ricciardo and Lando Norris in the McLarens. AlphaTauri duo Pierre Gasly and Yuki Tsunoda were the next fastest. Former world champions Fernando Alonso, of Alpine, and Aston Martin’s Vettel, as well as George Russell in a Williams, will all start from the back of the grid on Sunday after power units were changed on their cars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verstappen-takes-pole-in-austin/article37156312.ece
25 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Poonacha and Zeel get top billing||The presence of young aspirants Karan Singh and Chirag Duhan should make it lively in the men’s section of the Fenesta National tennis championship at the DLTA Complex this week. With one of the final round men’s qualification matches yet to be completed, the suspense continues about the position of the qualifiers in the main draw. The presence of former national champions top seed Niki Poonacha, V.M. Ranjeet, Dalwinder Singh, Vishnu Vardhan and Siddharth Vishwakarma should also add to the competitive flair. Quite interestingly, the men’s and women’s competition will feature two brothers and a sister from Rajasthan, Faisal Qamar, Fardeen Qamar and Farhat Aleen Qamar. In the women’s section, top seed Zeel Desai starts the favourite though the field has many quality players. Zeel starts against Yubrani Banerjee, while second seed Vaidehi Chaudhari will open against lucky loser Niyati Kukreti. Sharmada Balu came through the qualifying event and will start against her friend Rishika Sunkara. Multiple-time National champion Prerna Bhambri is in the same quarter as fourth seed Sai Samhitha who plays Kashish Bhatia in the first round. It should be a week of interesting tennis with the men’s and women’s champions are set to pocket Rs. 3,00,000 each, and the runners-up Rs. 2,00,000 each.  The results (qualifying event, third and final round):   Men: Faisal Qamar bt Parav Garg 6-2, 6-3; Vishnu Vardhan bt Ajay Malik 6-2, 6-1; Boopathy Sakthivel bt Siddharth Arya 6-4, 7-5; Siddharth Vishwakarma bt Lohtith Bathrinath 6-2, 6-4; Karan Singh bt Madhwin Kamath 3-6, 6-3, 6-3; Parikshit Somani bt Jagmeet Singh 6-3, 6-2; Neeraj Yashpaul bt Deepender Grewal 4-6, 7-5, 6-3.   Women: Shruti Ahlawat bt Anjali Rathi 6-2, 6-1; Priyanshi Bhandari bt Lakshmi Gowda 6-3, 6-3; Farhat Aleen Qamar bt Sonashe Bhatnagar 6-3, 6-3; Shefali Arora bt Radhiya Yadav 6-4, 6-0; Sudipta Kumar bt Ihwari Matere 6-3, 6-0; Vanshita Pathania bt Nandini Dixit 7-5, 6-1; S. Srinidhi bt Niyati Kukretii 6-4, 5-7, 6-1; Sharmada Balu bt Kiran Kalkal 6-1, 6-2.   The seedings: Men: 1. Niki Poonacha, 2. Ishaque Eqbal, 3. Nitin Kumar Sinha, 4. Paras Dahiya, 5. Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam. 6. Prhtivi Sekhar, 7. Dalwinder Singh, 8. S.D. Prajwal Dev.   Women: 1. Zeel Desai, 2. Vaidehi Chaudhari, 3. Sravya Shivani, 4. Sai Samhitha, 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/poonacha-and-zeel-get-top-billing/article37156310.ece
25 October 2021||New Delhi,||Deepika sets under-16 National mark||Haryana’s Deepika set a new national record in the girls’ under-16 section with an effort of 49.31 metres in the 3rd National javelin throw championship at the Nehru Stadium complex here on Sunday. Deepika was never threatened in the race to the gold as she improved upon her previous best of 48.21m that came in February this year. In August this year, at Sangrur, Deepika tossed the javelin in the under-20 section — where the weight of the javelin used is 600 gms as against 500 gms for those in the under-16 section — to a personal best of 49.28 metres. In other sections, too, the results came on expected lines with Kishore Kumar Jena coming up with four valid throws in excess of 70 metres to take the title with a high of 74.26 metres. Harish Kumar surprised Vipin Kasana to take the silver.  The results: Men: 1. Kishore Kumar Jena (Odi, 74.26m), 2. Harish Kumar (Raj, 72.61), 3. Vipin Kasana (Del) 71.89).   Boys: Under-20: 1. Jay Kumar (UP, 70.72m), 2. Vivek Kumar (MP, 66.01), 3. Vinit (Har, 65.39); Under-18: 1. Narayan Singh (UP, 68.89m), 2. Sujit (Har, 68.38), 3. Rahul Yadav (UP, 65.08); Under-16: 1. Mangal Singh (UP, 71.37m), 2. Rohan Yadav (UP, 70.14), Gaurav Patel (UP, 66.68).   Women: 1. Uma Choudhary (Raj, 46.41m), 2. Manu Kumari (UP, 44.67), 3. Priyanka (Har, 44.65).   Girls: Under-20: 1. Sakshi Sharma (UP, 46.29m), Sheetal (Har, 44.30), 3. Jyoti (Har, 43.61); Under-18: 1. Komal (UP, 44.70m), 2. Pratiskha Patel (UP, 44.55), 3. Himanshi (Har, 41.09); Under-16: 1. Deepika (Har, 49.31 (NR, old, 48.21); 2. Manisha (Har, 42.26), 3. Sapna (Har, 41.29) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepika-sets-new-mark/article37156232.ece
25 October 2021||Coimbatore,||Sohil, Vishnu share final day honours||Vishnu Prasad (Chennai) and Sohil Shah (Bengaluru), both representing MSport, signed off with a race win each in the premier LGB Formula 4 class in the first round of the JK Tyre FMSCI National racing championship at the Kari Motor Speedway circuit here on Sunday. Starting third in the opening race, Vishnu jumped to a good lead. There were a few exchanges, midway through, with Amir Sayed of Ahura Racing, who had made a clean sweep of the Novice Cup least season. The experienced Vishnu, winner of several titles year after year, managed to break free towards the end for a place atop the podium. “I think we got a lucky break in the beginning when everyone else was fighting,” said the 28-year-old, who mentored Amir last season. “Amir is doing really well and I am a bit more happy than he is. The guys fighting it out in the middle and teaching are coming up the ranks,” said Vishnu. Sohil got a 10-second penalty and a 10th place finish. But, he came back strongly to take the checkered flag in the second race ahead of Vishnu. Meanwhile, Anish Damodara Shetty of Hubli completed a grand double, winning the JK Tyre presents Royal Enfield Continental GT Cup. Ruhaan Alva of Bengaluru made it more memorable for team MSport with yet another clinincal finish in the JK Tyre Novice Cup.  The results (provisional): FLGB4: Race 1: Vishnu Prasad (MSport) 22:45.828; 2. Amir Sayed (Ahura Racing) 22:49.736; 3. Chirag Ghorpade (Momentum Motorsports) 22:53.650. Race 2: 1. Sohil Shah 19:01.088; 2. Vishnu Prasad 19:02.222; 3. A. Sandeep Kumar 19:03.875.   JK Tyre Novice Cup: 1. Ruhaan Alva (MSport) 21:48.110; 2. Chetan Surineni (Quest Motorsports) 21:48.714; 3. Jaden R. Pariat (MSport) 21:48.985.   JK Tyre Royal Enfield Continental GT Cup: 1. Anish Damodara Shetty (Hubli) 13:57.731; 2. Allwin Xavier (Thrissur) 14:06.374; 3. Anfal Akdhar (Thrissur) 14:08.009.   Saturday results (revised): FLGB4: 1. Arya Singh (Dark Don Racing) 23:27.088; 2. Raghul Rangaswamy (MSport) 23:29.179; 3. Mohamed Ryan (MSport) 23:29.308.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sohil-vishnu-share-final-day-honours/article37155881.ece
25 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Glenmark to set up swimming academy in Thiruvananthapuram||The Glenmark Aquatic Foundation (GAF) — the CSR initiative of Glenmark Pharmaceutical Limited, which currently runs swimming academies in Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru — has tied-up with Sports Authority of India (SAI) to set up its fourth swimming academy at LNCPE, Kariyavattom. SAIGAF Thiruvananthapuram (Kerala) academy will start functioning by the end of the year. SAIGAF has started inviting online applications from interested swimmers, and trainees will be selected by the coaches of the GAF as per norms fixed by the foundation. Use LNCPE facilities SAIGAF academy will utilise all the facilities at the LNCPE. It will have its own coaching staff, and trainees will be provided boarding and lodging on the LNCPE campus, if it is available, or they will be provided accommodation outside the campus. S. Rajiv, the vice-president of Swimming Federation of India (SFI) and secretary of Kerala Olympic Association (KOA), held discussions with the officials of GAF to finalise the modalities. “The SAIGAF academy will definitely benefit swimmers from Kerala and neighbouring States. Glenmark had been supporting Indian swimming for the last 15 years and its academies have produced many promising swimmers. We are expecting something similar to happen here at the SAIGAF academy in Thiruvananthapuram. “It will be a new chapter in the history of Kerala swimming. We are thankful to Glenmark for choosing Thiruvananthapuram as the centre for starting the new academy,” said Rajiv.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/glenmark-to-set-up-swimming-academy-in-thiruvananthapuram/article37156455.ece
25 October 2021||Hyderabad:,||Juliette favoured for Golconda St. Leger||Trainer Karthik Ganapathy’s champion mare Juliette should extend her winning streak by claiming the Golconda St. Leger (Gr.2), the main attraction of the concluding day’s races of the Hyderabad Monsoon season here on Monday (Oct. 25).  MIDNIGHT COWBOY PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) – 1.30 p.m.: 1. Flying Jet (3) R.S. Jodha 60, 2. Ambitious Star (8) Nakhat Singh 58, 3. Beauty Flame (1) B. Nikhil 56, 4. Bruno (10) Mukesh Kumar 56, 5. Joy O Joy (5) Gaurav Singh 55, 6. Open Affair (7) A.A. Vikrant 55, 7. Reining Queen (—), 8. Sharp Mind (4) Khurshad Alam 54.5, 9. Star Cruise (2) Aneel 54, 10. Ashwa Pushkin (6) Ashad Asbar 53.5 and 11. Exotic Dancer (9) Ajeeth Kumar 53.  1. JOY O JOY, 2. ASHWA PUSHKIN, 3. FLYING JET   PLAYBOY PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.05: 1. Due Diligence (2) Surya Prakash 60, 2. Red Snaper (9) N.B. Kuldeep 60, 3. Able Love (7) Gaurav Singh 57.5, 4. City Of Blessing (4) Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 5. Indian Glory (12) A.A. Vikrant 55, 6. Star Babe (8) Akshay Kumar 54, 7. Steve Rogers (10) S.S. Tanwar 53.5, 8. Explosive (6) B.R. Kumar 52.5, 9. Rhythm Selection (5) Md. Ismail 52.5, 10. Sacred Lamp (3) B. Nikhil 52.5, 11. Sheldon (11) G. Naresh 52, 12. Royal Pal (13) Nakhat Singh 50.5 and 13. Magic Mark (1) Afroz Khan 50.  1. STAR BABE, 2. ABLE LOVE, 3. SACRED LAMP   MIDNIGHT COWBOY PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.40: 1. Thanks (5) Nakhat Singh 60, 2. Gregor Clegane (4) Mukesh Kumar 57.5, 3. Ok Boss (3) Surya Prakash 57.5, 4. Garnet (10) Ashad Asbar 56.5, 5. One More Time (9) B.R. Kumar 56.5, 6. Hot Seat (7) Akshay Kumar 56, 7. Sye Ra (8) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 8. Total Darc (2) Afroz Khan 56, 9. Artemis Arrow (1) Rafique Sk. 55.5 and 10. Divine Chakram (6) Aneel 54.  1. THANKS, 2. HOT SEAT, 3. SYE RA   NEON PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III), 3.15: 1. Dillon (7) Gaurav Singh 62, 2. Win Vision (8) Santosh Raj 62, 3. Lorena (5) Deepak Singh 61.5, 4. Urvasi (3) Akshay Kumar 61.5, 5. Bedazzled (11) Ajeeth Kumar 59.5, 6. Hip Hop (2) C.P. Bopanna 59.5, 7. Queen Blossom (10) B.R. Kumar 58.5, 8. Royal Girl (9) Abhay Singh 58, 9. Proud Legacy (1) Mukesh Kumar 53.5, 10. Cephalonia (4) B. Nikhil 52 and 11. Turf Monarch (6) Surya Prakash 51.  1. DILLON, 2. URVASI, 3. CEPHALONIA   BOLD VENTURE PLATE (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 3.50: 1. Lagos (3) Deepak Singh 60, 2. Mirana (12) Akshay Kumar 58, 3. Incredulous (7) A.A. Vikrant 57.5, 4. Good Connection (9) Gaurav Singh 55.5, 5. Mystery (8) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 6. Apollo (6) Rafique Sk. 54, 7. Four One Four (5) Santosh Raj 54, 8. Lockhart (11) Afroz Khan 53.5, 9. Different (10) Md. Ismail 52, 10. Green Turf (4) Abhay Singh 52, 11. Angel Tesoro (2) Ajeeth Kumar 51.5 and 12. Once More (1) R.S. Jodha 51.5.  1. LAGOS, 2. GOOD CONNECTION, 3. MIRANA   GOLCONDA ST. LEGER (Gr. 2) (2,800m) (Terms), 4-y-o & 5-y-o & upward, 4.25: 1. Point To Prove (3) Antony Raj 57, 2. Bisate (1) Akshay Kumar 55.5, 3. Juliette (2) Sandesh 55.5 and 4. Lombardy (4) Ashad Asbar 55.5.  1. JULIETTE   NEON PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III), 5.00: 1. Rhine (10) Mukesh Kumar 62, 2. Ice Berry (5) C.P. Bopanna 61.5, 3. Turning Wheel (6) Akshay Kumar 61.5, 4. Winning Player (3) Gaurav Singh 61, 5. Silver Set (4) Md. Ismail 59.5, 6. Fantastic Show (1) Ajinkya 58.5, 7. Lighting Fairy (9) Ajeeth Kumar 58, 8. That’s My Speed (8) G. Naresh 58, 9. Theo’s Choice (7) Santosh Raj 54.5 and10. Royal Avenger (2) Afroz Khan 50.  1. WINNING PLAYER, 2. RHINE, 3. TURNING WHEEL  Day’s Best: JULIETTE Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 7; Mini Jackpot: (i) 1, 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 4, 5, 6 & 7; Treble: (i) 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6 & 7; Tanala: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juliette-favoured-for-golconda-st-leger/article37156169.ece
25 October 2021||Melbourne,||Harmanpreet stars for Renegades||India’s T20 skipper Harmanpreet Kaur dished out an all-round performance to guide Melbourne Renegades to a seven-wicket win over Sydney Sixers in the Women’s Big Bash league on Sunday. The 32-year-old took two for 17 to restrict Sydney Sixers to 118 for four and then blasted an unbeaten 35 off 29 balls, studded with one four and two sixes. Harmanpreet was adjudged Player-of-the-Match. Elsewhere, Poonam Yadav bled 19 runs for no wicket in two overs, but her team Brisbane Heat beat Adelaide Strikers by five runs in a rain-hit game.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harmanpreet-stars-for-renegades/article37156307.ece
25 October 2021||Sharjah,||Nabi’s Afghanistan has a point to prove||The Afghanistan team will hope to provide some joy to its people going through tumultuous times back home as it begins its T20 World Cup campaign against a spirited Scotland here on Sunday. Following last-minute changes, veteran all-rounder Mohammad Nabi returned to lead the team.  Batters Hazratullah Zazai, Mohammad Shahzad, Najibullah Zadran and Nabi and bowlers Rashid and Mujeeb Zadran carry the team’s hopes. Scotland, meanwhile, is high on confidence after winning all its first-round matches. The new-ball duo of Bradley Wheal and Josh Davey has been impressive while left-arm spinner Mark Watt has been effective in the middle overs.  The teams:   Afghanistan: Rashid Khan, Rahmanullah Gurbaz, Hazratullah Zazai, Usman Ghani, Asghar Afghan, Mohammad Nabi (Capt.), Najibullah Zadran, Hashmatullah Shahidi, Mohammad Shahzad, Mujeeb Ur Rahman, Karim Janat, Gulbadin Naib, Naveen-ul-Haq, Hamid Hassan and Fareed Ahmad.   Scotland: Kyle Coetzer (Capt.), Richie Berrington, Dylan Budge, Matthew Cross, Josh Davey, Alasdair Evans, Chris Greaves, Michael Leask, Calum MacLeod, George Munsey, Safyaan Sharif, Hamza Tahir, Craig Wallace, Mark Watt and Bradley Wheal.   Match starts at 7.30 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nabis-afghanistan-has-a-point-to-prove/article37155874.ece
25 October 2021||DUBAI,||We were completely outplayed: Kohli||India captain Virat Kohli admitted that India was “outplayed” by Pakistan in its opening ICC T20 World Cup encounter on Sunday. “They definitely outplayed us, there is no doubt about that. You don’t win by 10 wickets if you don’t outplay the opposition. We did not even get any chances. They were very professional,” Kohli said after India’s first loss to Pakistan in the World Cup (50- and 20-over). The India skipper heaped praise on Pakistan’s left-arm pacer Shaheen Afridi, who dismissed the top 3 (Rohit Sharma, K.L. Rahul and Kohli). “He put our batsmen under pressure immediately with the new ball. He ran in with intensity and bowled consistently in the right areas. We were forced to be a bit watchful," Kohli said. “That spell put us on the back foot immediately, and from there on to get those extra 20, 25 runs in the end seemed pretty difficult after losing three wickets for 20 runs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-were-completely-outplayed-kohli/article37156114.ece
25 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Dixon confident of team doing better||The Tamil Nadu men’s hockey team will start its preparatory camp on Monday at the SDAT-Mayor Radhakrishnan Stadium for the Senior National championships to be held in Pune from December 11 to 22. Head coach Charles Dixon is confident that the team will do better than the last time when it reached the quarterfinals in 2020 in Jhansi, losing to Petroleum Sports Promotion Board (PSPB). “We have picked 35 players now and from that we will select the final 18-member squad in the first week of December. Ours is a good mix of juniors and seniors. “This time all the top sides such as Indian Railways, PSPB, Air India, and Services are not playing as they will be competing in the inter-institutional tournament. Good chance “Hockey India rules state that players can take part in only one Nationals in a calendar year. That way, we have a good chance among all the states. In fact, we are capable of making it to the final,” Charles told The Hindu here on Sunday. In between, players from the Tamil Nadu team will be selected for the Nehru Gold Cup (Nov. 14 to 23 in Hyderabad) and the inter-district tournament (Nov. 10 to 14 in Thoothukudi) before it assembles back for the camp. Only worry Charles said his only worry is that players are not match-fit as there has been no activity due to the COVID-19 lockdown and the stadium has also been opened only recently. “It has been tough for the players in the last five months. We have to work harder in the given time. Our boys are keen. “Individually they are doing fine. Before getting to the turf, we will have a yo-yo test, shuttle run and endurance test,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dixon-confident-of-team-doing-better/article37156226.ece
25 October 2021||DUBAI,||Full credit to our bowling unit, says Morgan||Eoin Morgan’s leadership has transformed England from 50-over laggard in 2015 to 2019 World Cup champion. And it began its bid to claim a second world title in as many years, beating the West Indies by six wickets in its ICC Twenty20 World Cup opener in Dubai on Saturday. “I think it’s as good as it gets,” said Morgan. “To start a world tournament or a campaign like that, I think full credit has to go to our bowling unit.” This was also England’s first win against the West Indies at the men’s T20 World Cup. West Indies has been victorious in its previous five meetings, including twice in the last edition. Morgan attributed the performance to England’s bowling and tight fielding. “I don’t think the wicket was all that flush to bat on but still even after the start West Indies got, we made inroads, they came back at us and we stuck to our guns. The guys were very disciplined. “I thought we fielded well, we took all of our chances and built pressure and momentum to create the rest of the chances throughout the innings.” Morgan also heaped praise on Moeen Ali. With three of England’s key all-rounders missing, Moeen stepped up. His miserly figures of two for 17, including a phenomenal 18 dot balls, helped bundle out West Indies for a paltry 56. “I thought he (Moeen) summed up the conditions beautifully,” said Morgan. “He hit his lengths really well, took chances when his match-ups were right. I think the reason he hasn’t featured as much as we would have liked is down to conditions.”  England — aiming to become the first team to hold the 50-over and 20-over World Cups — takes on Bangladesh in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday and Australia in Dubai next Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/full-credit-to-our-bowling-unit-says-morgan/article37155879.ece
25 October 2021||Kitakyushu (Japan),||Uchimura not ready to quit just yet||Japanese gymnastics legend Kohei Uchimura said he would consider his future after finishing the world championships empty-handed on Sunday, but hinted his love for the sport may lure him back. Uchimura finished sixth in the horizontal bar final — the only competition he entered this week to save wear and tear on his ailing shoulders. The world championships were being held in his home town of Kitakyushu in western Japan, and some had speculated that he would call time on his storied career afterwards. But the 32-year-old shrugged off talk of retirement, saying the competition had refuelled his fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uchimura-not-ready-to-quit-just-yet/article37156314.ece
25 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sanju at the helm for SMAT||Sanju V. Samson will lead Kerala in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy (SMAT) T20 cricket tournament beginning in Delhi on November 4. S. Sreesanth has opted out due to personal reasons.  The team: Sanju V. Samson (captain), Sachin Baby (vice-captain), Robin Uthappa, Jalaj Saxena, Mohammed Azaruddeen, Vishnu Vinod, K.M. Asif, Basil Thampi, Sijomon Joseph, Vatsal Govind, P.K. Midhun, S. Midhun, Rohan S.Kunnummel, Rojit Ganesh, Sharafudeen, Vishweswar Suresh, Manu Krishnan, M.S. Akhil, Vysakh Chandran and Abdul Basith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sanju-at-the-helm-for-smat/article37156453.ece
25 October 2021||KOLKATA:,||Big wins for SAI, RSPB, CCSCSB||Sports Authority of India (SAI), Railway Sports Promotion Board (RSPB) and Central Civil Services Cultural And Sports Board (CCSCSB) registered big wins in their respective pool matches in the National women’s inter-department hockey championship here on Sunday.  The results: Pool A: SAI bt UCO Bank Women’s Hockey Academy 12-0, RSPB bt Defence Accounts Sports Control Board 33-0.   Pool B: CCSCSB bt Tamil Nadu Police 19-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/big-wins-for-sai-rspb-ccscsb/article37156313.ece
25 October 2021||Misano Adriatico (Italy),||Quartararo wins MotoGP world title after Bagnaia crashes out at Misano||Frenchman Fabio Quartararo (Yamaha) won his first ever MotoGP title on Sunday after his closest rival Francesco Bagnaia (Ducati) crashed out of the Emilia-Romagna Grand Prix. Bagnaia, 52 points behind Quartararo heading into the race, was leading when he fell with just a few laps remaining in the race won by Honda’s Marc Marquez.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/quartararo-wins-motogp-world-title-after-bagnaia-crashes-out-at-misano/article37156175.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping to dharma||The whole subject of dharma is difficult to comprehend. First of all, one needs to know what dharma is. Secondly, even if one happens to be aware of one’s dharma to some extent, keeping to it is difficult, elaborated Kidambi Narayanan, in a discourse. Vibhishana, knowing that Ravana’s sin of abducting Sita is grievous, leaves him and goes to Rama. Kumbhakarna applauds Vibhishana’s decision. He says Vibhishana knows dharma, and such a one should be the king of Lanka. In the Mahabharata, we find Yudhishtira initially reluctant to wage war against his cousins. But once war becomes inevitable, he is unwavering in his commitment to securing victory. Arjuna, on the other hand, is eager for war, but when he gets to the battlefield, he begins to waver. Yudhishtira, among the five Pandavas, is the one who knows dharma the best. And yet, even he has some questions regarding dharma, for which he seeks answers from Bhishma. Bhishma says that dharma is subtle. It is like an ocean, about whose depth you know nothing. Nor can you guess in which part of the ocean pearls can be obtained. Dharma is like the tip of a sharp sword. Can you stand on the tip of a sword comfortably? The answer, obviously, is in the negative. Likewise, keeping to dharma is not easy. It can shake us out of our comfort zone. Dharma is defined thus — chodanaa lakshanaartho dharmah . That is, dharma is that which tells us what to do and what not to do. Another definition of dharma is: dhreeyate anena iti dharmah . This means that that which supports and sustains the world is called dharma. A society can function only within a framework of rules. Without rules, there will be chaos. These guidelines are found in our scriptures, and these constitute dharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/keeping-to-dharma/article37156094.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 07:13 IST,||Sudoku — October 25, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-25-2021/article37156693.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Look beyond||My daughter is preparing for the USMLE for PG in medicine in the U.S. She has become stressed and wonders if she will clear the exams. She also does not know whether to choose a MD in Community Medicine or Psychology. How can we help her? – Harikaa Dear Harikaa, Please watch her closely and get her assessed immediately if she is not eating or sleeping well, experiencing mood-swings, exhibiting lack of self-confidence and low self-esteem, not being able to concentrate and study at all. She will benefit from meeting an encouraging counsellor and start ‘talk-therapy’ to stay calm and rebuild her confidence and discern what course her heart is in. I will be appearing for JEE next year but find that I'm either falling asleep over my books or tend to day dream. It has been my dream to pursue Biotech Engineering at IIT. But I am unable to deal with this. – Ananmol Dear Ananmol, First, REST well and make sure that you have no sleep deficit. Then, gear up for a dream that you have nurtured. How badly do you want it? What are the sacrifices that you are willing to make? Discipline, consistency, regularity are non-negotiable. Set a realistic time-table with enough rest, exercise and study time. Or, sign up to some classes if you believe that is something that will kick in the seriousness for you. I am in the first year of the MBBS. I want to do my PG in the U.S. But I have been hearing that the USMLE is hard and that the NEET PG is easier. Is that true? – Ritika Dear Ritika, Both need hard work, sincerity, a lot of preparation, discipline and studying! Introspect and identify where you see the blocks in your prep for the USMLE. Can a mentor or regular curriculum classes and structure help? Make a plan and break it down and work towards small short-term goals first. You have a long time ahead of you and, across the next four years, you can certainly make this happen. NEET PG can also be plan B or vice-versa. I am a 21-year-old B.Sc. Chemistry student. I am confused about what to do next. I have no interest in teaching or research or in the civil services. I want to do a professional course that will provide me with a job. – Minakshi Dear Minakshi, Some of the hottest healthcare careers for Chemistry majors are available in both direct care and laboratory settings. You could look at becoming a Biomedical Chemist, a Medical lab scientist, an Industrial Hygienist or Toxicologist, a Physician’s Assistant or even a Veterinarian. There are specialisations and Master’s programmes for each depending on what you decide.    Disclaimer: This column provides advice and suggestions and is not a substitute for long-term therapy. Some issues may need medical intervention.     The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. Send your questions to eduplus.thehindu@gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/look-beyond/article37156034.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Building linguistic bridges||“I remember children asking if we had elephants walking on the roads. They were surprised to know that I lived in an apartment," recalls Carolyn Davies, a Bengaluru-based social media professional, who is one of the 214 youngsters to have left for France to be posted as English Language Assistants in primary, secondary and higher secondary schools there. This group is part of the historic Assistant d’Anglais (English Language Assistants) programme launched 115 years ago by France’s Education Ministry to expose its school students to foreign languages and cultures through native speakers. With partnerships in 64 countries to fill up at least 4,500 language assistant positions in France, the programme operates in India under the auspices of the Embassy of France/Institut Francais. Indian assistants are popular say embassy authorities, because of their ease with English-medium education and competence in French. Fatiha Kammoussi, Attaché for Cooperation in Language and Education at the French Embassy in Delhi, says that Indian assistants are popular because of their attention to students’ needs. “Schools either renew the contracts of Indian Assistants or ask specifically for them whenever there is a new posting. In 2015, there were 42 candidates from India; this year, it is 214. Four of the last session’s language assistants were recruited as English lecturers by prestigious French universities.” The programme did not stop during the pandemic-induced lockdown. “Last year, when the French Government laid out detailed guidelines to assist the candidates with visas, we saw the entire Indian batch go to France. Some of the Indian assistants have decided to pursue higher studies in France and some have found a full-time job,” says Kammoussi. “On my first day, I was taken into different classes to introduce myself. The children asked me questions about myself and life in India. We did it in English and French,” says Davies who worked at Lycée François Rabelais in Ifs and Collège Dunois in Caen, Normandy, last year. The programme also gives Language Assistants an opportunity to explore France at their own pace. Delhi-based Gaurishma Suneja, who shifted from medical studies to learning and then teaching French, says, “I was posted in Lille, the capital of Hauts-de-France region. I had spent 15 days in France as an exchange student in 2012 but could not visit Lille then, so I opted for it this time.” With classroom seating arranged like a conference table, students were always facing each other, says Gaurishma. “So classes were always more of an interaction than a presentation. When I started, many children did not know where India was. I think this is the main objective of the programme: to show the diversity of India to France.” Living with a host family also helped to polish her own French communication skills. “Even though I have a C1 certification in French, when I first started, I could not understand anything that was being spoken here,” she recalls. A former freelance online French tutor, Jeevashree Bannerjee from Delhi says the programme offered a chance to test her teaching skills in a physical classroom. She has been appointed at the Ecole Primaire Les Montagniers, a primary school in the Franco-Swiss border town of Bellegarde Sur Valserine. “As per our contract, we are going there to teach French kids a language that they hardly know. But since I have always been very passionate about French, this is an opportunity to know the culture and discover more about a country that I have heard my tutors talking about for so long,” she says.  Programme details The seven-month long programme (from October to April) is open to students of Indian universities/Alliance Française who are proficient in both English and French. Applicants should be students with a degree, or enrolled in the final year of a Bachelor’s course; They should be under the age of 35 as of October 1, 2021 Educational qualifications: IELTS Certificate of Proficiency with a grade above 7.5; a good command of French, with French B1 minimum (DFP, DELF, TCF, TEF, etc.) or BA in French from an Indian university.    Schools either renew the contracts of Indian Assistants or ask specifically for them whenever there is a new posting   Programme details The seven-month programme (October to April) is open to students (up to 35 years) of Indian universities /Alliance Française who are proficient in both English and French.  They should either have a degree or be in the final year of a Bachelor’s course and have an IELTS Certificate of Proficiency with a grade above 7.5.  Candidates should have a good level of French, with French B1 minimum (DFP, DELF, TCF, TEF, etc.) or B.A. in French from an Indian university.  For more, visit www.ifindia.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/building-linguistic-bridges/article37156032.ece
25 October 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra reports 1,410 new COVID cases||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 1,410 new coronavirus cases, taking the overall infection tally to 66,02,961, while the death of 18 patients pushed the toll to 1,40,016, the State health department said. A total of 1,520 patients were discharged during the day, which raised the State's recovery count to 64,35,439. There are 23,894 active cases in the State at present, the department said. As many as 1,30,732 people were tested on Sunday. With this, the cumulative test figure reached 6,18,93,695. Mumbai city reported 400 new cases and six deaths, which took its total case count to 7,54,507 and death toll to 16,213. Mumbai division, which comprises Mumbai city and its satellite townships, reported 702 cases and nine deaths. The infection tally of this region is now 16,96,894 and fatality count 35,454. Nashik division reported 174 new cases, including 132 in Ahmednagar district alone, while Pune division reported 382 cases, including 170 in Pune district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-reports-1410-new-covid-cases/article37156502.ece
25 October 2021||Mumbai,||One arrested in Mumbai for alleged fraud||Thane Central GST Commissionerate (Mumbai CGST Zone) has arrested an alleged mastermind who had opened a firm named M/s. Doshi Marketing and allegedly indulged in fraudulent availment and utilization of Input Tax Credit (ITC) to the tune of Rs. 90.68 crores without receiving the goods or services in violation of the provisions of the CGST Act 2017. The alleged mastermind was operating from Bhayander West on the outskirts of Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-arrested-in-mumbai-for-alleged-fraud/article37156501.ece
25 October 2021||October 25 2021 00:00 IST,||They don’t need the bright lights||Continued on page 3 In August, when Aaliyah Kashyap was on the cover of digital magazine, The Voice of Fashion , she wasn’t announcing her entry to Bollywood. The 20-year-old daughter of director Anurag Kashyap is a digital creator. Her lifestyle/fashion/beauty channel on YouTube has close to 93K subscribers, and on Instagram, she has 247K followers. She collaborates with international brands such as Fashion Nova, Lounge and Derma-E. And she’s a student of business management at Chapman University in California. Nepotism in Bollywood has always been the elephant in the room. Actors with families in the film industry often get a leg up. But like Aaliyah, there’s a growing tribe of star kids today who are not about which movie they are debuting in or where they are partying — they are blazing their own trail. Fitness influencer Krishna Shroff — whose brother, Tiger, went the expected way and is now in the news for Heropanti 2 — says, “It’s not easy to break away from what my family does. The automatic assumption is that I will do the same. But I wanted to carve out my own niche. To be identified for my vision, and not just my family name, is a huge achievement for me.” And social media has a big part to play. While some have gone the influencer and model route (Alanna Panday, Alaviaa Jaaferi), others are using their platforms to follow different paths. Navya Naveli Nanda, scion of the Bachchan family, recently launched Project Nyay’ri in collaboration with Pink Legal, a platform for women’s laws. Their aim is to make pro bono legal consultation accessible to women. Aamir Khan’s daughter, Ira’s Agatsu Foundation focusses on mental health awareness. And Jamie Lever has pursued stand-up comedy. “They [star kids] are very aware that circulating on social media is a must. It’s not the only thing, however, since popularity on these platforms can be short-lived,” says Ankur Pathak, entertainment editor at HuffPost. That said, he theorises that at some point, these large followings could become capital for movie deals. “Not many will turn down an offer from Dharma Productions for the next Student of the Year ,” he chuckles. We meet a few of these trailblazers to find out what makes them tick.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/they-dont-need-the-bright-lights/article37156493.ece
