26 October 2021||New Delhi,||First tip-off on militants in Poonch came from a labourer||A day before five soldiers were killed by unidentified terrorists in Poonch on October 11, security agencies had intercepted phone chatter confirming their presence in the area. The Poonch encounter, which has continued for 15 days, is one of the longest such operations in the dense forests south of the Pir Panjal range in more than a decade. The terrorists have so far killed nine Army soldiers and injured three others, including two Jammu and Kashmir policemen in three separate encounters in the Poonch-Mendhar-Rajouri region since October 11. Detailing the sequence of events, a senior Government official told The Hindu at least two gun-toting men walked into a labour camp on October 10, and asked one of the workers for his phone. The labourer, whose phone was taken away, then walked to the nearest Army post and alerted the officials. It was after this that the phone was placed under surveillance, following which the entire area along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch-Rajouri with Pakistan was put on high alert. “A small group is believed to be behind the attack, though there is no clarity on the number of terrorists,” a Defence official said. A search is on in the jungle, the official stated. Five soldiers — Vaisakh H., Jaswinder Singh, Mandeep Singh, Gajjan Singh and Saraj Singh, who were among the first to be killed on October 11 — were part of a cordon-and-search team. The cordon had been placed near Surankote, at least 10 km from the LoC after the phone chatter was intercepted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-tip-off-on-militants-in-poonch-came-from-labourer/article37170815.ece
26 October 2021||Vijayawada,||Fill up vacant teaching posts in varsities, CM tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the officials of the Higher Education Department to initiate measures for filling all the teaching staff vacancies in universities with well-qualified individuals to ensure that the quality of education in the State undergoes an improvement. In a high-level review meeting on higher education conducted on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered officials that the appointments be made in a fully transparent manner, and the necessary changes be introduced in the curriculum at the earliest. “Priority should be given to providing high-speed Internet facilities to colleges to better equip the students with the required technical skills. Action should be taken against the colleges that are not adhering to norms related to faculty and infrastructure. Licence should not be given to non-compliant institutions at the initial stage itself,” said the Chief Minister. Officials informed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that 1,10,779 students had opted for laptops under the ‘Jagananna Vasathi Deevena’ scheme and that those were in the process of being distributed. The Chief Minister called upon the Vice-Chancellors of the universities to recommend ways and measures to ensure effective functioning of the ward and village secretariats, village clinics, departments of registration and town and country planning and etc. He also suggested that the universities should collaborate with technology giants such as Microsoft to achieve better outcomes in training, research and development, and introducing more job-oriented courses for the students to equip them with real-world skills. Bilingual textbooks Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy further said bilingual textbooks be brought out to enable the students to have a proper grasp of subjects in both English and Telugu languages. He said the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) should be increased to 70% by 2025 and expressed confidence that it would be possible with the implementation of schemes such as ‘Jagananna Vidya Deevena’ and ‘Jagananna Vasathi Deevena’ schemes. The Chief Minister also instructed the State Council of Higher Education to hold regular parleys with the Vice-Chancellors for improving the overall performance of universities in the next three years and that the exercise should include individual interactions with the Vice-Chancellors. NAAC recognition “All universities should obtain NAAC recognition,” he said and ordered that basic English be made a compulsory subject to improve the language and communication skills of students. Education Minister A. Suresh, Special Chief Secretary (higher education) Satish Chandra, APSCHE Chairman K. Hema Chandra Reddy, Commissioner of Collegiate Education Pola Bhaskar and others were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fill-up-all-teaching-staff-vacancies-in-universities-cm-tells-officials/article37171306.ece
26 October 2021||Vijayawada,||Naidu meets Kovind, urges him to impose President’s Rule in A.P.||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged President Ram Nath Kovind to take necessary steps to impose President’s Rule in Andhra Pradesh. A delegation led by the former Chief Minister called on the President at Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi on Monday and submitted a memorandum on the “anarchy in Andhra Pradesh, constitutional breakdown, collusion of DGP and top police officials with the ruling party” and other issues. At a press conference later, the TDP leader said they had urged the President to initiate a comprehensive investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into a series of attacks that occurred across Andhra Pradesh on TDP offices and leaders on October 19. The President was also requested to investigate the criminal networks linked to the extensive drug hub operating in Andhra Pradesh, he said. Mr. Kovind was requested to direct the Union government to recall the Director-General of Police (DGP) of Andhra Pradesh in view of his “collusion with the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and eschewing his constitutional duties and responsibilities”. The other major demand was to declare the President’s Rule in Andhra Pradesh by invoking Article 356, he said. “If Article 356 is not invoked now, the mafia gangs would get emboldened and spread their activities to other States. It would lead to a serious threat to national security and integration,” he said. Mr. Naidu said that the TDP had explained to Mr. Kovind the immediate need to address the total deterioration of law and order, breakdown of constitutional machinery and uncontrolled drug gangs in Andhra Pradesh. The President had assured to look into the matter, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/naidu-urges-kovind-to-impose-presidents-rule-in-ap/article37170797.ece
26 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Getting transfer certificates from pvt. schools a problem||As lower primary classes resumed on Monday, some of the parents who shifted their children from private schools to government schools are finding it difficult to get transfer certificates as the private schools are insisting that the parents clear pending tuition fee to an extent of 70%. A house maid from Jeppu was among the many parents who had come to meet Rajeevi, headmistress of the Government Higher Primary School, Bikarnakatte, here. The woman had sought admission in the school and had come to enquire with Ms. Rajeevi whether the private school in Bolar, where her daughter was enrolled earlier, had sent the transfer certificate. Ms. Rajeevi told her about the pending tuition fees that the woman had to clear with the private school at Bolar to send the certificate for admission to Class 3 in the government school. When the woman expressed difficulty in clearing the fees, Ms. Rajeevi asked her to approach the office of the Deputy Director of Public Instruction for redressal Another woman, whose two children studied in a private school in Kaup, too faced the same problem. After a divorce, just before the start of the lockdown, she moved with her children to her parents house in Shakti Nagar here two years ago. The government school at Bikarnakatte considered the two children as those who have discontinued their studies and admitted them to the lower primary classes. These two women are among the parents who have issues getting transfer certificate from private schools. These parents, whose income has been affected due to COVID-19, have removed their children from private schools and have sought admission to government schools in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. While some private schools have issued transfer certificates, there are a few school managements that are insisting on parents to pay 70% of the tuition fees of the last academic year. “There are a good number of children admitted to our school whose transfer certificates we are yet to receive from private schools,” said Ms. Rajeevi. There are a total of 200 students in her school, off the NH-75 bypass road. Apart from nearby Shakti Nagar, students come to this school from Adyar Padavu, Valachil, Jeppinamogaru and Olabail. Shubha, in-charge headmistress of the Government Higher Primary School in Thiruvail, Vamanjoor, said that all students, who came from the private school, to her school, have got their transfer certificates. There are 200 students in this school and they come from Gurupura and Pachhanady. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Director of Public Instruction Malleswamy said that parents having issues in getting transfer certificates can approach his office. “We did resolve four cases. People should come with specific details about schools,” he said. Udupi Deputy Director of Public Instruction N.H. Nagur said that under the law, a student has a right to study in a school of his choice. This right cannot be curbed by private schools on the basis of pending fees. The department is taking action on such complaints, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/getting-transfer-certificates-from-pvt-schools-a-problem/article37171260.ece
26 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||5,812 all A+ holders yet to get Plus One admission||As many as 5,812 students who secured A+ in all subjects in the SSLC examinations could not secure admissions to Plus One course even after two rounds of allotment. While 1,15,734 Plus One applicants have not enrolled yet, the Government estimates the actual requirement to be 67,910, factoring in the admission rates during the past five years. A total of 3,07,021 students have secured admissions thus far. Measures announced Divulging the status of the admission process in the Assembly on Monday, General Education Minister V. Sivankutty announced measures to overcome the crisis of seat dearth in certain areas. A taluk-wise study of the single-window admission process has reported seat shortage in 50 and surplus in 27 of the 78 taluks. Going by course combinations, 36 taluks had a shortage of Science seats, while 41 and 46 taluks respectively had shortage in Humanities and Commerce seats. Mr. Sivankutty said batches lying vacant would be reallocated to districts facing shortage of seats. The Government has currently effected a 20% marginal seat increase in Palakkad, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Kannur, Wayanad, Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram. “In such districts, the number of seats will be further increased by 10% in Government schools, wherever necessary,” he said. In places where seat hike did not resolve the crisis, temporary batches will be sanctioned on the basis of applications received during the supplementary allotment. A total of 8,72,92 Plus One seats were available. In addition, 83,000 seats were available in vocational higher secondary, polytechnic and ITI institutions, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5812-all-a-holders-yet-to-get-plus-one-admission/article37171161.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||KRMB team visits project sites||A sub-committee of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) on Monday visited Pothireddypadu head-regulator, Banakacherla point of redistribution of Srisailam water to three canals and Muchumarri lift-irrigation scheme to study how best to take administrative control of irrigation projects in Krishna river basin as part of implementation of a Central gazette notification. No headway The appointed date of implementation of the notification was October 14 but there was no headway as Telangana government raised several objections. Its officials did not accompany the team on Monday while their Andhra Pradesh counterparts were present. The Krishna River Management Board had decided to take control of 15 outlets of Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar but the Telangana government dilly-dallied in handing them over. More recently, it urged the board to change its operating procedures and curve rules on water storage and space at irrigation projects. In view of the uncertainty, the board mandated the sub-committee headed by Ravi Kumar Pillay to undertake field visit of projects to expedite the process of taking over the projects. The panel will visit the Srisailam dam and three power houses on it to discuss with officials operational protocols, flood control measures, water utilisation and other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/krmb-sub-committee-visits-project-sites/article37171120.ece
26 October 2021||Mumbai,||NCB plea in Aryan case rejected||A special court on Monday rejected a plea from the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) urging that it not take cognisance of an affidavit levelling bribery charges against an NCB official. The affidavit had been filed by a witness during the drug search on a cruise ship on October 1, after which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested. The court said, “No blanket orders can be passed.” It disposed of the application filed by Sameer Wankhede, Zonal Director of the NCB, before the special court assigned under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act against the affidavit filed by Prabhakar Sail. The NCB had sought directions that no action be taken on Mr. Sail’s notarised affidavit. Mr. Wankhede said the only justification for the affidavit seems to be the arrest of “the leader’s” (Cabinet Minister Nawab Malik’s) son–in-law in an NDPS case. On Sunday 24, Mr. Sail, in a statement to the media, alleged that Rs. 25 crore had been demanded by an NCB official to let go of Aryan Khan in the case. He said he overheard K.P. Gosavi (an absconding witness) telling one Sam D’Souza over the phone — after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office after the October 1 raid — about “a demand of Rs. 25 crore and to settle at Rs. 18 crore as they have to give Rs. 8 crore to Mr. Wankhede”. On the same day, Mr. Wankhede wrote to Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action by unknown persons to falsely frame him in an alleged vigilance-related issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/court-junks-ncbs-plea-in-aryan-khan-case/article37170813.ece
26 October 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal schools, colleges to reopen on Nov. 16||Schools, colleges and universities in West Bengal will restart physical classes from November 16, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday. Participating in an administrative review in North Bengal, Ms. Banerjee directed the State’s Chief Secretary, H.K. Dvivedi, to complete arrangements for the reopening of educational institutions by November 15. Later, she said that educational institutions will reopen from November 16 since November 15 was a holiday. Only students of Classes VIII to X will attend physical classes, while online classes will continue for junior-level students. The Education Department will come up with the standard operating procedure for holding physical classes and the functioning of educational institutions. The West Bengal Government’s decision to resume physical classes comes amid a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State after unrestrained Durga Puja festivities. The State reported 989 fresh cases and 10 deaths on Sunday, while Kolkata recorded 273 new infections. Ms. Banerjee has been urging people to follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour in public places. The State administration has also reimposed night curfew from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. Deprived of education Students from Class VIII will now be able to attend physical classes after a gap of almost 20 months. According to several studies, the outbreak of the pandemic in 2020 had an adverse impact on the education of students, particularly those studying in lower classes and with lesser economic means. Experts and a section of guardians were advocating for the resumption of physical classes in educational institutions. Several other States have also reopened schools and resumed physical classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/educational-institutions-to-re-open-in-west-bengal-from-nov-16-mamata/article37170755.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC tells panel to fix maximum water level at Mullaperiyar dam||The Supreme Court on October 25 directed the Supervisory Committee to take an immediate and firm decision on the maximum water level that can be maintained at Mullaperiyar dam, amid torrential rain in Kerala. Kerala said the water level should not go above 139 feet, the same as what thecourt had ordered on August 24, 2018,when the State was hit by floods. Tamil Nadu, on the other hand, informed the court that the level in the dam was 137.2 ft at 9 a.m. on October 25. Tamil Nadu Additional Advocate-General V. Krishnamurthy said officials of his State were already interacting with those of Kerala on the ground situation. The Kerala Chief Minister has written to his Tamil Nadu counterpart. “He [Kerala CM] has only said that they should be informed early before the opening of the shutters,” Mr. Krishnamurthy submitted. He said the inflow into the reservoir was 2,220 cusecs, and the outflow was 2,200 cusecs. Mr. Krishnamurthy said heavy rainfall was not expected for the next five days. As regards Kerala’s contention not to raise the water level beyond 139 feet, he said the Supreme Court had, in judgments in 2006 and 2014, fixed the maximum water level at 142 feet. The court asked officials of Kerala and Tamil Nadu to interact responsibly and avert any danger to lives. ‘Don’t play politics’ The Supreme Court made it clear that this was not an issue to play politics about. The court directed the Supervisory Committee to get to work as there was “an immediate need to specify the maximum water level in the dam” because of the rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-tells-panel-to-set-maximum-water-level-at-mullaperiyar/article37170810.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Finally, chalk and board teaching replaces screens in primary classes||On Monday, a Class I student at B.E.T. Convent, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, initially refused to go into her classroom, saying it looked different from how it did on her computer screen. Her teacher intervened, showed her classmates, and said that she was free to sit anywhere in the room. It was only then that she was persuaded to go into the classroom. After months of logging onto online classes and seeing their teachers and classmates virtually, students bid adieu to their computers and mobiles and stepped onto the school campuses, many for the first time, on Monday as Classes I to V reopened. The Department of Public Instruction said that attendance on day one ranged between 23% and 27% for Classes I to V. However, about 60% of the total 62,032 schools did not enter data on attendance. S. Sathyamurthy, president, Karnataka Unaided School Managements’ Association, said as many students were attending classes for the first time, they took time to understand the dos and dont’s in the school. “We wanted students to get used to the physical classes and we did not teach lessons. Teachers in fact showed them the school campus and told them how physical classes would pan out,” he said. Aditi Kalabavi, a Class II student from St Joseph’s School in Belagavi, seemed visibly excited. “I am very happy as I will be meeting many friends in school. I am excited as there would be games period,” she said. On the other hand, K. Charvi, a student of Class II in a private school in Hassan, was nervous on the first day. She expected her parents to be around during her classes. However, she enjoyed the company of her classmates during lunchtime. “I met my classmates for the first time. We played together. I will attend classes regularly,” she said. Though parents and teachers had repeatedly instructed students to maintain a physical distance from classmates and wear a mask, these rules were hardly followed as the classes continued. Teachers had the tough task of making students follow the restrictions. Pruhtvik, a Class I student, said the mask was irritating him. “I was not wearing a mask for online classes. Now I have to. But, there are many friends here,” he said. Pranav Ainapur was looking forward to going to school. However, the Class V student in Belagavi was forced to skip school on Monday for a different reason: his old uniform did not fit as he has grown taller in two years. “We did not prepare for it. In the morning, when he tried to wear it, we realised it did not fit. We went out to buy a shirt and trousers for him in the afternoon. He will go to school tomorrow,” said Savani Ainapur, his mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/finally-chalk-and-board-teaching-replaces-screens-in-primary-classes/article37170847.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||CPI(M) consensus on stand on Cong.||A larger consensus has emerged at the threeday Central Committee meeting of the CPI(M) to continue with the 2018 political line of the party — cooperating with the Congress and other secalar parties to counter the “exponential increase in danger” posed by the BJP, especially after its second consecutive victory in the Lok Sabha election in 2019. For the ﬁrst time, the Kerala unit of the party, which is usually strident about not cooperating with the Congress, has also appeared as a “mixed bag” instead of a monolith. The draft outline debated at the CC will be sent to each of the members and put in public domain by January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cpim-consensus-on-stand-on-cong/article37171217.ece
26 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Oppn. slams Govt. over flood response, walks out||The United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition walked out of the Assembly on Monday, blaming the Government for shoddy flood disaster response. The UDF said it saw no merit in the Government’s imputation that the Indian Meteorological Department’s (IMD) inaccurate weather warning had led the State’s disaster preparedness astray in Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, and Idukki districts on October 16. Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan of the Congress, who sought the leave of the House to move an adjournment motion, said extreme weather had caught the Government flat-footed for the fourth year in a row. As usual, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority’s (KSDMA) leading weather expert was on a foreign jaunt. The official was on a similar junket when the Ockhi Cyclone struck Kerala in 2017, he said. Mr. Radhakrishnan said the KSDMA, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, had repeatedly displayed its ineptitude in climate risk mitigation. The administration had tried to tarnish the IMD again to whitewash the KSDMA’s failures. Minister’s response Revenue Minister K. Rajan defended the State’s disaster response. He reiterated that the IMD had issued no warning about extreme rainfall (red alert) in the State on October 16. The lack of a definite rainfall warning for Kottayam, Idukki, and Pathanamthitta had pre-empted the Government from deploying National Disaster Response Force units and Army teams in the vulnerable regions in advance. Mr. Rajan said the IMD had only predicted moderate rainfall (green alert) for Kottayam and Pathanamthitta, prompting the Government to move the Central forces to districts with orange and yellow warnings. Mudslips had isolated the localities from the rest of the State. Floodwaters had submerged roads, rivers and bridges along the route. The IAF and the Navy could not deploy helicopters for the rescue because of the inclement weather, he said. Poor consultation Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the IMD issued only general warnings. The Government should have consulted other informed sources. The Thrissur Collector had on October 14 sent an extreme rainfall alert for several districts after tracking the movement of low-pressure systems over the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal. He said the Government should urgently decentralise disaster management and formulate location-specific climate risk mitigation plans. Speaker M. B. Rajesh rejected the adjournment motion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oppn-slams-kerala-govt-over-flood-response/article37170767.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Governor seeks details of schemes||A month after taking charge as the Governor of Tamil Nadu, R.N. Ravi has sought details on the functioning of various departments and presentations on the implementation of welfare schemes, sources at the State Secretariat said. Acting on the directive, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu wrote to the Heads of Departments, asking them to prepare presentations for the Governor. In his letter, the Chief Secretary said, “The Governor of Tamil Nadu wishes to know about the functioning of certain departments in the State and ongoing welfare schemes of the State as well as the Union Government.” Mr. Anbu requested the Secretaries of the departments concerned to be prepared to apprise the Governor accordingly. A presentation would also be prepared after discussion for the purpose, he said. Mr. Ravi, a retired IPS officer (1976 batch), was the Governor of Nagaland before being moved to Tamil Nadu. The Kerala cadre officer had served in the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Intelligence Bureau. He had also served as the Chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee in the Prime Minister’s Office. There was a controversy over the Governor reviewing the functioning of departments when Banwarilal Purohit decided to conduct review meetings in the districts during the previous regime. The DMK, then in Opposition, criticised Mr. Purohit’s decision, saying it amounted to interference in the functioning of a democratically elected government. The party even braved arrests and held black flag demonstrations during his visits to some districts. While the then AIADMK government chose to back him, Mr. Purohit ignored the Opposition’s criticism that he was trampling upon the State’s autonomy by conducting review meetings. He went on to defend his actions by saying the review meetings helped him appreciate the good work being done by the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-seeks-details-of-schemes/article37170901.ece
26 October 2021||MULUGU,||Maoists call for bandh||The CPI (Maoist) State committee has called a bandh on October 27 in protest against what it termed as “fake encounter” killing of three of its cadres at Tekulagudem forest area adjoining Telangana’s Mulugu district on Monday morning. In a statement, official spokesman of the CPI (Maoist) State committee Jagan alleged that three Maoists – Naroti Dhamal, Area Committee Member, Gadchiroli, Maharashtra, Sodi Ramal and P Badhru, Maoist cadres from Bijapur district in Chhattisgarh, were killed in a “fake encounter” in Tekulagudem forest area. He charged the TRS dispensation in the State with unleashing “brutal repression” against revolutionaries as part of the Centre’s “Operation Samadhan offensive.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maoists-call-for-bandh/article37171118.ece
26 October 2021||Idukki,||Water level rises again||The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam continued to rise, reaching 137.3 ft on Monday. While there was an inflow of 2,836 cfs (cubic feet per second), Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 2,200 cfs. The maximum level as decided by the Supreme Court is 142 ft. The water level in the Idukki reservoir declined to 2,398.12 ft in the evening. The red alert level is 2,398.31 ft. The gate 3 of the Cheruthoni dam remained open by 40 cm. Power generation was at the maximum level, said a KSEB official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-level-rises-again/article37170764.ece
26 October 2021||Vijayawada,||TDP should have stated facts to Kovind: Vijaya Sai||YSR Congress Party national general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy said Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu was trying to gain sympathy by showing pictures of the recent attacks on TDP offices, while maintaining silence on the reasons for the incidents. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy stated in a press release that Mr. Naidu did not condemn the abusive comments made by his party spokespersons, and rather encouraged them to heap abuses on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and others holding constitutional posts. During his interaction with President Ram Nath Kovind in New Delhi on Monday, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu should have mentioned the circumstances that led to the attacks on his party offices. The intention behind this vicious campaign was to show the State in a bad light, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy alleged.  ‘Conspiracy against govt.’ The MP said the TDP leaders were provoking and instigating citizens against the YSRCP government as part of their conspiracy to create hurdles in the implementation of various welfare schemes. The attacks on the TDP offices were the result of a deep sense of hurt among citizens caused by the disparaging remarks passed on the Chief Minister, he said. The TDP has lost all the elections that have been conducted since 2019, which was the reason for its desperation to malign the government in order to derive political mileage therefrom, the MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tdp-should-have-stated-facts-to-kovind-vijaya-sai/article37170802.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will postpone NEET-PG counselling, says Centre||The Centre assured the Supreme Court on Monday that counselling for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (Postgraduate) (NEET-PG) would not commence till the court decided the challenge to the 27% reservation for OBC (Other Backward Classes) and 10% for EWS (Economically Weaker Section) categories in the all-India quota seats for the current academic session. A Bench, led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, drew the assurance from Additional Solicitor-General K.M. Nataraj. It observed that students would face problems if counselling was started. The assurance was given after senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for some NEET candidates, mentioned that the counselling process was scheduled from October 25. He said that by the time the court decided the pending batch of petitions challenging the July 29 notification introducing reservation from this academic year, the entire process of admissions would be over and serious prejudice caused to students. Mr. Nataraj, however, clarified that the communication referred to by Mr. Datar was sent to colleges only for verification of seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-put-on-hold-neet-pg-counselling-centre-tells-sc/article37170811.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Festival de‘lights’||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/festival-delights/article37171117.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Frozen in their tracks||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/frozen-in-their-tracks/article37171280.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Hills with a view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hills-with-a-view/article37171163.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A ray of hope||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-ray-of-hope/article37170805.ece
26 October 2021||Srinagar,||Shah rules out talks with Pak. on Kashmir||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday ruled out any dialogue with Pakistan on the Kashmir issue, and said he would prefer to “engage with the youth of the Valley”. Referring to National Conference (NC) president and MP Farooq Abdullah’s recent suggestion to engage with Pakistan on Kashmir, Mr. Shah said, “Dr. Farooq Sahib has suggested that I talk to Pakistan. If I will talk, I will talk only to the people of J&K and its youth, no one else.” The Minister was speaking at a function in Srinagar’s Sher-i-Kashmir International Convention Centre, dressed in a traditional Kashmiri pheran or long, woollen robe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shah-rules-out-dialogue-with-pak-on-kashmir/article37170812.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Seven ‘illegal’ structures demolished||The Bangalore Development Authority demolished seven structures, which have come up “illegally” on the land notified for the Dr. K Shivaram Karanth Layout after 2018, on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-illegal-structures-demolished/article37170849.ece
26 October 2021||Hubballi,||CM straining every nerve to win Hangal seat||The BJP is not taking any chances in poll-bound Hangal, That explains the constant presence of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in the constituency for the past one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-straining-every-nerve-to-win-hangal-seat/article37170850.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||Dengue cases continue to rise in Delhi||The Capital continued to witness a surge in dengue cases, with 283 cases being reported over the past week, a civic report said on Monday. This takes the month’s caseload to 665, while this season’s total tally stands at 1,006, the highest since 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dengue-cases-continue-to-rise-in-delhi/article37170988.ece
26 October 2021||KALABURAGI,||Nine arrested for police exam malpractice||In a major breakthrough, the Kalaburagi Police have arrested nine persons who were trying to cheat in a police recruitment exam by using a microchip and Bluetooth device here on Sunday. On receiving a tip-off, the police raided a lodge and arrested nine candidates appearing for the common written exam for the Civil Police Constable recruitment on Sunday through illegal means. The accused tried to take a written exam equipped with Bluetooth and a specially designed electronic device containing a SIM card.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-arrested-for-police-exam-malpractice/article37171087.ece
26 October 2021||KALABURAGI,||Fairly good response as schools reopen||Reopening of classes for students in I to V standards after one-and-a-half years on Monday received a fairly good response from students and parents across the seven districts of the Kalyana Karnataka region. Teachers welcoming students by offering flowers, showering flowers and handing over chocolates and decorated school buildings were common across the region on the first day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fairly-good-response-as-schools-reopen/article37171089.ece
26 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||BSF jurisdiction: parties in Punjab oppose decision||At an all-party meeting convened by Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday, the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party passed a resolution against the Centre’s move to enhance the jurisdiction of the BSF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsf-jurisdiction-parties-in-punjab-oppose-decision/article37171220.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||No plans to deport Rohingya: Karnataka||The Karnataka Government has objected to a petition in the Supreme Court to “identify, detain and deport” Rohingya within a year, stating that there is no reason to take coercive action against or immediately deport them. The State was responding to a petition filed by a Supreme Court lawyer against the presence of illegal immigrants and infiltrators in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-plans-to-deport-rohingya-karnataka/article37171219.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court seeks affidavit on Central Vista||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Government to explain in an affidavit the necessity of a proposed change in land use from bus terminal and neighbourhood park to house the new official residences of the Vice-President and the Prime Minister as part of the ambitious Central Vista redevelopment plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supreme-court-seeks-affidavit-on-central-vista/article37171218.ece
26 October 2021||Chennai,||Northeast monsoon sets in over T.N., Puducherry||The northeast monsoon has set in over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. During the 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Monday, Pulipatti in Madurai district received 11 cm rainfall — the highest in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/northeast-monsoon-sets-in-over-tn-puducherry/article37170902.ece
26 October 2021||Srinagar,||‘Shopian youth killed in CRPF retaliatory fire’||A youth, who was found dead with bullet injuries near a CRPF camp in south Kashmir on Sunday morning, was killed in “retaliatory fire after an associate of terrorists snatched a weapon from a CRPF personnel”, the police said. “Around 10.30 a.m. (on Sunday), the Shopian Police received information about an attack by terrorists upon an area domination patrol party of 178 Battalion of CRPF at Babapora Shopian and killing of an unidentified person during the retaliation or cross-firing by the CRPF party,” a police spokesman said. The police said the preliminary investigation, including statements of eye-witnesses, suggested that terrorists fired upon the area domination party of CRPF, which returned fire. “During the cross firing, a service rifle (AK-47) of one of the personnel, who was at the rear end, was snatched by one of the associates of terrorists. He was challenged and ordered to stop. However, he kept running towards the direction from where the party was being fired and, in the meanwhile, he received bullet injuries in the cross firing. One personnel of the ADP party also received injuries,” the police said. The police said it had lodged an FIR under relevant sections of law. The victim was identified as Shahid Aijaz, an apple seller in his early twenties from Anantnag. His family, however, has contested the police claim and demanded a probe into the incident. It said Aijaz was travelling in car when he was “shot dead without any provocation”. Parties demand probe “Such killings often go unaccounted. The version of the forces and the victim’s family are conflicting. We demand a time-bound probe ,” National Conference spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar and District President, Kulgam, Abdul Majeed Bhat Larmi said. The Hurriyat also condemned the killing. “The vicious cycle of killings continues unabated. Peace cannot be forcibly implemented but favourably created. We appeal to the world community and to the people of India to support the people of Kashmir in seeking the resolution of the Kashmir dispute in accordance with their aspirations,” a Hurriyat spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shopian-youth-killed-in-crpf-retaliatory-fire-say-police/article37170722.ece
26 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||A cycle of corruption used to run in U.P.: PM||In an apparent dig at the Samajwadi Party (SP), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said a “cycle of corruption” used to run all day to rob the poor of their money during its rule in Uttar Pradesh, as he accused the previous Governments of neglecting Purvanchal, especially its health infrastructure. He said there used to be corruption in medicines and ambulance services as well as in appointments, transfers and posting. “In the entire game, some parivarvadi [family-oriented people] benefited. The cycle of corruption ran free and the ordinary family of Purvanchal and Uttar Pradesh were crushed under it,” Mr. Modi said. The cycle is the election symbol of the SP. The Prime Minister was speaking in Siddharthnagar at an event to inaugurate nine medical colleges across the State in Etah, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Fatepur, Deoria, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Jaunpur. Later, Mr. Modi launched the PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission in Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency. Mr. Modi said while previous Governments had left eastern Uttar Pradesh to fight with illnesses and the infamy of deaths due to encephalitis on their own, Purvanchal was set to become the “medical hub of eastern India”, with the nine medical colleges and other initiatives of his Government. A “double-engine Government” was working hard to provide health facilities to all the poor, he said. As Uttar Pradesh heads towards the Assembly election in early 2022, Mr. Modi also targeted the previous Governments of Akhilesh Yadav, without naming the Opposition leader. The previous Government did not cooperate with the Centre, Mr. Modi said. “They brought politics into the works of development. They did not allow the schemes of the Centre to move ahead in Uttar Pradesh ,” he added. The Prime Minister also praised the tenure of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for revving up the medical infrastructure in the State. While only six medical colleges were built during the previous Government, 16 were ready while 30 others were in the pipeline in addition to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Gorakhpur and Rae Bareli under Mr. Adityanath, the Prime Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-cycle-of-corruption-used-to-run-in-up-pm/article37170733.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘CO2 emissions in 2020 above decadal average’||A report from the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) on Monday said the increase in CO2 from 2019 to 2020 was slightly lower than that observed from 2018 to 2019 but higher than the average annual growth rate over the past decade. This is despite the approximately 5.6% drop in fossil fuel CO2 emissions in 2020 due to restrictions related to the pandemic. Ahead of the crucial talks in Glasgow next week, where the countries will attempt to negotiate ways to stem global greenhouse gas emissions, updated data shows that the pandemic disruption in 2020 didn’t significantly dent overall greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions on the rise For methane, the increase from 2019 to 2020 was higher than that observed from 2018 to 2019 and also higher than the average annual growth rate over the past decade. For nitrous oxides also, the increase was higher and also than the average annual growth rate over the past 10 years. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Annual Greenhouse Gas Index (AGGI) shows that from 1990 to 2020, radiative forcing by long-lived greenhouse gases (LLGHGs) increased by 47%, with CO2 accounting for about 80% of this increase. Concentration of carbon dioxide (CO2), the most significant greenhouse gas, reached 413.2 parts per million in 2020 and is 149% of the pre-industrial level. Methane (CH4) is 262% and nitrous oxide (N2O) is 123% of the levels in 1,750 when human activities started disrupting earth’s natural equilibrium. Roughly half of the CO2 emitted by human activities today remains in the atmosphere. The other half is taken up by oceans and land ecosystems. The Bulletin, as the WMO report is called, flagged concern that the ability of land ecosystems and oceans to act as ‘sinks’ may become less effective in future, thus reducing their ability to absorb CO2 and act as a buffer against larger temperature increase. The Bulletin shows that from 1990 to 2020, radiative forcing — the warming effect on our climate — by long-lived greenhouse gases increased by 47%, with CO2 accounting for about 80% of this increase. The numbers are based on monitoring by WMO’s Global Atmosphere Watch network. “At the current rate of increase in greenhouse gas concentrations, we will see a temperature increase by the end of this century far in excess of the Paris Agreement targets of 1.5 to 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels,” said WMO Secretary-General Prof. Petteri Taalas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/co2-emissions-in-2020-above-decadal-average/article37170747.ece
26 October 2021||Chennai,||‘Indo-Pacific will become centre of the world’||Last week, British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said India was “essential” in ensuring a free, open, inclusive and prosperous Indo-Pacific. On Monday, British High Commissioner Alexander Ellis elaborated on the U.K.’s interest in the region, and underlined India’s role as a trusted supplier in the global supply chain. Excerpts from the interview:  The port stop ofHMS Queen Elizabeth  in Mumbai was termed the U.K.’s Indo-Pacific tilt in action. Could you elaborate on the need for ensuring an open Indo-Pacific?  The U.K. has significant interests in this part of the world. The Indo-Pacific will become ever more the centre of the world. That is why we have invested so much in the region in different ways. There are a few countries in the world that essentially determine the world’s climate. India is one of them, China is another — both in this region. What is your response to the contention that multinational military activities in the Indo-Pacific are primarily aimed against China?  They are aimed for something, which is having an open and secure Indo-Pacific. And you are right to refer to the fact that the Carrier Strike Group itself has more than one country. It has a Dutch destroyer. It has some American marines. So, this is working with a lot of countries — some old friends, some new partners. And we have all realised that a lot more of the future of the world sits here. Is it possible to isolate China, which the global supply chains are heavily dependent on?  It is about working for something — which is having an open and secure Indo-Pacific. And a lot of this has a brand trust, building relationships with trust with India and with other partners — Japan, Australia and with others in the region. With China, we will always have a mix. Sometimes we will cooperate in what we are trying to do on climate change. Sometimes we will compete, and occasionally we may have to contest. This is not the Cold War. This is a different kind of world. But every country, I think, has to adapt to the consequences of both a powerful China and also a more assertive China. And we have had to adapt ourselves to this as well. And that is usually the result of Chinese behaviour. The facts change and we have to change with them. But that is not just true for the U.K. India is going through exactly the same phenomena. So, we are always finding this blend of different approaches, according to the issue. It requires an adaptation of our structures, which we’ve done in the U.K. And we’ve seen that over 5G, where, we’ve never ended at any one country. But you know, you have to have a degree of trust in your technology, suppliers, and avoid high-risk vendors. I will see terrific opportunities for India in that area as a trusted supplier, which is why I come back to where trust is so important between countries like the U.K. and India, because a lot flows from that trust. What are the major issues which the COP in Glasgow hopes to achieve?  We have a good agreement of Paris and we have to take a further step down that path. One important thing about this COP is that it is about everyone’s contribution. India has an incredibly important role to play. I think that India’s scale obviously makes it a huge actor in this area. But one great advantage India has is [that] to an extent it has the solutions in its own hands. Certain decisions were made by the British and Indian Governments, which affected travellers and businessmen of these countries. They are resolved now. Do you think everything is back to normal now?  There are still restraints on the number of flights between U.K. and India, which we want to change. The demand is enormous with people wanting to travel between the two countries, which is a good sign. We would like to have electronic visas available for tourists and for business people going from U.K. to India.  Full interview at https://bit.ly/3GdCiJU     We would like to have electronic visas available for tourists and business people going from U.K. to India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indo-pacific-will-become-centre-of-the-world/article37170730.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||Assembly polls: Sonia to meet State Cong. chiefs||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will be presiding over a meeting of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) presidents at the party headquarters to discuss the upcoming Assembly elections in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa and other issues. The elections in the five States are likely to take place around February next year, and the Congress is hoping to retain Punjab and regain Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur. Frosty relationship However, with the party going through turmoil in Punjab, and PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi sharing a frosty relationship, Mr. Sidhu’s presence would be followed with interest. After the October 16 physical meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), this will be another occasion where Ms. Gandhi would physically interact with the PCCs. Apart from the Assembly elections, other issues on the agenda include membership drives in the States ahead of the organisational elections as well as Jan Jagran Abhiyans to carry out a mass agitation and awareness programmes across the country on the rise in prices between November 14 and 29. During the two week-long campaign, senior office- bearers of the PCCs, District Congress Committees and Block Committees will undertake padayatras to cover every polling booth in the States. Set up control rooms The PCCs will set up control rooms in each State and State-level trainers will be given two-three days training in the All India Congress Committee (AICC), so that they train designated people at the district and booth level. The timing of the meeting is significant as it just comes days after Ms. Gandhi had asserted that she was a “full-time, hands-on” party president. The assertion came just days after senior party leader Kapil Sibal — one of the group of 23 (G-23) dissident letter writers — had stated that the party did not have a full-time president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assembly-polls-sonia-to-meet-state-cong-chiefs/article37170737.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks affidavit on Central Vista||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Government to explain in an affidavit the necessity of a proposed change in land use from bus terminal and neighbourhood park to house the new official residences of the Vice-President and the Prime Minister as part of the ambitious Central Vista redevelopment plan. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravikumar asked the Government, represented by Solicitor- General Tushar Mehta, to file a short affidavit with its response on the necessity for the modification in the plan. The hearing was based on a petition filed by Rajiv Suri, represented by advocate Shikhil Suri, who said his plea was restricted to the proposed modification of land use in plot number one. The petition has questioned the validity of a notification issued by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on October 28, 2020, notifying the change in land use by proposing modification to Zonal Development Plan of Zone ‘D’ for plot number one in the Central Vista area of Lutyens Delhi. “Recreational area is proposed to be modified to residential area... It has not demonstrated any public interest in the proposed change in land use here,” Mr. Suri contended. Mr. Mehta confirmed orally to the court that the official residences of the Vice-President and the Prime Minister were stipulated for this plot. “So, the public recreational area is not available now? Is the recreational area going to be transposed to some other area,” Justice Khanwilkar asked the Solicitor General. Security reasons Mr. Mehta said the play area could be shifted to some other area. But he cited security reasons too. “The Parliament, etc, is coming up nearby... It may not be possible to have a recreational area there,” the Solicitor General submitted. Mr. Mehta said the Government would file its affidavit shortly. He convinced the Bench to list the case for urgent hearing again on Friday (October 29). Mr. Suri argued that the proposed modification “violates right to life itself”. “The change in land use will deprive residents of Delhi and citizens of India a vast chunk of highly-treasured open and green space in the Central Vista... Right to life includes the right to enjoyment of a wholesome life,” Mr. Suri argued. In January, the Supreme Court, in a majority verdict, had given the Government the go-ahead to the multi-crore Central Vista redevelopment project. The verdict had focused on the building of a new Parliament three times bigger than the existing 93-year-old heritage building and was concerned with the modification in the use of 86.1 acres of land home to India’s power corridor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-seeks-affidavit-on-central-vista/article37170749.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India’s expectations from COP26||Ahead of the 26th meeting of the Conference of Parties (COP) next month in Glasgow, there have been several bilateral meetings between India and other countries including the U.S. and the European Union. The big push at the COP will be to have more countries commit to a “net zero” deadline by mid-century. This would mean ensuring that a country’s emissions are balanced out by absorbing an equivalent amount either by carbon sinks (such as forests) or carbon capture and storage technologies. India, the world’s third largest emitter, has not agreed to a net zero deadline. Why has India not agreed to a net zero target? India sees a mid-century target upon itself as opposed to the principle of “common but differentiated” responsibility that allows countries to eschew fossil fuel without compromising equitable development. Net zero means that a country must commit to a year beyond which its emissions won’t peak and a point at which it will balance out its emissions by taking out an equivalent amount of greenhouse gas from the air. Even theoretically committing to a net zero by 2050 would require India to retire its coal plants and fossil fuel use overnight and even this will not guarantee that temperature-rise stays below 1.5 degrees Celsius by the end of the century. India avers most of the countries clamouring for a net zero target for India will continue to pollute on a per capita basis way beyond their fair share. India says countries responsible for the climate crisis have not made good on previous promises to fund mitigation and adaptation projects and so future net zero promises are therefore hollow. What are India’s expectations from COP 26? Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav, following a meeting last week with U.K. Foreign Minister Elizabeth Truss, said the upcoming COP should be “.. the COP of action and implementation”. He said the “huge expectations” in COP 26 include arriving at a consensus on unresolved issues of the Paris Agreement Rule Book, long-term climate finance, market-based mechanisms. The COP26 should also be initiating the process of setting the long-term climate finance for the post-2025 period. India welcomed the U.K. COP26 Presidency’s five key initiatives on sustainable land use, energy transition, low emission vehicle transition, climate finance and adaptation. India was also hoping to strengthen global climate initiatives including the International Solar Alliance, Coalition Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), leadership Group for Industry Transition (LeadIT Group), Call for Action on Adaptation and Resilience and Mission Innovation. What are India’s core demands? India has said it is “open to all options” provided it gets assurances that commitments in previous COPs such as developing countries getting compensated to the tune of $100 billion annually, the carbon-credit markets be reinvigorated and the countries historically affected by the climate crisis be compensated by way of “Loss and Damages,” and clean development technologies be made available in ways that its industries can painlessly adapt to. What do independent experts have to say about India’s approach to COP26? Analyst Vaibhav Chaturvedi of the Council for Energy Environment and Water opines that India needs to focus on three points for success at COP. First, if India should introduce equity in the net zero targets or at least present it as a proposal for discussion. India needs to go beyond the $100-billion demand and focus on tangible deliverables. For the power, mobility and hydrogen sectors, India may only need $12-15 billion per annum which should be given at 4% interest rate subvention. And lastly, India should focus on the development of technology, how to reduce the cost of technology for mitigation and co-development of technology. Dhruba Purkayastha, Director, Climate Policy Initiative, said there has to be a mechanism by which CO2 is extracted. The world needs to set the price of carbon and it should not be a bilateral discussion point. Private market would put in money only if backed by public money. Only $800 billion finance flows from the trillions of dollars which are talked about is highly inadequate. “If India is pushed to shut down a coal capacity there is a cost to it. Financial and social costs to it which cannot be solved not just with finance but price of carbon has to be linked with it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-expectations-from-cop26/article37170751.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||CPI(M) consensus on stand on Cong.||A larger consensus has emerged at the three-day Central Committee (CC) meeting of the CPI(M) to continue with the 2018 political line of the party — cooperating with the Congress and other secular parties to counter the “exponential increase in danger” posed by the BJP, especially after its second consecutive victory in the Lok Sabha election in 2019. And for the first time, the Kerala unit of the party, which is usually strident about not cooperating with the Congress, has also appeared as a “mixed bag” instead of a monolith. Informed sources said that a few of the Kerala delegates contended that the CPI(M)’s cooperation with the Congress in West Bengal only enhanced the party’s image, underlining its sincerity in contesting the BJP. “There has been a significant shift of minority voters in favour of the CPI(M) in Kerala. Many of them felt greater confidence in the party because even though it was fighting the Congress in the State, it readily cooperated with them in West Bengal in a bid to stall the BJP,” one of the CC members said. The draft outline debated at the CC will be sent to each of the party members and put in public domain by January, ahead of the party congress in April next year in Kannur. Each party member has the right to send in amendments to the political resolution, which will be eventually adopted at the congress. At the 22nd party congress held in Hyderabad in April 2018, the CPI(M) had taken a call that the Congress and the BJP could not be treated as equal threat. The party had agreed to rally all “secular and democratic forces”. It had also agreed to have an understanding with all “secular Opposition parties”, including the Congress, inside and outside the Parliament for a broader mobilisation of people. But in all this, there was a caveat that there can be no political alliance with the Congress. Though a large section of the CC had opposed this line, it was cleared only after majority support from the party congress. The overall consensus on continuing broadly with the 2018 line could mean another term for general secretary Sitaram Yechury. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in an article in the party magazine Chintha , had said the Congress could no longer be the fulcrum of the opposition against the BJP. When asked for his views on this, Mr. Yechury said the alternative for the BJP had to come from the people. “You and I cannot sit back and decide on who could be the alternative to the BJP,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-consensus-on-stand-on-cong/article37170724.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||Thespian Rajinikanth given Dadasaheb Phalke Award||Actor Rajinikanth was presented the Dadasaheb Phalke Award by Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu at the National Film Awards ceremony in Delhi. He dedicated the award to his family and associates. Dhanush, for his lead role in Asuran, and Manoj Bajpayee, for Bhonsle, received the best actor award. Kangana Ranaut was awarded the best actor (female) award for her role in Manikarnika-The Queen of Jhansi (Hindi) and Panga (Hindi). Malayalam movie Marakkar Arabikkadalinte Simham received the best film award. Speaking to presspersons after the ceremony, Mr. Rajinikanth said, “I am extremely happy to receive this award, and I am grateful to the Government for this prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke Award. I dedicate this award to my guru, my mentor K. Balachander sir, I thank my brother Sathyanarayana Rao, who is a father figure in my life, for giving me great values.” He also thanked his friend, Raj Bahadur, who was his colleague from his days in the Bangalore Transport Service. “He spotted the acting talent in me and encouraged me to join cinema. I also dedicate this award to all my producers and directors, technicians, artists, distributors, media and all my fans, and more importantly the Tamil people...” the 70-year-old ‘Superstar’ stated. Lauding Mr. Rajinikanth, a matinee idol, Mr. Naidu observed that the former was “one of the great sons of this great country”. “The iconic thespian’s unmatchable acting skills have given a new dimension to the Indian film industry... He has shown how to maintain a perfect balance between artistic expression and mass appeal.” Actors Pallavi Joshi and Vijay Sethupathi were given the best supporting actress and best supporting actor awards for their performances in The Tashkent Files and Super Deluxe respectively. The Nargis Dutt Award for best feature film on national integration was received by the makers of Tajmahal (Marathi), while the best movie on social issues’ trophy went to Anandi Gopal (Marathi). The Indira Gandhi Award for best debut film of a director was given to Mathukutty Xavier for Helen (Malayalam). ( With inputs from PTI )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/thespian-rajinikanth-given-dadasaheb-phalke-award/article37170789.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Only U.P. has issued oil stock limits||Over two weeks after the Centre directed the imposition of stock limits on edible oils to tame soaring prices, Uttar Pradesh is the only State which has actually followed through and issued a stock limit order. After a meeting with State government representatives on Monday, the Food Ministry said three other States have submitted a stock limit proposal and eight others have initiated the process to fix limits. Nationwide average retail prices for mustard and palm oil are around 45% higher than last year, while soya oil prices have shot up 53%, according to Ministry data. Festive season demand and international price surges are likely to keep retail rates high, spurring the Centre to issue the Removal of Licensing Requirements, Stock Limits and Movement Restrictions on Specified Foodstuffs (Amendment) Order, 2021 on October 8. Uttar Pradesh issued the order within four days. In Monday’s meeting, Food and Public Distribution Joint Secretary Partha S. Das urged States to speed up the process to ensure consumers get the benefits of stock limits before the festive season.Rajasthan, Gujarat and Haryana Governments informed the Centre that their stock limit proposals have already been submitted, according to a Ministry statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-up-has-issued-oil-stock-limits/article37170753.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Southwest monsoon withdraws from India||The southwest monsoon has withdrawn from the country, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. It is a long-drawn-out process that typically begins in Rajasthan from September 17 and ends by October 15. This year, however, the withdrawal began only on October 6. The IMD stated that from 1975 to 2021, only seven times had the monsoon withdrawn after October 25. Interestingly, six of them have been since 2000. Last year, which saw a record-breaking rainfall in India that was 9% more than the long period average, the southwest monsoon fully withdrew only on October 28. While September is usually the month that marks the beginning of the end, for the monsoon’s four-month sojourn over India, 2021 has seen significant rainfall: the country posted 135% more rainfall than what is normal for the season. When August ended, India appeared to be dangerously close to a rainfall deficit and almost 9% short of what is normal from June to August-end. The trend of heavy rainfall continued in October too, with Kerala and Uttarakhand posting record rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/southwest-monsoon-withdraws-from-india/article37170716.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||EC notice to Assam CM for poll code violation||The Election Commission on Monday issued a show-cause notice to Assam Chief Minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma for violating the model code by promising roads and other development projects while campaigning for Assembly bypolls in the State. He has been given time till 5 p.m. on Tuesday to respond to the notice. “If no explanation is submitted within the said time limit, the Commission shall take a decision without any further reference to you,” the notice read. The EC said it had received two complaints that Mr. Sarma, in the capacity of Chief Minister and the designated star campaigner for Bharatiya Janata Party, Assam, made announcements at various poll meetings in Bhawanipur, Thawrah and Mariani Assembly seats for establishing medical college, bridges, roads, stadium and sports complex. He also announced giving financial assistance to self-help groups of tea garden workers, the poll panel said. Going through the English transcripts of his speeches, “It is confirmed that you have made promises and announcements...,” the notice read, adding the panel is of the view that by making the statements “you have violated the said provision of model code of conduct and the instructions”. The poll panel reminded Mr. Sarma of provisions of the poll code and its instructions regarding Ministers and the party in power. “Announcement of new projects or programme or concessions or financial grants in any form or promises thereof or laying of foundation stones, etc., which have the effect of influencing the voters in favour of the party in power is prohibited,” the EC reminded him. The bypolls will be held on October 30, and counting will take place on November 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-notice-to-assam-cm-for-code-violation/article37170989.ece
26 October 2021||Srinagar,||‘Spurt in militancy exposes Centre’s claims’||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, on Monday, said the spurt in militancy across the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir exposes the claims of the Centre that terror would end after revocation of Article 370. “Least to speak about ending militancy, it is on increase and Home Minister Amit Shah needs to answer why,” Dr. Abdullah said, in his speech made at Poonch in the Pir Panjal valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spurt-in-militancy-exposes-centres-claims/article37170720.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Rajinikanth presented Dadasaheb Phalke Award||“I also dedicate this award to all my producers and directors, technicians, artists, distributors, media and all my fans, and more importantly the Tamil people...” the 70-year-old ‘Superstar’ stated. Lauding Mr. Rajinikanth, a matinee idol, Mr. Naidu observed that the former was “one of the great sons of this great country”. “The iconic thespian’s unmatchable acting skills have given a new dimension to the Indian film industry... He has shown how to maintain a perfect balance between artistic expression and mass appeal.” Mr. Naidu noted that a film should be a vehicle with a higher purpose, a carrier of social, moral and ethical message. “Moreover, they should refrain from highlighting violence and should voice society’s disapproval of social evils,” he pointed out. Mr. Naidu stressed the need for cinema to usher in positivity and happiness. “Experience tells us that a film with a message has lasting appeal. Apart from entertainment, cinema also has the power to provide enlightenment,” he added. Actors Pallavi Joshi and Vijay Sethupathi were given the best supporting actress and best supporting actor awards for their performances in The Tashkent Files and Super Deluxe respectively. The Nargis Dutt Award for best feature film on national integration was received by the makers of Tajmahal (Marathi), while the best movie on social issues’ trophy went to Anandi Gopal (Marathi). The Indira Gandhi Award for best debut film of a director was given to Mathukutty Xavier for Helen (Malayalam). Naga Vishal won the best child artist trophy for KD(A) Karuppu Durai (Tamil). In the non-feature film category, 22 titles were given the National Film Award. ( With inputs from PTI )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajinikanth-presented-dadasaheb-phalke-award/article37170585.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Defence exports up by 334% in 5 years: Rajnath||With collaborative efforts of entities from all over the world, the defence exports have grown by 334% in the past five years and India now is exporting to more than 75 countries, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday appreciating the efforts of the defence industry and thanking the foreign aerospace and defence companies for investing in the sector. “Our export performance is a strong indicator of the quality and competitiveness of our defence products,” Mr. Singh said at the Ambassadors’ Round Table for DefExpo 2022 which saw the participation of more than 200 delegates, including Ambassadors, Heads of Missions and also Defence Attaches. The Round Table was aimed at briefing the Ambassadors about the planning, arrangements and other details of DefExpo 2022, which will be held in Gandhinagar, Gujarat between March 10 and 13, 2022, a Defence Ministry statement said. He expressed confidence that DefExpo-2022 will sow the seeds of successful new ventures and international partnerships to promote shared prosperity, boost investment, expand manufacturing and bolster aerospace and defence ecosystem, which shall be ready to serve the defence requirements of friendly countries also. “Resurgent India, where defence manufacturing is an identified pillar of growth, will display its ability to take lead at DefExpo 2022.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/defence-exports-up-by-334-in-five-years-says-rajnath/article37170714.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Shah rules out dialogue with Pak. on Kashmir||Referring to National Conference (NC) president and MP Farooq Abdullah’s recent suggestion to engage with Pakistan on Kashmir, Mr. Shah said, “Dr. Farooq Sahib has suggested that I talk to Pakistan. If I will talk, I will talk only to the people of J&K and its youth, no one else.” Reiterating his outreach to the youth of Kashmir, at a function in Srinagar’s Sher-i-Kashmir International Convention Centre, Mr. Shah said, “I have come with an open mind and am speaking my heart without a bullet-proof shield. I extended my hand of friendship to the youth.” He said Kashmir was close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s heart, and he keeps asking about the pace of development in J&K. The Minister, who concluded his three-day tour of the Union Territory on Monday, did not engage with any mainstream regional parties during his stay. Mr. Shah targeted the regional parties, like the NC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and “family rule”. He also criticised the regional parties for “never condemning those who killed civilians”. “Under their (Abdullas and Muftis) leadership, 40,000 people have been killed. They never condemned the acts of militancy here. They never say who is killing them and they never condemn their acts. We assure you that peace will remain intact in J&K. No one will be allowed to kill civilians,” Mr. Shah said. Stating that J&K now has 30,000 panchayat representatives, and people have cooking gas connections, tap water, electricity and health cover, the Minister asked, “Why Dr. Farooq and Mehbooba Mufti couldn’t do it in 70 years? The three families have exploited the youth and the people of J&K for the last 70 years.”. The Union Home Minister said there were rumours that post reading down of Article 370, land and jobs of people would be snatched. “Give me one example, of any village, where land of any villager has been snatched,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-rules-out-dialogue-with-pak-on-kashmir/article37170719.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||First tip-off on militants came from labourer||On October 15, the Army said that in a counter terrorist operation in progress in the area of Nar Khas forest in Mendhar, “there was heavy exchange of fire”, and in the ensuing gun fight Rifleman Vikram Singh Negi and Rifleman Yogambar Singh were critically injured and later succumbed to their injuries. On October 16, Army said in a statement that Subedar Ajay Singh and Naik Harendra Singh were also killed in action during search operations in Nar Khas forest in Mendhar. Communication with the two was disrupted and their bodies were recovered on October 16. On Sunday, Zia Mustafa, a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) convict who has been in jail for the past 14 years was killed when a joint search party of the police and Army took him to the Bhatta Durian forest in Poonch’s Mendhar area to trace the terrorist’s hideout. The joint search party came under heavy fire from the hiding terrorists and three security personnel were also injured in the encounter. Police claimed they had taken Mustafa, who had been lodged in Kot Balwal Jail in Jammu on remand, as he had also infiltrated from the same route more than a decade ago. The terrain in Poonch is tough and historically encounters have been long and its easy for terrorists to flee, one officer familiar with the area said. They are believed to be a foreign terrorists who have been in and around Srinagar for few months, another official said.  The Hindu reported on October 18 that a new terror group called PAFF (People's Anti Fascists Front), a front of LeT, had claimed responsibility for the ongoing attack. The group released an eight-minute video about the ongoing encounter and claimed that the two unidentified terrorists had watched over an Army patrol party for around 10 hours before ambushing their tent around dawn the next day (October 11). The narrator in the video, who is identified as the leader of the strike team, says that they crossed “Chamrer Gali” around 4.30 p.m. on October 10. An Army source had dismissed the video as an “immature attempt at propaganda.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/first-tip-off-on-militants-came-from-labourer/article37170725.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Will postpone NEET-PG counselling, says Centre||The assurance was given after senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for some NEET candidates, mentioned that the counselling process was scheduled from October 25. He said that by the time the court decided the pending batch of petitions challenging the July 29 notification introducing reservation from this academic year, the entire process of admissions would be over and serious prejudice caused to students. Mr. Nataraj, however, clarified that the communication referred to by Mr. Datar was sent to medical colleges only for verification of seats, and that another notification was issued on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-postpone-neet-pg-counselling-says-centre/article37170790.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||NCB plea in Aryan case rejected||Mr. Sail said he overheard K.P. Gosavi (an absconding witness) telling one Sam D’Souza over the phone — after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office after the October 1 raid — about “a demand of Rs. 25 crore and to settle at Rs. 18 crore as they have to give Rs. 8 crore to Mr. Wankhede”. Mr. Sail had said he would soon release evidence to support his claim. On the same day, Mr. Wankhede wrote to Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action by unknown persons to falsely frame him in a vigilance-related issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncb-plea-in-aryan-case-rejected/article37170791.ece
26 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Lies blossomed under BJP’||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said “a flower of lies had blossomed in a swamp” over the last four years under the BJP Government in Uttar Pradesh through its “betrayal” of the people. The phrase used by Mr. Yadav in Hindi “ Daldal mein khila hai jhooth ka phool” was a veiled attack on the BJP’s symbol, the lotus, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had attacked the SP symbol, the cycle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lies-blossomed-under-bjp/article37170792.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will ensure solatium for Lakhbir’s family: Sampla||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) will make sure that the family of Lakhbir Singh, a Dalit man who was killed at the farmers’ protest site at Singhu border, received compensation, NCSC Chairman Vijay Sampla said on Monday. Lakhbir’s family members met Mr. Sampla demanding justice in the case. Mr. Sampla said a case under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 would be lodged. At protest site Lakhbir, who was from Tarn Taran in Punjab, was found tied to a police barricade, with his hand cut off at the site of the farmers’ ongoing protest at the Delhi-Haryana border at Singhu on October 15. He was allegedly killed by the Nihangs on the charges of desecrating the Sikh holy book. Last week, Mr. Sampla had written to the chief priest of the Akal Takht asking him to ensure that Lakhbir’s “bhog” ceremony was conducted as per the Sikh code of living, after reports of his family not being allowed to follow traditions during his last rites. Mr. Sampla had said while there was a video that went viral of Lakhbir pleading for his life, there was no such recording of him actually desecrating the holy book.  NCSC will make sure that the family of Lakhbir Singh received compensation Vijay Sampla NCSC Chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-ensure-solatium-for-lakhbirs-family-sampla/article37170728.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Facebook undermining India’s democracy: Cong.||The Congress on Monday said Facebook was “compromising” India’s democracy and influencing elections, and demanded a probe by a joint parliamentary committee. “.@washingtonpost investigation shows BJP, RSS and its acolytes deploy hate speech on Facebook and WhatsApp. While it’s obvious Govt of India won’t do anything about it, it’s unacceptable that @Facebook has one set of standards for USA and another for India,” former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh said in a tweet. Congress general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal tweeted, “Facebook has become a tool for BJP to spread misinformation & hate speech. Millions of Indians are active on the platform & are regularly being subjected to hateful content.” Raising media reports on Facebook’s leaked internal documents, which claimed that the social media company did not filter hate speech posts in India, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “Facebook has reduced itself to a Fakebook”. He accused Facebook of acting as an ally of the ruling BJP and pushing its agenda. He cited documents released by whistle-blower Frances Haugen, who worked at Facebook, to argue that the company took no decisive action against the perpetrators of hate posts in Hindi and Bengali. Facebook’s role in the Delhi riots and the West Bengal election were under the scanner, he said. “The role of Facebook can no longer be dismissed as an error of omission as they are knowingly furthering the agenda of the ruling party and its ideology... We demand a joint parliamentary committee probe to look into the role of Facebook in influencing our elections.” Mr. Khera said BJP workers and those of its affiliates had “infiltrated into the structure and functioning of Facebook” and it reflected in the fact that though internal reports identified fake accounts with over a million impressions, no action was taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/facebook-undermining-indias-democracy-cong/article37170735.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Set maximum water level at Mullaperiyar’||The court directed the Supervisory Committee to get to work as there was “an immediate need to specify the maximum water level in the dam” because of the rain. The order came in a petition filed by Idukki resident Joe Joseph and office-bearers of the Kothamangalam block panchayat in Kerala, who had expressed their apprehensions about the supervision of water levels in the Mullaperiyar dam located along the Periyar tiger reserve, especially during the rainy season. “For the last one week, it has been raining heavily in Kerala. The lives of 50 lakh people would be in danger if the water level in the dam is raised,” advocate Wills Mathews, for Mr. Joseph, submitted. “Please understand the anxieties of the parties involved. You take stock of the situation, decide and tell us what to do... We cannot decide the level sitting here,” Justice Khanwilkar addressed Additional Solicitor-General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the committee. Kerala, represented by senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, repeatedly insisted that the court should ask Tamil Nadu to maintain the level at 137.2 feet as per the 2018 order. Justice Khanwilkar said States should have seriously interacted with each other and approached the Supervisory Committee, considering the seriousness of the issue involved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/set-maximum-water-level-at-mullaperiyar/article37170718.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Mahabharata, the fifth Veda||The Mahabharata and the Ramayana are the two great Itihasas that have guided humanity to tread the path of dharma. The term ‘Iti-ha-sa’ roughly means ‘it thus happened’ and since both the granthas are records of actual historical events, they have come to be called Itihasas. Rightfully, tradition hails the Mahabharata as the fifth Veda and the Ramayana as the very incarnation of the Vedas as both of them reflect the same soundness, strength, authority and the validity of the Vedas, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. It is held that Vyasa composed the Mahabharata by the grace of Brahma. It was assigned that Ganesha should be the scribe for this work even as Vyasa would dictate the story. Vyasa taught it to his disciple Vaisampayana who narrated it to Janamejaya, Parikshit’s son, soon after the disruption of the Sarpa yaga and in the presence of Vyasa. There are many gems in the Mahabharata such as the Yaksha Prasna, Vidura Niti, the Sanat Sujatiya, the Bhagavad Gita, the Vishnu Sahasranama, etc. wherein many profound truths and ideals of life are taught so that people can imbibe the principles. The incident of the Yaksha Prasna takes place during the Pandavas’ exile, when a Brahmin comes with a request to rescue the arani sticks used for lighting fire that had been stolen by a deer. They chase the deer but it disappears. They feel thirsty and one by one they go to a nearby pond to fetch water but do not return. Then finally Yudhishtira reaches the pond and a hoary voice orders him to answer the questions. Yudhishtira answers each of them promptly with matching subtlety and sophistication. Impressed by Yudhishtira’s commitment to dharma, the yaksha reveals his true identity as Yamadharmaraja who wanted to test them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mahabharata-the-fifth-veda/article37170745.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||Plea seeks rescue from Afghanistan||A PIL petition has been filed in the Delhi High Court seeking evacuation of over 200 Indian and Afghan nationals of Indian origin from Afghanistan. Parminder Pal Singh, former spokesperson and media advisor of the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee, has sought direction to issue e-visas to the “stranded persons” whose names are on the list and to facilitate their evacuation through chartered or special flights. The petition is likely to come up for hearing this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-seeks-rescue-from-afghanistan/article37170580.ece
26 October 2021||Patna,||Nitish hits campaign trail for bypolls||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday hit the campaign trail for by-elections to Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan Assembly seats which his JD(U) must retain convincingly to arrest its further erosion. The by-elections to both seats have been necessitated by the deaths of respective JD(U) MLAs. Tarapur MLA Mewa Lal Chaudhary died in the second wave of COVID 19 while Shashi Bhushan Hazari, who represented reserved Kusheshwar Asthan breathed his last at a Delhi hospital where he was undergoing treatment for Hepatitis. A major factor that seems to be going in favour of Mr. Nitish is that the NDA, of which he is a part, has presented a picture of cohesion, unlike the Opposition which seems to be in a divided mess. The old Congress-RJD alliance is now over and both parties are fighting it out in the by-elections. Voting will take place on October 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nitish-hits-campaign-trail-for-bypolls/article37171223.ece
26 October 2021||Mumbai,||‘NCB official used fake certificate’||In a series of new allegations against the zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Sameer Wankhede, NCP leader and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik on Monday accused him of using a fake Scheduled Caste certificate to become an IRS officer. The Minister released a set of documents, including the officer’s birth certificate, claiming the latter is Muslim by birth. In the latest allegations against the officer, Mr. Malik said: “Sameer Dawood Wankhede is a Muslim by birth. He forged a caste certificate claiming to be Scheduled Caste. I have given his birth certificate which mentions his father’s name was Dawood Wankhede, who had converted to Islam. He used fake caste certificate and denied a true Dalit the opportunity to become the officer.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncb-official-used-fake-certificate/article37170582.ece
26 October 2021||Bhopal,||Approve scripts before shoot: M.P.||A day after members of the Bajrang Dal went on the rampage on the set of Ashram 3 , a Web series, in Bhopal, smearing ink on director Prakash Jha and attacking the crew, the Madhya Pradesh Government on Monday said it would issue fresh guidelines on shooting movies in the State. Henceforth, film production houses would have to first get the script of the film approved by the officials. “In the context of the shooting of the Web series Ashram 3 , the State Government will issue fresh guidelines. Now prior to film shooting, the script is to be approved by the District Collector. Only then can they apply to get a permit to start filming,” Madhya Pradesh Minister for Home, Jail and Parliamentary Affairs and Law Department Narottam Mishra tweeted in Hindi. On Sunday evening, Mr. Jha and members of his film unit were allegedly beaten up by the members of the Bajrang Dal on the old jail premises. The Bajrang Dal said the Web series starring Bobby Deol was an assault on Hinduism and they would not allow its filming till the title was changed. Videos captured on mobile phones showed the members chasing the crew and beating up at least one of them. The Hindu has not been able to independently establish the veracity of any of the videos. The Producers Guild of India and several celebrities have condemned the attack. “The Producers Guild of India strongly condemns the brazen acts of violence, harassment and vandalism faced by the crew involved in the production of the series Ashram in Bhopal,” says the press note. Action will be taken against those who disrupted the shooting, Irshad Wali, DIG, Bhopal, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/script-approval-must-before-shooting-in-mp/article37170584.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Commanders conference begins||The four-day Army Commanders Conference of 2021, which began on Monday, reviewed issues related to military operations as well as the promotion board of Major Generals to Lieutenant Generals and nomination of officers to the National Defence College (NDC), a defence official said. The conference is happening amid increasing violence in Kashmir, continuing stand-off in eastern Ladakh and transgressions by the Chinese Army in the central and eastern sectors. With disengagement and de-escalation in eastern Ladakh still incomplete, the Army is gearing to remain deployed in the high-altitude areas in the sector for the second year in a row. “The apex leadership will brainstorm on current and emerging security and administrative aspects to chart the future course in the backdrop of the situation along the borders and challenges imposed by COVID-19 pandemic,” the Army had said on the conference. The Army Commanders’ Conference is an apex-level event held in April and October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/commanders-conference-begins/article37170712.ece
26 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Court seeks reply in Singhu murder case||A local court in Sonipat on Monday directed the Haryana police to furnish a reply on invoking the Arms Act against the accused in the Singhu border murder case for wielding swords. All the four accused were remanded to judicial custody till November 8. Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Arvind Kumar directed the police to file a reply within a week’s time on pressing charges under the Arms Act against the accused for using swords to commit the crime. “Since Nihang Sikhs are allowed to keep swords as per their religion, the court has directed the police to file a reply on the imposition of the Arms Act in the case,” said Yogesh, the counsel for the accused. The court also directed the police to drop charges under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against three of the four accused since they belonged to a Scheduled Caste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-seeks-reply-in-singhu-murder-case/article37170726.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||No plan to deport Rohingya: Karnataka||The Karnataka Government has objected to a petition in the Supreme Court to “identify, detain and deport” Rohingya within a year, stating that there is no reason to take coercive action against or immediately deport them. The State was responding to the petition filed by Supreme Court lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay against the presence of illegal immigrants and infiltrators, including Rohingya, in the country. Mr. Upadhyay recommended that “infiltration” should be made a cognisable, non-bailable and non-compoundable offence. Karnataka stated that there were 72 Rohingya “refugees” living in Bengaluru city. It gave a list of their names. Several were seen to be less than 12-years-old. The State said the Rohingya people “work in various fields”. “Bengaluru City Police have not taken any coercive action against them as of now. There is no immediate plan of deporting them now,” the short affidavit noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-plans-to-deport-rohingya-karnataka/article37170731.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||Anti-diabetic medicines get price caps||Drug price regulator National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) on Monday said it has fixed the ceiling prices for 12 anti-diabetic generic medicines, including glimepiride tablets, glucose injection and intermediate acting insulin solution. In a tweet, the drug price regulator said, “To make it possible for every Indian to afford medical treatment, NPPA has fixed the ceiling prices of 12 anti-diabetic generic medicines.” These include glimepiride tablet of strength 1 mg, with ceiling price at Rs. 3.6 per tablet, while that for 2 mg is Rs. 5.72 per tablet. The ceiling price of 1 ml glucose injection of 25% strength has been fixed at 17 paise, while that of 1ml of insulin (soluble) injection of strength 40IU/ml is Rs. 15.09. Similarly, 1 ml of intermediate acting (NPH) solution insulin injection of strength 40 IU/ml has a ceiling price of Rs. 15.09.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-diabetic-medicines-get-price-caps/article37170754.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||FAA starts five-day audit of DGCA||The United States’ aviation watchdog, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), on Monday started its five-day audit of India’s safety regulator, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). “This is a routine-check that is carried out every two to three years. This time it was delayed due to COVID-19,” a DGCA official said. Under its International Aviation Safety Assessment (IASA) program, the FAA determines whether another country’s oversight of its airlines that operate to the U.S. or have a codeshare agreement with a U.S. airline comply with safety standards laid down by the global aviation watchdog International Civil Aviation Organisation. The FAA will look into India’s ability to adhere to international aviation safety standards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/faa-starts-five-day-audit-of-dgca/article37170717.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Over 500 illegal structures identified in Bengaluru||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has identified over 500 structures, which have come up “illegally” on the land notified for the Dr. K Shivaram Karanth Layout after 2018. Several structures have already been removed by the BDA and on Monday, during one such drive at Somashettihalli, officials faced resistance from residents as seven structures were razed.  Pradeep Kumar, a property owner, said, “We had built a structure on our own property. Several structures were demolished on Monday and owners lost structures worth over Rs. 2 crore. For the formation of the layout, 3 acres of our family land was notified. At least these structures could have been spared.” BDA officials claim that illegal constructions that came up have been identified using satellite imagery and drone surveys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-500-illegal-structures-identified-in-bengaluru/article37170991.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||Plea against Ramdev by doctors' association can't be thrown out: HC||The Delhi High Court on Monday said that prima facie, a suit filed by several doctors’ associations against yoga guru Ramdev for allegedly spreading misinformation against allopathy amid the COVID-19 pandemic deserves consideration and cannot be “thrown out” at the first stage. Justice C. Hari Shankar said at the present stage, it only needs “to see if allegations in the plaint make out a case to be entertained”. “The allegations may be right or may be wrong. He may say he did not say any such thing... It needs to be looked into,” said the judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-against-ramdev-by-doctors-association-cant-be-thrown-out-hc/article37171224.ece
26 October 2021||Hyderabad,||BE hopes to roll out COVID vaccine by November-end||Biological E.(BE) is expecting its COVID-19 vaccine Corbevax to be rolled out by the end of November even as the Hyderabad-based firm is getting ready with 100 million doses for the launch, Mahima Datla, managing director, BE, said. Speaking on the sidelines after signing a financing agreement with the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation, she said currently the doses were being sent to the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli, for regulatory testing.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/be-hopes-to-roll-out-covid-vaccine-by-november-end/article37170739.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||Culture Ministry launches podcast on freedom movement||Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy on Monday launched a podcast series on the freedom struggle as a part of the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations of the 75th year of Independence next year. The series, ‘ Zara Yaad Karo Qurbani ’, would focus on the people and movements that contributed to the freedom struggle, “some of which have not found a place in the conventional freedom movement storyline”, the description of the podcast read. The series will be available on amritmahotsav.nic.in , Spotify, Soundcloud, and other platforms for podcasts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/culture-ministry-launches-podcast-on-freedom-movement/article37170743.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||ED attaches assets of ex-ADM in disproportionate assets case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached the assets belonging to a former Additional District Magistrate (ADM) of Bihar’s Bhagalpur and her family members in a disproportionate assets case. The case, registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, involves Jayshree Thakur and others. The attached assets are in the form of the balance in 42 bank accounts, 15 plots, one flat, and 15 insurance policies. According to the agency, the total value of the attached properties is about Rs. 6.85 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-assets-of-ex-adm-in-disproportionate-assets-case/article37170744.ece
26 October 2021||Ahmedabad,||BSF constable held on charges of spying||A BSF constable posted in Kutch, Gujarat, was arrested on Monday by the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) for allegedly “spying for Pakistan”. Sajjad, the accused, is a resident of Rajauri district of Jammu and Kashmir, and is posted in the ‘A’ company of the 74th battalion of the BSF in Kutch Gandhidham. As per the ATS, Sajjad had joined as a constable in 2012. On Monday, a Gujarat ATS team arrested him from the BSF headquarters in Kutch Bhuj on charges of spying and sending secret information to a Pakistan-based handler through WhatsApp messages in return for money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsf-constable-held-on-charges-of-spying/article37170795.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents want dug up road to be relaid soon||Residents of Anna Nagar Western Extension complained that a portion of road dug up for civic work at TVS Colony has turned slushy and unmotorable. They have demanded that the stretch be relaid before the northeast monsoon picks up. Work to repair the sewer line on 57th Street was completed recently. It was the third time that the road had been dug up and the earth used to refill the dug up portion has not been levelled, the locals said. V. Rajagopal, president, Anna Nagar Western Extension Phase II Residents’ Welfare Association, said people found it hard to even walk on the slippery portion of the road. Pedestrians had to vie with vehicles for space on the slushy road. “With monsoon rain expected to begin this week, residents are concerned over the condition of the road. The authorities concerned must relay the stretch soon,” he said. Responding to the complaints, Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) officials said a minor work was carried out in the sewer line that was clogged. “We plan to relay the road in one or two days. Steps are being taken to level the road and remove the excess earth dumped near the park,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-want-dug-up-road-to-be-relaid-soon/article37170922.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MTC reintroduces 10 services||Responding to requests from the commuters in south Chennai, Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan has restored 10 bus services which were stopped a few years ago. He launched 13 bus routes, including the 10 in question, at a function in the Chromepet bus depot on Monday. In a press release, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation Chennai (MTC) said it has resumed 10 bus routes of 570T (Thazambur to Koyambedu), M52 Extension (Pozhichalur-Kayarampet), 523 (Thiruvanmiyur-Mugalivakkam), S81 (Chromepet-Pozhichalur), 154B (Nangannallur-Poonamallee), 52C (Hastinapuram-T.Nagar), 70H (Hastinapuram-Koyambedu), 552K (Keelkattalai-Thiruporur), 60A (Broadway-Kundrathur) and 517K (Pallavaram-Kovalam). Two new small bus routes between Kundrathur and Pallavaram (S66) and Pallavaram to Padur (S167) along with an extended service 53E (Broadway to Kundrathur via Mangadu), were made operational. MTC plans to operate 17 buses on the 13 routes, the Minister said. Mr. Rajakannappan said the Transport Department, which was operating only 14,000 buses throughout the State due to the COVID-19 pandemic, now operates 17,791 buses, including 3,300 MTC buses. He assured people of resuming bus services which were stopped in the previous regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mtc-reintroduces-10-services/article37170933.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Northeast monsoon sets in over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry||With the northeasterly winds making conditions favourable, the India Meteorological Department on Monday announced that the Northeast monsoon had set in over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The Southwest monsoon had simultaneously withdrawn from the country. Besides the northeasterly winds setting in at the lower tropospheric levels, many places in the State received rain on Sunday, paving the way for the arrival of the Northeast monsoon in the southern peninsular region, said S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai. Normally, the Northeast monsoon sets in over the State around October 20. During the 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Monday, Pulipatti in Madurai district received 11 cm rainfall — the highest in the State. At 10 cm, Viralimalai in Pudukottai district received the second-highest amount of rainfall for the day. “We expect an upper air circulation to form over Southeast Bay of Bengal and the neighbourhood by Tuesday and move westwards. A low pressure area is likely to develop over the central parts of south Bay of Bengal around October 28,” he said. The weather system may influence widespread rainfall till October 29. Many places will record moderate rain, and southern districts and those along the Western Ghats are likely to receive heavy rain in one or two places till October 28. On Tuesday, districts like Ramanathapuram, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Karur and Virudhunagar may receive isolated heavy rain, accompanied by lightning and thunder. Chennai may experience light to moderate rain in some places till Wednesday, and the day temperature will be around 34 degrees Celsius. Higher-than-average rain Tamil Nadu has received nearly 18.6 cm of rain so far this month, which is 33% higher than the average of 14 cm for October. According to the Meteorological Department, the monsoon rain is likely to be normal over the State this year — 44 cm between October and December. Mr. Balachandran told The Hindu that the Department was in the process of strengthening its weather network. Chennai and its fringes had a network of 22 automatic rain gauges. They would help in flood forecasting and data collation. The Department was also engaged in installing high wind speed recorders in Puducherry and Nagapattinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/northeast-monsoon-sets-in-over-tamil-nadu-puducherry/article37170935.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-Madras research centre to launch industry consortium||The Indian Institute of Technology Madras’ Robert Bosch Centre for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence has proposed to launch an industrial consortium to provide information resources support on cutting-edge technologies to industries working on artificial intelligence. The consortium will enable the member industries to learn about scientific developments and latest trends in AI and data science through interaction with the centre and its faculty and access events and workshops organised by the centre.  The membership would help industries establish themselves early as key players in the data science and Al space with a potential to secure new and significant revenue streams. According to Balaraman Ravindran, Mindtree faculty fellow and head of RBCDSAI, “The idea is to use the consortium as a means to disseminate the output of our research to industry partners quickly so that we can work together towards their application in the field.” At present, the centre offers two membership plans to the interested industries. RBCDSAI is an interdisciplinary research centre with 28 faculty from 10 departments of IIT Madras working on various aspects and applications of AI. Research at the centre covers deep learning, network analytics, reinforcement learning, natural language processing, theoretical machine learning, ethics, fairness and explainability in AI. The centre also undertakes applied research in verticals such as financial analytics, manufacturing analytics, smart cities, systems biology and healthcare, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-madras-research-centre-to-launch-industry-consortium/article37171323.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schoolgirl killed in road accident in Kolathur||A 13-year-old girl was run over by a garbage truck belonging to the Greater Chennai Corporation on Monday in Kolathur. The victim was identified as Sudar Vizhi, 13, daughter of Suresh, a head constable attached to the Shastri Nagar police station. Her parents are staying at Dass Nagar in Vyasarpadi. On way to school  The police said that on Monday morning Jagannathan, a friend of Suresh, took her on his two-wheeler to a private school in Kolathur where she was studying Class IX. At 9 a.m., while they were moving on Paper Mills Road, Mr. Jagannathan applied the brakes in order to avoid hitting the vehicle that was moving in front of of them. The two-wheeler skidded and the girl fell down. The garbage truck, which was coming in the opposite direction, ran over the girl. Mr. Jagannathan escaped with minor injuries, the police added. Passers-by rushed her to the Government Hospital, Periyar Nagar, where the doctors declared her as brought dead. Traffic Investigation Police, Villivakkam, registered a case and are investigating. The police arrested Loganathan, 30, the lorry driver, on charges of rash driving and causing death due to negligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schoolgirl-killed-in-road-accident-in-kolathur/article37170923.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mini buses planned from 4 Metro stations||For its commuters struggling without last mile connectivity, the Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) is set to give some relief in the form of mini buses in a few days. CMRL has been in talks with the Metropolitan Transport Corporation Chennai (MTC) and plans to operate mini buses from four stations — Chennai airport, Wimco Nagar, Alandur and Koyambedu, the sources said. According to sources in CMRL, the mini buses will operate in a 5-6 km radius covering the important locations, and the routes have been identified already. “Initially, there will about 12-15 buses that will run on these routes and Metro Rail will share operating expenses with MTC for running these buses,” another source said. As expenses were to be shared this time, these mini buses will have the Metro Rail logo. Last month, it was announced in the Assembly that 144 mini buses are not operational because of poor patronage and running them was causing a huge loss. Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannapan said these buses will now be put to use as feeder services from Chennai Metro Rail stations. This may bring relief, especially to those travelling from Tambaram, Chromepet and Pallavaram areas to Chennai airport, provided there is good frequency, said some commuters. Three years ago, CMRL saw its patronage improve when it introduced share autos and share cabs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-buses-planned-from-4-metro-stations/article37170931.ece
26 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Flagging issues at MIDS, faculty stages hunger strike||C. Lakshmanan, an Associate Professor at the Madras Institute of Development Studies (MIDS), began an indefinite hunger strike on the campus on Monday, alleging arbitrariness and lack of transparency on the part of the administration. The strike was, however, withdrawn in the evening following an emergency faculty meeting, during which an assurance was given that some of his demands would be met, while others would be discussed. The key issues raised by him included the failure to conduct faculty meetings on a regular basis and circulate the minutes of such meetings, arbitrariness in appointments to a few administrative posts and lack of transparency, particularly after the current Director, P.G. Babu, took charge. Mr. Lakshmanan, also the convenor of Dalit Intellectual Collective, said that contrary to the democratic and transparent ways in which the institute was run earlier, there was an absolute lack of transparency. “There is no communication with all faculty members. Ph.D admissions have not happened this year. However, there is no discussion or communication on that. The institute is entering its golden jubilee year. We do not know what plans are being made,” he said. Alleging discrimination against Scheduled Caste members, he demanded an effective grievance redressal mechanism. His other demands included better representation of Associate Professors and Assistant Professors in administrative bodies and an explanation for the ‘arbitrary’ non-extension of the tenure of a young Publication Officer.  The Hindu reached out to other faculty members on the issues raised by Mr. Lakshmanan. Three of them responded. While concurring with him on some of his concerns like the non-conduct of faculty meetings and the need for more transparency, they said they were not aware of any procedural violations in the appointments of, or extensions given to, administrative staff. On the alleged discrimination against Scheduled Caste members, they said no formal complaints were received. While The Hindu sent a questionnaire to the Director on the specific allegations, he said the issues had already been discussed at Monday's faculty meeting. He expressed the hope that they would be resolved internally.   Contrary to the democratic and transparent ways in which the institute was run, there is an absolute lack of transparency||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flagging-issues-at-mids-faculty-stages-hunger-strike/article37170936.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on vaccination, dengue: Health Secy.||Collectors have been instructed to increase COVID-19 vaccination coverage and take steps to control mosquito breeding to prevent dengue. In a letter to Collectors, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan called for an increase in daily vaccinations. He urged health teams to work alongside local bodies “by following a saturation approach after identifying the list of persons yet to take their first dose and those eligible for the second.” With the State vaccinating more people, those due for their second dose have increased to around 61 lakh, he said. Dr. Radhakrishnan said vaccination had become urgent in the light of new variants of the virus being investigated in the U.K., also reported in Indore and Maharashtra. He urged the officials to strictly follow the standard operating procedures and wear masks. The onset of the Northeast monsoon had caused dengue cases in areas like Avadi, Chennai, Kancheepuram and Salem. Dr. Radhakrishnan called for intensive reduction in mosquito breeding sources to avoid mortalities. “All in all, the next two months will determine how public health challenges get tackled. After such an effective work in disease control so far by the district teams, let us not give away the gains made,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-vaccination-dengue-health-secy/article37170945.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Specialists propose dedicated urology department at ICH||Doctors at the Institute of Child Health recently performed a renal transplant on an 11-year-old boy. The recipient and the donor, his paternal grandmother, are doing well. The boy, R. Akshyaraj, had been diagnosed with a chronic ailment in 2013 and was referred from Karaikal to Thanjavur medical college hospital. His father G.T. Raja, who was making a living as a singer in Chennai, brought his family to the city to treat him at ICH. “Initially, he was under medication but during the pandemic I could not take him to the hospital and his condition deteriorated. He was on dialysis thrice a week,” said Mr. Raja. His mother offered to donate a kidney and it was a perfect match. Nephrologists V. Balaraman, N. Malathi and urologist T. Antan Uresh Kumar, who had just been posted at the ICH from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, took up the case. The specialists used the facilities in the paediatric surgery unit for the transplant. Dr. Antan said, “The good thing is that the grandmother’s kidney was a perfect match and the creatin level was good. The child recovered and is doing well.” The success of the surgery has prompted the specialists to propose the setting up a dedicated nephrology unit at the ICH. Dr. Antan said for want of facilities at the ICH, children requiring kidney transplant, laparoscopic procedures for kidney, ureter, bladder and procedures for kidney stones, were referred to private hospitals. The financial burden was high on poor patients and children died for want of treatment, he added. Twelve years ago the hospital’s dedicated paediatric urology unit was merged with paediatric surgery department. As a result, children diagnosed for various urological ailments at the hospital were referred to private hospitals, doctors said. At the dedicated unit the caseload of transplant could be as much as one in 7 to 10 days, they added. Since all the procedures were already enlisted in the CMCHIS empanelled hospitals, the department would have sufficient funds not only to function but also pay salaries of technicians for operation theatre, anaesthetist and staff nurse, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dedicated-urology-dept-at-ich-proposed/article37170946.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Performer, entertainer — fans celebrate Rajini||In his speech on Monday after receiving the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, actor Rajinkanth thanked his fans and said he would have been a “nobody” without them. For decades, the actor has been heralded by his fans as a performer par excellence, an entertainer like no other, and most importantly, a role model and inspiration for many, given his humble beginnings and meteoric rise in the film industry. “His speech today at the ceremony was defining of who he has been over the years — he acknowledged those who have shaped him over the years. For many of us, Mr. Rajinikanth has a refreshing take on what makes one a superstar, given how simple and modest he has remained through the years,” said Girish Kalyanaraman, co-founder of Retro Ticket, an online platform dedicated to rediscovering Tamil films. Mr. Girish said watching the actor’s films on the day of its release on the big screen had been an emotional experience for many. “Through his career, he has taken on so many versatile roles. I cannot think of any other actor who would have taken on a film like Thillu mullu ,” he said, recalling his performances in films such as Thappu thalangal and Aval appadidhaan . For many, the experience of watching a Rajinikanth film ‘first day first show’ is a much-awaited ritual. Excitement for the same is now slowly building up, with the actor’s upcoming film, Annaatthe, all set to release for Deepavali. “He is a great storyteller. As a writer, I have noticed how even in the smallest of shots, his actions tell us a story, and it is fascinating to see how he played an antagonist in his earlier films,” said Shalini Vijaykumar, a writer and actor, who also worked as an assistant director on the 2015 documentary For the love of a man that chronicled the actor’s fan following in Tamil Nadu. Speaking about his timeless appeal, Ms. Shalini said Mr. Rajinkanth had always been a performer, who has been able to engage with and hold the audience’s attention with his presence. Social media platforms on Monday were filled with fans and movie buffs cheering the actor for his achievement. Several fans took to sharing their favourite onscreen moments of the superstar on Twitter. J.V. Raghav recalled his performance in Aarilirindhu arubadhu varai , the 1979 film directed by S.P. Muthuraman. For several fans, his performance in Baasha , where the actor played an auto driver with a past as a gangster, remains iconic. Lalith Kumar, a fan, tweeted about the transformation scene in particular, mentioning the actor’s intense look and the film’s theme music. “It is always the inspirational ‘bounce-back scenes’ from Annamalai , Arunachalam and Padayappa ,” tweeted Vijay, a fan, speaking about the iconic scenes in his films, as he rises up from adversity. His iconic punch lines too, including “ En vazhi thani vazhi”, were remembered.   His speech today... was defining of who he has been over the years — he acknowledged those who have shaped him over the years Girish Kalyanaraman Co-founder, Retro Ticket||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/performer-entertainer-fans-celebrate-rajini/article37170904.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Net weight of gold should be considered under loan waiver scheme’||A section of consumers has urged the government to consider the net weight, not the gross weight, of mortgaged jewellery, under its loan waiver scheme. The loan waiver for gold jewellery below five sovereigns was among one of the key poll promises of the DMK. CM’s announcement In September, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had made a suo-moto announcement on the waiver in the assembly, subject to certain conditions. Consumer activist T. Sadagopan pointed out that when a consumer pledged gold ornaments like bangles, necklace, rings amounting to gross weight of 50 g, the co-operative bank official would reduce 5 g from it and pay the amount for 45 g only. If it was a necklace, 7 more grams would be reduced and and the amount would be paid for 38 grams. Since the net weight of 38 grams comes under five sovereigns, it should be considered eligible under the jewellery loan waiver scheme. However, banks had been saying that they would take into account only the gross weight of jewellery, he said. Mr. Sadagopan said the key expectation of consumers was that the net weight should be taken into account for eligibility under the jewellery loan waiver scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/net-weight-of-gold-should-be-considered-under-loan-waiver-scheme/article37171318.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temple tank’s wall collapses||The wall of Kamalalayam, the tank of the Tiruvarur Thiyagarajaswamy temple, collapsed in the early hours of Monday. “It collapsed because of heavy rain. Officials have already gone there, and I will visit Tiruvarur on Tuesday. More than 100 ft of the wall has collapsed,” Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department Minister P.K. Sekarbabu told The Hindu.  The wall was on the southern side of the tank, just ahead of the Municipality office. “There is always stagnant water in the area and this could have caused the collapse,” Kannapiran, a native of Tiruvarur, said. Kamalalayam is probably the biggest temple tank in Tamil Nadu. Collector’s inspection Later in the day, after inspecting the damaged portion of the tank, Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan said necessary steps would be taken to avoid recurrence of such incidents. The same portion of the temple tank’s wall was damaged by heavy rain 10 years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-tanks-wall-collapses/article37170908.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 1,112 fresh COVID-19 infections, 14 fatalities||As many as 1,112 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Monday, taking the tally to 26,96,328. A total of 12,791 people are currently under treatment. Chennai and Coimbatore continued to have the highest number of cases at 144 and 130 respectively. Chengalpattu logged 95 infections, Erode 69 and Tiruppur 77. Salem (57), Thanjavur (55), Namakkal (48) and Tiruchi (46) were the other districts that had a higher number of cases. As many as 1,341 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,47,504. Chennai’s case tally stood at 5,53,938, while 5,43,776 people have been discharged so far after treatment in the district. Its active caseload touched 1,625 and toll 8,537. Fourteen people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 36,033. All of the deceased had co-morbidities. Five people died in private hospitals, while nine died in government facilities. Chennai with three deaths and Coimbatore with two deaths had the most number of fatalities. Ariyalur, Chengalpattu, Dindigul, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, Salem, Thanjavur and Tiruchi recorded one death each. Among the deceased was a 55-year-old man from Pudukottai who tested positive for COVID-19 on October 2. He was admitted on October 1 to a private hospital in Tiruchi with complaints of cough and difficulty in breathing. He died on October 5 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. The oldest among the deceased was a 90-year-old man from Chennai. As many as 1,93,077 people were inoculated on Monday. With this, 5,42,33,445 people have been vaccinated in government facilities. Those vaccinated included 1,13,217 people in the 18-44 age group and 58,723 people aged 45 to 59.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-1112-fresh-covid-19-infections-14-fatalities/article37170914.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Music Academy to go virtual this Margazhi season too||As the uncertainty caused by the pandemic continues, the Music Academy has decided to opt for the virtual route this year too to conduct its 95th annual conference and concerts during the Margazhi season. Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist, World Health Organisation (WHO), will inaugurate the 12-day festival on December 20 and it will be followed by a nagaswaram concert by S. Kasim and S. Babu. “We cannot reduce the number of people in the audience since our membership itself is 1,400. Even though the inauguration and the festival will be conducted virtually, the rasikas will not miss any of the aspects of the festival, except the award ceremony,” said N. Murali, president of the Academy. Mr. Murali said there would be 24 concerts by senior artistes and another 24 concerts by junior and sub-senior artistes between December 20 and 31. Lecture demonstration “We have increased the duration of the festival from eight days to 12 this year. Rasikas have to pay for concerts by senior musicians, and other concerts are free. There will be a lecture demonstration every day,” he explained. A three-day dance festival will be held between January 2 and 4. The festival will, however, feature only solo performances,” Mr. Murali said. Expressing hope that 2022 would provide an opportunity to conduct a regular festival, he said the Academy might consider making amends by awarding artistes retrospectively for the two missing years. “In the past, the Academy awarded more than one musician retrospectively,” he pointed out. The Academy has already published on its website the programme schedule for this year’s festival.  We have increased the duration of the festival from eight days to 12 this year N. MuraliPresident, Music Academy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/music-academy-decides-to-go-virtual-this-margazhi-season-too/article37170925.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Unreserved coaches in trains from November 1||The Southern Railway, after a gap of nearly 19 months, has reintroduced unreserved general coaches in the long-distance trains from November 1. The Railway Board, based on public demand, has allowed unreserved second class coaches in 11 pairs of trains. In a press release the Southern Railway has allotted unreserved coaches in the following trains: Thiruvananthapuram-Tiruchi-Thiruvananthapuram (four coaches), Kottayam-Nilambur Road-Kottayam (five), Thiruvananthapuram-Ernakulam-Thiruvananthapuram (four), Thiruvananthapuram-Shoranur- Thiruvananthapuram Superfast (six), Kannur-Alappuzha-Kannur (six), Rameswaram-Tiruchi-Rameswaram (four), Ernakulam-Kannur-Ernakulam (six), Dr. MGR Chennai Central-Jolapettai-Central (six), Palakkad Town-Tiruchi-Palakkad Town (six), Kannur-Coimbatore-Kannur (four), and Thiruvananthapuram-Guruvayur-Thiruvananthapuram (four). Five unreserved coaches have been allotted on Nagercoil-Kottayam train. The Southern Railway has allowed unreserved coaches in Mangalore-Coimbatore-Mangalore (four) and Nagercoil-Coimbatore-Nagercoil (four) from November 10 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unreserved-coaches-in-trains-from-november-1/article37170928.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five held for abducting techie from Bengaluru||The city police on Monday arrested a gang of five which allegedly kidnapped a software engineer from Bengaluru and held him in a city hotel in an effort to force him to sell his ancestral property worth Rs. 50 crore in Adambakkam. The gang demanded ransom of Rs. 10 crore from his family. Thulasivamsi Krishna, 37, a software professional living in Bengaluru, had been visiting Chennai in the last two years to sell his ancestral property measuring 40,497 square feet in Thiruvalluvar Nagar, Adambakkam. He inherited the property after his father’s death. Last year, Balaji of VAK Agencies in Saligramam, and his associate Prabakar approached Mr. Krishna to discuss the sale of the property. The duo, along with 10 others, abducted him and confined him to a room. The abductors allegedly grabbed the original property documents from Mr. Krishna. On December 22 last year, they forcibly made him sign on general power of attorney documents at the Sub-Registrar Office in Alandur favouring Balaji and released him. However, the accused were not able to register the document because of some inaccuracies. The gang again kidnapped Mr. Krishna from Bengaluru and held him at two hotels in K.K. Nagar and Koyambedu for a month. The gang demanded Rs. 10 crore from the family or wanted them to execute a sale deed in favour of Balaji in exchange for Mr. Krishna, said police sources. On Saturday, Ruba, Mr. Krishna’s mother, lodged a complaint with Joint Commissioner of Police (South) K.S. Narenthiran Nair. A special team, headed by Virugambakkam police inspector Thomson George Xavier, rounded up the accused in Koyambedu and rescued Mr. Krishna on Sunday. Police arrested M. Balamurugan alias Balaji, 43, of Saligramam; Selvanesan, alias Selvam alias Speed Selva, 49, of Pallikaranai; T. Johnson,45 of Kodambakkam; T. Tirumurugan, 23 of Madurai; and G. Suresh, 30, of Alwarthirunagar. A car, nine mobile phones and a knife were recovered from them. The police said Ms. Ruba’s son-in-law tried to sell the property with the gang’s help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-for-kidnapping-it-professional-from-bengaluru/article37170851.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC not to interfere with medical panel decision||The Madras High Court has refused to interfere with a decision taken by the National Medical Commission (NMC) not to allow a student who had pursued medical education in China to write the screening test, Foreign Medical Graduate Examination (FMGE) required to be cleared before commencing practice here, because she had not studied English as a separate subject during her higher secondary classes. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh dismissed a writ petition filed by a woman candidate on the ground that court could not sit in judgment over the stipulations prescribed by an expert body. Though it was argued that the petitioner had studied higher secondary in English medium and she also has 7.5 out of 9 in International English Language Testing System (IELTS), the judge refused to allow her plea. “The individual opinion of a judge cannot come in the way while deciding cases of this nature and this court has to necessarily satisfy itself as to whether a candidate fulfils the qualification prescribed in the regulation. The law on this issue is well settled. In the result, there is no ground to interfere with the impugned communication dated June 14, 2021 issued by NMC,” the judge wrote. It was brought to the notice of the court that the petitioner was an overseas citizen of India. She had studied under Central Board of Secondary Education stream here up to Class X in Kodaikanal and then pursued her higher secondary course in Sri Lanka after her family moved there. However, the NMC refused to issue an eligibility certificate to her to appear for FMGE conducted by National Testing Agency on the sole ground that she had not studied English as a separate subject during higher secondary education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-not-to-interfere-with-medical-panel-decision/article37170939.ece
26 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM chairs meeting of economic advisory panel||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday chaired a virtual meeting of his economic advisory council. Members of the panel — former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Raghuram Rajan, Nobel laureate Esther Duflo of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), development economist Jean Dreze, former Chief Economic Advisor to the Union government Aravind Subramanian and former Union Finance Secretary S. Narayan — took part in the meeting virtually. Minister for Finance Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and Finance Secretary S. Krishnan also took part in the virtual meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-chairs-meeting-of-economic-advisory-panel/article37171052.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijayabhaskar appears before DVAC for inquiry||Former Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar on Monday appeared before officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), who have been investigating a corruption case against him. The case was registered this July against Mr. Vijayabhaskar, his wife Vijayalakshmi and his brother Sekar. The FIR said Mr. Vijayabhaskar had enriched himself during his tenure as Minister, while Ms. Vijayalakshmi and Mr. Sekar intentionally aided him in the accumulation of disproportionate assets. Mr. Vijayabhaskar served as the Transport Minister between 2015 and 2021 during the AIADMK regime. He allegedly issued tenders favouring certain companies to sell government-approved reflective stickers, GPS-tracking devices and speed-governor devices. DVAC officials conducted simultaneous searches at 26 places linked to the former Minister and seized Rs. 25,56,000, besides sale deed documents, papers pertaining to investments and other evidence. Following two summons, the former Minister appeared with his lawyers before DVAC officials on Monday and answered their queries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vijayabhaskar-appears-before-dvac-for-inquiry/article37170906.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC reserves verdict on actor Vijay’s plea||A Division Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday reserved its verdict on a writ appeal preferred by actor C. Joseph Vijay to expunge adverseremarks made against him by a single judgeof the court this July. The remarks were made while dismissing his 2012 plea to exempt payment of entry tax for his Rolls Royce Ghost imported from England. Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and Mohammed Shaffiq deferred their judgment after hearing elaborate arguments advanced by senior counsel Vijay Narayan. The counsel contended that the single judge had made wholly unjustified remarks against the actor, portraying him and the entire film industry as anti-national. Mr. Narayan said importers of luxury cars had to pay Customs duty to the Centre. Over and above that, State governments began demanding entry tax. So, some importers filed cases before various High Courts and obtained favourable orders. Mr. Vijay was one of the litigants before the Madras High Court. His writ petition was admitted in 2012 with a rider to pay 20% of the tax, and he complied with the interim order. Thereafter, in 2017, the Supreme Court, in a case arising from the Kerala High Court, ruled that State governments were entitled to levy entry tax. The Madras High Court then began dismissing pending writ petitions regarding the issue. Though petitions filed by other importers were dismissed simpliciter with a direction to remit the full tax amount, the single judge had taken exception to the writ petition filed by Mr. Vijay alone and made scathing remarks, the senior counsel said. The judge primarily criticised the actor for not disclosing his profession in the affidavit. “When I import a car, my profession has nothing to do with it. Whether I am a lawyer or doctor, it doesn’t matter,” the senior counsel said. Arguing that not mentioning the profession need not be looked into so seriously, he said the single judge had portrayed the entire film industry in a bad light, as if it was full of tax evaders. “Every body was filing cases against the levy of entry tax at the time, and I also did the same because that was the law from 2005 to 2017. If the demand of tax is unconstitutional, I certainly have a right to come to court and challenge it,” the counsel argued. The counsel also told the court that the actor had paid even the remaining 80% of entry tax, amounting to Rs. 32.30 lakh, by way of a Demand Draft to the Commercial Taxes Department on August 7. When Justice Sathyanarayana wanted to know whether efforts were made to request the single judge to expunge the remarks, the counsel replied in the negative. The Division Bench was told that the single judge had, in August, made similar remarks while disposing of a 2015 writ petition filed by actor Dhanush. Mr. Narayan added that Mr. Vijay had not committed any sin to invite such remarks from the single judge. He urged the Division Bench to set aside the Rs. 1 lakh that the single judge had imposed and directed the actor to pay to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-reserves-verdict-on-actor-vijays-plea/article37170910.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Need to reduce debts, restore growth: CM||There is a pressing need to plan for the post-COVID-19 situation, focus on reducing the debt burden of the State and restore growth and investment, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Monday. Speaking at a meeting of the economic advisory council, the Chief Minister said he was looking at the committee’s recommendations and advice to bring down debts and attract investment. Mr. Stalin said he sought the committee’s suggestions on utilising the unique strengths of the State effectively, developing those sectors and ensuring that they generate good employment for the youth. He spoke about how the committee’s previous recommendations, during the first meeting in July, had been useful, and many of them had been included in the Budget announcements. Makkalai thedi marthuthuvam and Illam thedi kalvi were announced, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-to-reduce-debts-restore-growth-cm/article37170920.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for drug trafficking amid drama||A drama unfolded when the police from Washermenpet station tried to arrest a drug peddler on Sunday evening. Police were looking for Vignesh alias Route Vicky, 27, of Bojaraja Nagar. He was allegedly supplying psychotropic tablets mixed with ganja to youth in north Chennai areas. He was popular among the juvenile offenders in the area and the boys used to have his name tattooed on their chest. He has more than six criminal cases against him. Whenever police tried to arrest him, the family members and neighbours used to prevent them from picking him up. A few of the neighbours would douse themselves with kerosene and threaten to immolate themselves or slashed their hands. They would make all attempts to prevent his arrest, a police officer said. “This time, we chalked out a plan to nab him after receiving information that he was present at a particular location. The area is full of huts. The neighbours and his family members quarrelled with us and blocked us. We deployed full strength and nabbed the accused along with two associates,” said Fravin Dani, inspector of police. Besides Vicky, his associates M. Karthik, 29, and his brother Ajith alias Shainsha, 24, were arrested and 1.250 kg ganja and 270 nitrazepam tablets were seized from them. After the arrest, the locals staged a protest near the Secretariat. The police arrested 12 persons, including 10 women on charges of abusing, rioting and preventing police personnel from discharging their duty. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-drug-trafficking-amid-drama/article37170929.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport||About 3.27 kg of gold worth Rs. 1.59 crore was seized at Chennai airport and two persons were arrested in this connection by Chennai Air Customs. On Saturday, customs officials saw a polythene bag containing 1.8 kg gold foil with silver coating wrapped in carbon paper. In another case, two passengers from Sharjah were arrested for concealing 1.47 kg of gold in their rectum, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized-at-airport/article37170926.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gangster arrested||S. Dhanasekaran, 40, alias ‘Ennore’ Dhanaskeran, a gangster, was arrested by the city police along with his two other associates from a hideout in Tiruchi on Sunday. A resident of Annai Sathya Nagar in Ennore, he is notorious for extortion from businessmen and industrialists. He has 52 criminal cases. Dhanasekaran was cited as an accused in the murder of Kalishwaran alias Kaali of Ennore in 2004, Karuppu Raja of Red Hills in 2005, Periamuthu and Ashok in 2009 and North Madras Thermal Power Plant contractor James Paul in 2018. He was detained under the Goondas Act five times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gangster-arrested/article37170930.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Give pattas to 3,000 families’||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Monday opposed the eviction of 3,000 families in Bethel Nagar in Injambakkam and urged the government to provide pattas to the families and ensure that they are allowed to stay in the same place. Speaking to the people, Mr. Thirumavalavan to the residents that he would take up the issue with the Chief Minister.  “It (Bethel Nagar) is meikkal porombokke (reserved grazing) land, which can be converted into natham porombokke land (meant for housing). There are ways to provide pattas to the residents. The land can be reclassified as natham porombokke. If the government reclassifies the land as natham prombokke and files a reply in the court that it is going to provide Pattas, the court will view this case favourably. We hope that Chief Minister saves the livelihood of 3,000 families,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-pattas-to-3000-families/article37171319.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Charge sheet filed against ex-Minister||All Women Police, Adyar, on Monday filed a charge sheet against former AIADMK Minister M. Manikandan for allegedly raping a Malaysian-Indian woman, causing miscarriage, and criminally intimidating her. On May 29, the woman, who is also a Tamil actor and has been living in Besant Nagar here, lodged a complaint with the city police against the former Minister for cheating her after having a relationship with her for five years by promising to marry her and impregnating her, and then abandoning her. She also alleged that he had threatened her and her family members in Malaysia when she insisted that he should marry her.  Among other charges including rape, wrongful confinement and wrongful restraint were added in the charge sheet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/charge-sheet-filed-against-former-minister-manikandan/article37171053.ece
26 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Governor, CM, other leaders greet Rajini||Governor R.N. Ravi and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin extended their greetings to actor Rajinikanth on being conferred the Dadasaheb Phalke Award. In a note, Mr. Ravi congratulated the actor on behalf of the fellow citizens of India. “It is a day of immense joy for all cine lovers,” he said. Besides his stupendous contribution to Indian cinema, Mr. Rajinikanth has inspired the youth of the country through his exemplary conduct in professional, public and personal life, Mr. Ravi said. In a statement, Mr. Stalin extended his greetings to the actor and called him his beloved friend. “I wish that Rajini, the sun of the cine world, achieves greater heights by moving to the global arena and wins more awards,” he said. Mr. Stalin also congratulated director Vetrimaaran, actors Vijay Sethupathi, Dhanush and R. Parthiban, child artiste Naga Vishal and music composer D. Imman. AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami also greeted the actor. “Mr. Rajinikanth has made a mark for himself in the Indian film industry. Wishes to my friend and gentleman Mr. Rajinikanth,” Mr. Palaniswami tweeted. Mr. Panneerselvam wished that the actor gets higher honours, and extended greetings to other artistes from the Tamil film industry who received the national awards. Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, in a message, said the award was a reflection of the Union government’s recognition of the actor’s achievements. BJP State president K. Annamalai also extended his greetings to Mr. Rajinikanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-cm-other-leaders-greet-rajini/article37170911.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Banks should work with govt.: CM||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday called upon banks to join hands with the State government to uplift the poor and the downtrodden by extending loans to them. Speaking at the Special State-Level Bankers Committee meeting on the Secretariat campus, he said banks played a key role in executing the government’s policies. “The contribution of banks is very valuable, especially during a pandemic,” Mr. Stalin said, urging banks to extend loans to students, farmers and entrepreneurs, among others. Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, MD and CEO of the Indian Overseas Bank P.P. Sengupta and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banks-should-work-with-govt-cm/article37170912.ece
26 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Probe to trace a pair of missing tusks begins||Multiple teams of the Forest Department are on the lookout for persons who stole a pair of tusks from an elephant, the skeleton of which was found in a reserve forest area of Boluvampatti forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division on Sunday. A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division, examined the skeleton on Monday in the presence of District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar and senior officers. Officials said that the shaft of the tusks in the skull was intact. The veterinarian reported to the DFO that the tusk shafts did not have traces of the use of axe or saw that poachers normally use to cut off tusks. He said that the tusks could have been removed from the decomposed carcass using force, by pulling them, at least two weeks after the elephant died. According to the officials, the elephant is believed to be aged between 25 and 30 and it died at least 45 days ago. As the carcass was completely decomposed, the cause of death was inconclusive.  They said that the entire area, where the skeleton was found, was scanned using a metal detector and magnet to check for the presence of metal items such as bullets and iron pellets used in rifles. Samples were lifted from the skeleton for DNA analysis. Mr. Ashok Kumar said the Department pressed into service ‘Valavan’, a Kanni breed dog, that it inducted into service to detect wildlife crimes some months ago. The skeleton of the tusker was found in Poondi south beat of Vellapathy section of Boluvampatti forest range, around 2 km from Thanikandi tribal settlement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-to-trace-a-pair-of-missing-tusks-begins/article37170969.ece
26 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers want Karur-Coimbatore bypass road proposal withdrawn||About 3,000 farmers in the Western region have written to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin demanding withdrawal of the proposed Karur-Coimbatore bypass road project. On Monday, a group of farmers submitted their demands to District Collector G.S. Sameeran. The farmers said that instead of constructing a new six-lane road, the existing road between Karur and Coimbatore should be widened. A new road would mean acquiring vast tracts of agriculture land. The DMK had promised during the parliamentary elections that it would support only widening of existing roads and not greenfield projects. Hence, the State government should take up widening of the existing roads with minimum acquisition of land. At the district-level, a study should be done on how the proposed new road project would affect farmers and agriculture lands. “The District Collector listened to us and said he will call for a meeting with the officials of NHAI and the farmers,” said K. Satheesh Kumar, chief coordinator of Kongu Region Farmers Protection Committee. “The farmers have written to the Chief Minister in the last 10 days. According to the NHAI, the detailed project report preparation work is going on for the project. The committee will submit a copy of the farmers’ demand to the Members of Parliament of Coimbatore, Pollachi, Tiruppur and Karur. After Deepavali, we plan to hold a conference here inviting the public and all stakeholders to explain our demands,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-want-karur-coimbatore-bypass-road-proposal-withdrawn/article37170962.ece
26 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Burglars target seven houses in Thudiyalur in two days||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police are groping in the dark as Thudiyalur witnessed at least seven reported cases of housebreaks in two days, including the one at the villa of a businessman from where burglars decamped with jewellery worth Rs. 1.30 crore. Sources said that the police were yet to make a breakthrough in tracing the burglars. Diamond jewellery worth Rs. 1,27,50,000 and gold jewellery valued Rs. 2,50,000 were reportedly stolen from the villa of B. Srinivasan, a dairy products distributor, in a semi-gated community at Gounder Mills in the early hours of Saturday. The burglars entered the residence by breaking open the backdoor on the ground floor while the family members slept on the first floor. Burglars entered another villa belonging to S. Singaravelan in the same compound on Saturday and decamped with 1 kg silver articles. According to the police, the same burglars were involved in the theft attempts made at the houses of M. Subramaniyam, S. Shanmugam and M. Velumani at Athirshta Lakshmi Garden at Gounder Mills, also in the early hours of Saturday. Burglars targeted the house of Dinesh Kumar, a farmer, at Sowdambigai Nagar at Vellakinar, also within the limits of Thudiyalur police, between 4 p.m. Saturday and 7 a.m. Sunday. The burglars took away five sovereigns of jewellery and other valuables from the house when Mr. Kumar went to a hospital where his son was admitted due to fever. The police said that a seventh burglary was reported at the house of a retired Public Works Department engineer at Vadamadurai near Thudiyalur when the family members were off to Salem for a marriage between Saturday and Sunday. Burglars decamped with 50 sovereigns of jewellery and Rs. 2 lakh from the house, they said. A senior police officer said that multiple teams were in the efforts to trace the burglars based on evidence including surveillance camera visuals. The scientific team of the police have collected a couple of fingerprints from the houses targeted by the burglars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burglars-target-seven-houses-in-thudiyalur-in-two-days/article37170955.ece
26 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Water level dips in Siruvani Reservoir as Kerala Irrigation Dept. opens shutters||The water level in Siruvani Reservoir, as on October 25, was 40.32 feet. The full reservoir level is 49.50 feet. At the start of the month, the water level was 42.55 feet. From October 1 to 25, there has been a dip in water level though the rainfall recorded at the Reservoir was over 800mm, shows the data available with the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board. The Board draws Siruvani water for supply to a few villages and the Coimbatore Corporation supplies the water to over 25 wards in full and a few others in part. The dip in water level at a time when the inflow to the reservoir is good due to rain in catchments is a cause for concern. Though the full reservoir level is 49.50 feet, the Kerala Irrigation Department following floods a few years ago reduced the water storage level to 44.50 feet as a safety measure. Since then the reservoir that usually sees overflow several times a year during South West and North East monsoon seasons has hardly seen water surpass the full reservoir level. The reduction of five feet water meant a loss of at least 20 days’ water to Coimbatore. But now the Kerala Irrigation Department has not let the water level touch even the 44.50 feet mark as it has started releasing Siruvani water through sluices to further reduce the level, the Board sources say and add that the Irrigation Department officials conveyed that the decision to release water from the reservoir, to further reduce the level, was taken following the ‘orange’ flood alert issued to Palakkad district a couple of weeks ago. The sources say if the five feet reduction from 49.50 feet to 44.50 feet was for flood control, the further reduction in water storage level does not add up or make sense. Given the fact that every foot reduction in water level, particularly at the top of the reservoir, means loss of more water to the city, the Irrigation Department should close shutters to let the water level touch at least the 44.50 feet mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-dips-in-siruvani-reservoir-as-kerala-irrigation-dept-opens-shutters/article37170951.ece
26 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Residents near airport seek easing of restriction on land sale||Kalapatti Area Poonga Nagar Welfare Association on Monday demanded the easing of restriction placed on transaction on land the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) had sold near the Coimbatore airport. In its petition submitted at the weekly grievances meet, the association said around 3,000 persons from 700 families resided in the locality after buying land from TNHB. Hailing from low and middle income sections, they had bought three-fourth of a cent of land, a cent, one-and-half cent, etc. with the dream of owning a house. When the board had sought plan approval from the authorities concerned, the latter had divided the project site into three sections, ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’. While banning sale of lands coming under ‘A’ section, the authorities had allowed sale of land and construction of houses on sections ‘B’ and ‘C’. The reason cited for the ban on section ‘A’ was that the lands were required for Coimbatore airport expansion. The petitioners said they bought lands in the other two sections based on an assurance that they could build houses. Now the residents were being told that there should be no transaction on lands coming under survey number 494, including those in sections ‘B’ and ‘C’. The association demanded that the restriction on the sale of land be limited to section ‘A’. ‘Close liquor shops’ Hindustan Makkal Seva Iyakkam on Monday submitted a petition to the district administration seeking closure of liquor shops on Deepavali. In its petition submitted at the grievances meet, it said incidents that disrupted law and order were reported every Deepavali because people chose to celebrate the festival by consuming alcohol. Therefore, the government should order that these outlets remain closed on Deepavali, the organisations said. ‘Protect water body’ The Tamil Puligal Katchi alleged in a petition that there was an attempt by realtors to encroach upon a three-acre water body in Dayanur village in No. 4 Kemmarampalayam Panchayat, Mettupalayam It said the realtors had started constructing a wall and laying a road to the plots they were trying to sell. The organisation also alleged that this was happening with help from a few local government officials, and wanted the district administration to protect the water body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-near-airport-seek-easing-of-restriction-on-land-sale/article37170960.ece
26 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Sree Annapoorna to honour frontline workers||Sree Annapoorna will honour frontline workers, who had risked their lives during the COVID-19, this Deepavali. Its sweet boxes will have pictures of three sets of frontline workers - doctors and healthcare workers, police and media, and conservancy workers. There will also be a message printed on the boxes on the significance of the pictures. The boxes come in different sizes and three colours and are a limited edition set for the festival season this year. Almost every one had lost someone close to them during the second wave of the COVID. The boxes aim at paying tribute to all those who worked risking their lives during the COVID-19. These will be used to pack sweets of 150 gm to 500 gm for retail and Corporate orders, said Jagan S. Damodarasamy, Executive Director of the Sree Annapoorna group. Collector G.S. Sameeran and Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara released the boxes on Monday. Sree Annapoorna will also distribute nearly 1,500 boxes of sweets to workers at CMCH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sree-annapoorna-to-honour-frontline-workers/article37170964.ece
26 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports two deaths, 130 new cases||A total of 130 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Monday. The Health Department said that 151 persons recovered from the disease on Monday and the district had 1,407 active cases. Two men aged 66 and 67 died of COVID-19 at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Saturday, taking the toll to 2,403.  Tiruppur district reported 77 fresh cases on Monday, which took the overall tally to 94,980. The district had 768 active cases and 92 patients recovered from the disease on Monday. Nineteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Monday and the district’s overall tally rose to 33, 461. A total of 270 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-two-deaths-130-new-cases/article37170971.ece
26 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TN political narrative centred around BJP versus DMK, says Annamalai||Tamil Nadu’s political narrative is centred around ‘BJP versus DMK’, said BJP State president K. Annamalai here on Monday. After flagging off a vehicle containing relief materials for the flood-affected regions of Kerala, he told reporters that the BJP was functioning as a constructive Opposition party. The actions of the ruling DMK were “always against the BJP”, which, in turn, had set the “narrative” for the politics in the State. Mr. Annamalai, however, said his party did not compete with its ally, the AIADMK, which was the principal Opposition party. The BJP leader said it would be inappropriate on his part to comment at this juncture on AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam’s statements on the inclusion of V.K. Sasikala in the party. “Anybody can enter politics,” he said, adding that it was up to the public to accept a person as a leader. The BJP would keep furnishing evidence to prove the corruption charges against Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji, Mr. Annamalai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-political-narrative-centred-around-bjp-versus-dmk/article37170953.ece
26 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Reopen brick kilns in Thadagam valley’||An association of brick manufacturers held a demonstration at Chinna Thadagam here on Monday, urging the State government to reopen the brick kilns in the Thadagam valley that were ordered closed by the district administration for violations. S. Gopi, organiser of Coimbatore District Brick Manufacturers’ Welfare Association, claimed that the closure had affected the livelihood of nearly 1.5 lakh people . They included the residents of the five village panchayats in the valley – Chinna Thadagam, Nanjundapuram, Veerapandi, Pannimadai and Somaiyampalayam. According to the district administration, 186 brick kilns had not obtained proper licence for operation in the valley. Mr. Gopi alleged that “fake social activists furnished false information” to get the kilns closed. “If the State government provides the guidelines for the operation of the brick kilns, we are ready to implement these,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopen-brick-kilns-in-thadagam-valley/article37170965.ece
26 October 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||22 fresh cases, no deaths in Cuddalore||Cuddalore district recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Monday. As many as 22 persons tested positive, taking the tally to 63,976. With 62,888 recoveries, active cases stood at 221. In Villupuram district, 13 tested positive, taking the total cases to 45,791. Kallakurichi district reported 10 new cases, taking the tally to 31,308.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/22-fresh-cases-no-deaths-in-cuddalore/article37171329.ece
26 October 2021||CUMBUM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers threaten to block roads to Kerala||Farmers from five southern districts have threatened to block vehicles bound for Kerala from Tamil Nadu from November 1 condemning the nonchalant attitude of the Kerala government in not taking stern action against those who were spreading rumours about the safety of the MullaPeriyar reservoir in social media and other platforms. Thefarmers, who gathered here to discuss the plan of action to stall the rumours floated by some group in Kerala, told reporters on Monday that the Tamil Nadu government should effectively counter the propaganda done in the neighbouring State. Farmers federation coordinator Anwar Balasingam said, “When Chief Minister M.K. Stalin was the first to respond to the floods in Kerala and donate Rs. 1 crore to the government as a gesture, the neighbours have not given us due respect. The Mulla Periyar dam was stable and strong as per experts’ opinion. The apex court too has given its orders twice in this regard,” he recalled. When such was the position of the reservoir, the group’s intention to spread rumours not only created panic, but also rift between the two States. Hence, the Tamil Nadu government should ensure that the security personnel deployed were from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the Kerala police should be withdrawn immediately. The meeting wanted the Tamil Nadu government to take it up with the counterparts in Kerala immediately. The Theni Collector should be directed to visit the reservoir every month and ensure that things were safe in place from the Tamil Nadu side. The members also demanded detention of the suspects under the National Security Act. In a bid to draw the attention of the governments, the farmers resolved to block vehicular traffic from all seven routes, including Marthandam, Shengottai, Kumuli, Bodimettu, Cumbum Mettu and Valaiyar Check Post, from November 1, the birthday of Tamil Nadu, Mr Anwar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-threaten-to-block-roads-to-kerala/article37171057.ece
26 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Nurses stage protest over wage arrears||Nurses and health workers at the Dharmapuri government medical college hospital staged a demonstration at the hospital over unpaid salaries on Monday. The hospital has over 300 nursing staff. Of these, 173 workers have alleged that their salaries for the last two months have not been paid. With Deepavali around the corner, the protesters demanded that the salaries be disbursed and the arrears cleared. In solidarity with the protesters, office-bearers of Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association took part in the protest. The nurses and other paramedical staff demanded action against those in authority who were responsible for the delay in the disbursement of salaries. Dean Dr. Amuthavalli held talks with the protesters and assured them that their arrears would be cleared soon. Following this, the nurses returned to work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nurses-stage-protest-over-wage-arrears/article37171073.ece
26 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Re-lay damaged road or provide compensation’||Stating that the damaged roads in Ward 16 in the Corporation limits were not re-laid in 15 years, members of Satta Panchayat Iyakkam urged the district administration to either re-lay the roads or pay a compensation of Rs. 5,000 to every ration card holders in the area. In a petition submitted to the administration during the grievances redress meeting here on Monday, its coordinator P. Tamilarasi said Mamarathupalayam – Ellapalayam and Naripallam – Gangapuram link tar-topped roads were laid 20 years ago when it was under the municipal limits. The civic body was upgraded as Erode Corporation 15 years ago and no steps were taken to re-lay the roads in all these years. People in Ellapalayam, Ayapaali, Mamarathupalayam, Kongampalayam and people around the areas used these roads to reach the main roads. “The pathetic condition of the roads led to motorists suffering from back pain, pain in knee joints and other health issues,” the petition said. Though many petitions were submitted demanding re-laying of the roads in the past 10 years, officials cited lack of funds as reason for not carrying out works, the petition said. Officials said the petition was forwarded to the Corporation for action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/re-lay-damaged-road-or-provide-compensation/article37171083.ece
26 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Birth anniversary of father of LBP system celebrated across Erode||The 126th birth anniversary of M.A. Eswaran, MLA from 1946 to 1952 and the man behind the formation of Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) system, was celebrated across the district on Monday. He was born on October 25, 1895, and took part in the freedom struggle and was in prison for 16 years. Later, he was elected from Erode General Rural Constituency as an MLA to the Madras Presidency Legislative Assembly and was instrumental in bringing the LBP system to irrigate 2.5 lakh acre in the districts of Erode, Karur and Tiruppur. He died at the age of 47. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had recently announced a statue for the freedom fighter and an auditorium at Rs. 2.63 crore. At a function organised by farmers associations at Veerappanchatiram, DMK’s deputy general secretary Subbulakshmi Jegadeesan, E. Thirumagan Evera, MLA, and functionaries of various farmers association garlanded the portrait of the freedom fighter. Likewise, at a function held at Erode South District Congress Committee party office, district president Makkal G. Rajan paid floral tributes to his portrait. Members of Keel Bhavani Vivasaigal Nala Sangam also celebrated his birth anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birth-anniversary-of-father-of-lbp-system-celebrated-across-erode/article37171068.ece
26 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Interim relief provided for livestock killed by wild animals||The Forest Department provided an interim relief of Rs. 7,000 to a farmer whose livestock were killed by a leopard in Sathyamangalam Range. On October 16, seven goats owned by Thangasamy of Kempanaickenpalayam village located on the fringe of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) were killed by a leopard. The leopard was found roaming around the Perumpallam Reservoir and three of his other livestock also went missing. A team led by Bernard, Forest Range Officer, Sathyamangalam Range, conducted an inquiry and the farmer was assured of compensation. Under the Interim Relief Scheme of the Talavadi Adhivasigal Munnetra Sangam (TAMS) that is funded by WWF India, the compensation was handed over to the farmer at his residence recently. Farmers were asked to contact Nabesh of TAMS at 88383-32124 to get the interim relief if they had lost their livestock due to wild animals in STR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interim-relief-provided-for-livestock-killed-by-wild-animals/article37171078.ece
26 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Sari exhibition begins at Poompuhar||Handcrafted saris with modern designs, cotton and silk saris and batik printed saris are on display at the handcrafted exhibition-cum-sale that began at Poompuhar showroom on Mettur Road here on Monday. Organised by the Tamil Nadu State Handicrafts Development Corporation, saris ranging from Rs. 480 to Rs. 2,500 are kept on display. The saris are available at a special discount of 10% and all debit and credit cards are accepted without any service charge. The showroom is open on all days and the exhibition is on till November 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sari-exhibition-begins-at-poompuhar/article37171080.ece
26 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in road accident||Two persons were killed when the car they were travelling rammed a roadside tree at Arachalur here on Monday. Boopathy (25) of Palayakottai and Manickam (23) of Nathakadaiyur, electrician and mechanic respectively, were returning from Erode to Nathakadaiyur in Tiruppur district. While nearing Kannamapuram, Boopathy, who was on the wheels, lost control of the vehicle and the car rammed the tree. In the impact, the front portion of the car was completely damaged and both died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-road-accident/article37171081.ece
26 October 2021||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Four held||The police on Monday arrested four persons including a retired Sub Inspector of Police on the charge of murdering PMK district secretary K.Devamani, who was hacked to death on Friday night. Manimaran (26), Kaliyamurthy (59) of Thirunallar and Ramachandran (54) and Arun (31) of Mayiladuthurai, were those arrested. Manimaran, the main accused, reportedly hired a gang to commit the crime through Kaliyamurthy, who had opted for voluntary retirement from the police service in Tamil Nadu last year. A property dispute is suspected to be the motive behind the murder. The accused were produced before a court here and remanded in judicial custody for 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held/article37171031.ece
26 October 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Four AIADMK men held||Four AIADMK members, including a district panchayat council member, were arrested on Monday in connection with the protest staged by them against the postponement of election to the post of vice- chairperson of the district panchayat on Friday. Police picked up Thiruvika, member, district panchayat council, his son Tamilselvan, Kamalakannan, union secretary (Karur west) of the AIADMK and one Sundar. They were produced before Judicial Magistrate-I Ambika, who remanded them in judicial custody for 15 days. Upset over the decision taken by P. Manthrasalam, the Returning Office and Project Director, DRDA, AIADMK men led by former Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabhaskar had blocked his car and raised slogans. Based on his complaint, the police had registered a case against Mr. Vijayabhaskar and several others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-aiadmk-men-held/article37171043.ece
26 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates integrated service centre for women||An integrated service centre or a one stop centre for women was inaugurated by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin through video conferencing on the new medical college hospital campus at Bolupalli in Vepanapalli here on Monday. The service centre has been set up with the objective of providing support for women and children subjected to various forms of violence. The service centre will provide aid to women in the form of legal aid and assistance, medical assistance, support from the police, psychological support and counselling. The centre will also provide women with temporary safe houses, enabling them to walk out of the situations that are detrimental to their safety. The centre has been set up at Rs. 48 lakh and it will have seven staff - a centre administrator, senior counsellor, two case workers, IT staff, multi purpose worker and a driver-cum-security. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy inspected the centre on its inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-integrated-service-centre-for-women/article37171075.ece
26 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Man dies in accident||A 25-year-old man was killed when the tractor he was driving plunged into a 60-feet-deep dwell here on Monday. Shankar of Mathur was driving his tractor through Krishnapuram, when the tractor crashed into the dry well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-in-accident/article37171072.ece
26 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘80 lakh people use RTI Act in a year’||The 10th edition of Madurai Symposium, a five-day event, began at DHAN Foundation here on Monday. Delivering the keynote address through virtual mode, activist and Rajasthan Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan founder Aruna Roy said that about 80 lakh people in the country used the Right To Information (RTI) Act in a year. She said knowledge building at the grassroots should be the primary agenda in addressing poverty. She recalled her relentless work she took with the aid of RTI Act, especially in encroachment eviction, surmounting lobbying by powers that be. In 2004, the National Advisory Committee had promised to enact a strong Act by integrating RTI for the underprivileged, she said. While recalling the slogan of her movement, ‘Our paisa, our accounts,’ she said that the‘bureaucratic corruption’ had been arrested significantly through this Act. Apart from 80 lakh people using the RTI Act, another lakh of pension holders also benefited through this, she said. Boomikumar of Gandhigram Rural Institute, in his address, outlined the need for achieving community Swaraj. He introduced new dimensions such as eco-Swaraj and omni Swaraj, and laid emphasis on building the capacity of the community to achieve Swaraj. Kalanjiam’s success In her address, Padmashri awardee Chinnapillai said that through consistent efforts, the Kalanjiam Movement had achieved success in eradicating usurious money-lending, eradicating alcohol addiction and violence against women in 14 States. Leaders from Kalanjiam, Vayalagam and Neithal mutual movements recalled the exemplary contributions of the federations during the COVID-19 pandemic. B. T. Bangera, chairperson, DHAN Foundation, in his address, applauded the 25 years of DHAN’s contribution in shaping the lifestyle of the community at large. He reiterated the importance of integrating the digital technologies and modern approaches in order to make the growth faster. M. P. Vasimalai, executive director of DHAN Foundation, while speaking about ‘Community Swaraj,’ said that DHAN’s active partnership with all stakeholders paved the way for changing the lifestyle of the community at the grass-roots level. That around five lakh families across the country could come out of poverty proved the success of the community-owned development model. Continued participation between the stakeholders and the community would play a greater role in advancing the theme `Community Swaraj’ and also in establishing a new social order, he said. Earlier, A. Gurunathan, Director, DHAN Academy, welcomed the gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/80-lakh-people-use-rti-act-in-a-year/article37171256.ece
26 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders suspension of aptitude test||Taking a serious note of the fact that the aptitude test for Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana (KVPY), a national programme of fellowship in basic sciences scheduled for November 7 was to be held only in English and Hindi, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday ordered the examination to remain suspended and postponed for the moment. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M. Duraiswamy directed the Centre to indicate what steps would be taken to draft adequate manpower so that the examination can be held in multiple Indian languages. The Centre had submitted that it did not have adequate personnel to assess answers in various languages and when it came to scientific words and terminology it may be difficult to find the equivalent in the local languages. But the judges said they are not acceptable. Germany, Japan Citing the example of Germany and Japan, the judges observed that despite English not being spoken in these countries, they were not deficient in science or technology. It is possible for a bright young mind groomed in Assamese or from rural Odisha can come up with brilliant ideas that the Kishore Vaigyanik project aspires to tap into. But merely because the aspirant may not be adept in English or Hindi may not amount to the aspirant being disqualified. It will not do for the Centre to say it does not have qualified assessors to appreciate the material put up by non-English and non-Hindi speaking aspirants. If at all that is the deficiency with the Centre, the young aspirants from the non-English and non-Hindi speaking belts should not suffer on such grounds, the judges observed. At the end of the day it must be appreciated even if it is a token scholarship of Rs. 5,000, it amounts to the recognition of a young mind and every aspirant is entitled to equally participate in the process and show their talent. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by G. Thirumurugan of Ramanathapuram district who complained that the aptitude test was going to be held in only English and Hindi. He sought a direction to the authorities to conduct the test in all regional languages. The judges granted the Centre 15 days to respond. The court directed the petition to be listed before the Principal Bench in Chennai.  It will not do for the Centre to say it does not have qualified assessors to appreciate the material of non-English and non-Hindi speaking aspirants HC Division Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-orders-suspension-of-aptitude-test-for-kvpy/article37171056.ece
26 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Outsourcing of jobs flayed||Members of Madurai Corporation Employees’ Union, affiliated to Centre of Indian Trade Unions, staged a protest against outsourcing of jobs in all departments. The agitators said that it would lead to privatisation of corporation’s major services. Its general secretary M. Balasubramanian said that outsourcing was hitherto implemented partially in health and engineering departments. However, the State government was planning to implement outsourcing in a big way in solid waste management and in maintenance of drinking water schemes, underground drainage and street lights maintenance. “This new initiative will mean that several workers who were under contract directly with the local bodies will lose their job,” he added. Madurai Corporation has recently terminated the contract of 32 workers engaged in street light maintenance. “They had worked for 3 to 14 years,” Mr. Balasubramanian said. Besides, the uniform conditions in number of workers to be in place and salary structure across the State would lead to retrenchment of staff. “The ground conditions in solid waste management and maintenance of other facilities differ based on population and infrastructure available. So, the uniform rule will led to higher work burden or lower wages for workers,” he added. Mr. Balasubramanian appealed to the government to give up the move and regularise the services of those workers who were employed for 480 days of continuous employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outsourcing-of-jobs-flayed/article37171249.ece
26 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Silver Forget-me-not butterfly recorded in Tamil Nadu for the first time||Within a span of five weeks, a rare butterfly species named Silver Forget-me-not (FMN), has been spotted twice inside Srivilliputhur-Meghamalai Tiger Reserve in Virudhunagar district. It was first sighted on September 5 inside Srivilliputhur Grizzled Squirrel Sanctuary and again on October 9 near Ayyanar Falls by a team from Rhopalocera and Odonata Association of Rajapalayam (ROAR). “We are thrilled to submit the first photographic evidence of Silver FMN in Tamil Nadu,” ROAR founder Sharan Venkatesh told The Hindu . The team has been visiting the tiger reserve for the past six years to study butterfly diversity in the region. Mr. Venkatesh sent his photographs to butterfly experts for reconfirmation and uploaded them on ifoundbutterflies.org, a peer-reviewed citizen science platform. It was validated as the 318th species of butterflies found in Tamil Nadu. The website also vetted third sighting of the same species at Vettaiparayampalayam in Erode on October 11. “We were lucky to stumble upon the same species twice and photograph both upper wing and close-up shots of the underwing,” said Mr.Venkatesh. According to Thiruvananthapuram-based butterfly expert Kalesh Sadasivan, the species is not known to be migratory. “Indigosa is its food plant and probably Silver FMN is overlooked due to its resemblance to Common FMN,” he said. Both are silver in colour with a spot on the forewing. The slight variation in the discal bands, colour of the upper wing and position of the spot determines the species. “Common FMN is bluish silver with the spot in the middle of the two straight discal bands. Silver FMN is pale silvery with slightly curved bands and the spot is near the upper band,” Mr. Kalesh said. Silver FMN was earlier recorded in Chinnar in Kerala in 2019; the Andaman & Nicobar Islands between 2015 and 2017; and Sikkim, West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura between 2005 and 2020. In Bombay Natural History Society’s journal, an article by T.B. Larsen titled Butterflies of the Nilgiris mentions the strange absence of Silver FMN in South India, particularly when it was seen in abundance in Sri Lanka and South Asia till the mid-90s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rare-butterfly-species-spotted-in-virudhunagar/article37170938.ece
26 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Expedite probe in custodial death case, says court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the CB-CID to expedite the probe in Avaniapuram custodial death case. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M. Duraiswamy directed the CB-CID to complete the probe by the end of January 2022. The State informed the court, which was hearing the case suo motu after the father of the victim withdrew his petition, that the probe was yet to be completed. The court took up the issue based on a letter written to it by advocate Henri Tiphagne, alleging that the victim’s parents were threatened. In his petition, P. Muthukaruppan, father of 22-year-old victim M. Balamurugan, alleged that his son sustained injuries in police custody and later died at Government Rajaji Hospital. However, in an unexpected turn of events, he later decided to withdraw his petition, saying he was convinced that his son’s death was not a case of custodial death. Mr. Tiphagne said he withdrew the petition as the parents were being coerced not to depose against the police officers said to be involved in the case. Balamurugan and his accomplices were arrested for their alleged involvement in a kidnap for ransom case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-probe-in-custodial-death-case-says-court/article37171253.ece
26 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Gold armour taken to Pasumpon||The gold ‘kavasam’ (armour) for the statue of freedom fighter Muthuramalinga Thevar was taken from the locker of a bank here on Monday to his memorial at Pasumpon in Ramanathapuram ahead of the leader’s guru puja on October 30. Former Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Pannerselvam and the caretaker of the memorial, Gandhi Meenal, took the gold armour from the locker. Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had donated the gold armour, weighing 13 kg, for the statue in 2014. Since then the armour, deposited in the locker, is taken to Pasumpon every year ahead of the guru puja and again brought back to the bank after the event. Mr. Panneerselvam, who is also the party treasurer, and Ms. Gandhi Meenal jointly operate the bank locker. The gold kavasam was taken by an armed police escort. Former Ministers Dindigul C. Srinivasan, Sellur K. Raju, R. B. Udhayakumar, M. Manikandan and Madurai North MLA V. V. Rajan Chellappa were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-armour-of-thevar-taken-to-pasumpon/article37171066.ece
26 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Cycle rally taken out to stress polio eradication||Collector Aneesh Sekhar flagged off a cycle rally organised by the Rotarians to mark World Polio Day here on Sunday. The objective was to spread the message of the fight against polio across the world. While polio is prevalent in a few countries, very soon it will be eradicated there too. The Rotarians distributed pamphlets to the public with these messages. The Collector said that the awareness campaigns and initiatives taken by organisations such as the Rotary Clubs had helped in eradicating polio in a phenomenal way. The rally, which was flagged off from Gandhi Memorial Museum, went through the Collectorate area and other places in the city. The initiative was spearheaded by VR Lakshmanan, Polio Plus Committee chairman, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cycle-rally-taken-out-to-stress-polio-eradication/article37171252.ece
26 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Coaches to be restored||Southern Railway will re-introduce unreserved coaches in three pairs of special trains from November. A statement said that four unreserved coaches each would be available in Train No. 02628 / 02627 Thiruvananthapuram - Tiruchi - Thiruvananthapuram Intercity Express and Train No. 06850 / 06849 Rameswaram - Tiruchi - Rameswaram special trains with effect from November 1. Four unreserved coaches will be restored in Train No. 06321 / 06322 Nagercoil - Coimbatore - Nagercoil day-time special train from November 10. Meanwhile, Train No. 06791 Tirunelveli - Palakkad Palaruvi special train scheduled to leave Tirunelveli on Wednesday and Train No. 06792 Palakkad - Tirunelveli Palaruvi special train scheduled to leave Palakkad on Thursday have been partially cancelled between Thrissur, Palakkad stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coaches-to-be-restored/article37171345.ece
26 October 2021||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||Man posing as IAS officer held in Palani||Palani Adivaram police on Monday arrested a man under charges of impersonation and cheating and produced him before a judicial magistrate court. Following a complaint from HR&CE officials, they picked up Kumar of Mayavaram, Mayiladuthurai district. The complaint was that Kumar claimed that he was an IAS officer and wanted the temple staff at the Devasthanam Guest House to allocate a room for him. The reception staff grew suspicious and cross-checked with local revenue officials about the reservation and simultaneously alerted the police. Apprehending trouble, Kumar took to his heels, leaving his car fitted with siren and a government emblem board behind. But the staff nabbed the con man and handed him to the police. A senior officer, who interrogated the accused, said Kumar visited Madurai Meenakshi Temple and Subramania Swamy Temple in Tiruchendur using his fake identity. After booking a case, police produced him before a court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-posing-as-ias-officer-held-in-palani/article37171033.ece
26 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G cautions against lowering of guard on COVID-19 in the U.T.||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday urged unvaccinated people to not delay the jab against COVID-19 as there were reports of cases rising again in some States. Ms. Soundararajan, who along with Speaker R. Selvam, visited the vaccination camp at the Thavalakuppam PHC, appealed to the people to exercise utmost caution against a resurgence, given the reports of COVID-19 cases rising again in States such as Madhya Pradesh, re-emergence of infections in countries like China and the emergence of a new variant in the U.K. Stating that an estimated three lakh people in the Union Territory were yet to take even the first dose of the COVID vaccines, the Lt. Governor urged them to make use of the 12-hour intensive campaign under way at 100 sites across the region to get protected from the virus. The intensive campaign, aimed at administering vaccine for an estimated one lakh population between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., was being held as part of efforts to cover 100% of the 10 lakh eligible population with at least one dose of COVID vaccine before the festive season starts with celebration of Deepavali in the first week of November, Ms. Soundararajan told newsmen. The campaign targeting coverage of an estimated three lakh unvaccinated population has been initiated on the theme, “I am Vaccinated; Are You?” The Lt. Governor noted that 91% of the population in Thavalakuppam village had taken the jab while Nallavadu and Pilliyarkuppam villages had attained 100% coverage in partial or full vaccination. Apart from being the only available form of protection against the worst consequences of COVID-19, getting a vaccine certificate had become mandatory for overseas travel. Re-emphasising the safety of vaccination, Ms. Soundararajan pointed out in spite of one billion of the country’s population getting a jab, no major side-effects had been reported. A society that is fully vaccinated will also be able to celebrate festivals without anxiety, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-cautions-against-lowering-of-guard-on-covid-19-in-the-ut/article37171328.ece
26 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||DMK flays govt. for law and order situation||Opposition leader and DMK convenor R. Siva has criticised the government for its handling of the law and order situation in the Union Territory. In a statement, he said the government had failed to act against anti-social elements operating from the prison. Organised crime, including revenge murders, were being planned from the Central prison, he added. The murder that occurred in Oupalam was a testimony to the prevailing law and order situation in Puducherry, he said. ‘Monitor prisoners’ “Criminals are operating from the jail without any fear. They are indulging in land grabbing by creating fake documents. French nationals and senior citizens are targeted by rowdy elements and their lands being grabbed. The police should be given instructions to monitor the activities of prisoners in a more systematic manner,” Mr. Siva also added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-flays-govt-for-law-and-order-situation/article37171324.ece
26 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Two women arrested||The Orleanpet Police on Monday arrested two women in a theft case.  The accused, identified as Arthi and Sopana Sundari, are residents of Santhaimedu in Athur, Tamil Nadu. The accused diverted the attention of a woman who was about to board a bus at Orleanpet a few days ago and took away her purse with Rs. 10,500 cash, Superintendent of Police (East) Deepika said. The interrogation of the accused revealed that they were involved in similar cases, she said. They have been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-arrested/article37171321.ece
26 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||New cases drop to 30 in Union Territory||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory as new cases dropped to 30 against 43 recoveries on Monday. Puducherry logged 18 of the new cases, which were detected from 2,618 tests, followed by Karaikal (9) and Mahe (3). No new case was reported in Yanam. The cumulative toll remained at 1,857 — Puducherry (1,453), Karaikal (250), Yanam (107) and Mahe (47). The test positivity rate was 1.15%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.19%. The active cases in the Union Territory stood at 454, comprising 87 patients in hospitals and 367 in home isolation. The Union Territory has so far recorded 1,27,765 cases against 1,25,454 recovered patients. Of an estimated 18.97 lakh tests carried out, over 16 lakh tests returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,212 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The total vaccine doses administered to date aggregated to 11,01,528.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-cases-drop-to-30-in-union-territory/article37171326.ece
26 October 2021||RAManathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen federation plans indefinite agitation over rising price of diesel||Setting a deadline of November 10 to the Central and State governments for roll back of diesel price, the Tamizhaga Anaithu Meenavar Kootamaippu (Tamil Nadu Fishermen Federation) on Monday announced its plan to launch an indefinite strike from November 11 and stage a massive demonstration in Chennai on November 15. Tabling a five-point charter of demands at a meeting held here, in which office-bearers of about 15 associations from Nagapattinam, Karaikal, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and other coastal districts of the State participated, the members of the federation resolved to go on an indefinite strike. Speaking to reporters, fishermen leader Sesu Raja said the diesel prices had touched a new high and fishermen found it difficult to make both ends meet. With poor catch on the one side and a bundle of issues on the other, most of the fishermen experienced mounting debts. The subsidy component for diesel too from the governments had not been credited properly, he alleged. Besides diesel price, the fishermen also faced threats from the Sri Lankan Navy while fishing in the Palk Bay area. By allowing the fishermen to catch their produce in the traditional Katchatheevu, the issue might be resolved. The Centre should hold talks with its counterpart in the island nation at the earliest and ensure peace prevailed in the fishermen community. Also, the Sri Lankan Navy should not harass the fishermen under the pretext of violation of territorial waters. These and other resolutions were passed at the meeting, which also condemned the Sri Lankan Navy for the death of a fisherman, Rajkiran, 30, from Pudukottai district last week. Another fishermen leader N.J. Bose said there were 6,500 mechanised boats in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and about 50,000 country boats. “We will keep off the sea from November 11 indefinitely, unless and until the issue was resolved permanently,” he said and appealed to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to immediately intervene in the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-federation-plans-indefinite-agitation-over-rising-price-of-diesel/article37171028.ece
26 October 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Free power connection given to 50 farmers||Collector S. Karmegham presented orders for providing free power connection to 50 farmers from Salem and Mettur power distribution circles at the Collectorate on Monday. DMK MLA R. Rajendran and MP S.R.Parthibhan, senior officials from Tangedco and other officials were present. Job orders The Collector also distributed orders to 21 persons who were provided jobs on compassionate grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-power-connection-given-to-50-farmers/article37171084.ece
26 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Plea to fill vacancies in Sericulture Department||Members of Tamil Nadu Sericulture Employees Association protested in front of the Sericulture directorate here on Monday urging the State government to fill the vacancies in the department. The protesters demanded that the department fill over 500 vacancies of junior inspectors in the department. Schemes They also urged the department to promote State schemes for farmers and reduce cultivation target of 5,000 acre of mulberry as per the available junior inspectors. Promotion The inspector posts should be filled through promotions, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-fill-vacancies-in-sericulture-department/article37171070.ece
26 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Special officers to monitor development activities||The district administration has appointed 12 special officers to monitor development activities at urban local bodies in Salem. According to a release, special officers have been appointed for Attur, Mettur, Edappadi and Narasingapuram municipalities and 33 town panchayats in the district. The officers would ensure availability of drinking water and roads, and would work on disaster response and dengue preventive measures, the release said. A weekly review would be conducted on the reports submitted by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-officers-to-monitor-development-activities/article37171085.ece
26 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Public entry to eco-tourism sites restricted||The Forest Department has restricted entry to eco-tourism sites here in view of monsoon. Following the recent rain, there has been an increase in inflow of water at the Annavari Muttal waterfalls. On Sunday, two men, who fell into the water, were rescued by forest personnel. Considering the safety of the public, the department has restricted public entry to Annavari Muttal waterfalls until further notice. However, tourists are allowed to access the Muttal lake and children’s park. The department has also restricted entry to Karadiyur view point in Yercaud and Vazhakuparai eco-tourism site in Danishpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-entry-to-eco-tourism-sites-restricted/article37171086.ece
26 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Three held with fake currencies||The Salem district police on Monday arrested three persons and seized fake currencies worth Rs. 1.42 lakh from them. According to the police, when the Magudanchavadi police were on patrol, they noticed a man moving under suspicious circumstance near Kakkampalayam. On inquiry, the police found fake currencies in his possession. He was identified as Velu. The police said Velu along with his friends Sathish and Chinnathambi bought a colour photocopier machine and printed fake currencies watching YouTube videos. Police arrested the three persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-with-fake-currencies/article37171069.ece
26 October 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Attending school on reopening day not must’||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said that parents can send their children to schools after Deepavali, even though Classes I-VIII will commence on November 1. He told reporters that starting classroom sessions will discipline the children to get ready for school. It has already been made clear that due to the pandemic, attendance will not be insisted upon. Thus, parents are free to send their children to schools either from November 1 or after Deepavali, he said. He encouraged “volunteers” to join the government’s ‘Illam thedi kalvi’ scheme to help children who have stayed away from schools for two years. Mr. Poyyamozhi said around 1.7 lakh volunteers would be required to help the children get back to regular education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attending-school-on-reopening-day-not-must/article37170915.ece
26 October 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Fisherman dies in a freak incident.||Karuppaiah (37) of Mallipattinam died after lightening struck him while he was engaged in fishing in the Bay of Bengal on Sunday. Inquiries reveal that the deceased ventured into the sea on Sunday along with Karthikeyan, Ahamed and Chandran from Mallipattinam harbour and were fishing at around five nautical miles from Peravurani coast. Suddenly, lightening struck the boat and Karuppaiah died on the spot. The fishing crew returned to the harbour at around 4 a.m. on Monday with the dead body of Karuppaiah. The Sethubhavachatram Coastal Security police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fisherman-dies-in-a-freak-incident/article37171042.ece
26 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Reopen Sterlite plant’||Two groups of fishermen from Terespuram here, who are involved in catching crabs, submitted petitions during the weekly grievance day meet at the Collectorate here on Monday seeking early reopening of Sterlite Copper unit that remains closed since May 2018 after police firing claimed 13 lives during anti-Sterlite agitation. They said they were getting welfare schemes for the past several years from Sterlite Copper when it was functioning. The welfare schemes implemented for the betterment of the fishermen were stopped immediately after the plant was closed in May 2018. Encroachments A group of villagers from Kamalapuram near Vilathikulam submitted a petition seeking removal of encroachments in the village. ‘Poses a threat’ Villagers from Nagalapuram and Goundanpatti submitted a petition against installation of high tension power transmission tower at Nagalapuram bazaar. They said thetower was posing a threat to the safety of the villagers as any problem in the tower would lead to a catastrophe. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam’s R. Kasilingam submitted a petition seeking repair of the badly damaged road in Tooveypuram 10th Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopen-sterlite-plant/article37171347.ece
26 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Officials fined||Two officials attached to the Department of Rural Development, Thoothukudi, have been fined Rs. 25,000 each for not providing information to queries filed under the Right to Information Act even after the second appeal. Chairing the inquiry on second appeals held here on Monday, State Information Commissioner R. Pratap Kumar said the Information Commission, which was conducting district-level inquiry on second appeals for the past three years, had received over 9,000 second appeal petitions, including 30 petitions from Thoothukudi district. Most of the 3.50 lakh petitions being received every year were pertaining to the Departments of Revenue and Rural Development. “If an officer fails to provide a reply to the petitioner even after the second appeal, a fine of Rs. 25,000 will be slapped on the officer,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-fined/article37171346.ece
26 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||‘Reopen Sterlite||Two groups of fishermen from Terespuram here, who are involved in catching crabs, submitted petitions during the weekly grievance day meet at the Collectorate here on Monday seeking early reopening of Sterlite Copper unit. – Special Correspondent||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopen-sterlite/article37171059.ece
26 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||State varsities bat for four-year integrated B.Ed. programme||State universities, including Bharathidasan University, are learnt to have evinced interest in starting four-year integrated B.Sc. B.Ed. and B.A. programmes. The inspection by a team of National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) has been carried out in Alagappa University, Karaikudi, and Madurai Kamaraj University, according to sources. Since the New Education Policy 2020 encourages higher educational institutions to start integrated four-year teacher education programmes in multi-disciplinary environment, affiliated colleges are likely to follow in the footsteps of the universities, I. Muthuchamy, Chair, School of Education, and Professor and Head Department of Educational Technology, Bharathidasan University, said. The start of integrated teacher education programme by the Central University of Tamil Nadu, Tiruvarur, will provide an impetus for State Universities to follow suit. Some of the deemed to be universities have also started the integrated programme following the model of the Regional College of Education, Mysore. CBSE schools have been according importance for candidates who have completed the four-year integrated teacher education programme, according to school heads. Though the NCTE had announced its consent to permit arts and science colleges to offer the four-year integrated programmes, by sharing the existing physical resources, the college managements have apparently not taken any steps in the absence of clarity. The equivalence of the four-year programme with the three-year degree programme for the purpose of pursuing post-graduation in the particular subject is one such. “It is possible for candidates completing the integrated four-year teacher education programme to decide on getting into the profession after completing post-graduation. The colleges look for more clarity on this issue," a senior professor said. Currently, the B.Ed. is offered as a two-year programme for students after graduation. The integrated programme will pave way for those with the aptitude for teaching to get into the profession a year earlier. The colleges will, in all likelihood, offer the three-year undergraduation and four-year integrated programme parallelly. There has to be more clarity on the part of NCTE with respect to the modalities of sharing infrastructure, a principal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-varsities-bat-for-four-year-integrated-bed-programme/article37171041.ece
26 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NCB busts drug syndicate, 3 held||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has busted a drug syndicate and seized 620 grams of hashish oil, 21.48 grams of hashish and 221 grams of magic mushroom (psilocybin) honey in Pudukottai and Coimbatore. Three persons have been arrested on charges of smuggling these narcotic substances. Acting on specific intelligence, officers of NCB, Madurai Sub Zone, intercepted a domestic courier parcel at Pudukkottai. After prolonged surveillance, two residents of Pudukottai who came to receive the parcel were nabbed. On examination, the parcel was found to contain hashish oil. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the main receiver was from Coimbatore and he too was arrested. A search at the house of the kingpin resulted in the recovery of 21.48 gms of hashish and 221 gms of magic mushroom honey. Magic mushrooms contain a chemical called psilocybin, which is misused by drug addicts for intoxication, Amit Ghawate, Zonal Director, NCB, Chennai, said in a press release. Smuggling of such drugs through courier parcels was on the rise. Fake identity documents were being used to book the parcels, so tracking persons booking/receiving the parcel became difficult, the NCB said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncb-busts-drug-syndicate-3-held/article37170979.ece
26 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Surveillance up at Tasmac outlets||The Food Safety Department has stepped up surveillance on Tasmac liquor outlets following complaints of sale of adulterated Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) bottles. According to sources, the officials have so far made surprise inspections in at least 20 Tasmac outlets in different parts of the district since Saturday. Ten outlets in the city were among those inspected by the officials. They checked whether there were secret facilities to mix low-valued liquor with high-valued product. They also verified whether the employees followed food safety and COVID-19 precautions while selling liquor and attending to customers. The officials also verified the records. During the process, the officials found that bars were functioning adjacent to Tasmac outlets in Puthur and Old Goodshed Road without permission. Liquor was being served to the customers along with snacks. R. Ramesh Babu, Designated Officer, Food Safety Department, Tiruchi, told The Hindu that notice has been sent to those, who ran the illegal bars, under section 55 of the Food Safety Act. It was noticed that refrigerators were not in good condition in some of the outlets. It was essential to preserve certain liquor bottles in the stipulated temperature. A status report had been sent to the Collector to take suitable action on it. Since the implementation of the COVID-19 restrictions in May 2020, Dr. Babu said that all bars attached to Tasmac outlets had been closed. The Food Safety Department had not issued permission to open bars attached to Tasmac outlets. He had received complaints that bars were being run adjacent to Tasmac outlets in a few more places. Tough action would be taken against those operating bars. Liquor samples had been lifted from all the outlets, where inspections were conducted. They had been sent to the Food Laboratory at Guindy to analyse the content. Based on the outcome cases would be filed in the competent court against the employees of the outlets, the Designated Officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surveillance-up-at-tasmac-outlets/article37171044.ece
26 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NCB busts drug syndicate; 3 held||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has busted a drug syndicate and seized 620 grams of hashish oil, 21.48 grams of hashish and 221 grams of magic mushroom (psilocybin) honey in Pudukottai and Coimbatore. Three persons have been arrested on charges of smuggling these narcotic substances. Acting on specific intelligence, officers of NCB, Madurai Sub Zone, intercepted a domestic courier parcel at Pudukkottai. After prolonged surveillance, two residents of Pudukottai who came to receive the parcel were nabbed. On examination, the parcel was found to contain hashish oil. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the main receiver was from Coimbatore and he too was arrested. A search at the house of the kingpin resulted in the recovery of 21.48 gms of hashish and 221 gms of magic mushroom honey. Magic mushrooms contain a chemical called psilocybin, which is misused by drug addicts for intoxication, Amit Ghawate, Zonal Director, NCB, Chennai, said in a press release.  Smuggling of such drugs through courier parcels was on the rise. Fake identity documents were being used to book the parcels, so tracking persons booking/receiving the parcel became difficult, the NCB said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncb-busts-drug-syndicate-3-held/article37171047.ece
26 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Sakhi centre buildings inaugurated||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin on Monday declared open, through video conference from Chennai, permanent buildings constructed for Sakhi, an one-stop centre for assistance to women and children facing assault and abuse, in Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Karur. The Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment has established the centres to extend assistance, counsel and guide women and children, who are victims of domestic or sexual violence. The centres have been established in each district and function under the supervision of the District Collector. New buildings were being constructed for the centres at the government hospitals/government medical college hospital campuses. A permanent building for the centre has been built at a cost of Rs. 48 lakh at the Nagapattinam Government District Headquarters Hospital. Nagapattinam MLA J. Mohamed Shanavas, Collector A. Arun Thamburaj and other officials inspected the facilities at the centre after the inauguration. In Karur, Collector T. Prabhushankar and officials visited the centre at the Government Medical College Hospital campus and distributed sweets to mark the inauguration. In Tiruvarur, Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan and other officials were present during the inauguration of the centre at the Government Medical College Hospital. The Chief Minister also declared open the new building for Mayiladuthurai Sub Treasury constructed at a cost of Rs. 99.10 lakh. The ground plus first floor building has a plinth area of 1,535 square feet. Collector R. Lalitha inspected the building after the inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sakhi-centre-buildings-inaugurated/article37171049.ece
26 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||First batch of EPLCM at IIM-Tiruchi passes out||Indian Institute of Management-Tiruchi has completed its Executive Programme in Leadership and Change Management (EPLCM), designed to equip working professionals with leadership competencies that can emerge as a cutting-edge tool to steer management change in an organizational environment, for the first batch of 67 participants. The programme consisted of three parts: understanding the self and the leader; leadership and organizational change focussing on understanding the psychology of change and the role of a leader therein; and finally going through the capstone module with various workshops on stress management, design thinking, ethics, and invited talks. The Director of IIM-Tiruchi, Pawan Kumar Singh, said the course had provided an additional layer of knowledge and wisdom to the graduating batch. Programme Director (EPLCM Batch-1) Abhishek Totawar said the first batch of participants from diverse backgrounds, industries, work experience, age, gender, and geographies had an average work experience of 14 years. Chairperson of Executive Education and Consulting Prashant Gupta and Programme Director – EPLCM Batch 01 Papri Nath also addressed the participants. Sixty three received their Certificate of Completion virtually. Merit awards were presented to first three top-scorers: Meera Menon, Ashok Kumar Vaishnav and Mridula Saripalli, during the virtual ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-batch-of-eplcm-at-iim-tiruchi-passes-out/article37171383.ece
26 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Temple elephants get their own bathing pool||A bathing pool has been established for elephants of Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam. It has come up on Panchakarai Road on the banks of the Kollidam. The tank measuring 56 feet X 56 feet has a capacity to store 3 lakh litres of water. A sum of Rs. 3 lakh has been spent to construct it, temple sources said. After pujas, Andal and Lakshmi – the temple elephants – had their first dip in the pond. Officials, priests and several devotees were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-elephants-get-their-own-bathing-pool/article37171036.ece
26 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Moderate rainfall in Tiruchi, Pudukottai||Parts of Tiruchi district experienced sharp showers on Monday as overcast conditions prevailed in the region for most part of the day. Tiruchi City received a couple of spells of rain during the day on Monday, bringing down the day time temperature substantially, after some mild showers on Sunday night. The city also received a spell of heavy rain in the evening, inundating several low lying areas and arterial roads. The steel shelter at the Oil Mill bus stop in Ariyamangalam collapsed causing minor injuries to two persons. Five persons were injured when lightning struck at the house of a farmer, Selvam, at Chinna Alampatti, on Sunday night. Navalurkuttapattu in the district recorded a maximum of 36.20 mm of rainfall during the 24 hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Monday. Musiri recorded 15 mm and Tiruchi Junction 7 mm during the same period. Overnight shower combined with inflows received due to rains in the past few days, resulted in overflow of Pallavankulam in Pudukottai town. This lead to inundation of the adjacent Santhanathaswamy Temple. V. Muthuraja, MLA, inspected the temple and instructed officials to take steps to drain the water. Viralimalai recorded 102 mm of rainfall in 24 hours till Monday morning. Other areas that saw good rainfall were Kudimiyanmalai (85 mm), Annavasal (55), Ponnamaravathi (52.40) Keeranur (46), Avudaiyarkovil (30.20) and Pudukottai (22) Tiruverumbur Two farm workers were killed after they were struck by lightning at Pathalapettai near Tiruverumbur. Velayutham (60) of Kilimangalam near Thittakudi in Cuddalore district and Rengammal (45) of Indhalur in Thanjavur district, were working on paddy fields when lightning stuck. Both of them died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/moderate-rainfall-in-tiruchi-pudukottai/article37171038.ece
26 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||191 fresh cases recorded||The central region on Monday recorded 191 fresh cases of COVID-19 and five deaths, on account of complications arising out of the infection. One person each from Ariyalur, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tiruchi succumbed to the infection. Thanjavur district continued to report the highest number of daily cases in the region with 55 persons testing positive. Tiruchi reported 46 fresh cases, Tiruvarur 28, Karur 20, Nagapattinam 17, Pudukottai 13, Mayiladuthurai eight and Perambalur three. Ariyalur reported just a single case. Thanjavur also had the most number of active cases with 616 persons under treatment. Tiruchi had 482 active cases, Tiruvarur 326, Nagapattinam 201, Karur 169, Pudukottai 135, Mayiladuthurai 116, Ariyalur 51 and Perambalur 36.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/191-fresh-cases-recorded/article37171050.ece
26 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Officials told to complete delimitation soon||The State Election Commission, which has planned to conduct the urban civic polls before Pongal, has exhorted officials to complete delimitation exercise as early as possible and get ready for conducting the elections in a free and fair manner. The State Election Commission is reviewing the delimitation exercise in town panchayats, municipalities and corporations before finalising the electoral rolls. Accordingly, elections for Tirunelveli Corporation, Ambasamudram and Vickramasingapuram municipalities, and 17 town panchayats have to be conducted in Tirunelveli district. As Kalakkad is becoming the new municipality in the district as it was upgraded recently, delimitation of wards is on now. In Tenkasi district, Tenkasi, Shencottai, Puliyangudi, Kadayanallur and Sankarankovil municipalities and 17 town panchayats will go for election and delimitation of wards is going on in Surandai municipality, which has been upgraded. In Thoothukudi district, election for Thoothukudi Corporation, Kovilpatti and Kayalpattinam municipalities and 18 town panchayats will be held. Since Tiruchendur has been upgraded as municipality, delimitation of wards is going on. Election for Colachel, Kuzhithurai and Padmanabhapuram municipalities and 51 town panchayats in Kanniyakumari district will be conducted. Delimitation of wards is on in the newly formed Kollencode Ezhudesam municipality. Similarly, Aalur and Thengapudhur town panchayats have been annexed with Nagercoil Corporation and hence, delimitation is going on in the new corporation. Conducting election for two corporations, 12 municipalities and 103 town panchayats in the four districts was discussed in a meeting. Though Nagercoil has been upgraded into a Corporation, the delimitation work is yet to be completed even as a good number of village panchayats on the periphery of the proposed Corporation are against annexing them with the Corporation. As per the plan drawn by the officials, the 17 town panchayats in Tirunelveli district will have 399 polling booths and Tenkasi will have 356 polling booths in 17 town panchayats. In Thoothukudi, 318 booths will be created in 18 town pachayats and the 51 town panchayats of Kanniyakumari district will have 1,057 polling booths. Similarly, the two municipalities of Tirunelveli district will have 37 polling booths and 67 polling booths will be created in the three municipalities of Kanniyakumari district. For the five municipalities of Tenkasi district, 299 polling booths will be established and Thoothukudi district’s two municipalities will have 149 booths. Since delimitation of wards is on in the upgraded urban civic bodies such as Nagercoil Corporation, Tiruchendur, Kalakkad, Surandai and Kollencode Ezhudesam municipalities and Aalur and Thengampudur town panchayats, both appended to Nagercoil Corporation, elections will not be conducted in these local bodies as of now. Chairing the meeting held here on Monday, State Election Commissioner V. Palanikumar said the electoral rolls and the list of polling booths should be prepared at the earliest based on the past elections. Superintendents of Police, in consultation with Collectors, should take care of security arrangements to be made before, during and after the elections, Dr. Palanikumar said. Collectors V. Vishnu (Tirunelveli), S. Gopala Sundararaj (Tenkasi), K. Senthil Raj (Thoothukudi) and M. Aravind (Kanniyakumari), Tirunelveli City Police Commissioner N.K. Sentharamai Kannan, Corporation Commissioners B. Vishnu Chandran (Tirunelveli), T. Charusree (Thoothukudi), SPs N. Manivannan (Tirunelveli), R. Krishnaraj (Tenkasi), S. Jayakumar (Thoothukudi) and V. Badrinarayanan (Kanniyakumari), Principal Election Commissioners K. Dhanalakshmi (Municipality) and G. Arulmani (Panchayats) participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-told-to-complete-delimitation-soon/article37170944.ece
26 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Vendors seek biometric identity cards||Demanding biometric identity cards, roadside vendors submitted a petition during the weekly grievances day meet at the Collectorate on Monday. The petitioners, led by CPI district secretary S. Kasi Viswanathan, said the Union Government had introduced the system of giving biometric identity cards to the roadside and pushcart vendors through the urban civic bodies and made the biometric cards mandatory for getting loans through the banks. Though a petition to the Corporation was submitted seeking the disbursal of biometric identity cards to the beneficiaries, it was yet to be given to the vendors. They also said the Corporation Commissioner should give due instruction to the police for allowing the roadside vendors to do their business as they were all belonging to below poverty line families. A group of residents from Shankar Colony in Palayamkottai submitted a petition seeking regular supply of drinking water which remained hit for the past two months. Though petitions had been submitted to the Corporation officials, no step had been taken to ensure regular supply of drinking water, they alleged. A similar petition was submitted by residents from Bharathi Street, Varadharaja Perumal Temple Street, Kanni Vinayagar Temple Street and Amman Temple Street, all in Melapalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vendors-seek-biometric-identity-cards/article37171349.ece
26 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Railway worker ends life||Accusing his senior officers of harassing him and allotting him more work, a railway key-man allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison. Sources in Government Railway Police here said Sivakumar, 43, who had been with Tirunelveli engineering division, consumed poison on October 20 when he was on duty at Gangaikondan. In the video released by him before taking the extreme step, Sivakumar is seen accusing his senior officers of harassing him, besides assigning to him more work. After being admitted to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, Sivakumar died on Monday. Tirunelveli Government Railway police have registered a case. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-worker-ends-life/article37171344.ece
26 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Monday stood at 137 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 796.30 cusecs and a discharge of 1,504.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 78.90 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 85 cusecs and nil discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37171351.ece
26 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Ministers to inaugurate special loan camp||Ministers M.P. Saminathan and N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj will inaugurate a special camp organised by the District Lead Bank in Tiruppur on Wednesday. A release from Collector S. Vineeth said that the camp would have 50 stalls providing information on various credit and social security schemes by Central and State governments. Information on loans for students, agriculture, MSMEs, vehicles and mortgages would also be available. The camp would be held from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. at Gayathri Mahal on Kangeyam Road in adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-to-inaugurate-special-loan-camp/article37170974.ece
26 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three held for murder in Uthukuli||The Uthukuli police on Monday arrested three persons, including a 17-year-old boy, on charges of murdering a man. According to the police, Pragadeesh (19), Subash (20), the minor boy and five others were part of a gang that had parked their two-wheelers on the pathway at S. Periyapalayam in Uthukuli on Sunday. At 4 p.m., M. Gopal (35), a tailor at a garment company, and his friend G. Eswaran (29) confronted the gang that was allegedly inebriated and asked it to clear the pathway. Later, the two proceeded to a Tasmac outlet at Koolipalayam. When they returned from the Tasmac outlet at 6.45 p.m., the gang waylaid them and engaged in a verbal altercation. One of the gang members allegedly broke a liquor bottle and stabbed Gopal on his back. Eswaran was hit on the head with a broken bottle. While Gopal died on the way to Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruppur, Eswaran received treatment for his head injury, the police said. The Uthukuli police registered a case under Section 302 (Punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code and nabbed three of the eight accused on Monday. The minor was sent to a Juvenile Observation Home, while the other two were remanded in judicial custody. Efforts are on to nab the remaining accused, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-murder-in-uthukuli/article37170954.ece
26 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow quarrying for stone grinders’||Manufacturers of stone grinders from Uthukuli staged a demonstration outside the District Collectorate in Tiruppur on Monday, demanding that operations in a few stone quarries be allowed. Petition In a petition to District Collector S. Vineeth, they said the quarrying for grinder stones did not cause pollution. The district administration recently closed 64 unlicensed stone quarries in Uthukuli taluk as per the directions of the Madras High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-quarrying-for-stone-grinders/article37170966.ece
26 October 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||‘Protect farmers’ interests on Mullaperiyar’||The Coordination Committee of All Farmers’ Associations in Tamil Nadu has urged the State government not to heed to the request from the Kerala Chief Minister requesting release of water from Mullaperiyar dam citing the climatic conditions in that State. Talking to reporters at Mannargudi on Monday, committee president P. R. Pandian termed the letter from the Kerala Chief Minister to his counterpart in Tamil Nadu as nothing but an act induced by the political pressure the Kerala government had been subjected to in view of the recent Supreme Court judgement with regard to maintaining the water level in the dam. The Apex Court had accepted the statement filed by the Union government that there would not be any harm to the dam structure if 142 feet of water was to be stored in Mullaperiyar dam and dismissed the Kerala government’s contention over the stability of the dam. Such being the case, insisting or even making a plea that the storage in Mullaperiyar dam should be maintained at 136 feet would directly affect the prospects of farmers in Theni, Dindigul, Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Sivagangai districts. Exhorting the State to safeguard the interests of Tamil Nadu farmers who depend on the water from Mullaperiyar dam for irrigation, Mr. Pandian urged Chief Minister to put an end to the issue firmly. The State should initiate steps to ensure that Tamil Nadu engineers can carry out their duties at the dam without any obstacles and also strengthen the Baby Dam, he added.  If storage level in the dam was maintained at 136 feet it will affect the prospects of farmers P. R. Pandian President, Coordination Committee of All Farmers’ Associations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protect-t-n-farmers-interests-on-mullaperiyar/article37171034.ece
26 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||97 shops in Ooty Municipal Market to be auctioned||A total of 97 shops in the Udhagamandalam Municipal Market are to be auctioned after the merchants who had taken the shops on lease failed to pay the revised rent to the Udhagamandalam Municipality (UMC). UMC Commissioner R. Saraswati told The Hindu that there were around 1,600 shops in the municipal market. Most of the merchants had agreed to pay the revised rent announced by the municipality a few years ago, and had paid off portions of the arrears due to the UMC. “So far, we have collected around Rs. 16 crore in arrears from the merchants. About Rs. 28 crore in arrears are still due and will be collected soon,” she said. The UMC stated that 183 shops had previously failed to pay the revised rent and arrears. They were given time to accept the revised rent structure, failing which they would be sealed. All the merchants, except the ones running 97 of the shops, have agreed to pay the revised rent to the UMC. The 97 shops have been sealed and will be auctioned soon in a transparent manner, officials said. The municipality has been at loggerheads with merchants at the market for the last few years. Due to the low rents that were being paid by the merchants for many years, the UMC was facing a severe financial crisis, with salaries to municipal workers being delayed and bills owed to various government service providers, including bills for electricity. Recently, the market premises was closed for around a week due to the merchants not agreeing to pay the revised rent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/97-shops-in-ooty-municipal-market-to-be-auctioned/article37170957.ece
26 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||The Nilgiris Collector tests positive||The District Collector of Nilgiris, J. Innocent Divya, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, sources said. Ms. Divya, who is fully vaccinated, was reported to have mild symptoms after one of her family members contracted the viral disease. She is said to be recovering. The staff at the Collectorate, who could have been in contact with her, are also being tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-nilgiris-collector-tests-positive/article37170975.ece
26 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Two held for destroying evidence linked to Kodanad case||Two persons were arrested by the Nilgiris district police for helping to destroy evidence linking one of the accused to the Kodanad heist-cum-murder case. According to police sources, C. Dhanapal (44) from Edappadi in Salem and R. Ramesh (34) from Attur in Salem have been arrested by the Sholur Mattam police. Dhanapal is the brother of C. Kanagaraj, who was employed as the driver of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and a prime accused in the Kodanad case. Kanagaraj died in a road accident near Attur in April 2017, shortly after the break-in into the house of the former Chief Minister took place. Mr. Dhanapal had claimed that there was foul play in his brother’s death in his testimony to the press and to the police. Ramesh is also said to be related to Mr. Kanagaraj, and is said to have stayed close to the accident spot where Kanagaraj died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kodanad-case-two-held-for-destroying-evidence/article37170947.ece
26 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 14 fresh cases of infection||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,759 with 14 new cases reported on Monday. While 48,450 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases stands at 179. In Ranipet district, 7 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,375. In Tirupattur district, 4 new cases were reported on Monday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,255. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 17, taking the total number of cases to 54,866. Out of this, 53,985 persons have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 214.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-14-fresh-cases-of-infection/article37171352.ece
26 October 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Special camps to dispose of patta-related issues||Special camps to dispose of patta-related issues will be held village-wise on Wednesdays and Fridays starting from October 27. In a statement, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said the exercise would be completed by December 31. The new initiative was based on the announcement made by Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran in the Assembly on August 31 in order to provide government services at the doorstep of the people. “All patta-related issues of farmers and landowners would be taken up during the special camps,” the Collector said. An officer in the rank of Deputy Collector had been appointed as the monitoring and disposal officer for each taluk. All revenue officials from Zonal Deputy Tahsildar, Revenue Inspector and Village Administrative Officer would collect petitions from people in villages. “Simple corrections such as spellings, names and relationships would be made then and there and disposed of immediately,” District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian said. Besides, name transfer of patta would also be dealt with at the camps. The officials had been asked to also take up petitions for other issues like old-age pension, and addition and deletion in ration cards during the special camps, the DRO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camps-to-dispose-of-patta-related-issues/article37171058.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Governor seeks schemes’ details||He had also served as the Chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee in the Prime Minister’s Office. There was a controversy over the Governor inspecting or reviewing the functioning of various departments when Banwarilal Purohit decided to conduct review meetings in the districts during the previous regime. The DMK, then an Opposition party, criticised Mr. Purohit’s decision, saying it amounted to interference in the functioning of a democratically elected government. The party even braved arrests and held black flag demonstrations during his visits to some districts.  While the then AIADMK government chose to back him, Mr. Purohit ignored the Opposition’s criticism that he was trampling upon the State’s autonomy by conducting review meetings. Mr. Purohit went on to defend his actions by saying the review meetings helped him appreciate the good work being done by the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-governor-seeks-schemes-details/article37170918.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||69 fresh COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode reported 69 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 1,03,893. While 67 persons were discharged, 881 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 57 fresh cases were reported and Namallal saw 48 cases. As per the bulletin, one death was reported in Salem. Krishnagiri reported 17 new cases and the total number of active cases stood at 207 cases as of Monday. A total of 43,454 cases were reported in the district so far. Dharmapuri saw 19 fresh cases, and the active cases stood at 244. As of date, a total 28,334 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/69-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article37171076.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect - City||Ma. Anne Lee Seshadri, Consul for Public Affairs, US Consulate, inaugurated English Literary Association and released Enzine, a student magazine, of The American College through virtual platform on October 12. Enzine, the department magazine, written, edited and designed by students, is packed with students’ stories, accounts of college life, travel experiences, etc. The students also added a teaser that captured the various stages of making the magazine- writing, editing, compiling and designing. Ms. Anne shed new light on the theme of multiculturalism in a monolingual country. She opined that, in the 21st century, one cannot restrict an individual to one’s native land. She referred to certain major mishaps in the world, especially between 16th and 20th centuries, that brought into the US, people from all corners of the world. Cultural diversity is good and desirable, she said.   Department of Social Sciences of Lady Doak College, as part of its Decennium Celebration of PG Diploma in Counselling and Psychotherapy programme, organised a series of events on October 11 and 12. On October 11, Dr. Sekar, Professor from NIMHANS, Bengaluru, spoke on ‘Post-pandemic relevance and scope of counselling.’ On October 12, a talk on ‘Importance of mental health at workplace’ was organised in collaboration with the Centre for Human Resources Development of the college for the Non-Teaching Faculty. The PG faculty coordinated the session on handling stress and change. Later, a virtual get-together with former faculty members and alumnae of PGDCP programme was organised.   An alumnae meet of Lady Doak College was conducted virtually on October 23. Around 2,100 alumnae from across the world participated. Priscilla, Alumnae Association president, welcomed the virtual gathering. Vinita, secretary, shared the Alumnae Association Report. A video about the contributions of the Alumnae Association was presented, followed by the reflections shared by the alumna from 1959 to the present. Karna Jegadeeswaran, son of former alumna, Srileka Jegadeeswaran (1984 -1987, B.A. History) shared his mother’s memories about Lady Doak College and mentioned about contributing towards building a classroom in memory of her and also for a scholarship for a topper in History department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect-city/article37171250.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pending campus||As part of Swachh Survekshan Grameen 2021, Venkateswara Polytechnic College at Kaikurichi in Pudukottai district created awareness on solid waste management and water recycling. A total of about 500 students and teachers were also oriented on Clean India 2.0 project, R. Pugazhendhi, Principal, said. Chairman of the College Committee RMV Kathiresan presided over.   AIMAN College of Arts and Science for Women conducted an orientation programme for NSS volunteers in first-year of undergraduation. S. Ilango, NSS Project Officer and Associate Professor, Department of Commerce, Urumu Dhanalakshmi College, interacted with the students and sensitised them to their role in national welfare.   M.A.M. B-School conducted a program on Financial Literacy inviting G. Prabhu, Faculty, ICICI Foundation, Tiruchi, as the guest speaker. Mr. Prabhu emphasised on the importance of savings and investment. Effective management of finances is the backbone of every industry, he said, and also gave an overview of mutual funds and smart borrowing. At another function on 'Integral Development', Leema Peter, Psychologist, guided the students on exploring inner self through self-introspection. Integral growth is vital for fostering self-awareness and conscious leadership, the traits required for succeeding in the ever-changing world, she said.   A.D.M. College for Women, Nagapattinam, organised Student Induction Programme to orient students on various aspects of curricular, co-curricular and extra-curricular activities. About 600 students were oriented on the culture and value systems in the institution, career guidance, mentoring process, coaching for competitive exams, and fine arts. During the week-long program, experts from skill India Mission, Coimbatore, JADE Training Resources Bangalore, and Skillwise Group Chennai, handled sessions on several topics pertaining to skill development. R. Anbuselvi , Principal, presided over. R. Sophia Porchelvi, Controller of examinations, also interacted with the students.   Distribution of vegetable seeds to farmers marked the World Food Day celebration organised by ICAR –Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sirugamani, recently. The vegetable seeds were meant to raise kitchen garden, K. Geetha, Associate Professor at the Kendra, who delivered a talk on ‘need for sustainable agriculture to combat hunger and malnutrition’ said. Experts at the Kendra delivered talks on sustainable agriculture, food storage, and reduction of food wastage. A demonstration on establishment of kitchen garden was conducted, and value-added products from nutri-cereals, and multi vitamin greens were exhibited on the occasion.   A capacity building programme for budding social workers was organised by the PG and Research Department of Social Work, Bishop Heber College, recently, by roping in illustrious alumni. In his special address, K. Victor, General Manager - HR, TVS Logistics Services Ltd., Chennai, handled a session on ‘Labour Legislations and Statutory Compliances’. Nicholas Francis, Director, Helen Keller Service Society for the Disabled, Madurai, spoke on skill sets required for employability, and Sharmila Muthukumar, Training Manager, Kanchana Paati Chain of Childcare Centres, Chennai, dwelt on ‘early childhood care and education’ while Elamathi Arul, Director, Green Fem Producer Company, Madurai, spoke on ‘Social Entrepreneurship and NGO Management’. J. Godwin Prem Singh, Director, Childline Nodal Organisation, delivered the key note address. A. Relton, Associate Professor and Head, Department of Social Work, presided over.   M.I.E.T. Engineering College conducted Career Awareness Programme - 2021 for the benefit of final-year students. K. Radha Krishnan, District Employment Officer, Pudukkottai and P. Vel Murugan, Junior Employment Officer, Pudukkottai oriented the students on opportunities in government and private sectors. A. Naveen Sait, Principal, said the programme was conducted with the objective of infusing optimism in students in the pandemic situation. A. Mohamed Yunus, Chairman, M.I.E.T. Educational Institutions, presided over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pending-campus/article37171039.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Sugarcane Breeding Institute: ‘ Cane Ovate’, national-level workshop for innovative sugarcane farmers in association with Society for Sugarcane Research and Development Board, 9.30 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar on ‘Steel Structures - an overview’ , 3 p.m.  Vanavil Cultural Centre and Avinashilingam Institute for Home Sciences and Higher Education for Women in association with Tamil Nadu Dr.MGR Medical University: Series of lectures to commemorate 100th death anniversary of Poet Bharathiar, Thiruchitrambalam auditorium, 10 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Expert talk on ‘Portfolio Management’, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37170967.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Builders Engineering College, Kangayam: First year B.E. and M.B.A. induction programme, C. Devarajan, Managing Director, URC Construction Private Limited and founder-secretary, Erode Builder Educational Trust, chief guest, 10 a.m.  Kongu Arts and Science College: Department of Computer Science (P.G.), Personality development programme, Elangovan, Director, Hicitizen Life Skills, Perundurai, resource person, 10 a.m.    Shri Sakthikailassh Women’s College: Awareness rally on road safety, 10 a.m.  Knowledge Institute of Technology: Orientation programme for YRC Volunteers, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article37171077.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City engagements||GENERAL    Bishop Heber College, Department of Food and Nutrition: Breast cancer awareness programme, G. Govindaraj, surgical oncologist, and Sasipriya Govindaraj, radiation oncologist of Harshamitra Hospital, speak, 11 a.m.  K. Ramakrishnan College of Technology: Corporate Talk on 'Current Situation of Software Industry and its Expectations' by Jerome, Senior Software Engineer, ICE Mortgage Technology, California, 10 a. m.  Jamal Mohamed College: Business Sector Lecture Series by Jamal Institute of Management, talk on 'Cyber Crime and Safety Awareness' by A. Kamarudeen, Advocate; Principal S. Ismail Mohideen presides, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article37171384.ece
26 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sindgi considered an OBC seat||Sindgi, the last taluk of Bombay-Karnataka (soon to be renamed Kittur Karnataka) region on the north-eastern side, is among the two bypoll-bound constituencies, the other being Hangal. It is going to the polls nearly 10 months after the death of its MLA. It has also attracted attention as it is among the few seats in North Karnataka to have elected Janata Parivar-Janata Dal-Janata Dal(S) candidates three times since Independence. It was also the only seat to elect a Janata Dal(S) candidate when the BJP won all the other seats in the district in 2018. Mallappa Channaveerappa Manguli was 84 when he died in office in January. He was a veteran Janata Parivar leader who had won twice from his home constituency. A close follower of Ramakrishna Hegde, he won in 2018, when he was among its oldest members, at 79. Four times The voters have re-elected legislators four times. Of the 16 polls held so far, three leaders were elected more than once. Shankargouda Patil was elected as a Congress and Congress-Organisation candidate, Channappa Madiwalappa Desai was elected twice as a Congress nominee, M.C. Managuli as a Janata Dal and Janata Dal(S) candidate but Ramesh Bhusnur was elected once as a BJP candidate and another time as a Congress nominee. When it was a double-member constituency in the first polls in 1951, Mallappa Surpur was elected from the general seat and Jattappa Kabadi from the reserved seat. As part of Mysore State, Sindgi sent Shankargouda Patil and C.M. Desai to Bengaluru between 1957 and 1972. As part of Karnataka State, Ninganagouda Patil of the Congress was elected in 1983, Mallanagouda Doulataraya Biradar of the Janata Party in 1985, R.B. Choudhari of the Congress in 1989, S.T. Sunagar of the Congress in 1999. A.G. Shabadi won as a BJP nominee in 2004. The BJP chose Ramesh Bhusnur as its candidate in the next polls in 2008. 2.4 lakh voters Sindgi has around 2.4 lakh voters. It is one of the eight Assembly seats in the Vijayapura Parliamentary Constituency. Political parties consider Sindgi as an other backward classes (OBC) seat. Of the around four lakh population, Scheduled Castes constitute around 21% and minorities around 18%, as per the census. According to political strategists, upper castes constitute less than 5% of the population and the rest, around 55%, are all OBCs. The higher than average minority population helped the voters elect a Muslim leader Bekinalkar Maibubsaheb Hasansanheb of the Congress(I) in 1978. Senior leaders have been camping in Sindgi for nearly a fortnight now. Various strategies, including social engineering techniques, are being tried out to win over the electors. Polling is scheduled for October 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/political-parties-consider-sindgi-to-be-an-obc-seat/article37171099.ece
26 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Protest staged||Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) members took out a protest rally in Belagavi on Monday, seeking the merger of border areas with Maharashtra and fulfilment of other demands. The protesters walked from Sambhaji Chowk in the Old City to the Deputy Commissioner’s office shouting slogans against the Karnataka Government. They said that it had denied all rights and protection that was to be accorded to linguistic minorities. They demanded that the State Government issue an order demarcating Belagavi and some towns and villages in Uttara Kannada and Bidar district as Marathi-dominated areas. All government records such as electoral rolls, government orders and land records should be provided in Marathi language. They tried to remove the barricades put up by the police near Bogarves. But the police dispersed them and put up the barricades again. This led to traffic jams in some areas in the Old City. Later, a delegation of leaders submitted a memorandum to the DC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-staged/article37171101.ece
26 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Squabble over ‘locked-up Vidhana Soudha’||With several Ministers, starting with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, concentrating all their efforts on the bypoll-bound constituencies of Sindgi and Hangal, there have been complaints about governance taking a back seat. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar said the BJP Government had “locked up the Vidhana Soudha” as the “entire Cabinet was camping in the two constituencies to win the bypolls and there was no functioning government left”. He argued that this indicated that the saffron party “feared defeat” in the polls. However, Mr. Bommai, speaking on the sidelines of his campaign in Sindgi constituency, said the allegation was unfounded. “Every two or three days, Ministers are attending their office. No Government work is pending or delayed. I have given all the necessary instructions to the Ministers,” he said. State of the flood-hit Meanwhile, residents of North Karnataka, especially those in flood-hit areas, have been raising complaints about works slowing down ever since the announcement of the bypolls. “Our house was washed away in the floods of 2019, but we did not get any compensation. Six farmers from our village submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister when he visited Belagavi in September. He assured us that a resurvey would be ordered and compensation released. But we have not received any intimation fromeither the Chief Minister’s Office or the office of the Deputy Commissioner in Belagavi. When I went to the DC’s office, the officials told me all the Ministers and officers were busy in bypoll work and no orders for resurvey were issued,” said GundappaSatoli. Sidagouda Modagi, farmers’ leader and Krishik Samaj president, concurred that official apathy had increased since the bypolls were announced. “We have been agitating for a revised fair and remunerative price for sugarcane. But the Ministers concerned are yet to respond. We have also been demanding the immediate release of all sugarcane arrears. The Ministers have not held any meetings about these issues,” he said. Students complain Mahantesh Bilur, a student leader, said that the Government had failed to take definitive action on several issues concerning students. “There is no clarity on the extension or renewal of bus passes. The student community across Karnataka is confused about the issue. Students and colleges have been asked to file bus pass applications online. This is taking a lot of time. The Government has neither simplified the process nor issued clear directions to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation,” he said. He also named “confusion over the National Education Policy” and the sorry state of hostels without timely release of funds as other unresolved issues amid the bypolls. “All this is because Ministers and officers are not taking decisions on time. We are organising a protest in the districts on Wednesday,” Mr. Bilur said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/squabble-over-locked-up-vidhana-soudha/article37170873.ece
26 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Workshop at SDM varsity||Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara (SDM) University in Dharwad held a continued medical education workshop on Palliative and End of Life Care recently. Vice-Chancellor Niranjan Kumar inaugurated it. Resource person S.K. Joshi delivered a lecture. There were debate and panel discussion on topics covering mainly on End of Life Care and Advance Care Directives. The other topics covered were Do not resuscitate orders, Breaking bad news and pregnancy which concluded with feedback from students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workshop-at-sdm-varsity/article37171091.ece
26 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Walkathon flagged off||Prabhakar Kore, KLE society chairman, flagged off a walkathon in Belagavi as part of World Spine Day on Sunday. He walked with teachers and students of Jawaharlal Nehru medical college from Rani Channamma circle to Prabhakar Kore hospital. This year’s theme was Back 2 Back, to create awareness about maintaining a healthy back, he said. He spoke against sedentary lifestyles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/walkathon-flagged-off/article37171102.ece
26 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||KAHER colleges bag awards||Two constituent colleges of KLE Academy of Higher Education and Research (KAHER) have won the Best NSS Unit awards. The Ministry of Youth Empowerment and Sports has selected Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College for 2017-18 and KLE Institute of Physiotherapy for 2018-19, for the awards. NSS Programme Officer of Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Ashwini Narasannavar and NSS Programme Officer of KLE Institute of Physiotherapy Snehal Dharmayat received the awards for State Level Best NSS Programme Officers. Minister for Sericulture, Youth Empowerment and Sports K.C. Narayan Gowda gave away the awards in Bengaluru recently. Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Additional Chief Secretary Shailini Rajnesh, State NSS Officer and Ex-Officio Joint Secretary, Youth Empowerment and Sports, Prathap Lingayaiah, Regional Director and NSS Regional Centre, Narshimayya Kadri were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kaher-colleges-bag-awards/article37171090.ece
26 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two pilots taken off duty for wrong landing||The Director-General of Civil Aviation has initiated action against pilots of a private airline for landing a plane at the wrong location in the Belagavi (IXG) Airport in Sambra on Monday. This was only a technical error and there was no chance of any accident or mishap, officers clarified. Two pilots who were flying a SpiceJet flight (Q-400) from Hyderabad to Belagavi landed the aeroplane on the wrong end of the runway. “The air traffic control officers had asked them to land the flight on runway 26, but the flight landed on runway 08, which means the other end of the same runway. This created problems for the passengers and confused the airport staff,” an airport officer said. After the incident, the pilots flew back the plane to Hyderabad by around noon. This has upset the DGCA officers who asked the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau to begin an investigation. As of now, the two pilots have been taken off active flying duty and have been given notices to appear before the investigators, officers said. “The ATC tower staff in Belagavi may also be called for investigation. The investigation will find out what went wrong, who could be responsible and how such events can be prevented in future,’’ a senior officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-pilots-taken-off-duty-for-wrong-landing-in-sambra-airport/article37171092.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,700 plaints against hospitals for overcharging patients||The State Government on Monday told the High Court of Karnataka that nearly 1,700 complaints had been received from the public on private hospitals, including many of prominent ones in State, collecting excess amount for treating COVID-19 patients. The data submitted also discloses that complaints have been received on collection of amount from the patients even in several government hospitals. Data submitted The details, including names of hospitals against whom the complaints have been received, excess amounts allegedly collected from patients against the charges fixed by the Government for treating various categories of COVID-19 patients, were submitted to the court. The data shows that excess amounts were collected in the range of a few thousand rupees to Rs. 15 lakh, depending upon the type of hospitals to which the patients were admitted. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, which took note of the details, asked the Government to inform the court the action initiated against the hospitals for collecting excess amounts and ensuring that such amount collected were refunded to the patients. The Bench was hearing a batch of PIL petitions related to the issues that cropped up due to COVID-19. Prominent hospitals Multiple complaints, even up to two dozen in case of some private hospitals, were received against some single hospitals, mainly large and prominent hospitals across the State, according to the Government data. The data also shows that either partial or full amounts collected in excess of the Government prescribed charges were refunded to the patients in around 200 complaints and the remaining complaints are pending before the district level grievance redressal committees. On vaccination drive, the Government stated that 6,11,91,799 doses had been administered as of October 19, which included 4,08,98,337 first doses (83.6% of the target population of 4,89,16,000) and 2,02,93,462 second doses (41.5%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1700-complaints-against-hospitals-for-overcharging/article37170860.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many private school managements to assess students’ learning||As learning loss among lower primary students has been noted to be higher than those of higher classes, many private schools, which reopened on Monday, have decided to assess the learning levels and conduct bridge courses before continuing to teach the syllabus for the respective academic year. Sreedhar S., a private company employee whose daughter is in Class IV, said, “The school management sent us a feedback form and asked us what the learning strategy should be. A majority of the parents have said that the students should be taught all the basics they learnt over the past two academic years before they progress to the syllabus of this academic year”. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “Even though we have been conducting online classes, many students have not grasped the lessons. Without ensuring they have learnt the basics, it will be meaningless to teach them lessons for higher grades,” he said. ‘Loss of learning during the pandemic’, a field study by the Azim Premji University published earlier this year, had revealed that around 92% of students from Classes II to VI have lost at least one specific foundational ability in languages, which they may have picked up in the previous years. The figure for mathematics was 82 %. Some important recommendations of the study were eliminating vacations, extending this academic year, and reconfiguring the syllabus when offline classes resume. Basavaraj Gurikar, vice-president, All-India Teachers’ Federation, said that unlike the case of students in higher classes or higher educational institutions, lower primary school teachers had decided to start from scratch and teach lessons which were even taught prior to the pandemic. “Students only logged into online classes to show up. But in small budget private schools and government schools where online classes were held, virtually no learning took place as they did not have the guidance of parents that they could rely on to grasp the lessons,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-private-school-managements-to-assess-students-learning/article37170855.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 14 crore collected in fines since last May||From May 2020, in the early days of the pandemic, to date, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has collected around Rs. 14.1 crore as fines from citizens for either failing to wear masks or violating social distancing norms. Since July this year, after the peak of the second wave of the pandemic, to September, Marshals have collected fines ranging from Rs. 60.29 lakh to Rs. 63.81 lakh per month from citizens for not wearing masks. For October (till October 22), Rs. 39.84 lakh has been collected for the same offence. On the other hand, the number of cases against people violating social distancing has been steadily dropping from 1,214 in July to barely 506 in September. Fine collection has also reduced from Rs. 2.99 lakh in July to just Rs. 1.2 lakh in September. Though the number of COVID-19 cases have reduced in the city, the wearing of masks will continue to be mandatory, warn civic officials. Over the past few days, messages claiming that wearing masks was optional have been doing the rounds. However, civic officials have confirmed that no such decision had been taken either by the BBMP or the State Government. According to BBMP’s Chief Marshal Col. Rajbir Singh (retd), the enforcement of wearing masks and maintaining social distance by Marshals continues, with fines being levied on violators across the city. “Though certain relaxations have been introduced and there is better awareness about wearing masks and maintaining social distance, there still are violators,” he said. Marshal teams He also said that the Marshal teams have identified areas where violations happen routinely. “For instance, we have noticed that in market areas, especially K.R. Market, and slum areas, the violations are more among vendors and slum residents. We first warn them and then levy the fines,” he said. BBMP’s Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that wearing masks and good vaccination record have helped control the spread of COVID-19. Nearly 86% of the eligible population have already received the first dose and 52% have received both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-14-crore-collected-in-fines-since-last-may/article37170863.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Socio-economic cost of road accidents in 2019 was $15.71 billion to $38.81 billion’||India’s socio-economic cost of road traffic accidents for the year 2019 was in the range of $15.71 billion to $38.81 billion, which amount to 0.55% to 1.35% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), reveals a study by Bosch India. An analysis, conducted by the accident research team of Bosch’s Advanced Autonomous Safety Systems and Corporate Research Department, on road accident data for the last two decades threw up useful insights that would help identify new products, business strategies and road safety policies, said the company in a statement on Monday. As per the Road Accident Sampling System - India (RASSI) data, 7,81,668 vehicles were involved in road accidents in 2019, amounting to $0.57 billion to $1.81 billion in damages. Of these damages, commercial vehicles accounted for $356.2 million, cars $69.8 million, two-wheelers $18.7 million, and buses $39.6 million. According to the findings of the study, the total medical cost of road traffic accidents’ victims in 2019 was close to $0.82 billion to $1.92 billion. The year also saw a total productivity loss of $10.9 billion and $1.44 billion due to male and female fatalities, respectively, considering the country’s average net income per capita for males and females. Again, productivity loss owing to serious injuries accounted for $123 million, while minor injuries accounted for $14 million. Girikumar Kumaresh, senior programme manager, Head Accident Research India, Advanced Autonomous Safety Systems at Robert Bosch Engineering and Business Solutions, said, “Road traffic accident casualties bring about a great deal of human suffering in terms of social, medical and economic costs, and it is crucial we mitigate them. The absence of data regarding the losses due to road accidents was the motivating factor for us to study and analyse the socio-economic impact of road accidents in India.” This research also combined studies from the World Bank and World Economic Forum, and over 50 international journals underpinned by Bosch’s innovative method to estimate socio-economic loss due to road traffic accidents in India, he added. The data gathered would serve as a reference for policymakers to derive cost-benefit estimates for economic loss incurred by the respective stakeholders through the Human Capital method, Willingness-To-Pay method, and iRAP’s Rule of Thumb method. This was the first such study that utilised suitable weighting factors from the RASSI database to offer a holistic view on a national scale, claims Bosch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/socio-economic-cost-of-road-accidents-in-2019-was-1571-billion-to-3881-billion/article37171276.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman, child killed and husband injured as lorry knocks down bike||A 21-year-old woman and her one-year-old son were killed, while her husband was injured, when a tipper lorry knocked down their motorcycle on the Marathahalli Outer Ring Road on Monday. The deceased have been identified as Sridevi and Dakshith. The injured husband, identified as Shivakumar, is being treated at a private hospital. According to the police, Mr. Shivakumar, an employee of a private firm and a resident of K.R. Puram, and his family were heading to Dharmapuri, to visit his hometown. When they reached the Outer Ring Road, the lorry, allegedly driven rashly and negligently, knocked the bike down, the police said. Mr. Shivakumar lost his balance and fell on the road, while Ms. Sridevi, who was holding Dakshith, slipped and came under the wheels of the lorry. The lorry driver abandoned the vehicle and escaped, said the police. The HAL Traffic Police have taken up a hit-and-run case against the lorry driver and have seized the vehicle for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-child-killed-and-husband-injured-as-lorry-knocks-down-bike/article37170866.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Festive atmosphere at lower primary classes||There was a festive atmosphere at several lower primary classes as students returned to schools after 19 months. For many, particularly those in Classes I and II, it was their first time on the school campus. Many classrooms were decorated with balloons and flowers as well as cartoon characters drawn on the walls. The teachers also distributed sweets and chocolates to students and went out of their way to ensure that their children were comfortable. Many schools ran classes in batches as they did not have sufficient infrastructure and they used all the classrooms to maintain physical distancing. All schools had temperature checks at the entrance and ensured that students sanitised their hands and wore masks before entering the campuses. Attendance Classes I to V were closed in March 2020 when COVID-19 cases were first reported in Karnataka. According to statistics provided by the Department of Public Instruction, the attendance ranged between 23 and 27% for Classes I to V. About 60% of the total 62,032 schools did not enter data and feed in the attendance. The attendance on the first day was higher in government schools than in private schools. Many private schools had decided to reopen after Deepavali in the second week of November after receiving requests from parents. High demand On the first day, many government schools also saw a huge beeline on their campuses as many parents wanted to shift their children from private to government schools. Many private schools have seen a dip in admissions and are expecting it to improve. Many private schools had invited parents to come and observe the implementation of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour so that they could feel confident and send their children to school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festive-atmosphere-at-lower-primary-classes/article37170856.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five arrested for cab driver’s murder||The Byatarayanapura police have arrested a gang of five persons who allegedly killed a 43-year-old cab driver over a financial row on Friday. According to the police, the accused confronted the victim, Chandrashekhar, at Hosakerehalli NICE Road junction and stabbed him with a dagger, before crushing his head with a boulder. The Byatarayanapura police, during the course of investigation, found that the accused had a financial row with the victim. They analysed the victim’s call record details to confirm the cause of death. Based on the information, the police arrested Bhaskar, 46, Srinivasa, 33, Girish, 30, Paramesh, 37, and Manjunath, 36. The accused reportedly confessed to the police that the victim had borrowed money from them and refused to return it. After repeated warnings to get back the money, they decided to kill him, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-arrested-for-cab-drivers-murder/article37170867.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six arrested for torture||The Mahadevapura police have arrested a group of six persons, including four juveniles, who allegedly tortured minor boys and forced them to smoke on the premises of a government school on Saturday. According to the police, the victims, aged 11 and 12, who went to play on the government school premises in B. Narayanpaura on Saturday afternoon, were confronted by the accused who were smoking. The accused, in a bid to rag the boys, forced them to smoke, and later tied them to a tree and also tortured them. The accused, after harassing the boys for some time, released them after they obliged, the police added. The accused even recorded the harassment on their mobile phones and later shared the video, according to the police. The boys went home and told their family members. Though the news spread, the family refused to file any complaint. Considering the sensitivity of the incident, the Mahadevapura police took up a suo motu case and tracked down the accused. Initially, it was alleged that the victims were forced to smoke marijuana, but it was ruled out after the police subjected the accused to a medical examination. Two of the accused are major and they have been arrested under Section 341 (wrongful restrain) and also under various sections of the JJ Act and are being investigated. While two of the accused will be remanded in judicial custody, the four juveniles will be sent to the State Home for Boys, a police officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-including-four-juveniles-held-for-torturing-minors/article37170852.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kumaraswamy sheds tears in public again||In yet another instance of breaking down on a public platform, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday wept at an event in Gubbi in Tumakuru district. He became emotional while recalling his efforts at building the Janata Dal (S) over 12 years “amid powerful national parties, defection by leaders, and backstabbing by some”. Mr. Kumaraswamy is known to shed tears at public events, which has often been ridiculed by his opponents as a gimmick. The JD(S) leader’s emotional breakdown at J.P. Bhavan when he was Chief Minister made headlines as he termed himself “Vishakanta”, indicating that he was silent despite problems in the coalition government. Earlier, he had shed tears during the 2018 Assembly polls and while campaigning for his son, Nikhil Kumaraswamy, who was making his electoral debut in Mandya in the 2019 general elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kumaraswamy-sheds-tears-in-public-again/article37171277.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ex-CM hits back after BJP, JD(S) target him on caste||As the heat of the bypolls rose in Sindgi and Hangal, the BJP, Congress, and JD(S) pointed fingers at each other for indulging in “caste-based” campaign. While both the BJP and the JD(S) had, on Friday, targeted Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah for “dividing castes”, the latter hit back in a series of tweets on Monday. After the former Chief Minister attended a few conventions of caste groups, including Kuruba and Banjara, the BJP began targeting him for his “casteist” approach to voters and attempts at “dividing castes”. A similar allegation was made by JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy ‘Hypocrisy’ Mr. Siddaramaiah responded by questioning the “hypocrisy” of the BJP. “If I start talking about how the BJP picked up ‘kamandal’ in opposition to ‘Mandal’, it will be an endless saga,” he saidin a tweet. He pointed out that BJP leaders had themselves mobilised communities and participated in their conventions. K.S. Eshwarappa had built a “brigade” of Kurubas, while Basanagounda Patil Yatnal was a champion of the Panchamasali-Lingayat community, the Congress leader said, adding that several leaders had participated in Brahmin conventions too. Mr. Siddaramaiah vowed to retire from politics if BJP leaders announced that they would never participate in caste conventions. “I stand firm by my conviction that until casteism is rooted out, we need reservation. But do BJP leaders, who attempted self-immolation to oppose the Mandal report, have the gumption to speak against reservation now?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ex-cm-hits-back-after-bjp-jds-target-him-on-caste/article37170876.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Park plan in JB Kaval Reserve Forest irks many||A proposal to develop a park on a 400-acre plot, which is part of the Jarakabande (JB) Kaval Reserve Forest near Yelahanka, has met with stiff opposition from local residents and green activists alike. Horticulture Minister N. Munirathna recently held a spot inspection and met Forest Minister Umesh Katti to seek permission of the department for the park project, and has been championing the proposal to develop a park in the area. Declared a reserve forest in 1932 and one of the last remaining forest patches in the city, JB Kaval already has a tree park developed on a 32-hectare plot. Another large park proposed to be developed on a 400-acre plot will further chip away at the forest area, many fear. “The agencies seem bent on developing all reserve forests into parks. A similar proposal to develop a park in the Turahalli forest area was opposed. Bengaluru has enough parks and we need to conserve forests,” said Leo Saldanha, Environment Support Group. Krishna Datta N.C., an environmentalist and resident of Yelahanka, is now spearheading a campaign ‘Save Jarakabande Forests’, as part of which they have petitioned Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who also holds the Bengaluru Development portfolio. A copy of the petition available with The Hindu detailed how 4,960 acres of forest and plantations have been diverted for development activities in North Bengaluru over the last 60 years and the Jarakabande Reserve Forest is one of the last surviving patches in this part of the city. “The forest area has 89 species of trees planted, noteworthy among them being jackfruit, wild gooseberry, kadamba, beach almonds, indian beech, red sanders, teak, eucalyptus, among others, and is home to over 120 species of birds, reptiles, mammals, bees and wasps. Wild boars, jackals, pangolins, and spotted deer have also been spotted. A public park would destroy this ecosystem,” said Mr. Datta. Horticulture Department officials were unavailable for their comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/park-plan-in-jb-kaval-reserve-forest-irks-many/article37170864.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rains: BBMP will provide relief soon, says Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will soon give out compensation to citizens whose houses were flooded and materials lost owing to the rains, officials have said. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, BBMP’s Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that requisite funds for the same had been disbursed to the respective zones already. “However, the payment to the citizens may be delayed owing to some minor issues. Instructions have already been issued to the zonal officials to ensure that the compensation is disbursed to the identified beneficiaries as soon as possible,” Mr. Gupta said. With regard to weak and dilapidated buildings already identified by the BBMP, Mr. Gupta said that the civic body had already begun issuing notices to the owners of such buildings. “Owners may argue that their buildings are safe. We have to give them time as it is the principle of natural justice. However, we will not give any time for buildings that require immediate evacuation and demolition,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rains-bbmp-will-provide-relief-soon-says-chief-commissioner-gaurav-gupta/article37170865.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Canara Bank raises Rs. 1,500 cr.||Canara Bank has raised Rs. 1,500 crore in Basel III-compliant Additional Tier 1 (AT1) bonds at a coupon rate of 8.40% per annum. This was the first AT1 bond issuance by the bank post the new SEBI regulations. The issue received overwhelming response from investors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/canara-bank-raises-rs-1500-cr/article37170853.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rowdy hacked to death||A 36-year-old rowdy-sheeter was hacked to death in front of his house in Nelagadaranahalli in Peenya on Sunday night. The deceased has been identified as Shivapura Anand, who was released on bail three days ago. According to the police, Anand was talking over the phone outside his house, when the armed men confronted him. They attacked him with weapons and sped away on bikes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rowdy-hacked-to-death/article37170858.ece
26 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Landslips: Rs. 150 cr. sought for Chamundi Hills roadwork||Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar, who is also in-charge of Mysuru , has requested Public Works Minister C.C. Patil to release Rs. 150 crore for construction of a RCC retaining wall for the 8-km road of Chamundi Hills in Mysuru to find a permanent solution to the problem of land slips. In a letter, the copies of which were released to the press, Mr. Somashekar has also appealed to him to send a team of experts to conduct soil test on Chamundi Hills to know the soil type. Mr. Somashekar expressed concern that the Chamundi Hills, which is frequented by devotees as well as nature lovers, had witnessed two land slips within about three years. As a solution to the earlier land slip, a RCC retaining wall had been built in 2019. But on October 20, there was again a land slip in the area about 100 m from the earlier spot, he pointed out. Such instances underlined the need for a permanent solution to the problem of land slips in such an important location, he said, and maintained that building the RCC retaining wall along the 8-km stretch of the Hill road could help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/landslips-rs-150-cr-sought-for-chamundi-hills-roadwork/article37171105.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No inspection of new vehicles for first-time registration||In the wake of amendments to rules of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, the Transport Department has said that there is no need for physical inspection of new vehicles for a first-time registration. In a press release, the department has said that a system has been brought in to register fully built vehicles purchased through authorised dealers without taking new vehicles to the RTOs and being inspected by the vehicle inspectors. The release states that dealers can file an online application on Vahan-4 portal and pay applicable fee and taxes to the RTOs concerned. After receiving the applications online, the officials concerned give an approval for registration and the registration number gets allotted online itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-inspection-of-new-vehicles-for-first-time-registration-says-rto/article37170854.ece
26 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Protest pays off||Classes at the Government Lower Primary School at Dubaratatti in Hosanagar taluk of Shivamogga district began with a protest on Monday. The residents of the village demanded that a teacher be posted to the school and they succeeded in getting an order to this effect by evening. The school has 22 students. When students turned up at the school in the morning, there were no teachers to welcome them. Mudugoppa Gram Panchayat president Karunakara Shetty and others had gathered to distribute sweets to students to mark the occasion. However, they were all disappointed. The parents began a dharna demanding that a teacher be posted immediately. The previous teacher retired a few months ago. Since then, the department had deputed Srinivas, a teacher working in the neighbouring village, to visit the school three days a week. By the time he reached the school after reporting to duty at his original place of work, it was already 11 a.m. Karunakara Shetty, GP vice-president Sumati Das, SDMC president Ravi, parents and others joined the protest. They said they would not leave the place until they receive an order appointing a full-time teacher for the school. Within hours, Cluster Resource Person K.R. Ravi reached the school with a copy of an order appointing Srinivasas a full-time teacher in the school. Later, the protesters withdrew their dharna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-pays-off/article37171264.ece
26 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Students, parents happy: Minister||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh joined teachers and officers to welcome students attending classes for the first time after many months at Government Higher Primary School at Malavagoppa in Shivamogga on Monday. The Minister interacted with students and wanted to know if they were happy to attend physical classes. The teachers distributed sweets to students. The Minister lighted a lamp to mark the restart of classes. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said the government took the decision to open schools, following the suggestion of experts. There had been a good response from the students and parents. “The students are happy to attend offline classes. Parents are also happy that schools are being reopened”, he said. Regarding the lack of basic amenities in government schools, he said they would be improved in a phased manner. Later, the Minister visited around 15 schools in Tirthahalli and Hosanagar taluks in the district. Deputy Director of Public Instructions N.M. Ramesh told The Hindu that there had been a good response from the students. The average attendance was around 65 % in the district. “Students are happy and parents are also happy. We are hopeful that the attendance will improve in the coming days”, he said. In Hassan district, around 60% of students attended classes. K.S.Prakash, DDPI, said, “We are happy with the response. Next week, we will start providing mid-day meals for primary school students also.” Many teachers had taken special care to keep the schools clean and decorated to welcome schools on the day. The teaching faculty at Yelagudige in Chikkamagaluru taluk decorated the school with balloons. They distributed sweets and chocolates to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-parents-happy-minister/article37171263.ece
26 October 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||CM straining every nerve to win Hangal seat||In Hangal, which has seen a victory margin of around 6,000 favouring either the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or the Congress in the past three elections, the ruling party, with its recent leadership change, is not taking any chances. That explains the constant presence of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in the bypoll-bound constituency for the past one week. Winning in Hangal, which lies in his home district, is seen as a prestige issue for the Chief Minister. Long shadow For over three decades, one individual had wielded considerable influence over the electorate in the constituency and won a total of six times, despite being part of four different parties. Contesting as an independent candidate, C.M. Udasi snatched the constituency from Manohar Tahsildar of the Congress in 1983. He tasted success five times contesting as a candidate from Janata Party, Janata Dal, Janata Dal (U), and the BJP. From 1978 onwards, Manohar Tahsildar (Congress) won the Hangal seat four times. While Mr. Udasi’s death has necessitated the upcoming byelection, his rival Mr. Tahsildar has made way for a younger leader. Although there are 13 candidates in the fray, the main fight is between BJP candidate Shivaraj Sajjanar, a former MLA from Haveri, and Congress candidate Srinivas Mane, an MLC from Hubballi. As the Janata Dal (Secular) has fielded a minority candidate, Niyaz Sheikh, the Congress has deployed leaders such as U.T. Khader, Saleem Ahmed, and Rizwan Arshad to campaign. All the candidates of the three major parties are “outsiders”, and this being a bypoll a large number of “outsiders” are also seen in action in the run-up to polling. Community calculations The ruling party is relying heavily on leaders of different communities and subsects of the numerically strong Lingayat community to campaign. As in the other bypoll-bound constituency of Sindgi, the BJP has designed its poll campaign based on “caste data” and is focusing more on the Lingayat Panchamasali community, which has sizeable population. As per the BJP’s informally collated data, Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities, followed by Muslims, are big in number here. Efforts are on to woo castes such as Gangamatastha, Marathas, and Kurubas too. The Congress, on the other hand, is hoping that former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s hectic campaign in the constituency along with KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and other leaders from different communities will pull votes. The party is also banking on the anti-incumbency factor and the work done by its candidate, Mr. Mane, during the COVID-19 pandemic. A local BJP worker admitted that efforts were on to nullify this factor. “That is why local BJP leaders have been assigned back office jobs and new faces from outside have been deployed,” he said. With only two days left for public campaigning, both parties are going all out. While there have been no official complaints, one local resident said the constituency has never seen such use of money power, but nobody wants to complain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-straining-every-nerve-to-win-hangal-seat/article37170875.ece
26 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Biopic on Vijay Sankeshwar goes on the floors in Hubballi||A biopic on the life of transport tycoon and former MP Vijay Sankeshwar is being made in Kannada and the muhurat of the film titled Vijayanand was held in Hubballi on Sunday. Film star Ganesh clapped the boards for the first shot of the film on the VRL Groups Head Office premises, with veteran actor Anant Nag playing the role of Mr. Vijay Sankeshwar’s father and Nihal Rajput the role of a young Vijay Sankeshwar. They were joined by actor-director Ravichandran, Vinaya Prasad, Chairman of VRL Group Vijay Sankeshwar, Managing Director Anand Sankeshwar and other cast members of the film. The film is being made under VRL Productions. Addressing presspersons, Mr. Anand Sankeshwar said that he had learnt a great deal from his father and the film was about his struggle in life. It will have the message of how determination and perseverance will take a person to new heights. He said after Vijayanand, a few more films will be produced under the banner of VRL Productions, he said. Director of the film Rishika Sharma said that there is lot to tell about Mr. Vijay Sankeshwar but the film has to be restricted to two-and-a-half hours. “But the plan is to come out with a web series at a later stage,” she said. Mr. Vijay Sankeshwar said that everyone had a hero in him and one should nurture him to succeed in his life. Replying to a query, he said that he had a dream of entering the film field, which he could not fulfil hitherto because of too much of his involvement in business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/biopic-on-vijay-sankeshwar-goes-on-the-floors-in-hubballi/article37171098.ece
26 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Christians take out protest march||Hundreds of Christians led by pastors took out a protest in Hubballi on Monday condemning the attack on members of Christian community in Hubballi and seeking dropping of the proposed Anti-Conversion law. The march began from St. Peter’s Church on Gadag Road and passed through the Lamington Road and reached Kittur Chennamma Circle where they held a demonstration for some time. They then marched to the Mini Vidhana Soudha where they raised slogans against the attack and against the anti-conversion law. Addressing the protesters, president of the Dharwad District Christian Pastors and Leaders’ Alliance for Peace March Sunil Mahade said that without any evidence or proof, baseless allegations were being made about forceful conversions by Christians. “We are Indians and we lead our lives according to the Constitution. Don’t make baseless allegations against us and victimise us,” he said. He also questioned the rationale behind the survey on alleged illegal churches and said that it was nothing but a move aimed at suppressing the community. Pastor Cedric Jacob said that some communal organisations, officials and elected representatives were trying to snub the community. “We are followers of Jesus. We preach his teachings and without disturbing anyone, strive for the welfare of society. We try to transform alcoholics and give them anew lease of life,” he said. Secretary of the Alliance Praveen Nadakattin, HDMC councillors Doreraj Manikuntla, Suvarna Kalkuntla, former councillor Sudha Manikuntla, Congress leader Anilkumar Patil and several pastors were part of the agitation. The protesters held placards condemning the developments and sought action against all the accused. The protestors included representatives from Belagavi, Haveri, Gadag, Mysuru, Mangaluru and office bearers of Telengana Rashtriya Kraista Parishat. Following the protest vehicular movement was affected for some time on the busy Lamington Road and Chennamma Circle. The Christian community members have already filed a complaint with the police on the attack by members of Hindutva outfits, which happened last Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/christians-take-out-protest-march/article37171108.ece
26 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rs. 2,600 cr. to be spent on setting up health centres||Health, Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Monday said that Rs. 2,600 crore will be spent under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Yojana of the Union Government for setting up health centres. Speaking to presspersons after watching the live telecast of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address from Varanasi at KIMS in Hubballi on Monday, he said that the Union Government was spending Rs. 64,000 crore under the scheme and these health centres will be set up in every district in areas inhabited mostly by poor people. The Minister said that under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme, Rs. 2,600 crore will be spent in the next five years of which 60% will be funding by Union Government under the 15th Finance Commission. The balance will be borne by the State Government, he said. He said that the health centres will be set up in 17 medical colleges in the State. The State Government will fully support the Prime Minister’s vision and urban health centres will be set up in urban areas. Emphasising the need for compulsorily taking the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, he said that the pandemic had not disappeared yet and that the only solution is proper vaccination. “When the pandemic disappears completely, only then we can think of living a normal life,” he said. To a query, he clarified that as children have better immunity, no serious problems have been reported even after reopening of colleges and high schools. Now, primary schools have been reopened after taking all precautions. He said that if at all there were any cases of more than 1% infections reported among children, such schools will be closed. Regarding dengue, he said that adequate precautionary measures are being taken and people also need to take steps to prevent stagnation of water around their houses. KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antaratani, administrator Rajashree Jainapur and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-2600-cr-to-be-spent-on-setting-up-health-centres/article37171110.ece
26 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Fairly good response as schools reopen in Kalyana Karnataka||Reopening of classes for students in I to V standards after one-and-a-half years on Monday received a fairly good response from students and parents across the seven districts of the Kalyana Karnataka region. Teachers welcoming students by offering flowers, showering flowers and handing over chocolates and decorated school buildings were common across the region on the first day. As per officials in the office of Additional Commissioner of Public Instruction in Kalaburagi, attendance in both government and private schools in the region was around 50%. “Around 30% of the schools have not updated their attendance on the system. Those who have updated attendance have seen over 50% of attendance,” Additional Commissioner of Public Instruction (Kalaburagi) Nalin Atul told The Hindu . Of the 204 students enrolled children in Class I to Class V (both Kannada ad English medium) in the Government Higher Primary School at Adarsh Nagar in Kalaburagi, 114 students attended classes. In Nali Kali, nine students were present against a total strength of 26. “Parents are eager to send their children to schools. For the last two days, we received several calls from parents enquiring about school reopening,” said in-charge headmistress of the school Madivalamma Patil. Tanushree and Pratam of Class I and Vaishnavi of Class II expressed happiness in attending classes. They hardly remembered anything about schools they attended for LKG and UKG. Matoshree Ramabai Ambedkar Higher Primary School in the Gazipur locality saw poor turnout with six or seven students in each class against a strength of 35-40 each. School’s headmaster Basavaraj S. Gadad said that the reopening of schools has helped children as online schooling was a difficult task for children from poor backgrounds. “Most of the children in our school had no access to online classes as their parents cannot afford an android phone. Though we had poor turnout on the first day, gradually, the strength will increase within a week. We have the contact numbers of parents and we are in touch with them,” Mr. Gadad said. School authorities in some places were found distributing face masks and hand sanitisers to students and sensitising them on the COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. At CPS School in Koppal, a grand welcome was organised for students. The school was decorated with flowers and green plants. The students were screened with forehead thermometers before being allowed inside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fairly-good-response-as-schools-reopen-in-kalyana-karnataka/article37171095.ece
26 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Woman, daughter charred to death in Kalaburagi||A woman set herself and her two children on fire here on Monday. However, one of the children has survived. According to the police, 26-year-old Deeksha doused herself and her two children with some inflammable liquid and set herself and her children on fire. Deeksha and her two-year-old daughter, Sinchana, were charred to death, while her three-year-old son, Dhananjay, suffered severe burns. He has been shifted to hospital. Deeksha, hailing from Kalgi taluk in Kalaburagi, was married to Vasant Sharma of Panchasheela Nagar five years ago. Meanwhile, Deeksha’s parents said that she ended her life due to harassment by her husband and in-laws for dowry. She was not even allowed to visit her parents, according to sources. Deeksha’s parents have registered a case in the Station Bazaar Police Station against her husband and in-laws on the grounds of harassment for dowry. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-daughter-charred-to-death-in-kalaburagi/article37171096.ece
26 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Nine held for trying to cheat in exam||In a major breakthrough, the Kalaburagi Police have arrested nine persons who were trying to cheat in a police recruitment exam by using a microchip and Bluetooth device here on Sunday. On receiving a tip-off, the police raided a lodge and arrested nine candidates appearing for the common written exam for the Civil Police Constable recruitment on Sunday through illegal means. All the nine accused tried to take a written exam equipped with Bluetooth and a specially designed electronic device containing a SIM card. The police have arrested Lingaraj Pujar, Parashuram Hosamani, Maalappa Ankalgi, Peerappa Hosamani, Nagappa Aurad and Rayappa Mallabad of Jewargi taluk and Mahesh Natikar, Rajkumar Natikar and Parashuram from Afzalpur taluk of Kalaburagi district. Along with the electronic devices, the police also recovered Rs. 24,000 in cash from them. During interrogation, the accused revealed that Devendrappa, Prakash Patil and Pramod of a coaching centre in Jewargi helped the candidates cheat during the exam and demanded Rs. 6 lakh from each for the purpose. All the nine have been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-in-judicial-custody-for-malpractice-in-police-exam/article37171094.ece
26 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||University to opt for digital evaluation||Vice-Chancellor of Mangalore University P.S. Yadapadithaya said on Monday that the university will opt for digital evaluation of answer scripts of examinations to be conducted under the new National Education Policy-2020 in the academic year 2021-22. Speaking at a workshop here on NEP-2020 organised by the university for college teachers and students, he said that the university has constituted an examinations reforms committee as the mode of examinations to be conducted for fresh (first year) students of 2021-22 batch will have to be changed. The Vice-Chancellor said that more cluster-level workshops will be conducted for teachers to address their doubts in the implementation of the policy. They will be held in Madikeri, Puttur, Mangaluru and Udupi. The workshops will be conducted for teachers of subject associations. Mr. Yadapadithaya said that if NEP-2020 is to be implemented effectively, it requires a change in mindset. “Get out of your comfort zone to ensure that students are benefited from the policy,” he said. The Vice-Chancellor said that colleges will have to equip themselves in terms of infrastructure and human resource required to implement the policy effectively. In an competitive era, there is no choice but to compete to remain in the fray. Allaying fears that implementation of the NEP will reduce the workload of teachers and will lead to loss of employment, Mr. Yadapadithaya said that it will only increase the workload. Teachers will have to get adapted to the changed circumstances. He said that NEP-2020 should be implemented in such a manner to make higher education locally relevant and globally competitive. Registrar (administration) C.K. Kishor Kumar said that the university has prepared syllabi for 60 subjects. Syllabi will be placed before the respective faculties on Tuesday and they will be discussed in the meeting of the Academic Council of the university on October 27 where they will finally be approved for their implementation.  If NEP-2020 is to be implemented effectively, it requires a change in mindset, says Mangalore University Vice-Chancellor P.S. Yadapadithaya||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/university-to-opt-for-digital-evaluation/article37171360.ece
26 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NEP allows internship in GPs, NGOs, govt. departments: KSHEC||Executive Director of Karnataka State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) Gopalakrishna Joshi said here on Monday that students studying as per the new National Education Policy-2020 in the academic year 2021-22 need not depend on industries for doing internship. Students can do internship in recognised non-governmental organisations (NGOs), gram panchayats and various other government departments, he said. Addressing teachers and students at a workshop on NEP-2020, he said that as the implementation of NEP advances only three types of educational institutions will remain in the future. They are degree awarding institutions, autonomous ones and research-oriented institutions. Mr. Joshi said that NEP is a collection of best practices prevailing in educational institutions all over the world. “Team work and collaboration are the key to making NEP a success,” he said and asked teachers to make higher education relevant to the needs of the country. Mr. Joshi said that teachers should not create agenda for higher education in isolation. They should bring other stakeholders into the fold before setting the agenda. He said that NEP will bring relevance in education. Teachers teach according to the needs of the stakeholders or students. This is the fundamental shift. “Students develop cognitive skills like critical thinking and problem-solving which can be aligned with global standards. They will learn what is happening in the market and they will be more employable,” he added. Dean of Faculty of Science in the university Manjunatha Pattabhi, who also heads the committee that prepared the new regulations for the courses to be introduced as per NEP, explained the challenges before implementing NEP and stressed on the importance of teachers understanding the policy and explaining it to the first batch. Registrar (Evaluation) P.L. Dharma and Nodal Officer for implementing NEP at the university C. Ravindra Achari, who also heads the College Development Council, were present. Later, Vice-Chancellor of the university P.S. Yadapadithaya, Mr. Joshi and others held a meeting with principals, management committee representatives and NEP nodal officers of five autonomous colleges under the university. The principals expressed concern over curriculum freedom, pedagogy, workload, among others, under NEP. However, Mr. Joshi assured them of the university dealing with these problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nep-allows-internship-in-gps-ngos-govt-departments-kshec/article37171358.ece
26 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mass singing of Kannada songs in Udupi district||The Udupi district administration has decided to commemorate this year’s Rajyotsava in a unique way by arranging simultaneous and mass singing of Kannada songs on Thursday. Speaking at a virtual meeting with officers of different departments from Udupi on Monday, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said that popular songs such as Barisu Kannada Dimdimava, Jogada Siri Belakinalli and Huttidare Kannada Nadalli Huttabeku, which magnify the language and the culture, should be rendered simultaneously at all possible locations at 11 a.m. on Thursday. The highlight of the event will be a hundred singers sailing out in boats from the Malpe Fishing Harbour and singing these songs on the high seas. Fishermen too will join these artists, the Deputy Commissioner said. Mr. Rao said that mass singing programmes should be organised at important tourist locations of the district, including Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt, Malpe Beach and Sea Walk, Karkala Jain Basadi and Gommata Betta, Varanga Jain Basadi, Padubidri Blue Flag Beach and Kaup Light House, among other places. The Deputy Commissioner said that the respective departments should ensure mass singing in institutions, organisations and locations coming under their jurisdiction, including Fisheries Department through fishermen, MESCOM through their linesmen, the Industries Department through industries, the Forest Department in forests and tree parks, the Muzrai Department in the popular temples of Kollur, Mandarthi, Kumbhasi (Anegudde) and the Health Department in health facilities. Besides asking higher, pre-university and primary education department officials to ensure students participate in the mass singing programme in their respective institutions, Mr. Rao asked the municipal administration department to arrange programmes in urban local bodies through pourakarmikas. Banks and other financial institutions and private universities too should be roped in. All government staff should participate in the programme and conduct rehearsal two days before the event. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Y. Naveen Bhat, Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu, Kundapur Assistant Commissioner K. Raju and Deputy Conservator of Forests Ashish Reddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mass-singing-of-kannada-songs-in-udupi-district/article37171354.ece
26 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Loan linking programme||Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers and New and Renewable Energy Bhagwanth Khuba will inaugurate Dakshina Kannada district-level loan linking programme at Bantara Bhavan at BC Road on October 30. Participants will also be informed on various schemes of the Union government during the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/loan-linking-programme/article37171353.ece
26 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vehicular movement prohibited on Sharavu Temple Rd.||The police have issued traffic advisory prohibiting vehicular movement on the Sharavu Mahaganapathi Temple Road to facilitate road improvement works till December 23. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar in his order said that vehicular movement has been completely prohibited from Sharavu Vimalesh Junction to K.S. Rao Road Junction. Vehicles from K.B. Katte Junction moving towards K.S. Rao Road via Ganapathi High School Road and Sharavu Road, now would take a right turn to Panje Mangesh Rao Road to reach K.S. Rao Road. Vehicles from K.S. Rao Road, which hitherto used P.M. Rao Road to reach Ganapathi High School Road, cannot take a right turn at K.S. Rao Road; they have now to move via Hampanakatte Junction, the Police Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vehicular-movement-prohibited-on-sharavu-temple-rd/article37171355.ece
26 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||10-year-old girl sexually harassed||A minor girl was allegedly sexually harassed on Sunday in Puttur taluk by a man to whom she had gone to deliver beedis rolled in her house. According to Puttur Rural Police, the victim had gone to deliver beedis to the beedi branch of Adam Kunhi in Paduvannoor village on Sunday morning. Adam Kunhi reportedly touched the girl inappropriately. Complaint registered Based on a complaint from the girl’s father, the police registered a case under 354 (A) of Indian Penal Code, Section 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. and Section 3 (1)(W)(I) of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-year-old-girl-sexually-harassed/article37171361.ece
26 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Technology park to come up on KSOU premises in Mysuru||A technology park is expected to come up on a premises belonging to Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) in Mysuru. Participating in the “The Big Tech Show” organised in Mysuru on Monday ahead of the upcoming Bengaluru Tech Summit 2021, Minister for Information Technology and Bio Technology and Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayana said the government was ready to take forward a proposal in this regard. Later, the Minister met KSOU Vice-Chancellor Vidyashankar S. and discussed the proposal. Mr. Narayan also said that a Mysuru Experience Centre, which gives a feel of the tech ecosystem of the city, will be established at the Dasara Exhibition Centre at Doddakere Maidan. He hoped that the city leverages its technological ecosystem and becomes not only a cyber security hub of the country, but also attract at least 15 Global Capability Centres (GCC) to set up their operations in Mysuru under the “Spoke-shore strategy”. Mr. Narayan, sharing experiences from his recent visit to Dubai World Expo, said investors were ready to invest in Karnataka. But, he felt that the State should grow “Beyond Bengaluru” to absorb the investment. Though start-ups in the State were attracting huge investments, most was coming from abroad. Mr. Narayan claimed that 90 per cent of investment for startups in the State was coming from abroad and domestic investors were contributing only 10 per cent. Land for airport Mr. Narayan assured the industry in Mysuru that the land required for expanding the airport at Mandakalli near here will be provided soon. He said he discussed the matter with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who had responded positively to the request. Common facility centre E.V. Ramana Reddy, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of IT and BT, while addressing the gathering announced that the Central Government had sanctioned Rs. 45 crore towards setting up a Common Facility Centre (CFC) in Mysuru. It will help the Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) industry in Mysuru. “The Big Tech Show” also witnessed inking of 3 MoUs. One MoU between Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM), a State Government initiative to promote digital economy, and Bherunda Foundation seeks to attract digital economy investment into Mysuru and create employment opportunities. Another pact between KDEM and Information Sharing and Analysis Centre (ISAC) seeks to set up cyber ranges in key locations to make Karnataka the most favoured engineering and research and development destination. Taara The third MoU between Government of Karnataka and VMware will be to empower 1,500 women with the skills required to return to their technology careers. The programme called VMinclusion Taara offers upskilling and certification courses free of cost to women. “The objective is to help bridge the technology gap in women on career break by providing free training in the latest digital technologies from VMware”, said a statement. Women would be provided with basic, intermediate and advanced certification. There are no pre-requisites for enrolling. Women from different backgrounds and industry can apply for the programme. The candidate should be an Indian citizen with a 10 plus 2 qualification and should have been unemployed for a period of six months or more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/technology-park-to-come-up-on-ksou-premises-in-mysuru/article37171268.ece
26 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||58.17% children turn up at schools in Mysuru on day one||Lower primary schools across Mysuru district reopened on Monday. They recorded 58.17 percent attendance. However, some private schools are reopening only after Deepavali in November as they have sought time to make arrangements. Classes for students of standard 1 to V are restarting after a gap of nearly 19 months. Soon after the government’s decision on physical classes, the schools, especially those run by the government, had started preparations with the cleaning of classrooms and sanitization of the premises as per the recommended SOPs. As it was noticed that children were lagging behind in academics in the absence of classroom teaching for a long time, the experts had recommended reopening of schools in stages, taking all necessary precautions for restoring normalcy in learning. The children, especially from the villages, had faced hurdles in accessing online teaching, especially due to connectivity issues and lack of devices. The schools will take up revision classes before taking up actual syllabus to improve the confidence in children. Deputy Director of Public Instruction Ramachandra Raje Urs, who visited various primary schools in Mysuru district, told The Hindu that the reopening was smooth. Most schools had a festive ambience with teachers and staff decorating the premises to greet the children, who also looked very enthusiastic. Some children had worn new clothes to celebrate the moment. Parents too looked happy. Out of 1,98,296 children studying in classes 1 to 5, a total of 1,15,351 – 58.17 per cent - attended the classes on day one. The teachers have checked consent letters from parents and the children were sensitised about safety precautions that are necessary to be complied with. Mr. Urs said the midday meals for children of classes 1 to 5 will be commencing from November 2. As most schools had distributed groceries to the children as per the recommended quantity prior to the reopening, a decision was taken to recommence the meals’ scheme in November. However, meals were being served to the children studying in class 6 to 10, he said, adding that 77.6 percent of children of this group were attending the classes since their resumption. “We hope to see rise in attendance of children of classes 1 to 5 in the days ahead.” The classes will run for half-a-day from October 25 to 30. From November 2, there will be full-day classes, along with midday meals. Schools for class 1 to 5 also reopened in Kodagu, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts. In Kodagu, the children were affectionately greeted by their teachers. “We were missing the children. We are also equally happy, like the children, with the reopening of schools. Only two students will sit in each bench and the COVID-19 Appropriate Behaviour will be complied with,” said teacher Vatsala in Madikeri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5817-children-turn-up-at-schools-in-mysuru-on-day-one/article37171270.ece
26 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rain wreaks havoc in Mysuru; man washed away||Heavy rains continued to pound Mysuru after a brief lull. The downpour on Sunday evening left several houses flooded and a 60-year-old man was washed away in the strong current after accidentally falling into a storm-water drain. The deceased has been identified as Chandre Gowda of Vinaya Marga in Siddharthanagar. He is said to have slipped into the overflowing storm-water drain close to his house and was swept away. His family members informed the authorities who made a futile bid to locate him. However, his body was fished out from the Karanji Lake on Monday. The continuous rains have exposed the Mysuru City Corporation’s failure in cleaning up the clogged drains as the locals claimed that clogged drains were flooding their houses. Encroachments of storm-water drains were hampering the smooth flow of rainwater, and the blocks were causing flooding. Some localities such as Police Layout third stage near the Outer Ring Road were flooded with knee-deep water flowing on the roads, causing disruption in vehicle movement. The overflowing water from Thippayyana lake near the layout and the blockage of storm-water drains flooded the area. The same was the case at Bogadi, near the ORR junction, with rainwater flooding the road causing disruption in the movement of vehicles. A small portion of the wall of Sri Pancha Gavi Mutt at the foot of Chamundi Hills collapsed following heavy rains on Sunday night. The overflowing storm-water drain also flooded parts of Ananda Nagar, located next to the ring road. Several houses located in the low-lying areas of Udayagiri were flooded after the rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-wreaks-havoc-in-mysuru-man-washed-away/article37171272.ece
26 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||HDK finds fault with Siddaramaiah’s ‘caste-wise’ meetings convened in Sindgi||JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday took issue with Congress leader and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for convening ‘caste-wise’ meetings in poll-bound Sindgi in North Karnataka. Speaking to reporters after calling on Suttur Mutt Seer Sri Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami in Mysuru, Mr. Kumaraswamy sought to counter the Congress leader’s allegations against the JD(S) as a ‘casteist’ party by accusing him of holding ‘caste-wise’ meetings in Sindgi. He raised questions over Mr. Siddaramaiah’s secular credentials, accusing him of only paying lip service to secularism while being casteist in practice. On the one side, Mr. Siddaramaiah propagates a casteless society, but at the same time he convenes meetings of different castes, the JD(S) leader said before accusing the Congress leader of practising caste politics for the sake of securing votes in elections. Referring to another remark made by Mr. Siddaramaiah on farming, Mr. Kumaraswamy said even he has ploughed land and laboured in the fields. He asked the Congress leader to visit his farm in Bidadi and see for himself the sheep he had reared. Mr. Siddaramaiah was unable to find fault in his administration and the welfare measures he had undertaken during his tenure as CM. Hence, the Congress leader had stooped to the level of making personal allegations against him, Mr. Kumaraswamy said. Mr. Kumaraswamy said he will be returning to Sindgi on Monday night and camp in the poll-bound constituency for another two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-finds-fault-with-siddaramaiahs-caste-wise-meetings-convened-in-sindgi/article37171274.ece
26 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Electronics industry poised for huge growth’||Union Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology (IT) Rajeev Chandrasekhar has said the country’s electronics production industry is poised to grow from the present $72 billion to $300 billion by 2025. Delivering a virtual address at ‘The Big Tech Show’ organised here on Monday ahead of the upcoming Bengaluru Tech Summit-2021, he said electronics, which was the second largest globally traded commodity at 1.5 trillion annually, had tremendous opportunity in India. Already, the country’s electronics industry had grown three times between 2014 and 2020. “Our ambition is to grow from $72 billion dollars of electronic production this year to about $300 billion by 2025,” he said. In the post-COVID-19 world, the opportunities for technology and electronics were significantly more than pre-COVID-19. “There is a move globally to seek out, develop, build and rely on trusted global value chains for technology services and electronic products,” he said. Also, in terms of expanding India’s strategic abilities, Mr. Chandrasekhar said the country was now a leader in the technology of Internet and its platforms. “We have our eyes firmly set on areas like cyber security, quantum computing, artificial intelligence, blockchain and other emerging technologies of the future,” he said. Watching trends The Minister said India was always looking at the new emerging trends and opportunities and the country was poised to be a digital economy that could be a trillion dollar or more in the coming years. The Minister also expressed confidence that Karnataka would achieve its target of becoming a $300 billion digital economy in the next five years. Though there are some challenges in the path of growth of digital economy, they were surmountable, he said.  He also emphasised the need to ensure that the phenomenon of digital growth did not exclude any Kannadiga or any Indian. “The opportunities should not be restricted to Bengaluru, Pune, Hyderabad, Chennai, and Gurugram. They should be available to engineers, entrepreneurs and everybody in the tier 2 and tier 3 cities,” he said. Mr. Chandrasekhar, who appreciated the idea behind ‘Beyond Bengaluru’ to enable the growth of IT and ITES industry in tier 2 and tier 3 cities across the State, said it would be prudent for companies in Tier 1 cities to move some of their operations to a tier 2 city “either through a combination of real movement of facilities and people or a combination of virtual tech hub concept”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/electronics-industry-poised-for-huge-growth/article37170879.ece
26 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Priority for irrigation projects’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is expected to lay the foundation for the Rs. 80 crore Nugu lift irrigation project and the guest house project with 75 rooms besides initiating the work of crafting a silver chariot at Srikanteshwaraswamy Temple in Nanjangu, in December. Nanjangud MLA B. Harshavardhan said a Detailed Project Report has been prepared on the proposal to fill all tanks in Kavalande area. The cost would be around Rs. 70 crore. “I and V. Srinivas Prasad, MP, Chamarajnagar, had met the CM during the Dasara festivities in Mysuru. He reacted positively to our request for the project. We are hopeful of getting administrative approval,” the MLA said, after laying the foundation stone for reviving the multi-village drinking water supply scheme of the Department of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation recently. This Rs. 9-crore project would supply water to Doddakavalande and 55 other villages. It is expected to be completed in the next 8 months. “Around Rs. 300 crore has been spent on irrigation works so far,” he claimed. In a release here, he said, during his tours at the time of elections, he used to hear from villagers about lack of drinking water. Mr. Harshavardhan said he proposed to complete all development works in the next one-and-a-half years. Others who spoke on the occasion pointed out that during the B.S. Yediyurappa government in 2008, the foundation stone was laid for the drinking water project. However, the project did not make any headway. “The BJP government has given impetus to the drinking water works.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/priority-for-irrigation-projects/article37171100.ece
26 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Virtual hackathon||Yi ‘InnovIndia: 2.0’ is the second edition of virtual hackathon conducted with the objective of providing an opportunity for students to build prototypes / App-based solutions that drive social impact and influence business transactions. The main aim is to tackle some of the challenges related to the current social or business problems. Yi Mysuru, an arm of CII, said that it was encouraging engineering, science and business management background student innovators to design and develop a prototype/app for social or business problems using coding or resources of their choice. The set of problem statements will be curated and shared by Yi Mysuru. The last date for registration ended on October 24 and the last date for submission of preliminary ideas is October 26. The announcement of the finalists will be made on October 28 and the finals will be held on October 29 and 30. For more details reach out to: yi.mysuru@cii.in /7019967945.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/virtual-hackathon/article37171266.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Electronics industry poised for huge growth’||The Minister also expressed confidence that Karnataka would achieve its target of becoming a $300 billion digital economy in the next five years. Though there are some challenges in the path of growth of digital economy, they were surmountable. He also emphasised the need to ensure that digital growth did not exclude any Kannadiga or any Indian. “The opportunities should not be restricted to Bengaluru, Pune, Hyderabad, Chennai, and Gurugram. They should be available to entrepreneurs and everybody in tier-2 and tier-3 cities.” B.V. Naidu, chairman of Karnataka Digital Economy Mission; Sanjeev Gupta, managing director and CEO of Lahari; Sanjay Srinivas Murthy, COO of Nous Infosystems; Minister for IT and BT Ashwath Narayan; and Additional Chief Secretary, Department of IT and BT, E.V. Ramana Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/electronics-industry-poised-for-huge-growth/article37171265.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Finally, chalk and board teaching replaces screens||S. Sathyamurthy, president, Karnataka Unaided School Managements’ Association, said as many students were attending classes for the first time, they took time to understand the dos and dont’s in the school. “We wanted students to get used to the physical classes and we did not teach lessons. Teachers in fact showed them the school campus and told them how physical classes would pan out,” he said. Aditi Kalabavi, a Class II student from St Joseph’s School in Belagavi, seemed visibly excited. “I am very happy as I will be meeting many friends in school. I am excited as there would be games period,” she said. On the other hand, K. Charvi, a student of Class II in a private school in Hassan, was nervous on the first day. She expected her parents to be around during her classes. However, she enjoyed the company of her classmates during lunchtime. “I met my classmates for the first time. We played together. I will attend classes regularly,” she said. Though parents and teachers had repeatedly instructed students to maintain a physical distance from classmates and wear a mask, these rules were hardly followed as the classes continued. Teachers had the tough task of making students follow the restrictions. Pruhtvik, a Class I student, said the mask was irritating him. “I was not wearing a mask for online classes. Now I have to. But, there are many friends here,” he said. Pranav Ainapur was looking forward to going to school. However, the Class V student in Belagavi was forced to skip school on Monday for a different reason: his old uniform did not fit as he has grown taller in two years. “We did not prepare for it. In the morning, when he tried to wear it, we realised it did not fit. We went out to buy a shirt and trousers for him in the afternoon. He will go to school tomorrow,” said Savani Ainapur, his mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/finally-chalk-and-board-teaching-replaces-screens/article37170857.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Off to Ayodhya||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/off-to-ayodhya/article37170881.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||An energetic performance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/an-energetic-performance/article37171363.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Back to school||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/back-to-school/article37171365.ece
26 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Police in the dark over missing CPI(M) man||The police investigation to trace K. Sajeevan, a Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI (M)] branch committee member from Thottappally, who went missing under mysterious circumstances almost a month ago, has failed to make any breakthrough so far. Sajeevan, 56, has been missing since September 29. The Ambalappuzha police earlier this month issued a lookout notice for the missing person. The investigation in the case is being carried out by a 10-member team led by Ambalappuzha circle inspector Dhwijesh S. The investigators have so far questioned several people including some CPI (M) local leaders. “The investigation is on, but we are yet to get any concrete lead in the case,” Mr. Dhwijesh said. Earlier, Sajeevan’s family had filed a missing complaint to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the local police. Scientific probe H. Salam, MLA, has written to the Chief Minister and State Police Chief Anil Kant urging to conduct a scientific investigation to find him. Sajeevan, a fisherman, was last seen at Thottappally around noon on September 29. According to his family members, he went to sea for fishing at 5 a.m. and returned to the Thottappally harbour at 11 a.m. Later, people saw him alighting from an autorickshaw at Thottappally around noon, before he went missing. A member of the CPI (M) Poothoppu branch committee, Sajeevan was to attend the branch committee conference of the party as a delegate on September 30. According to members of the Karimanal Ghanana Virudha Ekopana Samithi, which is on a protest path against the mineral sand-mining at Thottappally, Sajeevan had actively participated in the agitations defying the party diktat. The samithi has already demanded the man-missing case be handed over to the Crime Branch. “The ongoing police investigation is a farce. We have decided to form an action council and intensify protest demanding a proper probe in the case,” said S. Suresh Kumar, chairman of the samithi.  The investigation in the case is being carried out by a 10-member team||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-in-the-dark-over-missing-cpim-man/article37171238.ece
26 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Call for rescheduling train timings||A.M. Ariff, MP, has urged the Railways to immediately reschedule the timings of passenger trains, which have already resumed services, along with resuming the remaining services on the Kayamkulam-Ernakulam section. In letters written to Suneet Sharma, chairman and chief executive officer, Railway Board and John Thomas general manager, Southern Railway, Mr. Ariff observed that life was almost back to normal following the COVID-19 pandemic and there was no rationale for the Railways to run special trains at express fares. He called the Railways to reschedule the Ernakulam Junction-Alappuzha train (06449) for the convenience of daily commuters. “The unreserved express special train is now scheduled to depart from Ernakulam at 7.20 a.m. to reach Alappuzha at 9 a.m., with only four stops. As these timings are not convenient for the daily commuters, namely public and private sector employees working in Alappuzha, only a handful of people are travelling in it. Urgent action shall be taken to reschedule the train to start at 7.50 a.m. from Ernakulam as in the pre-COVID-19 scenario,” Mr. Ariff said. He also demanded immediate resumption of two passenger services—Kayamkulam Junction- Ernakulam Junction (8.40 a.m.) and Ernakulam Junction-Kollam Junction (6 p.m.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-rescheduling-train-timings/article37171235.ece
26 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Maiden data bank on sandalwood trees soon||For the first time, the Forest Department is preparing a data bank on sandalwood trees in private land and those owned by institutions and government departments. A geo-tag will be prepared and it will help in identifying a particular tree, its location, and physical details, and it will be digitised to keep the data on the records of forest and revenue departments. Theft The data bank is being prepared in the wake of an increased number of sandalwood theft from private land. At present, the Forest Department has no data on the sandalwood trees in private land, though they are geo-tagged in Marayur Sandalwood Division and Chinnar Wildlife Sanctuary, the main areas of sandalwood directly under the Forest Department. Marayur Divisional Forest Officer B. Renjith said that the work on geo-tagging the sandalwood in private land would begin next week. A 20- member students team from the College of Forestry under Kerala Agriculture University would do the work. The data collected including the width and height of each tree would be digitised and updated every five years, he said adding that notices were already given to private individuals asking for the number of trees under their ownership. Marayur forest range officer M.G. Vinodkumar said that though the private individuals were the owners of sandalwood trees on their land, in protecting them, they lagged behind resulting in sandalwood thefts. “The price for sandalwood is given to the owners of private land when put in the auction. Only a minor amount is deducted as handling charges,” he said. The geo-tagging will help in identifying a particular tree, easy accessibility to the location its monetary value and other details. In Anchunadu valley including Marayur, there are a number of sandalwood trees in private land. It is also alleged that farmers often destroy sandalwood at early ages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maiden-data-bank-on-sandalwood-trees-soon/article37171166.ece
26 October 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Collector orders clean-up drive to prevent infectious diseases||Kasaragod District Collector Bhandari Swagat Ranveerchand said on Monday that all the ward level sanitation committees in the district should meet within a week to take measures to prevent the spread of infectious diseases such as dengue and leptospirosis following heavy rain. The Collector, addressing a meeting of the District Level Committee on Infectious Disease Control and Prevention, decided to convene a follow-up meeting with the participation of various departments in the local bodies. A meeting of stakeholders would also be convened to clean up public spaces and public institutions under the Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. The support of youth clubs would also be ensured for clean-up activities, the Collector said. As microfilaria was on the rise among migrant workers, the Department of Health has decided to conduct medical camps in conjunction with the Labour Office. For this, the District Medical Office and the District Labour Office would organize night medical camps. It was also decided to carry out rat and mosquito eradication activities to prevent the spread of leptospirosis and dengue fever. Streams, canals, and reservoirs would be inspected to prevent stagnation of water. Plans would be implemented to ensure a waste-free neighbourhood environment. Action would be taken against those who dump waste in public water bodies or waterways. The Collector said that incidents of epidemics in 2021 had come down drastically as compared to the previous years and efforts should be made to continue this. During the meeting, malaria control officer Dr. V. Suresan introduced the subject. Special DySP Sudhakaran, District Medical Officer (Health) E. Mohanan and various department heads were present||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-orders-clean-up-drive-to-prevent-infectious-diseases/article37171164.ece
26 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Row over STP project site reaches HC||The dispute over the site of the proposed sewage treatment plant (STP) at West Kochi has resulted in litigation with a local resident moving the Kerala High Court against the project. The court has posted the case for Tuesday. C.A. Faisal, a resident of West Kochi and the secretary of the managing committee of a mosque in the region, has approached the court against the decision of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) to set up the plant for the Kochi Corporation at Pathayathodu in Kalvathy area. The plant with an installed capacity of 6.5-million-litre-per-day has been proposed on a 45-cent holding near the Kalvathy canal. The Rs. 166-crore plant will cater to Divisions 1 to 5 of the Kochi Corporation. The authorities plan to complete the work in two years. The petitioner contended that the Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO), Fort Kochi, had earlier issued a stop memo against the attempts of the Corporation to dump waste in Pathayathodu. There was public resistance to the attempts of the civic body. The RDO had also issued specific communication to the Corporation not to carry out any construction activities there, he submitted. Despite the prohibition order, the Corporation decided to implement the sanitation programme. The construction of the project was against the interest of the general public. The area had witnessed large-scale protests against the project, he submitted. Ignoring the public protest, the petitioner submitted, the Corporation was moving ahead with the project with the support of the police. Soil test was also carried out at the site, stated the petition. Kalvathy canal The petitioner further submitted that the RDO had not acted on his petition to enforce the earlier order restraining the Corporation from making changes to the original stretch of the canal and to implement the directions to remove waste and obstruction from the canal to ensure the free flow of water. The original extent of the canal, which was used by the people of West Kochi for transportation, was 45 cents. The area where the canal is located has been marked as kulam (pond) in the Basic Tax Register. If the canal is removed for the project, it will lead to flooding in nearby areas and result in loss of life and property. The implementation of the project in the thickly populated area would lead to the outbreak of infectious diseases, he apprehended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-stp-project-site-reaches-hc/article37171186.ece
26 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CB records statements of top cops in Monson case||The Crime Branch (CB) probing the cases against alleged fraudster and self-styled ‘antiquities dealer’ Monson Mavunkal has recorded the statements of senior police officers, including former State Police Chief (SPC) Loknath Behera. Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) Manoj Abraham and Inspector General of Police Gokulath Lakshmana were the other top-ranking officers whose statements were recorded. This was in the wake of the High Court’s recent scathing remarks on Monson’s alleged connections with senior police officers, while hearing a petition by his former driver Aji Nettoor about police harassment. CB ADGP S. Sreejith and Superintendent of Police M.J. Sojan recorded the statements. The CB reportedly handed a questionnaire to Mr. Behera who returned it on Friday. The statements of Mr. Abraham and Mr. Lakshmana were recorded in Thiruvananthapuram last week. Affidavit sought Earlier, the High Court had directed the State Police Chief to file an affidavit even as it wondered whether the CB probe would be effective in the wake of allegations linking Monson with senior police officers. The police are expected to file the report with the High Court at the next hearing of the case. The images of Mr. Behera and Mr. Abraham posing with the ‘antiquities’ at Monson’s house had gone viral on social media shortly after his arrest. Mr. Lakshmana is accused of intervening in favour of Monson in a case in Cherthala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-records-statements-of-top-cops-in-monson-case/article37171198.ece
26 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Action panel demands 4-lane road beneath metro extension||Condemning what the Metro Rail Road Action Committee termed as a “step-motherly treatment” in not readying a four-lane road beneath the Kochi Metro’s SN Junction-Thripunithura extension, a dharna would be organised at the site where the metro’s terminal station has been envisaged near the Thripunithura railway station, on the evening of November 1. The action committee has been floated under the banner of Thripunithura Rajanagari Union of Residents’ Associations (TRURA), which has been spearheading the demand for adequate road connectivity beyond SN Junction till the terminal station, beneath the metro viaduct. The Ernakulam MP, Hibi Eden, would inaugurate the dharna, said K. Balachandran, its convenor. “There are four or six-lane roads beneath rest of the metro corridor from Aluva to SN Junction. Leave alone ready land for a four-lane road, KMRL has failed to provide road connectivity to the terminal station from Hill Palace Road that is located 300 metres from the station. Moreover, the project must be implemented on the basis of its social-impact assessment (SIA) report, after taking into account demands raised by residents of the area. The prime demand is to build a proper road beneath the metro viaduct, from SN Junction, as was done in rest of the corridor”. The SIA spoke of the need for adequate road connectivity within 1 km of the terminal station and to ready footpaths on existing roads. This was crucial since the station would be a stone’s throw away from Thripunithura railway station (and a bus stand proposed nearby). Inadequate road connectivity would result in chaos on the sole road that led to the railway station from Hill Palace Road, he said. Responding to this, KMRL sources said a road had been planned beneath the metro corridor, up to the Thripunuithura terminal station. It would, in all probability, have 5.50 metres width on each side of the metro pillars, through which two lanes of light vehicles can travel side by side. A wider road could be realised only if the Thripunithura Municipality, which had earlier agreed for a four-lane road, pooled in with help, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-panel-demands-4-lane-road-beneath-metro-extension/article37171185.ece
26 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Gold merchants to stage protest in capital tomorrow||The All Kerala Gold and Silver Merchants’ Association said here on Monday that its members would stage a protest in front of the Secretariat on Wednesday against what the merchants alleged was “persecution” by officials of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Department, resulting in the disruption of normal commercial activities. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan would inaugurate the protest, said S. Abdul Nasar, treasurer of the association. He said that constant “harassment” by GST officials was forcing the gold merchants to openly protest. GST officials had been found camping in front of gold outlets across the State, he alleged. He said that customers were being checked for their purchases while work at gold workshops was disrupted constantly. Even gold being moved from workshops to hallmarking units were being seized by the officials, he alleged. Charge denied However, GST Department sources denied the allegations. While small units and processors were not under scrutiny, only those consignments without proper documentation were being subjected to inspections and penalty. There was no question of disrupting the business under any circumstances, they said. Mr. Nasar alleged that in recent incidents, in places such as Thrissur, Alappuzha, and Karunagappally, gold merchants and workers were intercepted by GST officials. The gold merchants said that units selling gold ornaments up to Rs. 40 lakh a year were exempt from the purview of the GST. However, even these units were being harassed, he alleged. “There is no justification in demanding GST registration from establishments in the category,” he said. According to the gold merchants, the total taxes paid by the gold business in the State was Rs. 853 crore during the 2020-21 fiscal. GST Department sources said that the income for the State from taxes amounted to Rs. 475 crore under the GST arrangement. The merchants are of the opinion that efforts should be made by the GST department to convince the merchants to go in for GST registration. Around 7,000 gold merchants in the State have GST registration out of a total of 15,000 jewellers across the State. There were five lakh workers involved in gold processing, designing, and sales directly and eight lakh families depended on the sector for their livelihood. One of the largest hubs of gold processing is Thrissur, where there are around 5,000 processors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-traders-to-protest-in-capital/article37171171.ece
26 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police step up night vigil||The city police have intensified night patrolling and enhanced the number of patrolling parties deployed across all major junctions. Staring Monday night, the police have deployed 23 control room vehicles and 23 station mobile and Romeo patrolling parties for night patrolling. Deputy Police Commissioner (Law & Order) Aishwarya Dongre said that women in distress may either approach the police through the Nirbhaya mobile app or the helpline number 112. Stern action would be taken against overspeeding, illegal parking, and traffic violations in general.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-step-up-night-vigil/article37171190.ece
26 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police expand probe into forged certificates case||A team of senior police officers led by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthick will investigate the incident in which four persons bound for the United Kingdom on student visa through the Cochin International Airport were deboarded on Saturday on charge of holding forged certificates. Muhammed Hashir, 22, and Shahin, 22, residents of Pattambi, Dino, 19, of Vazhakkulam, and Rahana Begum, 24, of Athanikkal, were deboarded by the emigration wing at the airport and handed over to the police. Hashir was found to have forged certificates of Plus Two and B.Com, which he secured reportedly for Rs. 90,000. Shahin also had forged Plus Two and degree certificates, which were allegedly procured for Rs. 50,000. Dino, who had not cleared Plus Two, had allegedly secured the forged Plus Two certificate for Rs. 30,000. Rahana was allegedly in possession of a fake BBA certificate procured for Rs. 40,000. All the certificates were forged in the name of educational institutions outside Kerala. They were reportedly on their way to the U.K. for doing courses on student visa. “The ones who forged the certificates will be nabbed soon. We have expanded the probe far and wide. We are exploring the possibility of more people having secured such forged certificates,” said Mr. Karthick.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-expand-probe-into-forged-certificates-case/article37171191.ece
26 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC dismisses plea against Govt. order on vaccine||The Kerala High Court has dismissed a writ petition challenging an order of the State Government allowing entry to educational institutions and hostels only for those school students, teachers, and other staff members who have taken two doses of COVID vaccine or one dose of the vaccine before two weeks and those who have recovered from the infection within the previous 90 days. Dismissing the petition filed by some students from Malappuram and Ernakulam, Justice P.B Suresh Kumar observed that it was trite law that larger public interest of the community should give way to individual apprehension of violation of human rights and right to life guaranteed under Article 21. The court added that where there was a clash of two fundamental rights, the right which would advance public morality or public interest alone be enforced through the process of court. Right to life The petitioners, students, contended that vaccine was not compulsory and the right to life guaranteed to them under Article 21 of the Constitution, especially the right to privacy, gave them freedom to abstain from taking the vaccine. Hence, the order insisting on vaccination was unconstitutional. The court also observed that the right of individuals did not in any manner affect the authority of the executive to take measures to restore normalcy to life in times of pandemic, and merely for the reason that the same gives certain advantages to the vaccinated, such measures cannot be challenged as discriminatory by the unvaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-dismisses-plea-against-govt-order-on-vaccine/article37171195.ece
26 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Certification||The Ernakulam Medical Centre (EMC) has qualified for the MBFHI (Mother and Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative) certification from the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/certification/article37171187.ece
26 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||18 absconding accused arrested||The city police have arrested 18 persons, who were on the run for years in various long-pending cases. The arrests were made as part of a special drive and surveillance held at the direction of Deputy Police Commissioner (Law and Order) Aishwarya Dongre. Those arrested were from four sub divisions under the Kochi City Police Commissionerate. Investigations are being held to verify whether they had committed crimes in other districts. The arrested were produced in court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/18-absconding-accused-arrested/article37171188.ece
26 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KSRTC chief engineer suspended||The KSRTC has suspended from service the head of its civil engineering wing and chief engineer, R. Indu, in the wake of grave irregularities that were detected in the construction of the garage-cum-administrative office near the Ernakulam bus depot, and also in the construction of the bus depot complexes at Harippad, Thodupuzha, Kannur, Chengannur, and Muvattupuzha, said a press release issued by the office of Transport Minister Antony Raju. The garage near the Ernakulam bus depot, for which then Ernakulam MLA Hibi Eden, allotted Rs. 2 crore from his constituency fund, had to be abandoned after cracks were detected all through the structure before it was commissioned. Ms. Indu has also been charged with going out of the way to support contractors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-chief-engineer-suspended/article37171189.ece
26 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Attack on churches: one held||The Oonukal police on Monday took into custody a man accused of damaging churches and chapels in various places. The accused, identified as Sijo aka Manoj, 40, of Neriamangalam, was reportedly mentally unstable. The places of worship in multiple places had come under attack last week. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik had formed a special squad to probe the case. The squad had found that the accused used to roam around during nights and had damaged the properties over a number of days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-damaging-churches/article37171192.ece
26 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ensure safety of children in schools: panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights held a meeting on Monday to discuss safety and security of children at schools. Schools are set to reopen on November 1. The meeting directed local bodies to fell trees that pose a threat to school campuses. Fitness certificates for school buses should be ensured. The commission will also recommend to the government to grant tax waiver to school buses. “The commission will take action based on grassroots-level recommendations for the safety of children,” said K. Nazir, a commission member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-safety-of-children-in-schools-panel/article37171214.ece
26 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Directive on admissions for persons with disabilities||The State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities has directed the Director General of General Education to admit all differently abled students with benchmark disability to higher secondary courses in their neighbourhood schools as per her/his choice provided they have furnished proper applications as per the notifications. State Commissioner S.H. Panchapakesan also told the director recently to issue instructions to all those involved in the admission process not to raise flimsy and unsustainable objections/contentions contrary to the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act. Rectification window The Commissioner also ordered that the parents of qualified students be allowed to rectify defects, if any, in the applications for admission before the additional allotment of seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directive-on-admissions-for-persons-with-disabilities/article37171215.ece
26 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Appeal by Kunju adjourned||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday adjourned to Wednesday hearing on an appeal filed by former PWD Minister Ebrahim Kunju challenging a single judge's directive to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to investigate his role in the money laundering case registered in connection with the deposit of Rs. 10 crores in the bank account of Chandrika daily. According to the petitioner, he was not heard before passing the directive by the single judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appeal-by-kunju-adjourned/article37171196.ece
26 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||SHRC flags pollution in Meenachil||Amidst concerns over the rising presence of faecal waste in the water that flows through the Meenachilar—the lifeline of Kottayam—the Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has intervened in the issue and sought urgent action from the authorities in this regard. Considering a petition filed by a Pala native, commission chairman (Rtd) Justice Antony Dominic directed the secretary of the local self-government department, managing director of the Kerala Water Authority, the district medical officers, and the district environmental engineer of the State Pollution Control Board, to submit detailed reports on the actions to be taken in this regard. The reports should be submitted by November 25. A recent study, carried out by the Tropical Institute of Ecological Sciences, confirmed the presence of faecal coliform bacteria in the waterbody that are several times more than the permissible levels. The report, which was based on a comparative analysis of its volume in the river before and after the outbreak of COVID-19, had also found that water samples collected from locations close to Pala, Erattupetta and Kottayam towns, were not fit for human consumption. The study, carried out at 10 locations starting from the river’s origin at Adukkam to Illikkal in the downstream, found the bacteria’s presence in all samples. No industrial units With no major industrial units present on the river banks, the report also sought to attribute the bacteria’s presence to the discharge of sewage from the human settlements. The river, which courses down the heart of Kottayam, serves as the source to as many as 50 drinking water projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-flags-pollution-in-meenachil/article37171241.ece
26 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Father of child abuse victim found dead||In a shocking incident, father of a 10-year-old child sex abuse victim allegedly committed suicide on Monday. The man, a native of Kurichy near here, was found hanging from the ceiling inside his residence in the morning. Preliminary investigations suggested that the person had been under severe duress after the abuse episode had come to light. The victim’s relatives alleged that person had been widely derided by the locals with accusations of attempting to broker a deal with the person who had alleged abused his daughter. The other day, local police arrested a 74-year-old man in connection with the alleged abuse. The abuse came to light after the victim’s parents had noticed abrupt changes in the girl’s behaviour and subjected her to counselling. (Suicide prevention number: 1056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/father-of-child-abuse-victim-found-dead/article37171242.ece
26 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Reconstruction of damaged river embankments yet to begin||The reconstruction of the damaged embankments of the district’s major rivers and their subsidiaries is yet to begin due to the alleged delay in sanctioning financial aid from the river management fund. Many houses located closer to such vulnerable embankments are facing huge safety threat from torrential rain and frequent flash floods. The worst-hit are those who live closer to the Poonoor river in Poolakkandi area where around 40 families reside. According to local residents, the caving in of land is still continuing in many other areas because of the laxity in undertaking emergency repair works. “We are living in a flood-affected area where the district administration is yet to act on mitigation measures. Our demand is to use the river management fund effectively for addressing our concerns,” said a local residents’ association leader from the area. He also pointed out that the frequent caving in of the embankment had caused cracks on the walls of many houses in the area. In the wake of the latest incidents, some of the local residents have collectively submitted a complaint to the Revenue Department authorities for immediate action. Some of them have also sought compensation for repairing damaged houses. The complainants said that they had been facing recurring embankment collapses since the beginning of the monsoon season. Residents living close to the Iruvazhinji river are also facing the same threat due to the poor riverbank fortification measures. Many stretches between Mukkam and Koolimadu area are under threat because of the slow destruction of the embankment. Theyyathumkadavu, Munnur, Pazhur, and Karamoola are some of the most vulnerable locations now where people live in fear during the rainy season. Residents pointed out that frequent incidents of landslips and the heavy flow of floodwater had largely affected the condition of the embankments and they could be restored to the previous state only through focussed action. According to them, the delay in protecting the vulnerable areas will gradually affect the adjoining stretches as well, causing bigger safety threats to more houses. Local environmental action committees said the district administration would be able to make a quick intervention if it was ready to spend the available river management fund. They also claimed that the work was interrupted mainly as a result of the diversion of available river management funds for other purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reconstruction-of-damaged-river-embankments-yet-to-begin/article37171174.ece
26 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Nod for wide-body aircraft at Calicut may take time||A decision to resume the operation of wide-bodied aircraft at the Calicut International Airport is likely to be taken only after a high-level panel of the Ministry of Civil Aviation submits its report on the corrective measures adopted based on the recommendations of the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) which probed the Air India Express crash last August. The panel, headed by Civil Aviation Secretary Rajiv Bansal, was set up in September to look into the status of the recommendations of the AAIB, which had submitted its report. Discussions on the corrective measures are going on and the panel will submit its report next month, sources said. The operation of wide-bodied aircraft was suspended after the Boeing 737-800 flight skidded off the tabletop runway and plunged into a gorge on August 7 last year. The accident claimed the lives of 21 persons including the pilots and seriously injured 78 others. Some major recommendations of the AAIB were the proper maintenance of Runway End Safety Areas (RESA) to limit the consequences when flights overrun the end of the runway, widening of the airport perimeter road, installation of an approach radar to provide lateral and vertical guidance to the pilot for landing, runway visual range system to enhance accuracy of visibility and runway centre line lights, and also a Runway Overrun Awareness and Alerting System. This apart, the AAIB also recommended simulator training, crew resource management and training on aircraft for Air India Express pilots among other things. Other issues However, sources said that even after the high-level panel submitted the report, an extensive political pressure would be required to resume the operation of wide-bodied aircraft. One of the reasons cited is that the length of the runway is 2,700 meters while the RESA is 240 metres. Besides, the runway strip was only 75 metres on both sides as against the mandatory 150 m stipulated by the International Civil Aviation Organisation. The operation of wide-bodied aircraft had been banned at the Calicut airport from May 2015 after the Court of Inquiry report on the Air India Express Boeing 737 crash in Mangaluru in May 2010. But then, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation had given a No Objection Certificate to Saudi Arabian Airlines in 2018 and Emirates and Air India later to operate wide-bodied aircraft with stringent conditions after the airline companies submitted reports on safety assessment and mitigation measures to ensure the safety of Code E aircraft operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-operation-of-wide-bodied-aircraft-at-calicut-may-take-time/article37171173.ece
26 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Govt. allows promotion of teachers ‘in public interest’||The Education Department has given the go-ahead for temporary promotion of unqualified persons as head teachers in government lower primary schools and upper primary schools in the State “in public interest” ahead of resumption of classes on November 1. This is against the backdrop of around 2,000 such schools remaining headless following a court stay on promotions in a case filed by teachers who passed the mandatory department-level tests to qualify for the post. The Kerala Administrative Tribunal too had ruled against regular promotions until disposal of the case or lifting of the interim stay. At least 12 years of teaching experience and clearing of department-level tests and an exam on the Kerala Education Act and Rules are mandatory as per the Right to Education Act to become a head teacher. Avoiding logjam The government is reported to have issued the order to avoid a possible administrative logjam because of the shortage as classes begin next month. The order issued on October 21 cites Rule 31(a)(i) of the Kerala State &Subordinate Service Rules to enable the appointing authority to promote an unqualified person on a temporary basis based on seniority if there is a delay in the normal promotion process. The order issued by A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish, Principal Secretary, directed the Director of General Education to report the anticipated promotion vacancies to the Kerala Public Service Commission (KPSC) by November 30. Earlier, the Government had allowed aided and government schools to appoint teachers on daily wage basis in vacancies that are more than 30 days old. Functionaries of a union representing test-qualified teachers, however, said that another clause in the same rule says that no person who does not possess the qualification prescribed for the service shall ordinarily be promoted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-allows-promotion-of-teachers-in-public-interest/article37171194.ece
26 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Officials mull relocating more families from vulnerable villages||In the wake of the yellow alert for Kozhikode district till October 28 and the recent episodes of rain-related calamities in villages, the Revenue Department is seriously considering relocating more families from the vulnerable village areas. Village officers have been asked to identify houses in critical areas where previous incidents of landslips and flash floods had claimed many lives and damaged properties. Revenue Department sources said the areas where soil piping phenomenon had already been confirmed in the past would be given top priority. Those staying close to flooded rivers would be asked to make use of the facilities in relief camps or any other convenient location suited for them as a temporary arrangement, they said. Within the Thamarassery taluk alone, there are five panchayats included in the list of vulnerable locations based on the previous incidents of landslips and flash floods. Many families in Kodenchery panchayat have already been shifted to safer locations with the assistance of local rescue teams. The shifted families also include tribespeople from Chembukadavu and Vendekkumpoyil settlements. There were also similar shifting efforts last year following a flash flood in the Chalippuzha river. Officials said over 30 families from the area were in need of support. Localbody representatives from the Thamarassery taluk said efforts were on to shift more families from various parts of Kattippara and Puthuppadi panchayats where landslips and flash floods had caused huge damage in the past. Many of the rural families here are yet to return to normalcy after the death of their close family members in such incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/officials-mull-relocating-more-families-from-vulnerable-villages/article37171175.ece
26 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Eight students hospitalised after suspected food poisoning||Eight students from the Perumanna branch of a private entrance coaching centre were admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, after suspected food poisoning at their hostel on Monday. Four students sought treatment at other hospitals. Food Safety Department officials later found after an inspection that the institution did not have its licence to operate. They didn’t have a certificate to prove the quality of drinking water and the cooks had not taken the mandatory medical fitness test. The department is planning to file a case soon. The students told the officials that though the institution had a kitchen, food was being brought from outside. Doctors said that prima facie it looked like a case of food poisoning and details would be known only after tests. One of the students reportedly had breathing problems. Drinking water samples have been sent to the regional analytical laboratory. Meanwhile, food safety officials inspected 14 hostels including those attached to the medical college, in recent days in Kozhikode district. A fine of Rs. 34,000 was charged from 10 hostels. Food Safety Assistant Commissioner M.T. Babychan said that inspections would be intensified in the coming days as more educational institutions would reopen from November.  Inspections will be intensified as more educational institutions are reopening from November||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eight-students-hospitalised-after-suspected-food-poisoning/article37171179.ece
26 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Homoeo pill distribution begins amid opposition||The State Government has begun distribution of Arsenicum Album 30C tablets among schoolchildren despite stiff opposition from practitioners of modern medicine, including the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP). It was Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who opened the State-level launch of the three-day ‘Karuthalode Munnottu’ campaign on Monday. The tablets are being given between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. Mr. Vijayan said that the effort would be to ensure immunity among children using the “effective immunity in homoeo medicines”. Helpline A helpline has also been launched to clear doubts and homoeo medical officers can be approached to allay fears, the Chief Minister said. Three pills are proposed to be given to the children three times in a gap of 21 days. ‘Not tested scientifically’ However, just a day ahead of the launch on October 24, the Indian Medical Association Kerala State branch again urged the Government to withdraw from the campaign, pointing out that the medicine had not been scientifically tested anywhere in the world and its efficacy had not been proved. The IMA also requested parents not to allow the medicine to be experimented on their children, in whom chances of serious infection were rare. They might not need any vaccine as well, the doctors’ body said. ‘False sense of security’ Meanwhile, the IAP said that Arsenicum Album was not an evidence-based medicine for COVID-19. Giving away this medicine would give a false sense of security to parents, teachers, and students, which may in turn lead to new outbreaks. The students may also not follow the SMS model of social distancing, face masks, and sanitising because of the false feeling, the IAP said.  Stiff opposition from Indian Medical Association, Indian Academy of Paediatrics Chief Minister inaugurates three-day ‘Karuthalode Munnottu’ campaign IMA urges parents not to allow the medicine to be experimented on their children||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/distribution-of-homeo-tablets-begins-amid-opposition/article37171178.ece
26 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Carcass of three-year-old elephant found in river||The carcass of an elephant was found in the Velliyar river at Ambalapara, near Thiruvizhamkunnu, in the district on Monday. The juvenile elephant was suspected to have been washed away by the flash floods in the river in the past several days. According to forest officials, the female elephant was about three years old. The carcass had begun to decompose. It was suspected to have been five days old. The carcass was shifted out of the river, and a post-mortem examination was conducted on it by a veterinary surgeon from Mannarkkad. It was later buried on a private land nearby. People’s charge However, a section of local people said they were unhappy over the manner the Forest Department buried the carcass next to the river. They said burying the carcass near the waterbody could cause contamination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/carcass-of-3-year-old-elephant-found-in-river/article37171180.ece
26 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Explosive materials seized from shop||The police seized a large cache of explosives from a stationery shop at Anamari, near Kollengode, in the district on Monday. The explosives were suspected to have been meant for use in granite quarries in the region. A team of police officers led by Inspector Vipin Das led the raid at the stationery shop owned by Vasu Vadakkanchery following a tip-off received by them. Detonators The seized explosives included 1,850 detonators, 1,073 gelatin sticks and three sackfuls of crackers. The police said they were investigating the seizure. They suspected the involvement of a quarry lobby behind the stockpiling of the explosives. However, they refused to elaborate. Meanwhile, local people said that the quarry owners enjoyedthe patronage of political parties and were pressuring the police not to investigate deep into the seizure.  People say quarry owners enjoy patronage of political parties and are pressuring the police not to investigate deep into the seizure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/explosive-materials-seized/article37171165.ece
26 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||General coaches to be restored in 23 trains||Southern Railway will reintroduce second-class general coaches in 23 trains from November 1. The general coaches were removed from the trains as part of maintaining COVID-19 protocol. A statement by Railways said here on Monday that unreserved general coaches would be restored in the following trains: 06326 Kottayam-Nilambur (five coaches), 06304 Thiruvananthapuram-Ernakulam (four coaches), 06302 Thiruvananthapuram-Shoranur (six coaches), 06308 Kannur-Alappuzha (six coaches), 02628 Thiruvananthapuram-Thiruchirapalli (four coaches), 06850 Rameswaram-Thiruchirapalli (four coaches), 06305 Ernakulam-Kannur (six coaches), 06089 Chennai-Jolarpettai (six coaches), 06844 Palakkad-Thiruchirapalli (six coaches), 06607 Kannur-Coimbatore (four coaches), and 06342 Thiruvanathapuram-Guruvayur (four coaches). Their pairing trains too will have as many unreserved general coaches. Besides, 06366 Nagercoil-Kottayam will have five general coaches from November 1. From Nov. 10 Train 06324 Mangalore-Coimbatore and 06321 Nagercoil-Coimbatore and their pairing trains will reintroduce four unreserved general coaches each from November 10. There will be no change in fares, but the superfast trains will have an additional charge.  There will be no change in fares, but the superfast trains will have an additional charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/general-coaches-to-be-restored-in-23-trains-from-november-1/article37171181.ece
26 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||2 years later, ‘suicide’ turns out to be murder||The Crime Branch officials probing the alleged suicide of a 26-year-old woman in Perumpetty in Pathanamthitta two years ago found that she had been murdered by a stranger. A 39-year-old person, identified as Nazeer, of Kottangal, has been arrested in this connection. The woman, who was living with a widower, his two-year-old child, and his father was found hanging from the ceiling in her bedroom on December 15, 2019. The incident occurred when all members of the family were away from the house. The police said Nazeer, a wood merchant, came to the house as part of his business and upon learning that the woman was alone in the house, tried to assault her sexually. As the woman resisted his moves, the accused banged her head against a cot in the bedroom. The woman, who fell unconscious, was raped and later hanged from the ceiling using a white dhoti. 53 wounds An autopsy revealed the woman had sustained 53 wounds. Blood samples of her partner and his father were collected for scientific examination, though to no avail. The case was handed over to the District Crime Branch in February 2020. In a follow-up investigation, the officers confirmed rape and physical torture of the victim. In the absence of eyewitnesses, the officers focussed on the three men spotted near the crime scene on the day of the incident and interrogated them. A experiment using a dummy was also conducted in the crime scene. The police camped at different locations for months, shadowing the suspects. Finally, the DNA samples collected from the woman’s nail matched with those of the accused, leading to his arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-years-later-suicide-turns-out-to-be-murder/article37171201.ece
26 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Creating wealth from waste, the CTCRI way||The ICAR-Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (CTCRI) has come up with a solution which illustrates how wealth is created out of something that is normally dumped as waste. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) institute based at Sreekaryam here has developed protocols for transforming waste generated in the production of starch and sago from cassava (tapioca) into a nutrient-rich organic manure. Rigorous tests have proven that it can serve as a substitute for chemical fertilisers, according to CTCRI scientists. Starch and sago are the two most important value-added products developed from cassava tubers. Once the starch is extracted, production units are left with effluents and a solid residue which is known as 'thippi.' Pollution “Management of 'thippi' poses a serious problem for cassava starch factories. It has a foul smell and the leachate from 'thippi' heaps can pollute the environment,” Dr. K. Susan John, a Principal Scientist with the Crop Production Division, CTCRI, who developed the technology, said. This residual matter, with a wide carbon-nitrogen ratio of 82:1, is poor in nutrient content and therefore finds no use. What the CTCRI has managed to do is develop techniques to compost the waste, turning it into a nutrient-rich organic manure. Field tests on cassava crop over two seasons have shown the ‘thippi’-based manure to be an able substitute for chemical fertlisers, Dr. Susan John, whose specialisation is in soil science, said. “Though tapioca is cultivated widely in Kerala, it finds industrial use more in Tamil Nadu, especially for preparing starch, and from it value-added products such as sago. But disposal of the the residual 'thippi' is a major problem,” she said. High-yielding Over the years, the CTCRI has developed several high-yielding varieties of tropical tuber crops, especially cassava and sweet potato varieties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ctcri-makes-manure-from-cassava-waste/article37171343.ece
26 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Murali’s remark raises hackles||A misogynistic comment allegedly made by Congress MP, K.Muraleedharan against Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran has kicked up a row with the CPI(M) District Committee announcing protest marches in all wards demanding the filing of a case against the MP. Mr.Muraleedharan had allegedly made the comment while speaking at a protest organised by the United Democratic Front (UDF) in front of the city Corporation office on Monday over the revenue fund misappropriation issue. Condemnable In a statement issued on Monday, CPI(M) District Secretary Anavoor Nagappan said that it is condemnable that someone in the position of an MP would make such a comment on a woman politician. The word that Muraleedharan used against Ms.Arya fits Mr.Muraleedharan more going by his past conduct. His comments are reflective of the Congress’s culture, said Mr.Nagappan. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy inaugurated the protest organised by the UDF on Monday under the leadership of DCC president Palode Ravi in the revenue fund misappropriation issue. He alleged that the Chief Minister and the Mayor are united in protecting the corrupt officials at the State and Corporation levels. Those who have boasted that they would never protect corrupt officials are sitting with their heads bowed before the corrupt officials, he said. The Chief Minister and the CPI(M) leadership have to answer for this, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/muralis-remarks-raise-hackles/article37171170.ece
26 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State may witness increase in thunderstorm activity||An increase in thunderstorm activity can be expected over the State in the next few days with the commencement of northeast monsoon rainfall, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned. The weather agency on Monday announced the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon and the simultaneous commencement of the northeast monsoon rainfall over the southern parts of peninsular India. All districts, except Kannur and Kasaragod, are on yellow alert on Tuesday for isolated heavy rainfall. Yellow alert has been sounded in all districts, except Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Alappuzha, on Wednesday. Low-pressure area A low-pressure area is likely to form over south Bay of Bengal later this week. During the June 1-September 30 period — the official southwest monsoon season — the State had recorded a 16% deficit, which nevertheless is deemed ‘normal rainfall’ as percentage departures between -19% and +19% are classified as ‘normal.’ Officially, the northeast monsoon season lasts from October 1 to December 31. Delayed withdrawal This year, the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon was delayed by weeks and the State experienced sustained rainfall activity with heavy to extremely heavy rainfall events from October 1 to 25. Rainfall peaked on October 16 triggering landslips and floods in Kottayam and Idukki districts, claiming several lives. During the 25-day period, the State recorded a 111% excess rainfall with all districts, except Alappuzha, recording a ‘large excess,’ or over 60% excess rainfall. Alappuzha recorded an excess of 41%. Against a normal of 250.2 mm for the 25-day period, the State received 528.9 mm rain. In 2020, the northeast monsoon rainfall had commenced over Kerala on October 28. The State had recorded a 26% deficit at the end of the season on December 31. The Kerala and Mahe region had recorded 31% excess in NE monsoon rainfall in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-may-witness-increase-in-thunderstorm-activity/article37171207.ece
26 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DUK dean Alex P. James is among top 2% scientists||Alex P. James, Associate Dean (Academic) of Digital University Kerala (DUK) figures among the top 2% scientists in the world, a Stanford University survey has found. Dr. James has been featured in the list that has been jointly prepared by Stanford University and Netherlands-based publishing company Elsevier BV for the second consecutive time. Six members in the DUK Board of Studies (BoS) too have found places in the list of top 2% scientists. Ranked 294 Based on single-year impact, the Associate Dean is ranked 294 among 1,05,029 scientists in the world and eighth in India in the field of Electrical and Electronics Engineering. According to the Stanford – Elsevier report that was published a week ago, the rank is based on the top 1,00,000 by C-scores (number of citations excluding self-citations) or a percentile rank of 2% or above. The top-ranking members of the BoS include Vincenzo Piuri of the University of Milan, Sudip Misra of IIT Kharagpur, Swagatam Das of Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata, Ajith Abraham of Machine Intelligence Research Labs, Cherumuttathu H. Suresh of National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) and Sudhakar C. Reddy of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Among them, Dr. James, Dr. Misra, Dr. Das and Dr. Abraham are in the top 0.5% globally. Dr. James, who is also professor in-charge of Maker Village, Kochi, and chief investigator for the Centre for Excellence in Intelligent IoT sensors, has specialised in a number of research areas including AI hardware, Neuromorphic VLSI, Intelligent Imaging and Machine Learning, and Analog Electronics. Specialisation Research specialisation areas of Dr James, include AI hardware, Neuromorphic VLSI (very large-scale integration) system, Intelligent Imaging and Machine Learning, and Analog Electronics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/duk-dean-among-top-2-scientists/article37171167.ece
26 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||909 new cases in capital, 1,081 recover||The district recorded 909 COVID-19 cases and 1,081 recoveries as the active caseload stood at 9,209 on Monday. A test positivity rate of 14% was recorded on the day. As many as 45,589 people have been placed in quarantine in the district. The death toll stood at 4,878. District Collector Navjot Khosa has announced more restrictions in eight local body wards that have recorded weekly infection population ratios (WIPR) of above 10. These include ward 23 of Attingal Municipality, ward 10 of Edava grama panchayat, ward 7 of Manamboor grama panchayat, ward 3 of Panavoor grama panchayat, ward 3 of Pullampara grama panchayat, ward 12 of Uzhamalakkal grama panchayat, ward 2 of Vellanad grama panchayat, and ward 13 of Vithura grama panchayat. New containment zones have been declared in Chathanpara and Kanjirathil wards of Manamboor grama panchayat. Devi East Residents Association and Devi Nagar Residents Association in Palkulangara ward of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, and Vettinad area in Vembayam grama panchayat have been declared micro-containment zones. Thekkupara Paruthi area in Amboori grama panchayat and the area comprising Nada and Palottukonam in Veeranakavu of Poovachal grama panchayat have been excluded from the list of micro-containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/909-new-cases-in-capital-1081-recover/article37171376.ece
26 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State logs 6,664 cases||Kerala reported 6,664 new cases of COVID-19 when 61,202 samples were tested in the 24 hours. The State’s active case pool had 74,735 patients on Monday, with 9,010 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health Department, only 10% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like COVID-19 first-line/second-line treatment centres. 53 deaths The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 28,873 with the State adding 281 deaths to the official list on Saturday. These include 53 recent deaths, 219 undeclared deaths of the period before June 2021, and nine deaths which have been accepted as COVID-19 deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following appeals filed by the families. The ICU occupancy of COVID-19 patients was 1,212 on Monday. The number of patients requiring ventilator support remained unchanged at 482. On Monday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 was 624. The total number of persons currently hospitalised with moderate or severe COVID-19 went up slightly to 8,752. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 49,21,995 cases. Among districts, Ernakulam the highest number of new cases with 1,168 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-logs-6664-cases/article37171213.ece
26 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bishop Moore gets ‘A’ accreditation||The Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) has awarded ‘A’ grade to Bishop Moore College, Mavelikkara, the first higher education institution in the State to be accredited by the State Assessment and Accreditation Centre (SAAC). The decision was taken at the KSHEC governing council meet chaired by Higher Education Minister R. Bindu on Monday.  SAAC peer team The college was conferred the grade with a cumulative grade points average (CGPA) of 3.21 based on the report presented by the SAAC peer team that was headed by former National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) director Renganath H. Anne Gouda. An official release stated SAAC grades institutions by including State-specific parameters in the national accrediting system. Guidelines The governing council also approved the guidelines for the Chief Minister’s Nava Kerala Post Doctoral Fellowship. Implemented by KSHEC, the fellowship carries amounts ranging from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1,00,000 per month for a period of two years. KSHEC vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal, member secretary Rajan Varughese, executive body members Fathimuth Zuhara, J. Rajan, R.K. Suresh Kumar and Vice Chancellors of various universities participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bishop-moore-gets-kshecs-a-grade-accreditation/article37171237.ece
26 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No political protection for quarry owners: Rajeeve||Asserting that no quarry owner will get political protection of the LDF Government, Industries Minister P.Rajeeve on Monday told the Assembly that the number of quarries in Kerala had come down progressively over the past decade. He was replying to discussions on the Kerala Coir Workers’ Welfare Fund (Amendment) Bill, Kerala Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Facilitation (Amendment) Bill, and the Kerala Minerals (Vesting of Rights) Bill, all of which were passed on Monday. He said there were 3,104 licensed quarries in the State in 2010-11, while the number had come down to 1,514 in 2016. Currently, there were 604 licensed quarries in the State. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said more than 6,000 quarries were functioning illegally in the State, even though only 600 have licences. Mining was being done from more areas than that were allocated in the licences. Mr. Rajeeve said Mining and Geology Department officials had been instructed to identify illegal quarries and take action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-political-protection-for-quarry-owners-rajeeve/article37171205.ece
26 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Waste dumping: two vehicles seized||The night squad of the city Corporation's health wing seized two vehicles used for illegally collecting and dumping septage waste and chicken waste in public places. A tanker lorry filled with septage waste was seized from the Chanthavila area near Kazhakuttom and a pickup van with chicken waste was seized from Nemom. Mayor Arya Rajendran appealed to the public to depend only on the licensed septage waste collection system implemented by the Corporation. The septage waste collected in this manner is taken for processing to the sewerage treatment plant at Muttathara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waste-dumping-two-vehicles-seized/article37171378.ece
26 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation - illegal collection of turf fee||City Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran has cautioned against illegal collection of license fees from sporting turfs in the city. In a statement issued here on Monday, she said that the Corporation has not imposed any license fee or tax on turfs in the city, not has it appointed anyone to collect license fees. A detailed bylaw is being prepared for this purpose. Stringent action will be taken against those involved in the illegal fee collection, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-illegal-collection-of-turf-fee/article37171379.ece
26 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BSNL bill payment||BSNL landphone subscribers have been advised to pay their bill for the current month before October 26 to avoid disconnection, a pressnote issued here today said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bsnl-bill-payment/article37171380.ece
26 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Partial cancellation of special trains||In order to facilitate track maintenance work in between Vallathol Nagar and Wadakkanchery railway stations, train no. 06791 Tirunelveli-Palakkad Palaruvi special train scheduled to leave Tirunelveli on October 27 and train no. 06792 Palakkad-Tirunelveli Pallavi special train scheduled to leave Palakkad on October 28 are partially cancelled between Tiruchur and Palakkad railway stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/partial-cancellation-of-special-trains/article37171208.ece
26 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Stages come alive again in State as pandemic fears ease||The professional theatre festival, organised by the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi, has begun here. Akademi vice-president Xavier Pulppat inaugurated the festival on Monday. Mr. Pulppat said that without art and literature, society would become lifeless and insensitive. So the akademi had come up with the festival to promote and encourage artistes and society. Let such initiatives help society get over the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. The professional theatre competition, which started as soon as the Government gave the nod for open theatres, was an achievement for the akademi, akademi secretary Prabhakaran Pazhassi said. Books released Writer Asokan Charuvil released eight books, published as part of the ‘100 days, 100 books’ project of the akademi. Akademi’s Guru Puja Award winner P.V.K. Panayal was honoured at the function. Mt. Pulppat presented the award to him. Winner of the K. Raghavan Master award, music director Vidydharan was also honoured at the function. Till Oct.29 Regional Theatre here is hosting the theatre festival-2019, which had to be postponed due to COVID-19. It will go on till October 29. Plays today  Ethihasam - Souparnika, Thiruvananthapuram (10 a.m.); Kumaranasanum Chandalabhikshukiyum - Kannur Nataka Sangam (5 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/days-of-theatre-back-in-thrissur/article37171169.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back to college||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-to-college/article37171247.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making a pitch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-a-pitch/article37171177.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tough rides ahead||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tough-rides-ahead/article37171183.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back on campus||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-on-campus/article37171245.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||After the break||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/after-the-break/article37171317.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For animal rights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-animal-rights/article37171372.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Up and close with nature||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/up-and-close-with-nature/article37171374.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Renewing ties||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renewing-ties/article37171382.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Top recognitions||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/top-recognitions/article37171211.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 500 ‘illegal’ structures identified in Bengaluru||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has identified over 500 structures, which have come up “illegally” on the land notified for the Dr. K Shivaram Karanth Layout after 2018. Several structures have already been removed by the BDA and on Monday, during one such drive at Somashettihalli, officials faced resistance from residents as seven structures were brought down, including a ground-plus-two-floor building and three sheds. Pradeep Kumar, a property owner, said, “We had built a structure on our own property. Several structures were demolished on Monday and owners lost structures worth over Rs. 2 crore. For the formation of the layout, 3 acres of our family land was notified. At least these structures could have been spared. Fourteen years ago, they had issued a notification for the layout. All these years, the land owners suffered a lot. Now they are coming out with compensation which is not agreeable to land owners and demolishing properties that have been built spending our hard-earned money.” ‘Causing misery’ Another person, who owns a property in the notified area, said, “The State Government and the BDA are causing misery to people in the area. They had constructed houses after registering their properties and borrowing loans from banks. But now, officials are claiming that these are illegal structures and demolishing them. Local people are paying a huge price for the lapses on the part of the BDA and the State Government.” BDA officials claim that illegal constructions that came up after 2018 have been identified using satellite imagery and drone surveys. The alleged illegal constructions are at villages such as Somashettihalli, Byalakere, Lakshmipura, Vaderahalli, Ganigarahalli, and others, they said, adding that the BDA has brought down 45 structures in separate demolition drives. In a press release, the BDA has maintained that it is demolishing structures that have come up after August 3, 2018, barring those properties of which the owners submitted applications before a Supreme Court committee. However, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has demanded that the BDA stop the demolition . He alleged that structures that have come up after getting no-objection certificates from the authority are also being demolished. “The officials are playing with the lives of the people. The State Government should give legal protection to the owners of the buildings. It had failed to argue the case in the court and has not given proper communication to the public. Chairman of the BDA S.R. Vishwanth had earlier protested against the formation of the layout but is now demolishing houses,” he said, demanding that the Government convene a meeting on the issue and address the grievances of the people. BDA Commissioner Rajesh Gowda has defended the drives by saying it is following an order of the Supreme Court. “As per the order, buildings constructed after 2018 are illegal constructions. Our engineers have identified such buildings and they are being cleared now. It is common to oppose the demolition drive, but we are duty bound to follow the SC order. Every 15 days, we submit a report to the SC on the status of the layout of the project.” For the formation of the layout, the BDA is acquiring 3,500 acres of land spread across 17 villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-500-illegal-structures-identified-in-bengaluru/article37170762.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Archbishop of Bengaluru opposes anti-conversion law||Disputing allegations of “mass conversion” by Christian religious organisations in the country, the Archbishop of Bengaluru Peter Machado said that the population of Christians since Independence has remained the same in the country. He opposed the anti-conversion legislation proposed by the Karnataka Government and argued that it would be used as a tool to harass minorities. “Since Independence, Christians constitute 1.8% of the population. The Census data is with the Government. Citing a few stray incidents, it is not fair to blame the entire community and an frame anti-conversion law,” he told reporters, expressing his strong opposition to the proposed legislation. He said it was every individual’s Constitutional right to practise and propagate religion in the country. Expressing fear of attacks and harassment of minority communities if an anti-conversion law comes into effect, he said there was no doubt that it would disrupt peace in society. “Christian institutions run thousands of educational institutions and healthcare centres... But instances of moral policing have been on the rise ever since Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai stated that there would be ‘reaction’ to incidents. We fear that such moral policing is going to increase and attacks on minorities will also increase with the proposed anti-conversion legislation.” Taking exception to the direction issued by the Backward Classes Welfare Department to conduct a survey of Christian religious institutions, he asked what the need was for such a survey. “The Government has the data and details of the Christian religious institutions with it. What is the objective behind the survey? If a survey is required, why is it targeting only Christian organisations?” he asked. He urged the Backward Classes Welfare Department to withdraw the circular ordering the survey.  Citing a few stray incidents, it is not fair to blame the entire community and frame an anti-conversion law. It was every individual’s Constitutional right to practise and propagate religion in the country Peter Machado, Archbishop of Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/archbishop-of-bengaluru-opposes-anti-conversion-law/article37170763.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Survey of churches: HC orders notice to Karnataka||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday ordered issue of notice to the State Government on a PIL petition questioning the legality of the July 7, 2021, communication issued by the Directorate of Minorities Welfare to Deputy Commissioners to conduct a survey of churches in their districts for data collection purposes. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on the petition filed by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties-Karnataka. The petitioner contended that the communication, issued based on a meeting of the Welfare Committee held on July 7, “is illegal, discriminatory, arbitrary and unconstitutional, being violative of the right to equality and privacy under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India.” Even the Karnataka Minorities Commission Act, 1994, has no provision that empowers the collection of such data about churches, the petitioner contented, pointing out that the communication was discriminatory as it singled out churches while not including other religious or religious minority institutions. Pointing out that the directorate had sought details such as taluk, district, and Assembly constituency-wise location of churches, their names, address, property type and property khata details, and the names of the pastor/father, the petitioner claimed that the communication was silent on the purpose of collection of data, its storage, use and accessibility. Senior counsel Ravivarma Kumar, appearing for the petitioner, contended that the survey of churches amounted to “persecution” of minority institutions. He claimed that the survey was intrusive and seriously infringed on the fundamental right to privacy of a religious minority community. However, the Bench orally told him that the petitioner had not produced any material on record to show that the survey of churches amounted to persecution of Christians. When the senior counsel sought an interim order to “protect churches from being persecuted”, the Bench said it would consider passing any order after receiving the Government’s response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/survey-of-churches-hc-notice-to-karnataka/article37170760.ece
26 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor administration intensifies vaccination drive in colleges||The district administration has intensified awareness campaigns in all degree, engineering colleges in the district and instructed the managements of both the private and government colleges to bar students, who fail to comply with COVID-19 etiquettes including wearing of facemask, from entering the campuses. Joint Collector C. Sridhar told The Hindu that the vaccination drive was in brisk progress at all the colleges in the district with good response from students. “We are closely monitoring the day-to-day statistics and have initiated steps to vaccinate all students aged above 18. Despite sensitisation programmes on facemask protocol, some students continue to ignore the same while attending classes or on the campuses. As such, the principals are sought to address this issue. Disciplinary action would be taken against the managements which fail to take this seriously,” he said. Deputy District Medical and Health Officer P. Ravi Raju said that preliminary meetings with principals and correspondents of all degree and engineering colleges in Chittoor revenue division were completed. “Special teams are formed to check the efficacy of the ongoing vaccination drive for students on the campuses,” he said. ‘Vaccine hesitancy in hamlets’ The Joint Collector said that during his visit to the rural hamlets, he found that some elderly people were reluctant to take the vaccination jabs, citing underlying health issues. “In such cases, we insist that they get a medical certificate from their family doctors or area medical officers regarding their ailments. The field officials on COVID duties have been asked to encourage the elderly to take the jabs, and not to entertain lame excuses. Some medical officers have suggested that the pensions of those not cooperating to get jabbed be held. However, we want to first try sensitising them about the importance of vaccination before taking such steps,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-administration-intensifies-vaccination-drive-in-colleges/article37171291.ece
26 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. will field a Kapu as CM candidate, says Chinta||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan on Monday said that the party was contemplating to field an unblemished leader from the Kapu community as the Chief Minister candidate in the 2024 Assembly elections in Andhra Pradesh. Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Chinta Mohan said that Congress was unifying the SC,ST,BC and minorities to “fight the atrocious rule of the YSR Congress Party”. He said that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government had betrayed over 80 lakh college students and their parents by not paying the scholarships to them from two years. Replying to a question regarding the remarks made against Chief Minister, Mr. Chinta Mohan condemned the rude language of Telugu Desam Party leader K. Pattabhiram, and termed TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu’s deeksha a farce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-will-field-cm-candidate-from-kapus-chinta/article37171292.ece
26 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGOs lobby for political support for trafficking Bill||Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) in the State are seeking support from elected representatives to ensure passage of the ‘Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021’ during the upcoming winter session of the Assembly. In a letter addressed to Member of Parliament from Narsaraopet, Lavu Sri Krishna Devarayalu, the two NGOs — HELP and Vimukti — which are working in areas of women trafficking, said that the bill is critical considering the impact of the pandemic on marginalised sections in the country. HELP secretary N.V.S. Rammohan said that they had submitted a set of recommendations based on their field experiences to the Ministry of Women and Child Development. The need for such a law has been long felt by civil society for institutional relief and rehabilitation response and enforcement of a proactive preventive mechanism, he said. The recommendations include community-based rehabilitation, redefining rehabilitation to incorporate community-based rehabilitation, and specifying the time limit for a survivor’s stay at a rehabilitation home/protection home. The Bill should also focus on rehabilitation of transgender persons, men and boys, Mr. Rammohan said. The National Human Rights Commissions (NHRC), and State Human Rights Commission should act as an accountability mechanism for national, district and State anti-human trafficking committees, as a third party agency. Survivors of trafficking should be recognised as key stakeholders in audit and monitoring of implementation of the provisions of this law, and the committees must be mandated to consult with them as such on a periodic basis. There should be a provision to promote regular updates to be sent by Anti-Human Trafficking Committees and NIA to the NHRC at the national-level, the NGOs said. To ensure transparency, minutes of the meetings and all reports should be mandated to be made publicly available. The definition of Bonded Labour as per the 2021 Bill (Forced labour is to be defined as per the ILO indicators which include abuse of vulnerability, deception, restriction of movement, isolation and physical and sexual violence, he said. The NGOs have also suggested that the CBI may be designated as the national investigating and coordinating agency along with the NIA. The Anti-Human Trafficking Units, established in every State as per MHA’s directive, may be deputed to the NIA on a case to case basis for an appropriate period especially where the cases are of inter-State or international nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngos-lobby-for-political-support-for-trafficking-bill/article37170822.ece
26 October 2021||HUBBALLI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka Government duped of Rs. 2.89 crore with fake bills||After an incident of siphoning off of Rs. 2.89 crore by presenting fake bills came to light, a complaint has been filed against an auditor of Karnataka Neeravari Nigam (KNN) and two of his aides. Chief Auditor of KNN N.S. Varadraj has filed a complaint with the Dharwad Suburban police station against three persons, KNN auditor Deepak Mudalagi and two of his aides R.B. Sheikh and A.Y. Mulla. In his complaint, Mr. Varadraj said that the accused had cheated KNN by creating fake bills under Hippargi Barrage works and had duped the State Government. All the three accused had forged the signatures of higher officials and withdrawn the money in two instalments — Rs. 1.44 crore and Rs. 1.45 crore, the complainant has said. As per sources, Deepak Mudalagi had earlier worked as office superintendent under Hippargi Barrage for six months and now is working at CADA in Jamkhandi. During audit, it had come to light that Deepak Mudalagi had created fake bills and two of his friends had supported him. Subsequently, a four-member committee was set up to look into the issue and the committee submitted its report after a detailed inquiry, in which it found that all the three were involved in creating fake bills. In its report, the committee said that as Deepak Mudalagi could not transfer the amount to his bank account in view of some technical issues, he had transferred it to the bank accounts of his friends. All the three accused had forged the signatures of higher officials and withdrawn the money in two instalments — Rs. 1.44 crore and Rs. 1.45 crore, the complainant has said. As per sources, Deepak Mudalagi had earlier worked as office superintendent under Hippargi Barrage for six months and now is working at CADA in Jamkhandi. During audit, it had come to light that Deepak Mudalagi had created fake bills and two of his friends had supported him. Subsequently a four-member committee was set up to look into the issue and the committee submitted its report after a detailed inquiry in which it found that all the three were involved in creating fake bills. In its report, the committee has said that as Deepak Mudalagi could not transfer the amount to his bank account in view of some technical issues, he had transferred it to the bank accounts of his friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-government-duped-of-rs-289-crore-with-fake-bills/article37170796.ece
26 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s raining gold for Yadadri gopuram work||As the donating of gold for the Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple in Yadadri has kept apace, officials decided to start the work early. “We are planning to start the work earlier, as people have started to donate gold in good quantities. We estimate that 125 kilograms of gold would be required to plate the Vimana Gopuram,” informed G. Kishen Rao of Yadadri Temple Development Authority. “We will start the work as an initial layer of copper has to be fixed to the gopuram before work on gold plating can begin,” said Mr. Rao. The Vimana Gopuram of the temple soars to a height of 47-feet and would be visible for miles around, including the trains passing on the Bhongir-Secunderabad route. From holy men to industrialists, politicians, and corporate houses, donating of gold donations have continued after public announcements and social media posts after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao unveiled the plan on October 19. The Chief Minister pledged 1.16 kg of gold on his family’s behalf, adding that people living in every corner of the State will get an opportunity to donate money for buying gold for the temple. “We will reach out to 769 gram panchayats, 3,600 municipal wards and 142 municipalities in the State for collecting money for the temple,” Mr. Rao had said. While the announcements have been about the donation of gold, the Chief Minister’s statement is clear about pooling money and buying the requisite quantity of gold from the Reserve Bank of India to ensure quality. One of the first temples in India to get gold plating was the Harmandir Sahib in Amritsar for which Maharaja Ranjit Singh is reported to have donated Rs. 16.39 lakh as ‘sone de sewa’ nearly 200 years ago. An earlier plan from 2018 involved gold plating the Dhwajasthambam as well as Shayana Shala of the Lakshminarasimha Swamy Temple. Some of the bigger donors for the temple have been: Megha Engineering - which pledged 6 kg of gold, Hetero Pharma owners with 5 kg., and Nagarkurnool MLA M. Janardhan Reddy with 2 kg. A back of the envelope calculation shows that till now about 40 kg of gold has been pledged. Gold rate on Monday was Rs. 48,140 per 10 grammes. “A special account has been created by the YTDA to streamline donations for gold plating work. The account number is 6814884695 and IFSC code is IDIB000YO11 for the Indian Bank account,” informed the accounts officer of YTDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-raining-gold-for-yadadri-gopuram-work/article37170757.ece
26 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deploy Central forces for Badvel bypoll: BJP||Alleging intimidation of its party cadre ahead of the bypoll to the Badvel Assembly constituency, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have sought deployment of Central forces to ensure a free and fair election. BJP State president Somu Veerraju, along with the party leaders, met Election Observer Bishma Kumar at the R&B Guest House here on Monday and expressed fear that conducting the by-election in the absence of Central forces would lead to one-sided result in favor of the ruling YSRCP. After the meeting with the Election Observer, BJP leaders including national secretary Satyakumar, State in-charge Sunil Deodar, Rajya Sabha member C.M. Ramesh and former Minister C. Adinarayana Reddy addressed the media. They said that a team of BJP leaders already met the officials of the Election Commission of India in New Delhi, following which 15 platoons of paramilitary forces would be deployed for Badvel bypoll. They demanded that the local police in Kadapa —from Sub-Inspector to Deputy SP level— be barred from election duties. They accused the YSRCP leaders of trying to manipulate the bypoll by influencing the voters through gram and ward volunteers. “Some police personnel are intimidating the BJP cadre in Badvel to appease the ruling party,” the BJP leaders alleged. “The State government has done nothing worthwhile for the development of the constituency. Why have Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy stayed away from campaigning for the YSRCP candidate in Badvel?” Mr Veerraju asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deploy-central-forces-for-badvel-bypoll-bjp/article37171193.ece
26 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siva Prasanna is new Kakinada Mayor||Sunkara Siva Prasanna was unanimously elected as the new Kakinada Municipal Corporation (KMC) Mayor during the election held under the aegis of Presiding Officer and Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha on Monday. Ms. Prasanna was elected as corporator of Ward 40 on a Telugu Desam Party (TDP) ticket and recently supported the YSRCP during the no-confidence motion moved against former Mayor Sunkari Pavani of the TDP. On October 12, the State government issued a notification accepting the results of the no-confidence motion which was lost by Ms. Pavani. On Monday, there was no candidate in the fray against Ms. Prasanna for the Mayor's post and subsequently, she was elected as the new Mayor. In the election of Deputy Mayor, Meesala Udaya Kumar (TDP) was elected unanimously as Deputy Mayor. He represents the 24th ward. Ms. Prasanna conducted the council meeting after Presiding Officer Mr. Lakshmisha certified the election results. Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu, Kakinada MP Vanga Geetha, and Kakinada City MLA D. Chandrasekhar Reddy participated in the election as the ex-officio members of the council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sunkara-siva-prasanna-is-new-kakinada-mayor/article37171297.ece
26 October 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Family court in Kerala puts adoption procedure on hold||The prospective adoptive parents of the infant of Anupama S. Chandran may have to return the baby to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Thiruvananthapuram, shortly even as the family court has put on hold the adoption procedures. K. Biju Menon, presiding officer of the family court, who was expected to pass the final orders in the adoption procedure on Monday, stayed the proceedings considering the plea of the mother and the CWC. Anupama had come out in the open demanding her baby back. She contended that the child was put up for adoption against her will and her consent was obtained through illegal ways. The prospective parents in the adoption case, according to judicial sources, have no right over the child as the court has not issued the final order on adoption. The baby was handed over to them in foster care for the child to get familiarised with the atmosphere in the prospective adoptive home. The couple in Andhra Pradesh are bound to return the baby on a directive from either the court or the CWC, sources indicated. The controversy over the adoption took a political colour as Anupama, a former Students Federation of India leader and the granddaughter of a former State committee member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), had approached several leaders in vain to get her baby back. As the controversy raged, the CPI(M) and the Government pledged their support to the young mother. She plans to move a petition to get a genetic identification test done on the prospective adoptive baby to confirm its identity as two babies, including her child, were given in adoption on the same day. Impleading petition In her impleading petition, which was allowed by the court, Anupama submitted that her parents, who were having temporary custody of her child, surrendered the baby to the CWC without her permission, consent, and knowledge. She further submitted that the CWC refused to return the baby on the ground that the adoption procedures had been set in motion. She also submitted to the court that a police complaint had been registered against her father for abducting her child. The court posted the case for November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/family-court-in-kerala-puts-adoption-procedure-on-hold/article37170766.ece
26 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Charges against Swapna, others grave, NIA tells HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday reserved its judgment on the appeals moved by Swapna Suresh, Sarith and the other accused in the gold smuggling case seeking bail in the case registered under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) against them by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). When the appeals against the NIA Special Court’s order rejecting their bail pleas came up for hearing before Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice C. Jayachandran, the NIA opposed the bail pleas and argued that Swapna and the other accused were “the frontliners” in the gold smuggling case and the case registered by the NIA. The submission was made by Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju appearing for the NIA. He contended that if the charge-sheet filed in the NIA Special Court was perused, it would show that the accused were frontliners and the charges against them grave. The NIA case is that the accused, including Swapna, with the requisite knowledge and intention to threaten and destabilise the economic security of the country, had conspired, recruited persons, formed a terrorist gang, raised funds, and smuggled gold from the UAE in large quantity using the diplomatic channel and damaged the country’s friendly relations with the UAE and thereby committed terrorist activities punishable under Sections 15,16, 17, 18 and 20 of the UAPA. Precedent The Additional Solicitor General further submitted that despite the finding that smuggling of gold did not fall under the ambit of Section 15 of the UAPA ( terrorism), the High Court had earlier denied bail to Mohammed Shafi, the seventh accused in the case. Therefore, the same yardstick could be applied in these cases as well. Counsel for Swapna and other accused contended that the charge-sheet did not disclose the involvement of transnational forces and financing of terrorism as alleged during the investigation period. The crime was registered for the offence under the UAPA on the suspicion that the proceedings of smuggling might have been used for financing terrorism in the country. However, the charge-sheet filed following the conclusion of the investigation had ruled out the possibility of financing terrorism and the involvement of the transnational forces, they contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/charges-against-swapna-others-grave-nia-tells-hc/article37170765.ece
26 October 2021||Madurai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Party high command will decide on Sasikala’s inclusion: OPS||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Monday said the high command would decide on the inclusion of V.K. Sasikala, close confidante of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, in the party. Addressing the media, the former Chief Minister said anyone could enter politics, and it was for the people to take the final call. However, when asked about Ms. Sasikala claiming to have good support among AIADMK cadre, Mr. Panneerselvam said the party high command would take a decision on her inclusion after a consultation. Interestingly, Mr. Panneerselvam broke off from the main unit of the AIADMK in 2017, levelling several allegations against Ms. Sasikala. This led to a split within the party. His statement has come as a surprise, as party co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami had stated recently that Ms. Sasikala was no longer a part of the AIADMK. He had dismissed her claim that she was the general secretary of the party. When asked about the searches conducted by the DVAC on the premises of former Ministers, Mr. Panneerselvam said the DMK government was “in a hurry”. “The DMK is acting with an ulterior motive to eliminate the Opposition. However, this will not happen,” he said. On the issue of the spike in the prices of petrol and diesel, Mr. Panneerselvam said both the State government and the Centre were equally responsible. “The spiralling price of diesel has raised the dangerous prospect of a spike in the cost of essentials,” he said. “The party will mobilise people for protests if the DMK government tries to curtail the welfare schemes introduced by the previous regime,” he said. On dharma yudham Reacting to Mr. Panneerselvam’s comment, AIADMK organisation secretary and former Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said the party coordinator had staged a “ dharma yudham” against Ms. Sasikala and her family. It is our duty to recall the purpose of the dharma yudham , Mr. Jayakumar told reporters in Chennai. After rebelling against the party, one of the conditions put forth by Mr. Panneerselvam to join back was that the AIADMK must distance itself from Ms. Sasikala and her family, he said. Mr. Jayakumar said the AIADMK had already clarified that Ms. Sasikala had no place in it. We have warned of disciplinary action against those in touch with her, he said. Former Minister K.P. Munusamy said district units of the party had unanimously passed resolutions to keep Ms. Sasikala out of the party and the issue had been resolved.  The DMK is acting with an ulterior motive to eliminate the Opposition. However, this will not happen O. Panneerselvam AIADMK coordinator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/party-high-command-will-decide-on-sasikalas-inclusion-ops/article37170871.ece
26 October 2021||MULUGU,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 Maoists killed in shootout with police||Efforts by the Maoists to expand their area of operation in the large swathes of forests along the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border suffered a crippling blow with the death of three Maoists in an “exchange of fire” with a special police party in a forest area of Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district, adjoining Telangana’s Mulugu district on Monday morning. The exchange of fire took place in the dense forest area near the inter-State border under the Elmidi police station limits in neighbouring Chhattisgarh, police said. The identity of the three Maoists, those killed in the “exchange of fire”, could not be established immediately. Giving details of the incident, Superintendent of Police Sangram Singh Patil said a combing operation was jointly launched by the Mulugu police, the Greyhounds personnel and the Bijapur police of Chhattisgarh in the forest area straddling the inter-State border on Monday morning based on specific information about the movement of Maoist squads in the border areas. He said during the joint combing operation early Monday morning there was a volley of fire from the Maoist side which was countered by the State forces. After the exchange of fire, three bodies of male Maoists with weapons were recovered in the search operation that followed. Four weapons including one light machine gun (LMG), one self-loading rifle (SLR), an AK 47 rifle with Bayonet and one firearm besides several rounds of ammunition, one hand grenade, one knife, pressure cooker, camera flash and explosive Cordex wire among other articles were recovered from the encounter site. The police forces are still continuing the combing operation to track down the Maoists, the SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-maoists-killed-in-shootout/article37170771.ece
26 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Memorial eludes Saint Thyagaraja in his ancestral village||A befitting memorial for saint-composer Thyagaraja remains elusive in his ancestral Kakarla village, near Markapur, in Prakasam district, which has all the potential to emerge as another Thiruvaiyar. Though the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams had evinced keen interest in collaborating with the local Thyagaraja Peetam in building a beautiful “Smaraka Mandiram” for the 18th Century music composer, the project had not taken off yet as the land in question has been locked in litigation. Thyagaraja Peetam has already transferred 4.60 acres of land in the village to the TTD, says its managing trustee G. Thyagarayulu. Except for a cow shed, nothing is there to cherish the memory of Thyagaraja in his ancestral village, as some persons had allegedly encroached part of the land in the absence of the members of the Thyagayya Memorial Construction Committee locally, as most of them lived in far away places. Though the district administration had directed the local revenue officials to file a report long back, the issue remained unsettled, he laments in a conversation with The Hindu . Home to two Carnatic legends It is a matter of pride that ancestors of two of the trinity of Carnatic music, Thyagaraja and Shyama Sastry, hail from Prakasam district. While Thyagaraja, who had composed songs extolling Lord Rama, had his roots in Kakarla, ancestors of Shyama Sastry, who had composed songs in praise of mother godddess Kamakshi, was from Cumbum, seven km away from the village. Due to lack of patronage locally, their families had migrated to Thanjavur in present day Tamil Nadu, the cradle of fine arts for centuries. But for organising Aradhana festival on birth and death anniversaries, by musicians from Tirupati, Vijayawada and other places singing of the famous “Pancharatna Kritis” (five gems), not much activity has been witnessed in the nondescript village close to Nallamalasagar. Music college a non-starter A music college proposed at the native village of Tyagaraja, who has also been credited with two musical plays in Telugu, the “Prahalada Bhakti Vijayam” and the “Nauka Charitam”, has not taken shape either. It is time the revenue authorities cleared the decks for the memorial to perpetuate the memory of the saint-composer, feel his admirers, who have also sought the intervention of YSR Congress Party MLA from Gidddalur Anna Ram Babu and TTD Chairman Y.V.Subba Reddy, also former MP from Ongole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/memorial-eludes-saint-thyagaraja-in-his-ancestral-village/article37171285.ece
26 October 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu owes apology to people and Chief Minister: Bharat||Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat on Monday alleged that Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu had encouraged his partymen to launch an indecent verbal attack against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy as the last-ditch effort to defame the government. Responding to Mr. Naidu’s visit to Delhi seeking imposition of President’s rule in Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Bharat said that Mr. Naidu would have not have answers if somebody in New Delhi asks him about the nature of the verbal attack. Speaking to newsmen at a press conference in Vijayawada on Monday, Mr. Bharat said Mr. Naidu owes an apology to the people of Andhra Pradesh and the Chief Minister. “Mr. Naidu has used every tactic, right from labelling the State as a hub of drugs to disrupting the communal harmony in the name of attacks on religious places, to tarnish the image of the government. Now, TDP has no basis to corner the State government and its policies,” said Mr. Bharat. Expressing ire over Mr. Naidu’s remarks with reference to the attacks on the Telugu Desam Party’s offices, Mr. Bharat said the Jagan Mohan Reddy government has been committed to the welfare of people since it came into power and spent huge amount of money on policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-owes-apology-to-people-and-cm-bharat/article37171296.ece
26 October 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BC communities urged to submit grievances online||Andhra Pradesh Backward Classes Commission Chairman Justice A. Shankar Narayana on Monday urged the communities to obtain their caste certificates, saying that it would help them avail of reservations in jobs and educational institutions. Addressing a public hearing in Srikakulam, he said that the commission was keen on studying the issues pertaining to every community to ensure justice. He urged the community leaders to submit their grievances online so that those could be process quickly. Justice Shankar Narayana received petitions from public representatives including MLC Duvvada Srinivas, Itchapuram former MLA Piriya Sairaj and BC community leaders Duppala Venkata Rao, P. Chandrapati Rao, Badana Devabhusanam and others. Andhra Pradesh Turpu Kapu Corporation chairman Mamidi Srikanth urged the commission to include the community in the BC-A group, saying that a majority of the community were leading a miserable life owing to lack of livelihood opportunities. The commission discussed the inclusion of Piramalai Kallar Devar and Yalava castes in the BC category. The issues pertaining to caste certificates for Rajannala and Rajannalu communities were also discussed. Several castes such as Chattada Srivaishnava, Poosala, Rajaka Nai Brahmin, Medari, Telikula, Vaddera, Sagara, and Bhavasara Kshatriya sought inclusion of their communities in the BC-A group. Issuing BC-A certificates to Settibalijas in the north Andhra region and inclusion of Vada caste from B to A group were discussed. Commission member secretary D. Chandrasekhar Raju, members Avvaru Musalayya, Marakkagiri Krishnappa, Gowtri Venkata Satya Diwakar Pakki were present in the public hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bc-communities-urged-to-submit-grievances-online/article37171308.ece
26 October 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambedkar varsity V-C seeks more faculty, infra||Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University (Etcherla-Srikakulam) Vice-Chancellor Nimma Venkata Rao on Monday urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to allot more faculty to the institution and augment its infrastructure. NAAC ranking Dr. Venkata Rao met the Chief Minister at the latter’s camp office in Amaravati and gave a presentation on the institution’s recent achievements, such as obtaining a B-grade in a recent NAAC ranking, establishment of an engineering college, introduction of job-oriented courses and public outreach programmes. “The university, established during the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy regime, has been able to cater to the higher education needs of thousands of youngsters from Srikakulam and other districts,” Dr. Venkata Rao said in a press release. “The university is giving top priority to quality education. The Chief Minister is focusing on higher education in order to ensure bright career options for youngsters. He suggested us to design the curriculum in a way that would meet the requirements of the industry. We will also focus on improving the communication skills of the students as suggested by the Chief Minister,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambedkar-varsity-v-c-seeks-more-faculty-infra/article37171299.ece
26 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘There is no threat to Mullaperiyar dam’||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the Assembly that scaremongers were spreading rumours of an imminent threat to the Mullaperiyar dam on social media. Mr. Vijayan said no such threat existed. There was no immediate cause for worry. The alarmist propaganda would do the State immense harm, and it was not based on any scientific fact. The police would identify and prosecute such purveyors of false news. Kerala would continue to lobby for a new dam at Mullaperiyar. The Centre and some States were opposed to the proposal. Kerala was in close coordination with Tamil Nadu to regulate water levels in Mullaperiyar. The Tamil Nadu authorities were highly empathetic to Kerala’s demands, and officials of both States were working to ensure water levels in the reservoir were well-regulated. Earlier, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan flagged the issue in the House. He said social media was awash with rumours of the dam’s structural integrity. The State could not ignore people’s anxiety, and should take concrete steps to mitigate their fear. Water level rises The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam continued to rise, reaching 137.3 ft on Monday evening. While there was an inflow of 2,836 cfs (cubic feet per second), Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 2,200 cfs. The maximum level as decided by the Supreme Court is 142 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pinarayi-dispels-rumours-about-safety-of-mullaperiyar-dam/article37170769.ece
26 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man gets 31 years in jail for sexually abusing boy||A fast track court here sentenced a 47-year-old man to 31 years of rigorous imprisonment for sodomising a minor boy in the city three years ago. Thiruvananthapuram Fast Track Special Judge R. Jayakrishnan, who pronounced the verdict, found Murukan alias Kappippodi Murukan of Lakshamveedu Colony in Mannanthala guilty of sexually abusing the victim. The convict was sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 10,000 under Section 377 (unnatural offences) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), one year and a fine of Rs. 5,000 under Section 506 (1) (criminal intimidation) of the IPC, and 20 years and a fine of Rs. 25,000 under Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. A default of fines would lead to additional imprisonment for six months, three months and a year respectively. Lured him According to the prosecution led by special public prosecutor Vijay Mohan R.S., the convict lured the victim, who was then aged 14 years, to his house and sexually abused him on October 13, 2018. He also threatened the child against revealing the incident to anyone. While the accused repeated the offence the next day, the victim revealed his ordeal to his parents when Murukan called him again on the third day. The case had been investigated by the then Mannanthala Sub-Inspector Rakesh J. Murukan, who was represented by advocate T. Pradeep during the trial, claimed innocence and alleged the victim’s father of foisting a false case after the former had urged the latter to end a purported ganja business that he ran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-gets-31-years-in-jail-for-sexually-abusing-boy/article37170770.ece
26 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ancestral homes get a modern makeover, thanks to work from home system||With businesses and professions getting affected in cities due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many people are heading back to their villages and towns for strengthening their roots. As a result, the ramshackle ancestral buildings are getting renovated and the orchards abutting villages are getting farmhouses. Indications are clear that the post COVID-19 lifestyle will predominantly witness the ‘work from home’ (WFH) model to continue for some more time. The educated and self-employed lot from Chittoor district, who largely benefited in the form of higher employment and business opportunities due to the proximity to Chennai and Bengaluru, had to return home with the advent of WFH norms. After staying more than a year in their home towns, many are repairing and renovating their dwellings. Many aver that villages are a safe bet to stay during the pandemic times, as they provide a secluded atmosphere with less scope for crowding. “We have artificial clay toys in cities, but our toddlers can play with real clay back in our villages. Staying close to the nature boosts immunity,” observes Rahul Sankrutyan, a Hyderabad-based multimedia professional who is improving his farmhouse near Damalcheruvu town. C. Bhaskar Naidu, a building contractor who settled in Bengaluru three decades back, is aesthetically developing his farmhouse in Pedda Thayyuru village on Chittoor-Puttur highway. The farmhouse has all the urban facilities, albeit set in a rural backdrop. He has specially imported crotons and money plant with brown, dark green and black coloured leaves from China, Singapore and Thailand, which are set to adorn his farmhouse. Durga Prasad, a U.S.A.-based technology consulting leader, who got stranded in Tirupati due to the lockdown, is putting the time to best use for renovating their ancestral house on the city outskirts. “My aged parents cannot take up the massive project on their own and I am taking advantage of the time available here,” says Mr. Prasad, who is giving the house a modern touch in duplex model. More architects are heading to the countryside, with an increase in demand for aesthetically-designed swimming pools, fountains, chandeliers and so on, hitherto found only in cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ancestral-homes-get-a-modern-makeover-thanks-to-work-from-home-system/article37170818.ece
26 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two districts report zero infections in a day||The State reported seven more deaths due to COVID-19 in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. During the same period, 295 more infections were reported as only 27,641 tests were conducted. It was the lowest single-day tally in the past seven and a half months. The daily test positivity rate remains at 1.07% and that of the total 2.929 crore samples tested was 7.05%. The cumulative tally and toll increased to 20,63,872  and 14,350  respectively. During the past day, 560 patients recovered and the active cases tally fell to 4,830, the lowest in the past seven months. The total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 20,44,692 and 99.07% respectively. Krishna and Prakasam reported two deaths each in the past day, while Chittoor, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported one death each. For the first time in several months, two districts reported zero infections in a day. Anantapur and Vizianagaram reported no infections, while East Godavari reported 69 infections. It was followed by Krishna (68), Chittoor (40), Guntur (31), Visakhapatnam (22), Prakasam (19), Nellore (16), Kadapa (13), Srikakulam (13), West Godavari (3) and Kurnool (1). Also, all districts have fewer than 1,000 active cases. While Chittoor, Krishna and East Godavari have over 800 active cases each, seven districts including West Godavari (287), Srikakulam (140), Kadapa (118), Visakhapatnam (83), Anantapur (66), Vizianagaram (46) and Kurnool (25) altogether have less than 800 active cases. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,93,301), Chittoor (2,46,459), West Godavari (1,78,846), Guntur (1,77,827), Anantapur (1,57,805), Visakhapatnam (1,57,522), Nellore (1,46,249), Prakasam (1,38,398), Kurnool (1,24,118), Srikakulam (1,22,990), Krishna (1,18,994), Kadapa (1,15,554) and Vizianagaram (82,914).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-districts-report-zero-covid-infections-in-24-hours/article37171301.ece
26 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP sale: Pawan Kalyan to address meet on October 31||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan will address a meeting of the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Samithi, which has been agitating against the strategic sale of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), on October 31. Mr. Pawan Kalyan’s political secretary P. Hari Prasad said in a release that the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Samithi had requested the JSP president to participate in the stir against the privatisation of the VSP and the latter felt obliged to support them. He said that Mr. Kalyan responded soon after the Centre announced its resolve to offload its stake in the VSP and took the grievances of the steel plant employees to the notice of Union Home Minister Amit Shah on February 9. Mr. Pawan Kalyan requested Mr. Shah to take back the controversial decision by citing the sentimental value of the VSP while suggesting ways to make it a profitable venture. Mr. Shah’s attention was drawn to the fact that 32 persons had laid down their lives for the establishment of the steel ‘plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-sale-pawan-to-address-meet-on-oct-31/article37171304.ece
26 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dogs, rabbits, birds, ornamental fish killed in blaze at showroom||Many pet animals, including puppies, birds, ornamental fish and rabbits, were charred to death in a fire that erupted at an interior decoration showroom in the city on Sunday. Fire engulfed the showroom located on Buckingham Post Office Road at around midnight. By the time firemen reached the spot, many pet animals had perished. District Fire Officer (DFO) I. Dharma Rao said that the presence of synthetics, polythenes, plastic, rubber and plywood material in the showroom caused the blaze to spread faster. The reason for the fire was not known immediately. “The fire personnel used foam and water to put out the blaze. As the decorative material stored in the cupboards and in the roof caught fire, it took a lot of time to complete the operation,” the DFO said. Kept in cages Additional DFO B. Srinivas Rao said that a variety of birds, puppies and rabbits of different species kept in cages were burnt alive in the mishap. “Four fire tenders from the main fire station at Krishnalanka, Auto Nagar and Ajitsingh Nagar were rushed to the spot. We prevented the fire from spreading to adjoining shops. The operation was completed on Monday afternoon,” Mr. Srinivas Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dogs-rabbits-birds-ornamental-fish-killed-in-blaze-at-showroom/article37170820.ece
26 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Survey to identify people yet to get one dose of vaccine||Principal Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) Anil Kumar Singhal has said that a door-to-door survey will be conducted across the State to determine the number of eligible people who are yet receive at least one dose of vaccine against COVID-19 infection. Mr. Singhal told the media here on Monday said that as per an estimate done by the government last year, there were 3.47 crore persons eligible (18+) for vaccination and 91.4% of them got at least one dose, while 53.2% got fully vaccinated. The Central government later revised the eligible population as per the office of Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India to 3.95 crore. According to the Central government, 80.35% of the eligible population received at least one dose while 46.7% received both the doses. Vaccine coverage Some districts have achieved high vaccine coverage when compared to the State and national average, he said. In Nellore, 86.36% of eligible beneficiaries have got at least one dose. In Visakhapatnam, 85.2% have received at least one dose of vaccine. “The Collectors have been instructed to conduct a door-to-door survey by roping in the village and ward volunteers to estimate the number of eligible beneficiaries who are yet to receive at least one dose of vaccine. By Friday, we are likely get the actual number. The vaccine stocks will be ustilised in the next 10 to 15 days,” Mr. Singhal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/survey-to-identify-people-yet-to-get-one-dose-of-vaccine/article37171303.ece
26 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flipkart strengthens its partnerships with FPOs||Flipkart has partnered with Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) in Andhra Pradesh and other States to enable market access and growth for farming communities and boost access to staples on the marketplace platform. According to a release, Flipkart has been working with Satya Sai Farmer Federation in Anantapur and other entities in various States. Flipkart has also partnered with social sector organisations such as Andhra Pradesh Mahila Abhivruddhi Society, Foundation of Development of Rural Value Chains (FDRVC), Sahaja Aharam Producer Company (SAPCO), Samunnati, and Vrutti, among others, to facilitate engagements with FPOs in their networks. Through these partnerships, Flipkart has been able to source pulses, staples and whole spices and by bringing them on to its platform, it impacts the livelihoods of thousands among the farmer community, the release said. Beneficial to farming community Flipkart vice-president (grocery) Smrithi Ravichandran said that partnerships with FPOs were helping farming communities scale their offerings and benefit from the power of e-commerce and technology. We want to continue building these deeper engagements that positively impact the livelihoods of millions of farmers, she said. To maintain high-quality standards on its marketplace platform, Flipkart has been arranging FPO visits to its packing and processing facilities (regional packaging centers) across different regions to make them understand customer expectations of product quality and food safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flipkart-strengthens-its-partnerships-with-fpos/article37171289.ece
26 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police told to act tough on sexual offenders||AP Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma has directed the police to take stern action against teachers who are allegedly sexually harassing students. It had come to the notice of the commission that a teacher of an Urdu school at Sattenapalli in Guntur district behaved indecently with students by showing them obscene videos. The principal of a Gurukul Patasala in Chittoor district also behaved in an objectionable manner with students, she said in a statement on Monday. Expressing anger over the indecent behaviour of a volunteer towards a woman in Machavaram, Ms. Padma directed the police to take action against the volunteer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-told-to-act-tough-on-sexual-offenders/article37171286.ece
26 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home for migrant labourers inaugurated||Deputy Commissioner of Labour (DCL), Krishna district, Asha Rani on Monday inaugurated Jan Sahas NGO home for migrant labourers, at Kanaka Durga Nagar, Ajitsingh Nagar, here. Speaking on the occasion, home district coordinator T. Sandhya Nani said that Jan Sahas was extending services in 58 districts across the country for the last two decades. Ms. Asha Rani appreciated the organisation for rendering services to the migrant labourers of different States during the lockdown period. Later, the DCL distributed essentials to migrant labourers on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-for-migrant-labourers-inaugurated/article37171287.ece
26 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training given to children of APSRTC staff||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC), in association with Centre for Human Security Studies (CHSS), organised a one-month long training session for employees’ children on various subjects. Training was imparted to 1,150 students pursuing professional courses, degree, post-graduation, B.Pharmacy, MBBS, polytechnic and other courses. Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah, Principal Secretary (Transport, Roads and Buildings) M.T. Krishna Babu, APSRTC Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, Executive Directors K.S. Brahmananda Reddy, A. Koteswara Rao, Chief Manager (Personnel) Swaroopanand Reddy, CHSS founder K. Ramesh and others participated in the valedictory programme held here on Sunday. Later, the Minister and the officers presented certificates to the students who completed the training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/training-given-to-children-of-apsrtc-staff/article37170821.ece
26 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sports school selections on Oct. 27, 28||Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP) Vice-Chairman and Managing Director N. Prabhakar Reddy, in a statement on Monday, said that selections to the Dr. YSR Sports School at Kadapa would be conducted at Acharya N.G. Ranga University on October 27 and 28. The selections would be conducted for students of Class IV and V. Students selected at the district-level would have to appear for the State-level selections being conducted at the Physical Education Department of the university. The selections would be held on October 27 for Class IV and on October 28 for Class V at 7 a.m. Students would have to bring along relevant certificates, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sports-school-selections-on-oct-27-28/article37170825.ece
26 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APTDC directors sworn in||The directors of the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC), who were appointed by the State government reccently, were sworn in at Berm Park on Monday. APTDC Managing Director Satyaranayana and Chairman Arimanda Varaprasad Reddy administered the oath of office to the new directors. The 12 newly appointed directors are R. Srinivasa Rao, R. Revathi, K. Srilakshmi, N. Satyanarayana, Patan Zameera Begum, S. Alla Basha, L. Jayanna, V. Sai Kishore Reddy, B. Praveen Kumar Reddy, K. Srilakshmi Devi, B. Jahnavi and M. Bhaskar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aptdc-directors-sworn-in/article37171302.ece
26 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cricket betting racket busted, six arrested||The Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) conducted raids on different places in the city and arrested six persons, including a few bookies, for allegedly resorting to cricket betting on Sunday night. On a tip-off, the CTF teams raided a hotel and two houses at Satyanarayanapuram, Suryaraopet and at Bhavanipuram. The gangs were allegedly accepting betting from the punters for the India-Pakistan T20 match, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. Police seized a laptop, television, 12 mobile phones and other material, said CTF Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police K.V. Srinivas Rao. Efforts on to nab others Efforts are being made to arrest the punters and other bookies, said Mr. Srinivasulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/6-held-for-resorting-to-cricket-betting/article37171288.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents stage protest against decision to take over aided school||Scores of students and parents staged a protest, holding up traffic on the busy Gnanapuram Main Road, on Monday, demanding that the Sacred Heart Girls High School not be taken over by the government but continued as an aided school at the same place. The parents say they are sending their daughters to this school from far-off places on the outskirts of the city as the decades-old school provides a secure environment. “There are government schools in our localities, but we prefer this school,” says a mother. The State government proposal to take over aided schools and merge them with government schools continues to draw flak from parents and managements. This is despite the AP High Court judgment directing the State government not to coerce unwilling aided schools to accept its offer. Visakhapatnam South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar tried to pacify the agitating parents. He said that the State government had decided to take over private aided schools, which had meagre strength and merge them with the nearby government schools. Missionary schools like the Sacred Heart School have a very large number of students on their rolls and they would not be taken over. There seems to be communication gap among the aided school managements, he said. “The State government is trying to take over the lands of the aided schools. Some of the staff members are also supporting the government thinking that they would get better salaries and perks. The officials are exerting pressure on the managements of aided schools to hand over their lands, and in the process the whole education system is being destroyed,” says Malladi Raju, working president of MSN Charities Parirakshana Samithi. The MSN Charities Trust runs several educational institutes for the poor and a Veda Patasala in Kakinada. The Trust, established in 1912, owns 1,258.53 acres of land and now the State government is eyeing the lands, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parents-stage-protest-against-decision-to-take-over-aided-school/article37171396.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector directs officials to focus on ‘Spandana’ petitions||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has directed the officials to review solving of petitions received during the ‘Spandana’ programme and their pendency during their field-level visits to the gram and ward secretariats. Dr. Mallikarjuna held a review meet with the officials as part of Spandana on Monday. He said that the Municipal Commissioners and District Panchayat Officer should focus on these issues. He directed the officials concerned to immediately take action in solving the petitions received at the last ‘Spandana’ held at Narsipatnam in the district. He asked the officials of the respective departments to make a note of the action taken on each of the petition. A Spandana would organised on October 30 on the problems of employees. All field-level staff should be permitted to appear at the programme and tell their grievances. A total of 41,886 petitions were received till the Spandana programme held last week. Of these, 40,816 were solved and 1,070 were pending with various departments. A total of 292 petitions were received on Monday. Joint Collectors M. Venugopal Reddy and Kalpana Kumari were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-directs-officials-to-focus-on-spandana-petitions/article37171394.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Smart Cards despatched up to March 31, says Deputy Transport Commissioner||The issue of Smart Cards, pertaining to DL (Driving Licence) and Registration Certificate (RC) for motor vehicles, the despatch of which had been pending due to delays in supply of cards, has been completed till March 31, 2021. Those who had issued DL and RC books, before March 31, 2021, and did not receive their Smart Cards, so far, can track the status of their smart cards by logging on to the websitewww.aprtacitizen. epragathi.organd proceeding to the ‘Track your smart card status’ window. Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam said that the supply of cards was restored in July this year, and printing of pending smart cards and their dispatch were started. “In all 80,000 DL cards and 60,000 RC cards, pending till March 2021, have been printed and dispatched. The 5,000 DL and 5,000 RC cards, pending from April to May 31, 2021, have also been printed and would be dispatched through Speed Post within the next 15 days. The cards pending from June 1, 2021, would be given after fresh supply of smart cards was received by the department. When his attention was brought to the complaints of non-receipt of smart cards by those who had applied one year ago, Mr. Raja Ratnam said: “As many as 2,000 DL cards and 3,000 RC cards, dispatched between July 2020 and February 2021, have been returned to the Transport Department by the Postal Department as the applicants had not given proper residential address in their applications. “Such applicants can approach the RTA Office at Madhavadhara, VUDA Colony, along with their Aadhaar card and other proof of personal identity and collect their smart cards,” the DTC added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/smart-cards-despatched-up-to-march-31-says-deputy-transport-commissioner/article37171398.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No closure orders have been given, says DEO||District Educational Officer L. Chandrakala has said that no orders have been issued for the closure of any of the aided schools in the district. She called upon students and their parents not to believe rumours that the schools would be closed. In a statement on Monday, Ms. Chandrakala noted that the State government as part of its policy decision has proposed to either take over the aided schools along with their assets and teachers, who were receiving aid from the government or the teachers, who were receiving aid, without taking over the assets. The DEO noted that the approval of the managements of aided schools was sought in this regard and the managements of 62 schools have agreed to handover the teachers, who were being provided aid, to the government. They, however, said that they would retain their assets. She said that orders were issued converting these 62 schools into private schools. She said that parents were free to continue their children in the same school or to shift them. Arrangements have been made for the shifting of students to other schools, based on the decision of their parents, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-closure-orders-have-been-given-says-deo/article37171399.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Art expo depicts pandemic experiences of people||A four-day art exhibition showcasing works of nearly 90 artists from across Andhra Pradesh began at Hawa Mahal here on Monday. The Art Festival has on display paintings, sculptures, graphics and photographs done mostly during the pandemic by the artists. The exhibition was inaugurated by L.K.V. Ranga Rao, Deputy Inspector General of Police, (Visakhapatnam range). Curated by artist Kattakuri Ravi and supported by Mayank Kumari Deo of Hawa Mahal, the exhibition is the first major art show post pandemic and is aimed at providing a platform to artists, especially upcoming artists, to reach out to art connoisseurs. Works of noted artists V. Ramesh and Bothsa Venkat also feature in the show. A resin sculpture of late artist Ravi Shankar Patnaik done by sculptor M. Srinu is one of the first works at displayed at the show. Sculptures done on fibre glass and paper mache, impressions of artists in various themes and mediums figure in the show. Artist Jagadeesh Tammineni’s woodcut work titled ‘Far’ showcases a path of ascending steps with cemented broken glass on the steps perhaps indicating the challenges of life and the inevitable way forward is to tide over them. Artist Dolly Dhillon’s water colour work titled ‘Landscape’ is inspired by the lessons gathered from nature and feeling a deep connection with them. Dolly feels that trees are real-life oxygen concentrators, “the need for which was deeply felt during the pandemic.” Nitisha Dudivaka’s pencil drawing of a pensioner transports one to a different world while artist Sayeeda Ali’s three-work series titled ‘Childhood Memories’ infuses nostalgia in its flood of colours and simplicity. The exhibition also features works of D. Anita Rao, T. Gowtam and other students of Department of Fine Arts, Andhra University. The exhibition will be on till October 28 from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/art-expo-depicts-pandemic-experiences-of-people/article37171389.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Post pandemic, Vizag realty shows signs of improvement||The real estate business which has been in the doldrums ever since the COVID-19 pandemic had hit the city in March 2020, has, for the first time, shown positive signs of improvement but the rise in the material cost has lowered profitability, according to experts. The first wave was really bad for the sector as business dropped to almost zero level. “On the one hand we did not have buyers coming forward or banks extending loans and on the other construction work had stalled due to the lockdown and large-scale migration of labour,” recalls CREDAI chairman B. Srinivasa Rao. Things were about to look better from February this year but the COVID-19 second wave from March dealt another big blow, he adds. The situation is now improving and if this trend continues then by the next couple of months business should bounce back to normalcy, opine experts. Manmaya Pandab, DGM, State Bank of India, tells The Hindu that signs of improvement are evident and new areas such as Pendurthi, Lankelapalem, Atchutapuram and Madhurwada are picking up. The SBI is financing close to 150 projects, including about 15 sanctioned post COVID-19 second wave, with project cost going up to Rs. 45 crore in some cases. According to CREDAI president K.S.R.K. Raju the demand for gated communities has been on the rise. At least 50 gated communities, varying from mid-segment to high-end are coming up in the city. “Domestic customers as also NRIs are preferring gated communities as they provide all amenities and security,” adds Mr. Raju. Despite the signs of improvement CREDAI officials say that profitability in the business is shrinking with every passing day due to the steep increase in material cost. Shrinking profits The cost of steel has gone up from Rs. 35,000 per tonne to Rs. 65,000 in the last few months while the cost of cement per bag has increased by Rs. 40 in the last two days. Non-availability of sand and the high fluctuation in its price are adding to their woes. “But at the same time we have not been able to increase the selling price as desired,” says Mr. Srinivasa Rao. According to Mr. Raju, there has been a 35-40% increase in the material cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/post-pandemic-vizag-realty-shows-signs-of-improvement/article37171310.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Class 8 student killed in road accident||In a road accident at the Four-Road Junction near Visakha Dairy, under Gajuwaka Police Station limits, an eight class student of a private school died here on Monday. According to the police, a four-wheeler was heading towards Gajuwaka from NAD Juntion. Near the junction, the driver reportedly lost control after the brakes of the vehicle failed. Unable to control the vehicle the driver mowed down the student who has been identified as Ch. Madhu Sai. The boy who received severe injuries died while undergoing treatment in a private hospital. Gajuwaka police have booked cases and investigation is on. Girl dies In another incident, 12-year-old Mounika, a resident of Kommadi, died after she fell in a ditch on Monday. According to the police, the girl fell in the ditch that was dug up by the builders of a private building and reportedly died after suffering injuries. Mother of the deceased Lakshmi (42) in her complaint has alleged negligence of the builder. Police are investigating the case and more details are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/class-8-student-killed-in-road-accident/article37171390.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Firecracker blast: son of deceased arrested||A day after the blast occurred in an illegal firecracker factory at Medivada village in Ravikamatham mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday evening, the district police have stepped up the vigilance and enforcement on such illegal units. In the blast on person, Ponagalla Nookaratnam (65), had died on the spot and another elderly woman was injured. According to Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao, one person P. Sambasiva Rao, who is the son of the deceased, was arrested on Monday and further investigation is on. In Visakhapatnam district, in areas such as Anakapalle (rural), Ravikamatham and Chodavaram, there are a number of illegal units, as well as licensed units. In the last 10 years, at least 20 persons were killed in such blasts occurring at illegal firecracker units and the worst was in March 2019, when five had died in a unit at Gullipalle village in Sabbavaram. ‘Wrong ratio’ Though the police are yet to come to a conclusion on how and why the blast had occurred at the unit in Ravikamatham, initial investigations suggest that it could be due to the wrong ratio in the mixing of sulphur and gunpowder.  The material was brought by Sambasiva Rao at around 6 p.m. to the unit and the blast occurred at around 6.45 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/firecracker-blast-son-of-deceased-arrested/article37171401.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HRD Network Vizag chapter office-bearers elected||D.S. Varma, head of HR and Administration, ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel, has been elected as the president of National HRD Network, Visakhapatnam chapter. The other members of the new team include K.V. Rao, general manager, VSP, as vice-president, V. Bhaskar Srinivas Rao, GM of Shriram Financial, as secretary, and P. Ramu Naidu of NALCO as secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hrd-network-vizag-chapter-office-bearers-elected/article37171332.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vigilance Week set to begin from today||The Vigilance Week is all set to be observed by various government establishments from Tuesday. The Visakhapatnam Port Trust will be organising various programmes from Tuesday to November 1, according to Chief Vigilance Officer J. Pradeep Kumar. He said as per the CVC guidelines, the VPT will strive to create awareness among all the stakeholders, employees and other citizens, especially youth, to promote and uphold ethical values. Speaking to the media, he said various programmes, including vendor meet, quiz and essay writing competition will be conducted. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited, Visakhapatnam Refinery, is also conducting a week-long activities as part of Vigilance Awareness Week. K. Nagesh, GM (in-charge)-HR, said that as part of the week a number of activities will be taken up, beginning with an awareness seminar for students in the Department of Commerce and Management Studies of Andhra University, on Tuesday. Anti-corruption pledge At around 11 a.m., a joint anti-corruption pledge will be made with 10,000 students in coordination with school and colleges, in the city, said Mr. Nagesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vigilance-week-set-to-begin-from-today/article37171395.ece
26 October 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination drive for Hepatitis B organised||A special vaccination drive against Hepatitis B was conducted for healthcare workers of KGH in the Department of Gastroenterology under the National Viral Hepatitis Control Programme on Monday. P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College (AMC), also took the jab. More than 14,000 people were vaccinated in the department since 2013. B. Shankar Sharma, HoD Gastroenterology, L.R.S. Girinadh, Associate Professor, R. Ramalakshmi, Assistant Professor of Microbiology, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-drive-for-hepatitis-b-organised/article37171397.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Policy will harm interests of students, says CPI(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) Greater Visakha City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao alleged that the State government has unilaterally transferred the teachers and lecturers of aided schools and colleges to government schools and colleges. In a statement on Monday, he alleged that the managements of these aided schools and colleges in the city were announcing that they would shut their institutions. The managements of St. Peter’s School, Sacred Heart Girls High School, St. Ann’s, AVN High School and College have announced closure and driving their students out of the premises, he alleged. The hasty decision of the State government was making the managements of the aided schools to resort to such action, harming the interests of thousands of students, he alleged. The students of aided schools were mostly children of economically and socially backward classes. The withdrawal of aid to these schools would result in steep hike in the fee for students, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/policy-will-harm-interests-of-students-says-cpim/article37171400.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on water resources held||The United Nations University Institute for the Advanced Study of Sustainability (UNU-IAS), Andhra University and Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT), Srikakulam, jointly organised a webinar on “Sustainable Water Resources Management in Asian Cities: Challenges & Opportunities”, on Monday. Over 100 delegates from India, Japan and other countries had participated. K.C. Reddy, Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council, RGUKT, Andhra Pradesh, delivered the inaugural address. M. Prasada Rao from AU Department of Economics, Kensuke Fukushi, Academic Director, UNU-IAS, Japan; and G. Srijana, former Commissioner, GVMC, and other experts spoke on the topic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-on-water-resources-held/article37171402.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam district reports 21 more COVID-19 cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 21 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending Monday morning, taking the cumulative count of cases to 1,58,030. There was no increase in the cumulative death count that stands at 1,095, as no deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, 43 persons infected with the virus have recovered, taking the total tally of recoveries to 1,56,199. The active cases as on date stand at 736.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-district-reports-21-new-covid-cases/article37171333.ece
26 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospitality sector urges State government for industry status||Hotels and restaurants have urged the State government to ensure industry status for the hospitality sector, which has been facing difficulties with the skyrocketing maintenance costs. Occupancy ratio has been affected for the second consecutive year with the impact of COVID-19. Till pre-COVID period, the occupancy rate was around 70% and it used to go up to 90% in October and November with the the beginning of marriage season and economic activity during Deepavali. With the continuous fear of COVID-19, many business persons stopped visiting Vizianagaram district. As many of them prefer to complete transactions through online and video conference calls, the occupancy ratio has not even crossed 50% in October. Employment “Hospitality sector provides huge employment directly and indirectly. So, the government should look into the issues and ensure industry status for the sector. The status will certainly provide concessions in electricity charges and other charges,” said Gudisa Shivakumar, honorary president of the Vizianagaram Hotels Association. He added that the hundreds of local youngsters would also get jobs when the government and hospitality sector would take up short term training programmes jointly for them. “The hospitality sector is ready to provide free in-service training for the youngsters when A.P. Skill Development Corporation comes forward with a list of probable candidates,” he added. The Vizianagaram Hotels Association President G. Srinivasa Rao urged the government to promote tourism spots and major temples of the district by operating buses and vehicles from Visakhapatnam. “Circuit tourism is the best option for providing encouragement to the hospitality sector. The hotels and restaurants will overcome the maintenance cost when visitors flow is good,” he said. According to him, Vizianagaram Fort, Thatipudi reservoir, Ramateertham Temple, Sri Pydibamba temple, Sri Rama Narayanam, Astalakshmi temple were the suitable places for circuit tourism in Vizianagaram district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospitality-sector-urges-state-government-for-industry-status/article37171295.ece
26 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram Collector promises protection to Kotia villagers||Vizianagaram Collector A. Suryakumari on Monday assured all support and security to the people living in Kotia villages in Saluru mandal that shares border with Odisha. She said that the Andhra Pradesh government was keen to protect them from ‘attacks’ from people with vested interests. Several public representatives and villagers of Kotia villages met the Collector in Vizianagaram and poured out their woes. The villagers said that they did not want to be under Odisha administration, but keen to be under the jurisdiction of Andhra Pradesh. Ganjaibhadra vice-sarpanch Gemmili Beesu alleged thatOdisha officials were threatening them, if the villagers were keen to under the administrative purview of Andhra Pradesh. Konadhara villager Tai Singaramma said that they were happy with the welfare schemes introduced by the Andhra Pradesh government. Ms. Suryakumari said that a special officer would take care of the isuues of the villagers. Earlier, the Collector had lunch with the villagers and inquired about the facilities pertaining to education, health and others being provided in their villages. Later, the Kotia villagers met Superintendent of Police M. Deepika Patil and urged her to protect them from ‘atrocities’ they had been enduring. They sought additional police force and a permanent solution to their problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizianagaram-collector-promises-protection-to-kotia-villagers/article37170869.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In one voice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-one-voice/article37171294.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Too many contenders||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/too-many-contenders/article37170827.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lord of the rink||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lord-of-the-rink/article37171393.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reaping it rich||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reaping-it-rich/article37171312.ece
26 October 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||SCCL workers union to stage protest at all mines today||The Singareni Collieries Workers Union (SCWU), affiliated to the AITUC, has called for dharnas in front of all the coal mines of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) on October 26 in protest against the Centre’s "move" to e-auction four coal blocks in the State for commercial coal mining. The SCWU has launched a campaign to enlist support of the workforce for a sustained agitation to press for the removal of the four coal blocks — Sattupalli Block-III, Koyagudem Block-III, Shravanapalli and Kalyan Khani Block-6 — from the auction list reportedly released by the Coal Ministry in the second week of this month. The SCWU organised gate meetings at various coal mines, including the PVK 5 incline mine in Kothagudem region, in the past two days to mobilise support for the series of protests it planned to hold across the coal belt region demanding handing over the four coal blocks to the State-owned SCCL for mining. The Centre’s move to allocate the four coal blocks in the State for commercial coal mining is arbitrary and bound to prove detrimental to the growth of the State-owned SCCL, leading to socio-economic repercussions, said SCWU general secretary Vasireddy Seetharamaiah. Big investment “The government-owned SCCL, the only coal producing company in the entire south India, spent huge amounts of about Rs. 60 crore on coal exploration activities in the four coal blocks,” he told The Hindu . The Centre should immediately delist the four coal blocks from the auction list and allow the State-owned SCCL to take up coal mining in those blocks to strengthen the government coal mining company and safeguard the interests of the workforce, he insisted. We have invited all other trade unions operating in the Singareni coal fields for a meeting slated to be held in Godavarikhani town on October 31 to decide the next course of action to press for removal of the four coal blocks from the auction list, Mr Seetharamaiah said. SCWU honorary president and former Kothagudem MLA Kunamneni Sambasiva Rao and other senior leaders will address the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-workers-union-to-stage-protest-at-all-mines-today/article37171157.ece
26 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Who gave orders to open fire, asks SC panel||Who gave the orders to the police party to open fire on the four accused in the Disha gang rape and murder case in the early hours of December 6, 2019? The Supreme Court-appointed Justice Sirpurkar Commission posed this question to the then Shadnagar ACP Vasam Surender who was deposing before the panel on Monday. “After firing started from the other side, I gave caution three times. ‘ Longipondi. Longipondi. Paripokandi . (Surrender. Surrender. Don’t run away). Even when it didn’t stop, I gave orders to inspector Lal Madhar to open fire in the air. When the firing continued from the other side, I ordered the officer to fire towards the sound to scare the accused,” Mr. Surender replied. The Chairman of the commission and Supreme Court retired judge Justice V.S. Sirpurkar asked the officer whether he gave orders to fire on the legs of the accused. For which the officer replied, “No. I only ordered them to fire towards the sound of firing to scare the accused. I gave orders not to shoot the accused. The firing was coming from them and there was danger of the accused being hurt because of their own firing.” Further, he said that their (accused) firing could have affected them as he had to safeguard the police party and the panchas from indiscriminate firing. The firing of the police party was in squatted position, while movements of the accused was helter skelter. “So, because of that their firing could have hit them or our firing could have. Anything was possible,” Mr. Surender said. Earlier, the Commission asked the officer about how the accused threw sand in the eyes of the police party, which of the accused snatched the weapons, did anyone or Mr. Surender himself try to catch the accused, where were the sticks, stones, and iron rod used by the accused to attack the police. He was also asked whether the police party stood in row or in circle when the prime accused Mohammed Arif took them to the spot where Disha’s articles were buried, why were they carrying torchlights and asked whether he could draw the sketch showing the locations of the place where Disha’s articles were found and positioning of police party and panchas. “After throwing stand in our eyes, I heard Arif giving caution ‘ Aare Vurakandra ’ (hey start running) to his fellow accused and SI Venkateswarlu shouted ‘Sir, Chennakeshavulu na weapon gunjukunnadu (sir, Chennakeshavulu snatched away my weapon),” he said. When the Commission asked him why didn’t he mention all the facts in his complaint copy and even in the affidavit filed before them, Mr. Surender said that because of his disturbed mental state after the incident, he could not recollect all the details. This was a ‘standard’ reply of Mr. Surender for nearly half-a-dozen questions posed by the commission about ‘missing’ facts in his complaint copy. “He pretends as if he doesn’t understand English and is testing our patience. He doesn’t know that we have ample proof of it,” the members commented. Earlier, they told the officer that whoever reads his statement would form an opinion that either he did not understand the question or he was trying to avoid it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/who-gave-orders-to-open-fire-asks-sc-panel/article37171125.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS plenary highlights IT sector growth, Dalit Bandhu||The focus of resolutions at the plenary session of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) held here on Monday was on the launch of Dalit Bandhu scheme and development of information technology sector and infrastructure although they touched every welfare and development scheme being implemented in the State. Speaking on a resolution on IT sector growth and infrastructure development, working president of the TRS K.T. Rama Rao, who also holds the portfolio of IT, Industries and Municipal Administration in the Cabinet, said Telangana had been following a ‘3i’ mantra — encouraging innovation, expanding infrastructure and espousing inclusive growth — and as a result the State had leaped ahead of others in many sectors. From electric vehicles to aircraft fuselage, from development of vaccines to apps and ‘Apple’ products and from having back-end offices of major IT companies to becoming backbone in the operation of such IT majors Telangana was into every economic activity, Mr. Rama Rao and explained how the State had been encouraging start-ups. “In fact, Telangana State itself has become the best example of a start-up as its polices and schemes are being replicated by many States following their huge success here. Our policy is start-up and their (Centre’s) policy pack-up as it has been selling off several public sector undertakings in the name of disinvestment and monetisation,” Mr. Rama Rao said. He noted that the integrated household survey (‘samagra kutumba survey’) taken up by the TRS government in August 2014 had helped it take welfare schemes to every eligible threshold (household). Stating that most of the schemes launched by the government helping State GDP Mr. Rama Rao explained how 24×7 power supply to all categories of consumers was leading to uninterrupted creation of wealth. Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy spoke on development of energy sector and administrative reforms as part of the resolution. Dalit Bandhu Vikarabad MLA M. Anand and Peddapalli MP B. Venkatesh explained how Dalit Bandhu was most desirable for the community which was among the poorest of the poor. Speaking on the resolution on the scheme, they said it was multiple benefit scheme as it would help improve the education, health and social status of dalit communities by improving their income generation. “Dalit Bandhu scheme will dispel the darkness of poverty, backwardness and discrimination from the lives of dalit communities and also light up their lives,” Mr. Anand said. President of TRS K. Chandrasekhar Rao complimented the two for understanding of the scheme. Party leaders S. Madhusudana Chary, Whip G. Sunitha, ministers and former ministers and members of Parliament — S. Niranjan Reddy and A. Nageshwar Rao, Kadiam Srihari, Md. Mahamood Ali, V. Srinivas Goud and Satyavathi Rathod, C. Laxma Reddy, T. Ravinder Rao, Nama Nageswara Rao and G. Ranjith Reddy — spoke on five other resolutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-plenary-highlights-it-sector-growth-dalit-bandhu/article37171147.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Thirteen more link roads proposed in Hyderabad||A link between Golnaka and Nagole along the Musi River is part of the 13 more link roads being developed in the city by GHMC and HMDA in the coming days. The link will reduce the traffic burden on the existing road between Amberpet and Ramanthapur, where an elevated corridor is under construction by the National Highways Authority of India. Besides, it will also bring down the commute time drastically for the vehicle riders. The four-lane road with pavement, stormwater drainage and footpaths will be of 1.3 km length and cost Rs. 20 crore. Property acquisition is almost complete, with several property owners agreeing to accept transferable developmental rights in lieu of monetary compensation. List of roads Other roads proposed as part of the Phase-II of the link roads project include a 1.9 km slip road near Goulidoddi, 400 metres of link between Road No.5, Jubilee Hills and Road No. 2, Banjara Hills via Annapurna Studio, one kilometre between Novotel Hotel and KPHB road, two roads of 1.7 kilometres and 1.6 kilometres respectively from Bachupally to Nizampet, one kilometre in Puppalguda, connecting road of 2.58 kilometres from Kismathpur to Rajendranagar, 1.8 kilometres from Nallagandla to GHMC Serilingampally zonal office, 3.6 kilometres between Osman Nagar and Vattinagulapally, 2.4 kilometres from Kranthi Vanam layout to Bhagyalakshmi Layout in Kondapur, one kilometre between Kismathpur and Golden Heights Colony road, and 1.7 kilometres in Hafeezpet. Of these, six roads will be developed by HMDA and the remaining by GHMC. Total cost for the 13 roads is estimated at Rs. 233 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/thirteen-more-link-roads-proposed-in-the-city/article37171130.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR blaming Election Commission not right: BJP||Predicting and exuding confidence that their respective candidates were going to win Huzurabad byelection, leaders of both the TRS and the BJP on Monday claimed it was “one-sided war” for them. Congress leaders contended that only their nominee can be the “real voice of the people” and both BJP and TRS were enacting a drama of rivalry. With only 48 hours remaining to down the curtains on campaign, candidates of the main political parties tried to cover the constituency as extensively as possible. Main leaders and star campaigners of the BJP and the TRS went to different parts of the constituency while their nominees Eatala Rajender and Gellu Srinivas Yadav respectively visited villages separately appealing people to vote for them. Responding to TRS supremo and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao’s comment at his party’s plenary in Hyderabad that Election Commission put spokes in his plan to convene election meeting outside Huzurabad, BJP State chief Bandi Sanjay retorted that KCR was blaming Election Commission for being neutral. It was KCR government that wrote to Election Commission to defer Huzurabad bypoll. “And now, he is blaming the Election Commission, which is known for conducting fair and free election,” he said. Describing the ‘promises of making a dalit as CM and three acres of land to each dalit made by KCR’ as blatant lies, Mr. Sanjay said “KCR should be given Oscar award for his mastery over art of lying”. Refuting all charges made by BJP leaders, Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao said the former were indulging in all sorts of gimmicks instead of “telling public clearly what they would do for the constituency and its voters”. Mr. Harish Rao, who was shouldering the responsibility of TRS campaign, dared the BJP leaders to spell out a single special fund they had secured for Telangana. “BJP leaders are working to hike LPG cylinder price upto Rs. 2,000. Can they promise the voters that there would not be any rise on prices of diesel and petrol?” he challenged. Gellu Srinivas appealed to people to bury BJP and give an opportunity to fresh blood by voting for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-blaming-election-commission-not-right-bjp/article37171150.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mapmygenome joins INSACOG to keep track of SARS-CoV-2||City-based Mapmygenome has recently joined select few labs to become part of INSACOG - India SARS-CoV-2 genome surveillance consortium to keep track of the virus variants circulating among people across the country. The genomics firm has been running COVID testing lab within the premises of the GMR Hyderabad International Airport from last November and has been providing samples to CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) for analysis and sequencing. Three other private labs, one in New Delhi, one in Gurugram and another in Bengaluru after fulfilling certain criteria laid out by the Department of Biotechnology are the others to join the INSACOG network of 28 government laboratories established in January. More than 1 lakh COVID samples have been sequenced so far and the government intends to scale it up and also reduce the time being taken to a week from from the current 10-15 days with more labs joining in. Mapmygenome plans to  expand teams by having a new office in Delhi apart from the Madhapur headquarters and the Kukatpally branch here. "We have built and nurtured world-class labs over the last two decades. We were the first private lab to offer personal genomics and had built our portfolio of lab services. We have the team, expertise, and the equipment for the work," said CEO Anu Acharya on Monday. The lab could quickly adapt to COVID-19 testing since it had already gained expertise in gold standard RT-PCR testing. "We were using RT-PCR for single gene testing. We built the expertise and received approval for RT-PCR based test for HIV. Our scientific team built the COVID testing protocol by working round the clock. Our IT team mapped the whole process from sample collection to report distribution, into our in-house laboratory information management system," she said. The lab has entered into ‘strategic partnerships with hospitals and organisations pan-India’ and had obtained necessary approvals from ICMR - Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and NABL - National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories and also from the Telangana government for COVID testing services. The new sample collection and testing kits eliminating the need for DNA extraction is also being adopted for quickening the testing process, added the CEO. INSACOG in its last bulletin (Oct. 11) had stated Delta (B.1.617.2 and AY.x) continues to be the main ‘variant of concern (VOC) in the country and no new strains were detected. The focus will be on sewage surveillance program since increased viral load in sewage, presumably from asymptomatic patients, has been shown to precede measurable rise in diagnosed cases.  We are the first private lab to offer personal genomics. Anu Acharya, CEO, Mapmygenome||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mapmygenome-joins-insacog-to-keep-track-of-sars-cov-2/article37171140.ece
26 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Walled enclosure found at Qutb Shahi Tombs||Conservation architects at the Qutb Shahi Tombs complex have uncovered an old battlement wall that enclosed the tombs of Hayat Bakshi Begum and her husband Sultan Qutb Shah. “It was covered with a layer of concrete but when we chipped away, we discovered the wall which is shaped like a battlement,” informed Ratish Nanda, CEO of Aga Khan Trust for Culture, which is carrying out work for Department of Archaeology and Museums, Telangana. “We will strengthen it so that it lasts for a long time and people get to see the architectural style of the Qutb Shahis,” said Mr. Nanda. This is the second time when a walled enclosure has been discovered at the Qutb Shahi Tombs complex. A few years earlier, architects working on the site discovered that the tomb of the founder of the dynasty Sultan Quli was in the centre of a square garden enclosure. The discovery of an enclosing wall is not a surprise as walled gardens are the definition of paradise in Old Persian. The discovery of the wall was among several findings that the State government and AKTC shared on Monday during a press event. Full of surprises “This site has been full of surprises. The amazing stucco work on Sultan Quli’s tomb was covered with a layer of concrete. The coloured tiles of Sultan Qutb Shah’s were covered with limestone. We restored graves which were covered under layers of soil,” said Mr. Nanda, describing some of the work that is being carried out at the site. The QS tombs complex have been subjected to a series of conservation/restoration efforts over the past so many years. The Qutb Shahi tombs complex has been on the tentative list of World Heritage Sites since 2010 and the State government is now trying to push the case to get the nomination. However, one of the sticking points has been the stalled interpretation centre that the State government is constructing in the land where the Deccan Park was built in the early 21st century.  We will strengthen it so that it lasts for a long time and people get to see the architectural style of the Qutb Shahis. Ratish Nanda, CEO., Aga Khan Trust for Culture||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/walled-enclosure-found-at-qutb-shahi-tombs/article37171129.ece
26 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||I am under pressure, pleads ACP||“I am under pressure. Allow me to correct my answer as I got confused by the question,” Shadnagar ex-ACP Vasam Surender told the Supreme Court-appointed Justice Sirpurkar Commission inquiring the alleged encounter of the four accused in the rape and murder of Disha on December 6, 2019, on Monday. Mr. Surender became emotional and folded his palms, pleading the panel to allow him to correct his reply to a question about whether all the police party and panchas left the spot and went near the direction where bodies of the accused were lying after the firing. Initially, the officer replied ‘Yes’ and later he told the panel that Lal Madar and Sirajuddin went first, and informed him that the accused were ‘not moving’ “Then I took Ravi and panchas and went there,” he said. Taken aback by his sudden emotional beseech, former Bombay High Court judge Justice Rekha Sondur-Baldota said “It is a fact-finding commission. Why are you taking so much pressure. Relax.” “For the first time in my life I’m facing a Supreme Court judge and a Bombay High Court judge, I’m under so much pressure” the officer replied. Further, Commission member and former director of CBI D.R. Karthikeyan suggested Mr. Surender to close the eyes, take a deep breath for two or three times, pray to his ‘Ishta devata’, before answering the questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/i-am-under-pressure-pleads-acp/article37171126.ece
26 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Apollo to administer free vaccine to children with co-morbidities||Apollo Hospitals has announced on Monday that it will provide COVID-19 vaccination free of cost to children with specified co-morbidities, across the hospital network. Earlier, senior officials from the Telangana Health Department said that the vaccine for 12-18 years age group might be available in a few weeks. Anticipating that the approval will soon be granted for vaccinating children with specified co-morbidities, the hospital’s management stated that the list is expected to include children with haematological, neurological, cardiac, liver, gastrointestinal, rheumatic, cancer, respiratory, genitourinary and developmental disorders. The government is yet to publish a final list. “The government’s approval of vaccinations for children with co-morbidities, when it comes through, will be a welcome step in the right direction. Realising the criticality of this vaccination, we will be extending COVID vaccines completely free of cost to children with co-morbidities,” said Dr Prathap C Reddy, Chairman, Apollo Hospitals Group. “There are two vaccines that have been given or are awaiting EUA by the government and these are: Covaxin for ages 2-18 years. Two doses with a gap of 28 days. Administered intra-muscularly. ZyCov-D: For ages 12-18 years. Three doses with a gap of 28 days. Needle-free vaccine administered intra-dermally. Both vaccines would be available at Apollo Hospitals’ vaccination centres across the country once all government approvals are in place and the vaccines are made available,” as per a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-vaccine-to-children-with-co-morbidities/article37171143.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||When KCR gave only one speech in a plenary...||The plenary session of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) held here on Monday was different from all the previous plenaries as it had only opening speech by party president K. Chandrasekhar Rao while he would give closing speech too in the sessions held in the past. While referring to the Huzurabad byelection in his address to the plenary session the party president criticised the Election Commission for not allowing him to hold an election rally in the constituency by citing trivial reasons. By denying a democratic opportunity to a party president the EC had crossed its limits and suggested the agency not to degrade itself with such acts. In the past, a petition was filed in the High Court to direct TRS not to hold a rally by the Chief Minister (TRS chief) in Nagarjunasagar earlier this year when it was facing byelection, he recollected. Local leaders and some constituents of Huzurabad, however, had told him that his public meeting outside the constituency would have higher impact although the BJP was misusing the election authority. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao complimented the ministers and MLAs, MLCs and MPs of the party for putting in hard work to spread the awareness on welfare and development activities pursued by the government. The plenary had also approved a few changes in the party constitution such as vesting the authority in the president to appoint the party executive at State and district level and to the working president in the absence of the party president. A story narrated by Vikarabad MLA M. Anand on a goat, a street dog and a group of friends as part of his speech on the resolution on Dalit Bandhu had the entire gathering in splits, including the party president and others on the dais. Later, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said people know very well where to keep a goat and a street dog.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/when-kcr-gave-only-one-speech-in-a-plenary/article37171148.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP accuses CS of moving to kill RTI Act||Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday flayed the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government for its attempts to “kill the Right to Information Act” (RTI) and charged Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar of playing the role of ‘executioner’. Senior leader G. Narayana Reddy said the recent order issued by the CS to departments would be a ‘death knell’ to the Act and seeking RTI queries clearance from the secretaries of the departments concerned would lead to ‘inordinate delay’ in issuing the replies. “Mr. Somesh Kumar is providing enough opportunity for the erring officials and public representatives of the ruling party to escape from the clutches of the law through this latest order issued at the behest of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao who does not believe in transparency,” he charged in a statement released to the media. Pending applications More than 2.5 lakh RTI applications are pending with the public information officers and another 20,000 applications are pending with the appellate authorities. This is because the social activists have been exposing the “failures, misdeeds and corruption” in the last seven years. Lapses in Dharani portal, corruption in construction and allotment of double bedroom houses, lopsided implementation of various schemes and other misdeeds of the government have been exposed by the RTI activists, he said and said the BJP would not remain ‘silent’ and would drag the CS to the court in this issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-trying-to-kill-rti-act-says-bjp/article37171151.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three killed in accident on ORR near Keesara||Three persons were killed in an accident on the Outer Ring Road near Yadagiripalli of Keesara mandal in the early hours of Monday. The victims included the wife of an Assistant Commissioner of Police of Cyber Crimes wing of Hyderabad K.V.M. Prasad. His wife Shankaramma apart, Mr. Prasad’s nephew Bhaskar and his wife were also killed. Bhaskar’s father Balakrishna sustained injuries. The victims were returning from a wedding at Chirala in Prakasam district. The car hit a divider at high speed when the driver lost control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-killed-in-accident-on-orr-near-keesara/article37171127.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 179 COVID-19 cases||Telangana has recorded 179 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total to 6,70,453.While 38,588 samples were examined, results of 1,477 are awaited. Meanwhile, two more COVID patients have died. The new 179 infections includes 66 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 15 from Karimnagar, 11 from Warangal Urban, and 10 from Medchal Malkajgiri. No infection was detected in eight districts. From March 2, 2020 to October 25, 2021, 2.73 crore samples were tested and 6,70,453 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 4,023 were active cases while 6,62,481 have recovered, and 3,949 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-179-covid-19-cases/article37171137.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Passing out parade of 22 CISF constables held||A passing out parade of twenty-two Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) constables of fire cadre was held on Monday at Fire & Disaster Management Institution(FSTI), a premier CISF institution here running under the aegis of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) . Amit Sharan, Deputy Inspector General of FSTI & CISF was the chief guest. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Amit Sharan highlighted the unique role played by the fire wing of the CISF in various fire-fighting and rescue operations, and in saving precious lives and properties in the country. Vice principal of FSTI Siddhartha Raha also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/passing-out-parade-of-22-cisf-constables-held/article37171141.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court reserves order||Telangana High Court on Monday reserved orders in a batch of PIL petitions over implementation of Dalit Bandhu scheme in Huzurabad Assembly constituency where a bypoll is being held on Saturday. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy reserved the orders, after hearing contentions of the petitioners’ counsels. While two PIL peas were filed seeking a direction to set aside Election Commission of India’s order deferring Dalit Bandhu scheme implementation till completion of the bypoll in Huzurabad, another plea sought stalling of the scheme since its enforcement was likely to influence voters. Appearing for one of the petitioners, lawyer Sharath Kumar said people would lose hope over execution of the scheme if it was stopped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-court-reserves-order/article37171138.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PG student has close shave as fan falls at OGH||A post-graduate medical student had a miraculous escape while discharging duty at the Osmania General Hospital when a ceiling fan fell, grazing her, on Monday afternoon. The incident occurred in a room of Dermatology department located in the out-patient block. Patients were not present when the accident occurred. CT scan done Osmania General Hospital superintendent Dr B Nagender said that the PG student did not receive any external or internal injuries. CT scans too were performed which did not indicate any injuries. The superintendent said that he has issued orders to check the fans and other devices in other sections of the hospital. A few more such incidents of fans or plaster of Paris from roof crashing to the ground at the hospital was reported in the past few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pg-student-has-close-shave-as-fan-falls-at-ogh/article37171123.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||$50 million US aid to vaccine maker||The US government financial arrangement of 50 million dollars to expand Hyderabad-based Biological E. Limited’s capacity to produce COVID-19 vaccine was finalised on Monday. United States International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) COO David Marchick and Biological E Limited’s managing director Mahima Datla signed the agreement at an event held in Hyderabad. This work is in support of the commitment set out by US President Biden and his counterparts in the Quad - Australia, India, Japan, and the United States, as per a press release. The company’s MD Mahima Datla said that the DFC support and funding is playing an instrumental role in ensuring access to vaccines not just for India but for rest of the world. “We are currently in the process of building enhanced vaccine manufacturing capacity to augment COVID vaccine availability for the entire Asia-Pacific region and indeed the world,” she said at the event. The DFC’s COO said that the investment with Biological E has potential to produce more than a billion doses to the world. India’s Ministry of External Affairs Joint Secretary Vani Rao, United States Consul General Joel Reifman, Japanese Consul General Taga Masayuki, Australian Consul General Sarah Kirlew, State IT and Industry principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan and others participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/50-million-aid-to-vaccine-maker/article37171136.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSCAB wins four awards||The Telangana State Cooperative Apex Bank (TSCAB) has won four awards presented by the Banking Frontiers led by National Cooperative Banking Summit (NCBS) and Frontiers in Cooperative Banking Awards (FCBA) through virtual mode on Saturday evening. The TSCAB, led by its chairman Konduru Ravinder Rao, won the Best Cooperative bank, best NPA management, best investment initiative and best HR innovation awards. Union Minister of State for Finance Bhagwath Karad, NABARD Deputy Managing Director Shaji K. V., president NAFCUB Jyotindra Mehta, Additional Secretary (Ministry of Finance) Sanjeev Kaushik were present. TSCAB managing director Nethi Muralidhar congratulated the employees of TSCAB for winning four awards by the prestigious Banking Frontiers and achieving national level recognition. He thanked the employees for working with dedication even during the pandemic times. Best credit growth bank Meanwhile, Karimnagar District Cooperative Central Bank was awarded best credit growth award among all the largest cooperative banks in the country. The award was announced to Karimnagar DCCB in virtual mode on Saturday evening. It won accolades for its all-round performance from NABARD and NAFSCOB since last four years. Incidentally, the Karimnagar DCCB is celebrating its centenary celebrations from November 14 to 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tscab-wins-4-banking-frontiers-awards/article37171122.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||White paper sought on Rs. 420-cr. FDs of TRS||Telangana Congress committee president A. Revanth Reddy has demanded Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to release a white paper on how TRS sourced its Rs. 420 crore fixed deposits, which the latter announced at the party plenary. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Reddy alleged that the money was raised by TRS from contractors belonging to Andhra Pradesh. He also demanded a white paper on the financial position of transmission and generation corporations of the State as their Chairman and Managing Director D. Prabhakar Rao had expressed helplessness to run them. The Congress leader questioned the presence of TRS flags and flexis everywhere in the city on the occasion of the plenary. He also asked why the plenary did not observe silence for martyrs of Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/white-paper-sought-on-rs-420-cr-fds-of-trs/article37171152.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Human chain protest at Tellapur||Tellapur Neighbourhood Association (TeNA), represented by 32 gated communities, organised a human chain at Gopanpally Thanda Crossroads demanding that the authorities concerned immediately complete the pending infrastructure work including a flyover, sewage and stormwater drains on Sunday. About 350 residents including women, children and the elderly participated in the protest programmeto highlight the difficulties of the commuters .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/human-chain-protest-at-tellapur/article37171132.ece
26 October 2021||JHARASANGAM (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Zaheerabad becomes new investment destination||On Sunday Hyderabad-based defence manufacturing unit — VEM Technologies Limited — signed an agreement with the State government to establish an integrated defence factory at Yelgoi in Jharasangam mandal. This is the first private factory in India to make central fuselage for Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas being manufactured by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). The unit to be spread over 511 acres will be established with an investment of about Rs. 1,000 crore and the work is expected to be completed in the next five years. The facility will manufacture end-to-end next generation weapons system, including missiles, radars, fighter planes and helicopters. The industry is expected to provide employment to about 2,000 people. Four months earlier, on June 24 electric vehicles manufacturing giant from United States — Triton — signed an agreement with the State government for setting up a manufacturing unit at Yelgoi. The company proposed to establish ultra-modern electric vehicles manufacturing unit at an estimated cost of Rs. 2100 crore. EV vehicles The company manufactures mini trucks, sedans, luxury SUVs and rickshaws. Once completed the Triton is expected to provide employment for about 25,000 persons. A team from Triton accompanied by the Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) Vice-Chairman and Managing Director E.V. Narasimha Reddy visited Yelgoi recently to examine the area that was proposed to be allocated to them. Yelgoi is one of the 17 villages in both Jharsangam and Nyalakal mandals that constitute the upcoming National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ). These two developments have attracted many and investment in land has been increasing. For instance the land rates, that was about Rs. 2 lakh and Rs. 3 lakh per acre in around Yelgoi, have sky-rocketed and one can see vehicles carrying investors from far off places at the registrations section of the Mandal Revenue Office. The present rate was put between Rs. 30 lakh per acre and Rs. 50 lakh per acre, depending on the location and access to the place. Several real estate ventures with huge boards have also sprung up near NIMZ. “The government has recently revised the land rates and the current government rate is about Rs. 1.5 lakh per acre. But the market rate is about Rs. 30 lakh per acre,” said a revenue official on condition of anonymity. The TSIIC has proposed to lay a road from Zaheerabad to NIMZ connecting it directly with NH 65 (Hyderabad–Mumbai road). The State government has reportedly directed the officials to acquire the required land for the road and that it must be completed in the next one year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/zaheerabad-becomes-new-investment-destination/article37170870.ece
26 October 2021||MAMIDYALA (SIDDIPET DISTRICT),TELANGANA||275 students, 16 teachers and five rooms||It is a five room accommodation. The school established for the next generation that is coming up in the Rehabilitation and Resetellement (R&R) Colony at Tunkibollaram. All the residents of this colony are oustees from three villages and one tanda — Mamidyala, Thanedarpally, Thanedarpally tanda and Bahilampur — that were submerged under Kondapochammasagar, established in the constituency being represented by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Before the submergence of these villages there used to be three primary schools at Thanedarpally, Thanedarpally tanda, Mamidyala, one high school at Mamidyala and one upper primary school at Bahilampur. Once the original villages were submerged in the reservoir, the students were forced to shift to the new school located at Tunkibollaram, as there was no school at the R&R Colony. Parents unhappy However, the parents refused to send their wards to that place as it was not in a walking distance. Some parents reportedly even locked-up the school for a few days forcing officials to start both primary school and high school sessions in the R&R Colony. As a result there is only one school for all the students who were going to three primary schools, one upper primary school and one high school from three villages and one tanda. The total strength of the students from the submerged habitations, according to sources, was 275 and they had 16 teachers. All of them are now being accommodated in a five-room school established in the R&R Colony. Official apathy  “We do not know how to run the school in such small accommodation and how to adjust the students. The authorities and political leader who talk big on the issue of preparing the next generation are unwilling to address the issues of school building that too when they are able to sanction money for the construction of community halls and temples. Who should we approach on the issue?” asked a teacher on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/275-students-16-teachers-and-five-rooms/article37171155.ece
26 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Intensive campaign on crop change underway||Farmers who grow paddy in Rabi season will not be provided any incentives and their produce too will not be purchased by the government, Collector Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district Pamela Satpathy said on Monday. She told officials of Agriculture, Horticulture and allied departments, to amplify the message: “Don’t grow paddy, the government is not buying paddy.” Meeting mandal and district officials from the various departments at the Raigiri Rythu Vedika, she said the Food Corporation of India was not ready to buy even a kilogram of paddy from Telangana. B. Singa Reddy from the office of Commissioner, Agriculture, said the district could be divided into three clusters for focused intervention and campaigns about crop diversion, with participation of at least 200 farmers at each Rythu Vedika. He said farmers could choose from red gram, black gram, maize, sesame and groundnut, among others, as alternative crops. While agricultural extension officers in the field level will be the frontline staff to educate farmers, several other programmes will also be planned in the three-day intensive schedule starting Wednesday. In Suryapet, District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy, while advocating crop diversion, also instructed officials to keep a check on dealers who promote spurious seeds and to take stern action. Nalgonda Collector Prashant J. Patil said the State government was extending an incentive programme for cultivation of oil palm in about 700 acres in the district. Farmers who wish to avail the scheme should approach officials of the Horticulture department. Mr. Patil also said, as an extension of the crop diversion campaigns, meetings will be conducted with private seed dealers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/intensive-campaign-on-crop-change-underway/article37171145.ece
26 October 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Collector helps elderly lady harassed by son||Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy came to the rescue of an elderly woman at the Collectorate here on Monday. As part of Prajavani, a large number of people came to the Collectorate to present their grievances to the authorities. Sixty-year-old Bollam Kanakamma was one among them. The woman complained that though she transferred assets worth Rs. 1.2 crore earned by her husband in her younger son’s name, he was pressurising her to give more and even abused her. Moved by her plight , Mr. Venkatarami Reddy has directed the revenue divisional officer Ananta Reddy to look into the matter and issue notices to Sudarshan. “Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens-2007 Act offers complete protection to parents and it is the responsibility of children to look after them. Serious action will be initiated against those violating the Act,” said Mr. Venkatarami Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collector-helps-elderly-lady-harassed-by-son/article37171339.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Returning to normal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/returning-to-normal/article37171341.ece
26 October 2021||Ghaziabad,||AMU students demand physical classes, take out protest march||Hundreds of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) students took out a protest on Monday, demanding the opening of the campus for offline classes. In a memorandum addressed to the Vice-Chancellor, the students demanded immediate commencement of offline classes and alleged irregularities in the entrance tests. They also urged that elections be held for the university bodies without delay. Students leaders said if demands were not met, they would start a sit-in protest after a week. University authorities said they were following the UGC norms regarding the pandemic. “When other Central universities are functioning normally with offline classes why AMU has been held up with lockdown scenario. It is affecting the careers of thousands of students,” the memorandum said. The residential university, with more than 16,000 students, was shut down in December 2019 when the protests against Citizenship Amendment Act broke out. The university announced the winter vacation and before the normalcy could be restored, the pandemic stuck. Former vice president of AMU Students’ Union Umar Qadri said it seemed the absence of students was providing the administration an opportunity to hide its lapses. “The papers of entrance exams of at least two courses got leaked but the university brushed the issue under the carpet after a ‘customary’ inquiry by two ex-employees of the university. We demand an independent inquiry by a sitting judge,” he said. ‘Wifi not restored’ “While research scholars are residing on the campus, libraries are out of bound for them. The wifi has not been restored,” said Memoona Ansari, former secretary of Abdullah Students Union. Mr. Qadri said if there was a will, the university could have accommodated boys in the hostels as per the COVID protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amu-students-demand-physical-classes-take-out-protest-march/article37171009.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||Dengue cases cross 1,000 mark in city||The Capital continued to witness a surge in dengue cases, with 283 cases being reported over the past week (till October 23), a civic report said on Monday. This takes the current month’s caseload to 665, while this season’s total stands at 1,006, the highest since 2018. Till October 16, the city had recorded 723 cases. South Delhi reported the highest dengue cases in the last week at 98, followed by North Delhi with 71 cases. In the previous week (October 9 to 16), south Delhi had recorded 61 cases, followed by north Delhi with 52 cases. South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) councillor Abhishek Dutt (Congress) alleged that the civic bodies are trying to “control” the number of dengue cases by “leaving cases untraced”. “How is it possible that there are cases which still remain untraced in a time where everything is driven by technology? The idea is to present a wrong picture to the people; if you alarm the residents with a high case count, then they will take more precautions. But they (the civic bodies and the Delhi Government) do not disclose this in order to maintain a good political image,” Mr. Dutt said. Responding to the allegations, SDMC Mayor Mukesh Suryan said an “intensive sanitation drive” to combat vector-borne diseases is in place and that the situation is “under control”. In September, the city had reported 217 dengue cases, which was also the highest for the month since 2018. Delhi had recorded 1,072 cases and one death in 2020, 2,036 cases and two deaths in 2019, and 2,798 cases and four deaths in 2018. Dr. Ritu Saxena, deputy medical superintendent of the Delhi Government-run LNJP Hospital, said there “has been an increase in the number of dengue cases” at the hospital. “We get around 100 dengue cases every day. Many of them are severe as we receive a lot of referrals from other hospitals. After 2018, this is the first time we are getting so many patients. A prolonged monsoon, leading to breeding of mosquitoes, and lack of cleanliness are among the reasons for the spike in cases,” Dr. Saxena said. She said that apart from the beds in the hospital, they have 500 beds in a facility set up in Ramlila Ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dengue-cases-cross-1000-mark-in-city/article37170998.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||For Delhi’s street vendors, it’s not business as usual after HC order||The removal of “illegal” hawkers and street vendors from Connaught Place market following an order from the Delhi High Court has left many worried for their future. While some attempt to carry out their businesses around CP, most say “it is for their daily earnings” and that they “have nowhere else to go”. According to the Delhi Street Hawkers Survey conducted by the government, 73,716 hawkers have been identified across the city from January 1 to September 30 and 54,599 have been approved. However, after multiple appeals by municipal councillors and street vendors’ associations, the Delhi Government has extended the survey period till December 7 in order to identify more street vendors. In a dilemma For Ashraf, a 30-year-old hawker from Bihar who sells apparels, the decision to bar “illegal” street vendors from operating in Connaught Place market has left him in a dilemma. “During the lockdowns, I stayed back and struggled for survival. I do some tailoring on the side to support myself and selling apparels around the market helps boost my earnings. I earn up to Rs. 600 on a good day through street vending, but I earn nothing on a bad day. The authorities should think about the poor. When there is no system in place for us, then where will we go?” Mr. Ashraf asked. Agreed Rajbeer Singh, a 55-year-old street vendor in Sarojini Nagar market, who said that he was under “constant fear” of being “chased away by civic authorities”. Mr. Singh, a father of six, said that he was a farmer in Moradabad and had to sell his farmland to pay for his medical expenses. Hawkers from the city’s Lajpat Nagar market also expressed similar concerns with most stating that the recent Delhi High Court order had “instilled fear and uncertainty” among them and the authorities should provide them “with a designated space”. Insufficient measures Atul Bhargava, president of the New Delhi Traders’ Association (NDTA), who had filed the plea in the Delhi High Court for the removal of illegal hawkers and street vendors, said that the NDTA was “not against the livelihood” of the hawkers. “Corridors are meant for walking and not for hawkers to be sitting there. If the government wants it, then allot the hawkers a proper space and let them be over there. Cleanliness around the market is not being maintained by hawkers in the spaces they operate. Would anyone feel safe with them sitting there?” asked Mr. Bhargava. However, shopkeepers at Connaught Place market said that they had “no qualms” with the hawkers and their presence brought “increased footfall”. “ These hawkers hardly make enough for a day and now they have been chased away without any alternative. In fact, their presence helped our business and brought more customers to the market,” a shopkeeper said. Arbind Singh, president of the National Association of Street Vendors of India , said the Delhi High Court had ordered to remove “illegal hawkers” from Connaught Place market, but the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) “must decide who the illegal vendors are”. He referred to Section 3.3 — Chapter 2 — of the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, which states, “No street vendor shall be evicted or, as the case may be, relocated till the survey specified under sub-section (1) has been completed and the certificate of vending is issued to all street vendors.” “The NDMC has not done the survey even after seven years of the Act being passed. After the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme was launched, only 135 vendors in NDMC areas were able to avail of the benefits under the scheme. The elite mindset is that the cities are not meant for these street vendors; they want the latter to come, serve and go back,” Mr. Singh said, adding that the NDMC was using the High Court’s order to interpret “all street vendors” as illegal. The PM SVANidhi scheme was launched by the Central Government to help street vendors access affordable working capital loans for resuming livelihood activities post COVID-19 lockdown. According to the data provided on the PM SVANidhi portal, until October 22, only 994 applications from NDMC areas for Letter Of Recommendation (LOR) were approved out of the 3,579 applications that were received. As many as 2,575 applications were rejected. Across Delhi, 1,22,744 applications for LORs were received; 1,08,725 applications were approved, while 13,209 were rejected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/for-delhis-street-vendors-its-not-business-as-usual-after-hc-order/article37171004.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||One dead after SUV hits tempo||The driver of a three-wheeler was killed and three others sustained injuries after a speeding SUV that was allegedly being driven by a drunk youth hit the vehicle in south-east Delhi’s Sunlight Colony in the early hours of Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) Esha Pandey said the deceased has been identified as Radhey Shyam (35), a resident of U.P., and the injured have been identified as Pankaj (21), Pankaj (15), and Neeraj Aggarwal (36). According to the police, a PCR call was received at 1.52 a.m. about an accident near Bhairo Temple. The SUV rammed the tempo from behind and in the impact, the cabin of the three-wheeler got detached from the vehicle. Two people were sitting in the passenger seat while one was next to the driver. All four suffered serious injuries. They were taken to AIIMS trauma centre where Radhey Shyam was declared brought dead and others are undergoing treatment. The accused SUV driver, Aaditya Khurana, who is a resident of Friends Colony, was arrested on the spot, the police said. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. Mr. Khurana was working as a marketing manager and is currently preparing for GMAT exam. In another incident, a 40-year-old NDMC sanitation worker, Savita, was killed when an SUV collided with an autorickshaw in Connaught Place around 6 a.m. on Sunday. Savita and her husband Rakesh were on duty when the accident occurred. Mr. Rakesh told the police that after the collision, the auto toppled over Savita who was cleaning the road. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/one-dead-after-suv-hits-tempo/article37170997.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||City’s air quality likely to fall to ‘poor’ category tomorrow||The air quality in the city improved to the “satisfactory” category on Monday, but it is expected to deteriorate from Wednesday, as per official data. The effect of stubble burning is also expected to increase during the week. The Delhi Government will launch ‘Patakhe Nahi Diya Jalao’ campaign on Wednesday, to create awareness against burning of firecrackers. “The Kejriwal Government will encourage people to celebrate Diwali with diyas through the campaign just like those times when firecrackers did not exist at all. Fifteen teams will be formed in all the 15 districts of Delhi Police, which will have 157 members. Along with the police, teams have been formed under the leadership of 33 SDMs, who will take action under this campaign,” Environment Minister Gopal Rai said. There is a ban on sale and use of all types of firecrackers this Diwali in the city. On Monday, the contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi was estimated at 6% and the number of active fires counts in the region was only 127. However, as satellites highly underestimate the counts during cloudy and rainy periods, actual counts might be much higher, SAFAR said. The AQI of Delhi was 82 on Monday, down from 160 on Sunday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4 p.m. bulletin. The air quality on Wednesday and Thursday is expected to be in the higher end of poor to lower end of very poor category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/citys-air-quality-likely-to-fall-to-poor-category-tomorrow/article37170999.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||COVID SOPs must be followed scrupulously during festivals: HC||The Delhi High Court on Monday told the Centre, the city government, the police and various authorities here that Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), guidelines and protocols set for COVID-appropriate behaviour and managing crowds in marketplaces must be followed scrupulously in this festive season. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh made the observation while hearing a public interest litigation initiated by the High Court on violation of COVID-19 protocols in various markets in the Capital. DDMA meeting today The court’s order came on a day the BJP announced that it has begun preparations for the observance of Chhath Puja at public places across the city — along with vaccination camps for the devotees — even though the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is yet to take a call on allowing the festivities. A meeting of the DDMA — to be chaired by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal and attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal — is scheduled for Wednesday to take a call on the issue. ‘“Your guidelines, SoP and protocol must be followed very scrupulously. See this is festival season. Strict compliance is required,” the Bench remarked, adding that the authorities should focus on managing the crowd rather than collecting penalties for COVID-19 norms violations. The Delhi government’s counsel said they had issued appropriate guidelines and had also shut down markets where protocols were not being followed properly. The Central government had earlier informed the court that it had asked all States and Union Territories to ensure strict compliance with the national directives for COVID-19 management and take necessary measures under the Disaster Management Act. The High Court posted the case for further hearing on November 30. The Bench said it was keeping the matter pending as it wanted to see how the authorities were controlling the situation. North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari said the BJP has started preparations for Chhath celebrations with all precautions and safety measures “in the right earnest”. He said Union Urban Development Minister Hardeep Singh Puri will start a vaccination camp on October 26 from Kadipur so that all those taking part in the festivities are vaccinated. “I exhort all party councillors and workers to start cleanliness drives at Chhath ghats. When our workers will complete all this work, CM Arvind Kejriwal will suddenly jump in to put his stamp and take credit,” Mr. Tiwari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-sops-must-be-followed-scrupulously-during-festivals-hc/article37170995.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU announces special cut-off for eligible students||Delhi University released a special cut-off list on Monday for candidates applying to various merit-based undergraduate programmes. Eligible students who could not or did not take admission in the earlier three cut-offs lists for any reason can do so now. Under the special cut-off list, released between the third and fourth list, some courses in prominent colleges that were closed after previous rounds have reopened, thereby offering an opportunity to those who did not apply then to grab a seat now. Giving an example, the university said, “If for College A, the first cut-off for BSc (Hons) mathematics for a specific category was 98% and the college did not declare second and third cut-off for the same, but later some seats got vacant, then special cut-off for BSc (Hons) mathematics for the specific category will be 98%”. DU Registrar Vikas Gupta said applicants who have secured admission in any of the earlier three cut-off lists in any programme at the university will not be eligible to participate in the special cut-off. The last date for application under the list is 11.59 p.m. on October 27, and principals will approve the cut-off by October 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-announces-special-cut-off-for-eligible-students/article37171002.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||EDMC for bio-mining of legacy waste at Ghazipur||With an aim to “speed-up” the process of clearing the Ghazipur landfill site, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation on Monday passed a proposal to implement the bio-mining of “50 lakh tonnes” of legacy waste. EDMC Commissioner Vikas Anand said that close to “8 lakh tonnes” of legacy waste had been “processed in the last two years” and that the civic body was looking to “increase the capacity of waste processed” by roping in a concessionaire. Concessionaire’s role “There is close to 140 lakh tonnes of legacy waste at the Ghazipur landfill and it will take a long time if we continue to process the waste at the current speed. Through the concessioner, we are trying to speed up the process and also address issues regarding disposal of the material that is processed. The concessioner will hold the responsibility of disposing the processed waste,” said Mr. Anand, adding that the time of completion for the project was 27 months. The House also resolved that no challans will be issued to any resident of east Delhi for not segregating dry and wet waste until the EDMC comes up with a full system to collect and dispose of such waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/edmc-for-bio-mining-of-legacy-waste-at-ghazipur/article37171006.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||Man booked under POCSO Act for ‘harassing’ teenager||The Delhi police have registered a case under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act against a 40-year-old man for allegedly harassing a 15-year-old girl by sending her indecent text messages. According to the police, the girl in her complaint alleged that she and her father used to visit a temple in Kalkaji to offer prayers on a daily basis. There she met the accused, Amit, a resident of Sarai Julena, who works as a sevadar (volunteer) at the temple. Both exchanged their phone numbers following the visits. DCP (Southeast) Shweta Pandey said the accused used to allegedly stare at the girl. “She ignored him many times but he persisted. He also sent indecent WhatsApp messages to her,” the DCP said. When her parents objected to his messages around one and a half years ago, “Amit apologised and the girl forgave him”. But after some time, he again started harassing her in the same manner and also threatened her, the police said. “The accused cropped her photo and uploaded it on his WhatsApp status…,” the DCP further said. Amit is currently on the run and efforts are being made to nab him, Ms. Pandey said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-booked-under-pocso-act-for-harassing-teenager/article37171007.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||E-Auto Mela commences at two venues||Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Monday inaugurated a seven-day-long ‘E-Auto Mela’ at the Institute of Driving, Training and Research (IDTR), Sarai Kale Khan. The Mela commenced at two branches of IDTR — Sarai Kale Khan and Loni — and will continue till October 31 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. People visiting the two venues can test drive all the available models of e-autos and explore the loan offers available. Experts at the Mela will guide the applicants on how to register for e-autos and will brief them on the environmental benefits of the vehicle. “With over 1,400 autos reserved for women, this is one of the biggest steps any city has taken in the direction of increasing the presence of women in public transport and overall wom-en safety,” said Mr. Gahlot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/e-auto-mela-commences-at-two-venues/article37171005.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three inmates hurt in clash inside prison||Three inmates sustained injuries in a clash with other prisoners at the Tihar Central Jail on Saturday, the police said, adding that a case has been registered. According to the police, Pinku, 24, Sunil Sherawat, 32, and Sunny, 32, were injured after being attacked with sharp objects. While Sunny was undergoing treatment at DDU Hospital, Sunil and Pinku were referred to Safdardanj Hospital, said the police. A complaint from Deputy Superintendent of Central Jail Number-1 was received regarding the incident and a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 34 (common intension) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Hari Nagar police station, police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-inmates-hurt-in-clash-inside-prison/article37171008.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||12-year-old boy crushed to death at Majnu ka Tilla||A 12-year-old boy was crushed to death by a truck in north Delhi’s Majnu ka Tilla on Monday. According to DCP (North) Sagar Singh Kalsi, around 6 p.m., they received a call regarding a fatal accident. After a team reached the spot, they found the body of a 12-year-old child, who was staying in a jhuggi. The driver has been identified as 35-year-old Shriram. He was caught by the public and got injured in the commotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/12-year-old-boy-crushed-to-death-at-majnu-ka-tilla/article37170996.ece
26 October 2021||Cairo,||Sudan’s military seizes power in coup||Sudan’s military seized power on Monday, dissolving the transitional government hours after troops arrested the Prime Minister. Thousands of people flooded into the streets to protest the coup that threatens the country’s shaky progress toward democracy. Security forces opened fire on some of the crowds, and two protesters were killed, according to the Sudan Doctors’ Committee, which said 80 people were wounded. The takeover comes more than two years after protesters forced the ouster of longtime autocrat Omar al-Bashir and just weeks before the military was supposed to hand the leadership of the council that runs the country over to civilians. After the early morning arrests of Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok and other officials, thousands poured into the streets of the capital, Khartoum, and its twin city of Omdurman. They blocked streets and set fire to tires as security forces used tear gas to disperse them. As plumes of smoke filled the air, protesters could be heard chanting, “The people are stronger, stronger” and “Retreat is not an option!” Videos on social media showed large crowds crossing bridges over the Nile to the center of the capital, while the U.S. Embassy warned troops were blocking off parts of the city. Pro-democracy activist Dura Gambo said paramilitary forces chased protesters through some neighborhoods of Khartoum. She said the sporadic sound of gunshots could be heard in many parts of the capital. In the afternoon, the head of the military, Gen. Abdel-Fattah Burhan, announced on national TV that he was dissolving the government and the Sovereign Council, a joint military and civilian body created soon after Mr. al-Bashir’s ouster. State of emergency General Burhan said quarrels among political factions prompted the military to intervene. Tensions have been rising for weeks over the course and the pace of the transition to democracy. The General declared a state of emergency and said the military will appoint a technocratic government to lead the country to elections, set for July 2023. But he made clear the military will remain in charge. “The Armed Forces will continue completing the democratic transition until the handover of the country’s leadership to a civilian, elected government,” he said. He added that the country’s Constitution would be rewritten and a legislative body would be formed with the participation of “young men and women who made this revolution.” White House spokesperson Karine Jean-Pierre said the U.S. was “deeply alarmed at reports of a military takeover” and called for the release of the PM and officials, as did the African Union. The UN political mission to Sudan called the detentions of government officials “unacceptable,” and EU foreign affairs chief Joseph Borrell tweeted that he was following the events with the “utmost concern.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sudans-military-seizes-power-in-coup/article37170567.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||Iran to host meet on Afghanistan||Iran will hold the next round of regional discussion on the future of Afghanistan on Wednesday. Announcing the meeting, Iranian authorities on Monday affirmed that Afghanistan’s sovereignty should be respected and its territory should not be used to export terrorism to other countries. The meeting will be attended by the Foreign Ministers of China, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Russia, and is aimed at helping Afghanistan form an inclusive government with participation of “all ethnic groups”. “This meeting will take place in continuation and as second round of the discussions which was virtually hosted by Pakistan on 8th September 2021... Iran strongly believes that a stable, secure and developed Afghanistan, with a flourishing and sustainable economy, will ensure the interests of all of its neighbours, in particular the Islamic Republic of Iran,” said the press release from Iran. The consultation is the biggest regional meet after the 10-nation Moscow dialogue of last week, which saw India’s participation. The meeting in Tehran, however, will not include India. Speculations have begun over this indicating that by excluding New Delhi, Iran is probably expressing its unhappiness over India’s recent quadrilateral meet with Israel, UAE and the U.S. The Ministry of External Affairs refused to comment on the issue. Officials, however, dismissed any link between the timing of the Iran conference and Mr. Jaishankar’s participation in the quadrilateral meet last Monday. A senior official told The Hindu that the Tehran meeting had been planned prior to the quadrilateral meeting and India had been informed of the meeting “in advance”. The meeting is likely to seek further engagement with the Taliban. Special Russian Presidential Representative for Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov, said on Monday that the Moscow dialogue will have a “positive effect” for building working relationship with the Taliban. The Tehran meeting is expected to bolster global demand on the Taliban to ensure that terrorism does not emanate from Afghanistan. “The independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan should be respected, and its territory should not be used for any threat or terror against other countries,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-to-host-meet-on-afghanistan/article37170787.ece
26 October 2021||Dubai,||Facebook’s language gaps weaken screening of hate and terrorism||As the Gaza war raged and tensions surged across the West Asia last May, Instagram briefly banned the hashtag #AlAqsa, a reference to the Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem’s Old City, a flash point in the conflict. Facebook, which owns Instagram, later apologised, explaining its algorithms had mistaken the third-holiest site in Islam for the militant group Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, an armed offshoot of the secular Fatah party. For many Arabic-speaking users, it was just the latest potent example of how the social media giant muzzles political speech in the region. Arabic is among the most common languages on Facebook’s platforms, and the company issues frequent public apologies after similar botched content removals. Now, internal company documents from the former Facebook product manager-turned-whistleblower Frances Haugen show the problems are far more systemic than just a few innocent mistakes, and that Facebook has understood the depth of these failings for years while doing little about it. Such errors are not limited to Arabic. An examination of the files reveals that in some of the world’s most volatile regions, terrorist content and hate speech proliferate because the company remains short on moderators who speak local languages and understand cultural contexts. And its platforms have failed to develop artificial-intelligence solutions that can catch harmful content in different languages. Not enough moderation In countries like Afghanistan and Myanmar, these loopholes have allowed inflammatory language to flourish on the platform, while in Syria and the Palestinian territories, Facebook suppresses ordinary speech, imposing blanket bans on common words. “The root problem is that the platform was never built with the intention it would one day mediate the political speech of everyone in the world,” said Eliza Campbell, director of the Middle East Institute’s Cyber Program. “But for the amount of political importance and resources that Facebook has, moderation is a bafflingly under-resourced project.” In Myanmar, the company acknowledged in its internal reports that it had failed to stop the spread of hate speech targeting the Rohingya Muslim population. In India, the documents show Facebook employees debating last March whether it could clamp down on the “fear mongering, anti-Muslim narratives” that a far-right Hindu nationalist group broadcasts on its platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/facebooks-language-gaps-weaken-screening-of-hate-and-terrorism/article37170571.ece
26 October 2021||Jerusalem,||Israeli approval to settlement homes tests fragile coalition||A senior Israeli Minister said on Monday he opposes the government’s approval of more than 1,300 new settlement housing units in the occupied West Bank, highlighting stark disagreements between the country’s ideologically divided coalition members. The Israeli government on Sunday announced construction tenders for 1,355 housing units in the West Bank, the first such announcement of expansion of settlements in the territory during U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration. The move appears to run contrary to the new government’s pledge to put ideological considerations aside and reduce tensions with the Palestinians. The announcement was one of the final steps before the new settlement expansion can commence. It green lights bidding on contracts for hundreds of housing units in the settlements of Ariel, Beit El and other remote Jewish communities in the West Bank, a territory the Palestinians seek as part of a future state. Israeli Housing and Construction Minister Zeev Elkin said in a statement Sunday that “after a long period of construction freeze in Judea and Samaria, I applaud the marketing of more than 1,000 units,” referring to the West Bank by its biblical names. But Health Minister Nitzan Horowitz, leader of the dovish Meretz party, said on Monday in an interview with Israeli public radio broadcaster Kan that his faction “will explicitly not agree to actions that will harm the chances of reaching a solution” with the Palestinians and called on his government to refrain from them. “I understand that this government, in the existing situation, won’t sign a peace treaty with the Palestinians right now, but still, we must avoid actions that worsen the situation,” he said. Sunday’s announcement came a few days before the expected authorisation for some 3,000 new settler housing units in the West Bank later this week, which has already drawn calls for restraint from the U.S. That’s in addition to another 1,600 units for Palestinians residing in areas of the territory under Israeli civil administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-approval-to-settlement-homes-tests-fragile-coalition/article37170574.ece
26 October 2021||Washington,||MBS sent death squad to kill me: ex-spy||A former top Saudi Arabian spy has said the country’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman dispatched a feared team of mercenaries to kill him while in exile in Canada. In an interview with U.S broadcaster CBS News’ “60 Minutes”, Saad Aljabri — formerly a top spy and interlocutor between the kingdom’s intelligence services and Western governments — alleged he was targeted after he fled the country following a 2017 power grab by the crown prince. A friend at a West Asian intelligence service, he said, warned that he could face a fate similar to that of Saudi dissident and journalist Jamal Khashoggi, who investigations have alleged was murdered by a Riyadh-linked death squad after visiting the kingdom’s consulate in Istanbul in 2018. “The warning I received, don’t be in a proximity of any Saudi mission in Canada. Don’t go to the consulate. Don’t go to the Embassy... You are on the top of the list,” Mr. Aljabri told “60 minutes”. He said the team arrived in Canada in October 2018 — only to be deported when they lied to customs officials and were found to be carrying suspicious items. AFP was unable to independently verify Mr. Aljabri’s claims, and requests for comment to the Canadian Foreign Ministry went unanswered. But Canadian officials told “60 Minutes” they were “aware of incidents in which foreign actors have attempted to... threaten... those living in Canada,” describing the threats as “completely unacceptable.” Mr. Aljabri said the group was made up of members of a group named in investigations as the “Tiger Squad” — a shadow team of paid killers set up by Prince Mohammed, specialising in “extrajudicial killings, rape, and torture,” according to a 2019 legal complaint filed by the former spy.  Mr. Aljabri also said two of his eight children had been detained by Saudi authorities in retaliation for his fleeing the kingdom. “I am here to sound the alarm about a psychopath, killer, in the Middle East with infinite resources, who poses threat to his people, to the Americans and to the planet,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mbs-sent-death-squad-to-kill-me-ex-spy/article37170578.ece
26 October 2021||Tashkent,||Uzbekistan leader secures second term in landslide win||Uzbekistan’s President Shavkat Mirziyoyev cruised to victory for a second term on Monday in an election that monitors said was “not truly competitive” despite some reforms in the authoritarian Central Asian state. Uzbekistan’s Central Election Commission said Mr. Mirziyoyev had taken 80.1% of the vote against four token opponents, according to a preliminary count. The vote was held on Sunday with no real opposition facing Mr. Mirziyoyev, who came to power in 2016 after the death of his mentor, dictator Islam Karimov, who ruled Uzbekistan for 27 years. ’Reforms sidestepped’ Mr. Mirziyoyev has been credited with launching what he calls a “New Uzbekistan” programme, ending a decades-old system of forced labour with roots in the former Soviet Union and introducing limited media freedoms. But like Karimov, the new leader has sidestepped political reforms that would allow any alternative to his rule. A mission led by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe said Sunday’s polls were “not truly competitive” and pointed to “the exclusion of opposition parties”. “Significant procedural irregularities were noted on election day,” the mission added in a statement. “Election legislation still has a number of deficiencies and does not yet fully comply with international standards for democratic elections.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uzbekistan-leader-secures-second-term-in-landslide-win/article37170579.ece
26 October 2021||Kabul,||Afghans facing an acute food crisis, says UN||Afghanistan is on the brink of one of the world’s worst humanitarian crises, UN agencies warned on Monday, with more than half the country facing “acute” food shortages. More than 22 million Afghans will suffer food insecurity this winter, they said, as a drought driven by climate change adds to the disruption caused by the chaotic Taliban takeover of the country. “This winter, millions of Afghans will be forced to choose between migration and starvation unless we can step up our life-saving assistance,” said David Beasley, executive director of the World Food Programme. The crisis is already bigger in scale than the shortages facing war-torn Yemen or Syria, and worse than any food insecurity emergency apart from the Democratic Republic of Congo, officials said. “Afghanistan is now among the world’s worst humanitarian crises — if not the worst — and food security has all but collapsed,” Beasley said in a statement. “We are on a countdown to catastrophe and if we don’t act now, we will have a total disaster on our hands.” According to the statement issued by the World Food Programme and the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, one in two Afghans faces Phase 3 “crisis” or Phase 4 “emergency” food shortages. Phase 4 is one step below a famine, and officials said that Afghanistan — already struggling from a 20-year civil war — is facing its worst winter in a decade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghans-facing-acute-food-crisis-un/article37170576.ece
26 October 2021||Beijing,||China, Taliban officials set to meet in Qatar||Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi will meet with Taliban representatives during a trip this week to the Persian Gulf nation of Qatar, an official said Monday. The talks during Mr. Wang’s visit, scheduled for Monday and Tuesday, are the latest high-level contact between the sides. Mr. Wang met with a delegation led by a top Taliban leader, Abdul Ghani Baradar, in July in the Chinese city of Tianjin, shortly before the group carried out a country-wide operation to seize power from the elected government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-taliban-officials-set-to-meet-in-qatar/article37170569.ece
26 October 2021||TAIPEI,||AS--Virus Outbreak-China||Children as young as three will start receiving COVID-19 vaccines in China, where 76% of the population has been fully vaccinated amid a spike in new cases. The National Health Commission reported that 35 new cases of local transmission had been detected over the past 24 hours.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-virus-outbreak-china/article37170568.ece
26 October 2021||BERLIN,||EU--Germany-IS-Verdict||A German convert to Islam was sentenced to 10 years in prison on Monday on charges that, as a member of the extremist IS group in Iraq, she allowed a 5-year-old Yazidi girl she and her husband kept as a slave to die of thirst in the hot sun. The child was “defenseless and helplessly exposed to the situation,” judge Joachim Baier said.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-germany-is-verdict/article37170573.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The Perils of an Unresolved Boundary||The India-China relationship is in a difficult place, with the past shadowing the present. The period from 1949 to 1962 is crucial as Jawaharlal Nehru sought, albeit unsuccessfully, to establish a workable relationship with the Chinese. Nirupama Rao, former Foreign Secretary and Ambassador to China, traces the history of Tibet, the genesis of the McMahon Line, Communist China’s military takeover and domination of Tibet, and the border row between India and China in her new book, The Fractured Himalaya . An excerpt from the book:  It was to be over a year before negotiations between India and China on relations between India and Tibet opened in Beijing. These commenced on December 31, 1953. Jawaharlal Nehru’s approach to frontier questions between India and China was already well-entrenched by then. Tibet had become more a ‘psychological’ buffer from a political one during British rule — psychological because Nehru was convinced that any military attack on India from Tibet was not feasible. For him, while the status of Tibet and Tibetan autonomy, as also Indian interests in Tibet inherited from the British were issues for discussion with China, the frontier, as his biographer S. Gopal noted, ‘was firm, well-known and beyond dispute’. Loosely put, Nehru’s attitude was that there was no room for controversy over the McMahon Line: ‘Our maps show that the McMahon Line is our boundary and that is our boundary — map or no map. That fact remains and we stand by that boundary, and we will not allow anybody to come across that boundary.’ Gopal notes that this assertion of rights was more definite regarding the eastern sector of the boundary. Flawed advice The problem lay in the fact that, except for Sikkim, the border had not been demarcated — jointly with China — on the ground; the boundary in the western and middle sectors had not been defined in detail by treaty and only, as Nehru stated, by custom, usage and tradition. The McMahon Line was shown only on a map that the Chinese government had initialled in 1914 but not subsequently accepted. The Chinese would set their strategy in such a way subsequently, when the officials of the two sides met in 1960, to seek ‘fresh acceptance of every stretch’ of the boundary. K.M. Panikkar, without the benefit of hindsight, only had this advice to give Nehru: the issue would pose no difficulty. Could Panikkar [the first Indian Ambassador to China] have sensed the actual Chinese attitude? In retrospect, his advice to Nehru would have serious repercussions for India. As advice, it was fatally flawed. Throughout his stay in China, Panikkar took the stand that the Tibetan issue was a simple one. Leaders like Zhou Enlai, in his view, recognised the ‘legitimacy’ of India’s trade and cultural interests in Tibet and only suggested that the political office in Lhasa, ‘an office of dubious legality’ in Panikkar’s words, should be regularised by its transformation into an Indian Consulate-General. Other posts and institutions like the telegraph lines set up in the British era, the military escort at Yadong in the Chumbi Valley, ‘were to be abolished quietly in time’, and the trade agents in Tibet and their subordinate agencies brought ‘within the framework of normal consulate relations’. In his seeming obsession with the big picture of two big Asian nations forging deeper understanding and cooperation, Panikkar was content to say that he left ‘no outstanding issue’ pending at the time of his departure. It was a strategic miscalculation which would have serious consequences. When Zhou Enlai told Panikkar in September 1951 in a ‘shrouded sentence’ that the question of the stabilisation of the Tibetan frontier — a matter of common interest to India, Nepal and China — could be settled by discussion between the three countries, it was assumed, in diplomatic guesswork, that stabilisation meant that there was no territorial dispute between India and China. ‘Cunning’ move Many records indicate that the view of the officials in the Ministry of External Affairs was that while negotiations for an agreement between India and China on Tibet were necessary, they should also include a border settlement. There should be a quid pro quo for India’s recognition of Chinese sovereignty over Tibet. A note by the Foreign Secretary, K.P.S. Menon on April 11, 1952 observed that the Chinese government’s attitude was far from straightforward, and could, in fact, be termed ‘cunning’. A child could see through the game, said Menon. Zhou Enlai had suggested in September 1951 that India’s position in Tibet should be regularised and the ‘boundary with Tibet stabilised’. India had said immediately that ‘we were ready for discussions’ but there had been no response from the Chinese. The latter were saying that ‘they [the Chinese] have been in Tibet only for a short while and want more time to study the problem.’ Menon was suspicious of Chinese irredentism, and a whispering campaign was already doing the rounds in Lhasa that not only Tibet, but Sikkim and Bhutan, and even the Darjeeling-Kalimpong area ‘would soon be liberated.’ This would encourage the Tibetans to lay their hands on Tawang and other disputed areas to the south of the McMahon Line. ‘The Chinese have long memories; irredentism has always played a part in the policy of the Chinese government whether imperial, Guomindang or Communist.’ India was clearly inviting trouble when it was decided that the border issue would not figure in the negotiations on Tibet. Responding positively to the Chinese move for an agreement on Tibet was seen essentially as a means of reducing Chinese pressure on the border, and as ‘helping’ the Tibetans within a larger policy framework of coaxing the Chinese out of their isolation. Piecemeal solution The ‘knight-administrator’ (called thus because of his British knighthood and being a member of the Indian Civil Service) Sir Girija Shankar Bajpai was by now the Governor of Bombay. He continued to be in the picture regarding Tibet. He had noticed that the list of pending issues proposed for discussion with the Chinese did not include the question of the frontier with Tibet. His view, as expressed to the Foreign Secretary, was that ‘This business of Sino-Indian relations over Tibet, would, in my judgement, be best handled comprehensively and not piecemeal’, implying that the question of the border should not be left aside. Perhaps, as a result of Bajpai’s letter, the Prime Minister in a note to the Foreign Secretary on 23 July, expressed his inclination that the frontier should be mentioned in the talks with the Chinese. Panikkar’s reasons for not advancing this subject, be what they may, were appreciated but Nehru felt ‘that our attempt at being clever might overreach itself’ and that it was better to be absolutely straight and frank about the issue with the Chinese. Nehru’s misgivings This was not the first time that Nehru had expressed some misgivings on the issue. In June of the same year, he had in a message to Panikkar said it ‘was odd’ that Zhou Enlai had made no reference to the frontier in his discussions with the Ambassador. He did not like Zhou’s silence in the matter, he added, since the Indian government had made it clear in Parliament that not only the direct frontier with Tibet, but also the frontiers of Nepal, Bhutan and Sikkim, should remain unchanged. Panikkar’s response was to state that the Chinese were aware of India’s interest in the integrity of Nepal and had not raised any question about it. Neither had they objected to the PM’s public statements on the issue. Panikkar said he did not want to make this a subject for further discussion. India should stick to the position that the frontier had been defined ‘and there is nothing for us to discuss’. It would be legitimate ‘to presume that Chou En Lai’s silence on this point and his NOT having even once alluded to Sikkim or Bhutan at any time even indirectly during our conversation would mean acquiescence in, if NOT acceptance of our position.’ The Prime Minister did not demur further. Extracted with permission from Penguin Random House India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-perils-of-an-unresolved-boundary/article37170556.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A festering crisis in the Palk Strait||Rajkiran, 30, from Tamil Nadu’s coastal Pudukkottai district, is the fifth Indian fisherman to lose his life in the Palk Strait this year, after Samson Darwin, A. Mesiya, V. Nagaraj and S. Senthil Kumar from Ramanathapuram, who died in January. The boat that Rajkiran was on, with two others, sank late on October 18 after reportedly colliding with a Sri Lankan Navy patrol vessel. The two other fishermen were remanded in Sri Lanka until November 1, while Rajkiran was reported “missing”, until his body was recovered by the Navy a few days after the incident. Tamil Nadu fishermen’s associations have accused the Sri Lankan Navy of brutally attacking Rajkiran, while Sri Lanka has denied the allegations. In both instances this year, what we know is that the fishermen died while trying to earn a living. In both cases, they reportedly crossed the International Maritime Boundary Line, an invisible demarcation between India and Sri Lanka. They were intercepted in Sri Lankan waters by the Sri Lankan Navy for “illegal fishing”, following which some of them returned dead. New Delhi conveyed a “strong protest” to Colombo after the death of the four fishermen in January, allegedly at the hands of the Sri Lankan Navy. But there is no sign of a full inquiry since, let alone a credible one. The distressing incidents are neither peculiar to this year, nor inevitable. Unresolved conflict The fishermen’s deaths serve as a stark reminder of the unresolved fisheries conflict festering in the barely 30-mile-wide (at its narrowest point) Palk Strait. The problem has existed for more than a decade now, from the time Sri Lanka’s 30 year-long civil war ended in 2009. That was when the island’s northern Tamil fishermen, who were displaced and barred access to the sea, began returning to their old homes, with hopes of reviving their livelihoods and resurrecting their lives. Their return, however, marked the beginning of a new tension with Tamil fishermen on the other side of the sea. This has posed a serious threat to their livelihoods, fishing gear, and the marine resources they rely on. In Tamil Nadu, daily wage fishermen are only too aware of the risks that come with working on mechanised fishing vessels used for ‘bottom trawling’. Their wage depends on the catch they bring back. Using the bottom trawling fishing method, they drag large fishing nets along the seabed, scooping out a huge quantity of prawns, small fishes and virtually everything else at one go. The practice, deemed destructive the world over, has ensured sizeable profits for their employers — the vessel owners — and a small income for the fishermen taking the highest risk. Incessant bottom trawling along the coast of Tamil Nadu over the years has meant that the fishermen are drawn to the relatively resource-rich Sri Lankan waters. This pushes them into a cycle of arrest, remand, release, or in some unfortunate cases, violence or death at sea. The Sri Lankan state’s response to the problem has been largely a military and legal one, tasking its Navy with patrolling the seas and arresting “encroachers”, banning trawling, and levying stiff fines on foreign vessels engaged in illegal fishing in its territorial waters. Little support has been extended to war-affected, artisanal fishermen in the Northern Province by way of infrastructure or equipment. Despite accumulating big losses, the fishermen received no assistance even during pandemic-induced lockdown months. The hefty penalty on foreign vessels proved a deterrent, at least temporarily. But over the last few months, northern fishermen have sighted Indian trawlers frequently, especially when the Sri Lankan Navy relaxed its patrol, fearing import of COVID-19 infections. Urgent solution India and Sri Lanka have held many rounds of bilateral talks in the last decade between government officials as well as fisher leaders. The outcomes have mostly ranged from deadlocks, with Tamil Nadu refusing to give up bottom trawling, to template responses from the governments, with India seeking a “humanitarian response” from Sri Lanka. The closest that the two countries came to reaching a solution was in November 2016, following a meeting in New Delhi led by the Foreign and Fisheries Ministers from both sides, with other key interlocutors. A Joint Working Group was constituted to first and foremost, expedite “the transition towards ending the practice of bottom trawling at the earliest”. The Indian government’s attempt to divert fishermen to deep sea fishing has not taken off as was envisaged, even as profit-hungry boat owners in Tamil Nadu stubbornly defend their trawler trade. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu fishermen continue to allege that the Sri Lankan Navy is unleashing violence on them; Sri Lanka denies this. Five years since, we are at a rather low point in the fisheries conflict, with a rising human cost. Meanwhile, this could be the biggest test yet to the solidarity that Tamil Nadu continues to express with Sri Lankan Tamils who bore the brunt of the civil war and still await justice and a political solution. By now, it is evident that bottom trawling has maximised not only the profits made by vessel owners in Tamil Nadu, but also the risk faced by poor, daily wage fishermen employed from the coastal districts. The rich owners and those employed by them for a meagre wage ought not to be clumped together simply as “Tamil Nadu fishermen”, without recognising that their interests and risks differ enormously. It is equally well known that the relentless trawling by Indian vessels has caused huge losses to northern Sri Lankan fishermen. Their catch has fallen drastically and they count vanishing varieties of fish. They are dejected as their persisting calls to end bottom trawling have not been heeded by their counterparts in Tamil Nadu, or “brothers” as they repeatedly call them. For politicians and activists in Tamil Nadu, the death of fishermen is understandably the most outrageous, emotive dimension of this complex problem — especially since no past case has been probed or perpetrator held accountable. All the same, seeing the conflict merely through the prism of Tamil Nadu fishermen and the Sri Lankan Navy may not yield a solution to the problem, although that might keep its most deplorable symptom in focus. At the heart of the conflict is a tale of competing livelihoods in a narrow stretch of the sea, amid a looming environmental threat, and a glaring asymmetry of power — be it in numbers, equipment, or political backing — between two Tamil-speaking fishing communities. The growing trust deficit between them does not augur well for the prospect of a solution. India and Sri Lanka must urgently refocus their energies to address this crisis. As the first step, Tamil Nadu must consider a moratorium on bottom trawling in the Palk Strait. Such a move must be accompanied by both New Delhi and Colombo substantially supporting their respective fishing communities to cope with the suspension of trawling on the Tamil Nadu side and the devastating impact of the pandemic on both sides. The time must be used for evolving a lasting solution. Strong bilateral ties are not only about shared religious or cultural heritage, but also about sharing resources responsibly, in ways that the lives and livelihoods of our peoples can be protected. meera.srinivasan@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-festering-crisis-in-the-palk-strait/article37170563.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A reminder that India still trails in the hunger fight||The Global Hunger Report (GHR) has once again made headlines in India for the country’s poor ranking in terms of the Global Hunger Index (GHI). The report ranks India at 101 out of 116 countries, with the country falling in the category of having a ‘serious’ hunger situation. The ranks are not comparable across years because of various methodological issues and so it is wrong to say that India’s standing has fallen from 94 (out of 107) in 2020. However, it is true that year after year, India ranks at the lower end — below a number of other countries that are poorer in terms of per capita incomes. This in itself is cause for concern. The indicators The Government of India, through a press release, refuted the GHI, claiming that it is ‘devoid of ground reality’ and based on ‘unscientific’ methodology. The GHI is ‘based on four indicators — percentage of undernourished in the population (PoU); percentage of children under five years who suffer from wasting (low weight-for-height); percentage of children under five years who suffer from stunting (low height-for-age), and percentage of children who die before the age of five (child mortality)’. The first and the last indicators have a weight of one-third each and the two child malnutrition indicators account for one-sixth weightage each in the final GHI, where each indicator is standardised based on thresholds set slightly above the highest country-level values. Looking at each of these indicators separately, India shows a worsening in PoU and childhood wasting in comparison with 2012. It is the PoU figure of 15.3% for 2018-20 that the Government is contesting. From official data sources The Government’s objection to the methodology, that “They have based their assessment on the results of a ‘four question’ opinion poll, which was conducted telephonically by Gallup”, is not based on facts.  The report is not based on the Gallup poll; rather, it is on the PoU data that the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) puts out regularly (as has also been clarified by the publishing agencies). PoU, according to the FAO, ‘is an estimate of the proportion of the population whose habitual food consumption is insufficient to provide the dietary energy levels that are required to maintain a normal active and healthy life’. PoU is estimated taking into account a number of factors such as food availability, food consumption patterns, income levels and distribution, population structure, etc. All the data used are from official data sources of respective national governments. In the absence of food consumption data in most countries, this indicator is an estimate based on a modelling exercise using available data; therefore, there is some margin of error. Most of the criticism of the FAO’s PoU data has been about how it underestimates hunger rather than over. Therefore, while there is scope for a valid discussion on the GHI methodology and its limitations, this objection by the Government is not warranted. Slow rate of progress The main message that the GHR gives is to once again remind us that India has not been very successful in tackling the issue of hunger and that the rate of progress is very slow. Comparable values of the index have been given in the report for four years, i.e., 2000, 2006, 2012 and 2021. While the GHI improved from 37.4 to 28.8 during 2006-12, the improvement is only from 28.8 to 27.5 between 2012-21. The PoU data show that the proportion of undernourished population showed a declining trend up to 2016-18 when it reached the lowest level of 13.8%, after which there is an increase to 14% for 2017-19 and 15.3% for 2018-20. Other data also broadly validate these findings. The partial results of the National Family Health Survey-5 (2019-20) also show that stunting and wasting indicators have stagnated or declined for most States for which data is available. The leaked report of the consumption expenditure survey (2017-18) also showed that rural consumption had fallen between 2012-18 and urban consumption showed a very slight increase. A period before the pandemic It must also be remembered that all the data are for the period before the COVID-19 pandemic. There were many indications based on nationally representative data — such as from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy and various field surveys conducted by research organisations, academics and civil society groups — that the situation of food insecurity at the end of the year 2020 was concerning, and things are most likely to have become worse after the second wave. Many of these surveys find that over 60% of the respondents say that they are eating less than before the national lockdown in 2020. Services such as the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) and school mid-day meals continue to be disrupted in most areas, denying crores of children the one nutritious meal a day they earlier had access to. It would, therefore, not be surprising if national surveys (hopefully conducted soon) show a further slowdown in improvement in malnutrition. The novel coronavirus pandemic has affected food security and nutrition across the world. In countries such as India — where the situation was also already poor to begin with — the impact is probably worse. The response cannot be one of denial; rather, what is needed are measures to ensure rapid recovery. It has been pointed out by many that the relief measures of the Government, so far, have been inadequate in comparison to the scale of the problem. Cuts for schemes The only substantial measure has been the provision of additional free foodgrains through the Public Distribution System (PDS), and even this has been lacking. It leaves out about 40% of the population, many of whom are in need and includes only cereals. Also, as of now, it ends in November 2021. At the same time, inflation in other foods, especially edible oils, has also been very high affecting people’s ability to afford healthy diets. On the one hand, while we need additional investments and greater priority for food, nutrition and social protection schemes, Budget 2021 saw cuts in real terms for schemes such as the ICDS and the mid-day meal. The argument that the GHI is an indicator of undernutrition and not hunger, is only diverting attention away from more substantial issues. Of course, malnutrition is affected by a number of factors (such as health, sanitation, etc.) other than food consumption alone, but that in no way means that healthy diets are not central. There is no denying that diverse nutritious diets for all Indians still remain a distant dream. Dipa Sinha is faculty at Ambedkar University Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-reminder-that-india-still-trails-in-the-hunger-fight/article37170558.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A region of rising intolerance||This month, Durga Puja pavilions, Hindu temples and homes were attacked in Bangladesh. These attacks followed rumours that the Koran had been desecrated at a pandal. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s administration assured the Hindus of security and deployed additional security forces in districts which had witnessed attacks. A few hours after the Prime Minister’s assurance, an ISKCON temple was attacked. At least five people have been killed in these attacks. A legacy of conflict Religious tension is not new in the Indian subcontinent. Conflicts often break out among different religious groups, and minorities are targeted. The 1992 Babri Masjid demolition in Ayodhya caused riots which led to the deaths of about 2,000 people. The 1993 Bombay bombings, the 2019 Easter attacks in Colombo, and the frequent terror attacks in Pakistan over the past decade are other examples. In the case of Bangladesh, where Hindus make up about 9% of the population and Muslims 90%, attacks against the Hindu minority are either retaliations to acts committed in the name of religion within the country or neighbouring India, or due to the extremist views of some Muslims. For instance, the demolition of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya instigated a violent response in Bangladesh and mobs started demolishing multiple Hindu temples. Faith-based conflicts take place both within and among countries. The India-Pakistan rivalry extends from the religious and political fields to sports — cricket matches between the two teams see a bigger audience than usual. The separation of Bangladesh from Pakistan in 1971 was an example of how culture too plays a pivotal role in separating or uniting a country. In the recent past, right-wing parties have been ruling the subcontinent, gaining the support of the dominant religious population and undermining religious minorities. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in India and Tehrek-e-Insaaf (PTI) in Pakistan are examples. The controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act passed in Indian Parliament in 2019 was a faith-based test of citizenship and instigated rallies and protests across the subcontinent. Ms. Hasina called the law “unnecessary”. The rise of the Taliban in Afghanistan was supported by PTI leader and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan. The subcontinent is evolving towards a polarisation of Hindus and Muslims. Varying responses In Bangladesh, what is appreciable is that the government takes strict action against religious extremist groups and also promotes the celebration of festivals of all religions by ensuring security at religious sites on festival days. Muslims visit Hindu temples on Durga Puja or celebrate Holi and invite Hindus on Eid. Bangladesh has developed a strong anti-terrorism wing from its security forces to tackle religious extremist attacks. The anti-terrorism unit has prevented countless planned attacks and jailed numerous extremist groups. Some have been sentenced to death, including those involved in the attack of the local café Holey Artisan in July 2016. Bangladesh has not only cracked down on terror groups since the café attack but also prevented gatherings of religious protesters to prevent violence. For example, a recent gathering of Muslim extremist groups in protest against France’s anti-Islamic laws was disrupted by law enforcers. In India, on the other hand, the government came under criticism first for not taking prompt action against cow vigilantes who were attacking poor Muslims and then for enacting the CAA. Protests against the law broke out across the nation and the administration responded to them with divisive rhetoric and heavy-handedness. Unfortunately, the South Asian political leadership is bereft of a vision and the courage needed to rise to the occasion and stand together to send an unequivocal message of zero tolerance against all forms of religious extremism and bigotry. When religion becomes a tool for achieving political mileage, the resulting flames of hatred and intolerance quickly spread. This has the potential of becoming a wildfire that devours everything that comes along the way. Such fire and fury can only hurt this region’s socioeconomic aspirations. The rise of the Taliban in Afghanistan is a wake-up call to South Asia’s political leadership to form a united front against all forms of religious dogma and extremism. Seventy-five years after Partition, harmony, religious coexistence and tolerance are all under threat. Can the region afford such myopia when there are so many burning issues to resolve such as poverty alleviation, climate change and food security? Syed Munir Khasru is Chairman of The Institute for Policy, Advocacy, and Governance, New Delhi, India, which also has a presence in Dhaka, Melbourne, Vienna and Dubai. Email: munir.khasru@ipag.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-region-of-rising-intolerance/article37170565.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A ‘bubbles of trust’ approach||An asymmetric globalisation favouring China allowed Beijing to attain power. It is now using that power to undermine liberal democratic values around the world. The Chinese market was never open to foreign companies in the way foreign markets are to Chinese firms. This is particularly true in the information and communications technology sector. Meanwhile, Chinese firms rode on the globalisation bandwagon to secure significant market shares in open economies. President Xi Jinping now formally requires Chinese firms to follow the political agenda of the Chinese Communist Party. But even before this, it was not possible to tell where private ownership ended and the party-state began. We are currently witnessing a global retreat from the free movement of goods, services, capital, people and ideas. But this should not be understood as a reaction to globalisation itself, but of its skewed pattern over the past four decades. Quad’s advantage The Quad countries – Japan, India, Australia and the U.S. – have an opportunity to stop seeing engagement with China through the misleading prism of free trade and globalisation. The roots of every member’s prosperity and power lie in international trade. It will be to their advantage to create a new form of economic cooperation consistent with their geopolitical interests. Indeed, without an economic programme, the Quad’s geopolitical and security agenda stand on tenuous foundations. The popular backlash against China is pushing Quad governments towards policies of self-reliance. But while reorienting and de-risking global supply chains is one thing, pursuing technological sovereignty is inherently self-defeating. When it comes to critical and emerging technologies, no single country can replicate the combined genius of the world. Worse, inward-looking policies often acquire a life of their own and contribute to geopolitical marginalisation. There is a better way. A convergence of values and geopolitical interests means Quad countries are uniquely placed to envelop their economies inside bubbles of trust, starting with the technology sector. Complementarities in capabilities can power innovation and growth. The U.S. is a global leader in intellectual property, Japan in high-value manufacturing, Australia in advanced niches such as quantum computing and cyber security, and India in human capital. This configuration of values, interests and complementary capabilities offers unrivalled opportunities.  The idea of ‘bubbles of trust’ offers a cautious middle path between the extremes of technological sovereignty and laissez-faire globalisation. Unlike trading blocs, which tend to be insular, bubbles tend to expand organically, attracting new partners that share values, interests and economic complementarities. Such expansion will be necessary, as the Quad cannot fulfil its strategic ambitions merely by holding a defensive line against authoritarian power. The Quad’s Critical and Emerging Technology Working Group is well placed to develop the necessary ‘bubbles of trust’ framework, which could be adopted at the next Quad summit. Such a framework would allow the scope of the cooperation to be limited to information industries avoiding the long and complex negotiations typical of trade agreements. To be successful the Working Group must seek to strengthen geopolitical convergences, increase faith in each member state’s judicial systems, deepen economic ties and boost trust in one another’s citizens. There are fundamental differences between authoritarian and liberal-democratic approaches to the information age. But there is no consensus among the latter. The Quad cannot allow differences of approach on privacy, data governance and the digital economy to widen. This agenda cannot be about substituting China. Rather, the approach would allow Quad countries to manage their dependencies on China while simultaneously developing a new vision for the global economy. Nitin Pai is the Director of the Takshashila Institution. This is an excerpt of his upcoming contribution to The Sydney Dialogue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-bubbles-of-trust-approach/article37170560.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||End the impasse||The time may have come for a more concerted effort by the Government and the protesting farmers to find a solution to the prolonged impasse over the three agriculture-related laws enacted last year. The Supreme Court has emphasised that public roads cannot be blocked indefinitely by protesters. In an observation in the context of more petitions from members of the public, complaining that their right of free movement has been curtailed by the ongoing protests by farmers, the Court has said a solution has to be found, that roads cannot be blocked for long and there is no reason for it to lay down the law again and again. The reference was to last year’s judgment on the Shaheen Bagh protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, wherein it was held that public ways and public spaces cannot be blocked indefinitely even during a peaceful protest. The observation can be seen either as a disapproval of the tactic of holding interminable protests or as an implicit criticism of the Government for being unable to find a solution to the farmers’ grievances. Even while denying that they are responsible for the hardship faced by the public, and blaming the police for the blockade, the farmers say they should be allowed to continue their agitation at the Ramlila Maidan. However, the Government will have none of it, recalling the unsavoury incidents that took place on Republic Day when the protest rolled into the Capital. The conflict between the two competing rights — freedom to protest and the right to free movement of the public — is not the only aspect that requires immediate attention. There seems to be no attempt to break the deadlock on the core issue, with the farmers demanding an outright repeal of the laws and statutory validation for the claim that the MSP regime will not come to an end. Late last year, the protesting farmers and Union Ministers did come to a partial agreement on decriminalising stubble-burning and safeguarding power subsidies, but the two core demands have not seen any breakthrough. It is not out of place to recall that an expert committee constituted by the Court has submitted its report, but nothing has been heard about it after that. To an extent, the fact that the Court has not taken it up again or made the report public may be a factor in the continuing impasse. An expedited hearing that involves further review of the panel’s recommendations, or any such similar initiative from the Government, is needed to arrive at a solution. The objective must not be merely to resolve the incidental issue of blocked roads, but to reconcile or eliminate the deep differences over what the Government sees as necessary reforms in the farm sector. Any reform that seeks to eliminate distortions in the sector must also win the confidence of farmers, the principal stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/end-the-impasse/article37170550.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Mixed messaging||Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s first visit to Jammu & Kashmir after August 5, 2019 when Parliament diluted Article 370 of the Constitution that granted it a “special status” and downgraded and bifurcated the State into two Union Territories, took place against the grim background of the killings of 11 civilians by terrorists in one month. J&K has been under central rule since June 2018 and the political and parliamentary subterfuge in reorganising the erstwhile State still rankles as a discordant chapter of India’s experiments in federalism. Mr. Shah used the three-day visit to underscore the progress J&K has made since its reorganisation — the uptick in tourist inflow and the string of development and welfare projects. As for the stringent curbs that the people have had to endure meanwhile, Mr. Shah said those were bitter pills that helped save lives. Through a series of public engagements and official functions in Jammu and the Valley, the Home Minister’s single-minded focus was on reiterating the Bharatiya Janata Party’s political narrative on Kashmir. He said “three families” had held J&K to ransom until the party came to its rescue. Whether or not politics in J&K has been any more or less corrupt than other parts of the country is anyone’s guess, but it is a matter of fact that the former State had a poverty rate of 10.35% against the national average of of 21.92%. The Centre has been successful in removing the question of independence or even autonomy from the conversation on Kashmir. But to pretend that there is no political question in Kashmir to be discussed or resolved is reckless. Besides trying to systematically delegitimise the mainstream parties, the BJP policy also sought to build an entirely new political apparatus in the Union Territory. Mr. Shah ruled out any talks with Pakistan, but said he was willing to talk to the youth of Kashmir. That promise can be meaningful only with immediate action. Now that the Centre has made the restoration of statehood as the endgame of an unclear political process, it must establish a mechanism for dialogue with the people. In June, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had met political leaders from J&K in Delhi but there has been no follow up to that since then. On the contrary, Mr. Shah’s messaging over three days emphasised the divisions between the people of the Valley and Jammu, and berated political leaders. True, he made the right gestures in terms of visiting victims of recent violence and interactions with locals but that is far from enough. More than 700 people had to be detained ahead of his visit, which is instructive of the continuing volatility in the Valley. Mr. Shah’s trip is the latest in a series of visits by Union Ministers in recent weeks. While the Centre’s outreach is indeed a welcome step, it needs to be more honest and open to be effective.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mixed-messaging/article37170551.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘India will strike back if attacked’||The Defence Minister, Mr. Jagjivan Ram, to-day [New Delhi, Oct. 25] spelt out in greater detail India’s new philosophy of defence and stipulated the conditions for the withdrawal of the Indian forces from the borders in the present Indo-Pakistan situation. In a policy speech he made at the National Defence College, Mr. Jagjivan Ram said that India would not be satisfied with merely defending its territorial integrity in the event of a Pakistani attack, but would carry the fight into the enemy territory so that the war was not fought on Indian soil as far as possible. This offensive-defensive posture of the Indian armed forces was not aimed at provoking Pakistan, but ensuring that any attack by the enemy would be resisted with full force for inflicting the maximum punishment. While it had no intention of taking any step which could be regarded as aggression, India was fully prepared to strike back with devastating effect if Pakistan dared to attack it. The Defence Minister repeated the earlier warning that Indian troops would remain in their forward positions as long as the Pakistani threat was there. If the international community wanted the two sides to withdraw their forces, India would insist that the Big Powers should assume responsibility for the return of the ten million refugees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-will-strike-back-if-attacked/article37170559.ece
26 October 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Auditors must report to RBI on deviations in regulated entities’||Auditors have a duty to report directly to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on matters of material significance arising from the audit of banks and other regulated entities, central bank governor Shaktikanta Das said. Highlighting that statutory auditors played a vital role in maintaining market confidence on audited financial statements, he said that in the banking industry, such a public role was particularly relevant for financial stability, given that banks hold public deposits. He said in a globally integrated economy, fair and impartial audit was not just a domestic concern, but also an instrument to enhance the country’s reputation and credibility on a global stage. He was addressing probationers and other Indian Audit & Accounts Service officers at a conference organised by the National Academy of Audit and Accounts at Shimla on Monday. “It assumes greater significance during difficult times such as the one we are going through now due to the COVID-19 pandemic. With increasing complexity of financial markets and higher expectations from the public about efficient resource allocation, the role of audit has become even more important,” the governor said. Mr. Das added that inaccurate information might lead to sub-optimal decisions or excess resource allocation, which would be neither in public interest, nor in the interest of individual stakeholders. “To overcome the problem of unreliable information, an assurance mechanism is required... Such mechanism is provided through the audit mechanism, both internal and external,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auditors-must-report-to-rbi-on-deviations-in-regulated-entities/article37170541.ece
26 October 2021||Kolkata,||September engineering goods exports cross $9 billion: EEPC||Exports of engineering goods have crossed $9 billion in September 2021, even 22 out of 25 top export destinations such as China, the U.K. and the UAE have recorded growth, EEPC said. The share of engineering goods in overall merchandise exports stood at 26.7% in September, the export promotion body said. Engineering Export Promotion Council (EEPC) chairman Mahesh Desai said that India’s cumulative engineering exports rose from $32.4 billion in April-September, 2020 to $52.3 billion in the same period this year. “On an annualised basis, this would translate to $105 billion in 2021-22. In the first six months, 49% of the target has been achieved,” Mr. Desai said. Other destinations that recorded growth included Germany, Turkey, Italy, U.K., Mexico, Vietnam and Singapore, EEPC said. ‘Lessons from earlier’  Welcoming the move to fast-track free trade agreements (FTAs) with as many as six countries and trading blocs, Mr. Desai said the government should take lessons from earlier such agreements. “The FTAs signed earlier led to increased imports for some items in ferrous and non-ferrous sectors from countries like Korea and Japan,” the chairman said. “Hence there is a need to take a cautious stance while signing new FTAs,” Mr. Desai added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/september-engineering-goods-exports-cross-9-billion-eepc/article37170534.ece
26 October 2021||Bengaluru,||‘VC deals in India more than double to $14.4 bn’||Venture capital (VC) investments in India more than doubled from its previous quarterly high of $6.7 billion in Q2 of calendar 2021 to $14.4 billion in Q3, according to KPMG’s Private Enterprise’s Venture Pulse report. The country saw 498 VC deals in the quarter, up from 376 in the previous quarter. Also, India accounted for four of the largest deals in the Asia-Pacific in the July-September period. Q3 witnessed strong IPO activity, which would be stronger in the current quarter, the report indicated. Edtech was seen as an active sector, while Fintech continued to attract significant investments and attention from investors. VCs have also shown strong interest in the insurtech space, KPMG said. “Money is pouring into consumer tech companies, D2C companies, fintech companies and others here in India, and it is only going to get stronger. Looking forward, there are a few big IPOs coming down the pipe and, assuming they go well, that is only going to strengthen investor confidence here even further,” said Nitish Poddar, Partner and National Leader, Private Equity, KPMG in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vc-deals-in-india-more-than-double-to-144-bn/article37170531.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||Bharti opts for four-year moratorium on dues||Bharti Airtel will opt for the four-year moratorium on adjusted gross revenue (AGR) and spectrum payments, making it the second telco after Vodafone Idea to accept the offer, which was part of the recently announced telecom relief package, sources said. The telco communicated the decision to the Department of Telecom on Friday, the sources added. The Union Cabinet had in September approved several measures to extend lifeline to the cash-strapped telecom sector, including a four-year moratorium on payment of dues to the government arising out of the AGR judgment as well as payments of spectrum purchased in past auctions.  The government had asked the telecom companies to convey their decision on opting for the four-year dues moratorium by October 29, while also giving 90 days’ time to indicate if they wanted to opt for converting the interest amount pertaining to the moratorium period into equity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-opts-for-four-year-moratorium-on-dues/article37170544.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Telcos want six-month extension of 5G trials||Telecom operators, including Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea, have asked the Department of Telecom to extend the 5G trial period by six months. In May, the government allocated spectrum to the telecom firms in the 700 Mhz band, 3.3-3.6 Gigahertz (Ghz) band and 24.25-28.5 Ghz band for trials for six months. “All telecom companies have asked for extension of 5G trials by another 6 months,” a senior government official told PTI. The current trial period ends in November. The Department of Telecom (DoT) has started the process for commercial roll out of 5G by seeking telecom regulator TRAI’s view on the pricing and methodology for spectrum auction. While there is no clarity onthe timeline of the auction, industry sources expect it to take place in the April-June 2022 period. On May 4, DoT cleared applications from Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and MTNL for conducting 5G trials without using technologies from Chinese companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/telcos-want-six-month-extension-of-5g-trials/article37170547.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jio, Google develop OS for JioPhone Next||Jio Platforms and Google have jointly developed the Pragati operating system for JioPhone Next, which is expected to be in the market around Diwali, according to a video released by Jio on Monday. The phone will use a language translation tool as a special feature to enable communication between vernacular speakers in India. “Pragati OS, powered by Android, is a result of... bringing together the best minds at Jio and Google,” Android GM and India engineering lead Ram Papatla said in the video. JioPhone Next will have a translation feature working in 10 Indian languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jio-google-develop-os-for-jiophone-next/article37170536.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||TechM Sept. quarter net jumps 26%||IT firm Tech Mahindra on Monday said its consolidated net profit has increased by 25.7% to Rs. 1,338.7 crore for the quarter ended September 30, 2021. This is against a net profit of Rs. 1,064.6 crore in the July-September 2020 quarter, Tech Mahindra said in a statement. TechM announced the acquisition of Lodestone, a digital engineering quality assurance provider for new age digital companies, for up to $105 million (about Rs. 789 crore). The company also said it had acquired WMW by Born London Limited, U.K. for £9.4 million pounds (about Rs. 97 crore), as per a regulatory filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/techm-sept-quarter-net-jumps-26/article37170529.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Non-power sectors seek coal supply’||The Coal Consumers’ Association of India has urged the government to resume at least some amount of coal supply to the non-power sector. Non-power sector consumers, including captive power plants, aluminium, steel, cement and sponge iron had long been facing an acute shortage of coal as supply via rail mode had been halted from most of the subsidiaries of Coal India Ltd., the association said in a letter to Coal Secretary A.K. Jain. “The Ministry is requested to look into the matter empathetically as resumption of at least some amount of coal supply to the non-power sector would be pivotal for the sustenance of the industries at present,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/non-power-sectors-seek-coal-supply/article37170532.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre signs share sale pact for Air India||The government on Monday signed the share purchase agreement for Air India’s sale with Tata Sons. Earlier this month, Tata Sons subsidiary Talace Pvt. Ltd. emerged as the highest bidder for Air India for Rs. 18,000 crore. Of this, the cash consideration to be paid to the government is Rs. 2,700 crore, and the remaining Rs. 15,300 crore is the debt to be taken on by Talace. Next, there are certain conditions that need to be satisfied by the successful bidder, Air India and the government. It is expected that the transaction would be completed by December, when the government plans to hand over the airline to Talace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-signs-share-sale-pact-for-air-india/article37170542.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi/Bengaluru,||Nykaa’s public offer to open on October 28||FSN E–Commerce Ventures, which owns Nykaa and Nykaa Fashion, has fixed a price band of Rs. 1,085-1,125 per share for its initial public offer (IPO)that opens for subscription on October 28, and which is set to raise more than Rs. 5,000 crore. The offer comprises a fresh issue of equity shares aggregating up to Rs. 630 crore and an offer for sale of up to 41,9,72,660 equity shares being offered by the selling shareholders. The offer will close on November 1, 2021. Existing investors TPG Growth IV SF Pte, Lighthouse India Fund and others are expected to offload their shares in the IPO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nykaas-public-offer-to-open-on-october-28/article37170545.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||DoT tweaks AGR to ease levy on telcos||The government amended the telecom licence norms to reduce the tax burden on telecom operators by exempting all non-telecom revenue, income from dividends and rent, among others, for calculation of levies like licence fees. The amendment forms part of the telecom package announced by the Centre. The old definition of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) had led to a burden of about Rs. 1.47 lakh crore on the telcos. The exempted sources of revenue will be deducted from the their gross revenue to calculate AGR. “This amendment comes into effect from October 1,” the DoT said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dot-tweaks-agr-to-ease-levy-on-telcos/article37170786.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||Eicher shareholders approve proposal to re-appoint Siddhartha Lal as MD||Eicher Motor shareholders have approved a proposal to reappoint Siddhartha Lal as the company’s managing director for a period of five years with effect from May 1 this year. The members also cleared the proposal to increase Mr. Siddhartha Lal’s remuneration. In the latest round of voting, 93.75% votes favoured the reappointment, while 6.25% opposed the proposal.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/eicher-shareholders-approve-proposal-to-re-appoint-siddhartha-lal-as-md/article37170535.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||TVS Motor ties up with Bahwan International Group to strengthen presence in Iraq||TVS Motor Company on Monday said it has tied up with Bahwan International Group to strengthen its presence in Iraq. As per the deal, ARATA International FZC, a subsidiary of Bahwan International Group (BIG), will be the new distributor of TVS in Iraq. Building on this partnership, both the groups will also explore other avenues of cooperation in Oman and India.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-ties-up-with-bahwan-international-group-to-strengthen-presence-in-iraq/article37170537.ece
26 October 2021||Mumbai,||CMS mulls Rs. 2,000-crore IPO, to foray into 3 new businesses||Cash management company CMS Info Systems Ltd is planning to tap the capital market with an IPO to raise Rs. 2,000 crore for its promoter-selling shareholder through an offer-for-sale. The company has already filed a draft red herring prospectus with SEBI. All proceeds will be received by Sion Investment Holdings Pte. Ltd., an affiliate of Baring Private Equity Asia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cms-mulls-rs-2000-crore-ipo-to-foray-into-3-new-businesses/article37170539.ece
26 October 2021||Mumbai,||RupeeRedee eyes Rs. 250-crore loan book||Digital lending app RupeeRedee, which is registered as MoneyMitra IT Solutions Pvt. Ltd., is eyeing a loan book of more than Rs. 250 crore by end FY22, said country head Artem Andreev. “Our target is to cross Rs. 250 crore in loan book by end FY22. We are in talks with many NBFCs and banks for debt funding to increase our portfolio and serve more customers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rupeeredee-eyes-rs-250-crore-loan-book/article37170540.ece
26 October 2021||SHARJAH,||The Mujeeb-Rashid show||Afghanistan produced a dominating display of power-hitting before Mujeeb Ur Rahman and Rashid Khan spun out the Scotland line-up with five- and four-wicket hauls as the team routed Scotland by 130 runs in a Super 12 match of the T20 World Cup here on Monday. Afghanistan posted a challenging 190 for four after opting to bat and bundled out Scotland for 60 in just 10.2 overs to register a mammoth win in Group 2. Scotland scored 27 in the first three overs before Mujeeb scalped Scotland skipper Kyle Coetzer and Calum MacLoed off successive balls. Mujeeb couldn’t get a hat-trick but two balls later, he trapped Richie Berrington to reduce Scotland to 28 for three in four overs. Wickets continued to tumble as Matthew Cross and George Munsey (25) departed in the next two overs. The trend continued as Michael Leask, Chris Greaves and Mark Watt fell to guile of Mujeeb (five for 20) and Rashid (four for nine). After Mujeeb’s heroics, Rashid polished off the Scotland tail. Scotland’s struggle against spin was reflected in the fact that five of its batters failed to open their accounts. Dominating display  Earlier, Nazibullah Zadran struck a blistering half-century in a dominating batting display of power-hitting as Afghanistan posted a commanding 190 for four. Zadran scored 59 off 34 balls with five fours and three sixes while Hazratullah Zazai (44) and Rahmanullah Gurbaz (46) also produced solid knocks. Opting to bat, Zazai and Mohammad Shahzad (22) got Afghanistan off to a flier, making 54 off just 35 balls, before the latter holed out to deep midwicket. Zazai played aggressively right from the start, punishing the loose deliveries for fours and sixes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mujeeb-rashid-put-on-a-show/article37170782.ece
26 October 2021||Austin,||Verstappen holds off Hamilton to win thriller||Max Verstappen held off a charging Lewis Hamilton to win the United States Grand Prix on Sunday and extend his lead to 12 points. Verstappen, in a Red Bull, claimed his first victory at the Circuit of the Americas in front of 140,000 fans. Mercedes’ Hamilton had cut the deficit in the race to under a second on the penultimate lap but could not find a way through the Dutchman’s impressive defence. Sergio Perez completed the podium for Red Bull ahead of Charles Leclerc in a Ferrari and McLaren’s Daniel Ricciardo. The victory, by 1.33 seconds, was Verstappen’s eighth of the season at a track where Hamilton had won five times.  The results: 1. Max Verstappen (Red Bull) 1:34:36.552s; 2. Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes) 1.333; 3. Sergio Perez (Red Bull) 42.223; 4. Charles Leclerc (Ferrari) 52.246; 5. Daniel Ricciardo (McLaren) 1:16.854; 6. Valtteri Bottas (Mercedes) 1:20.128; 7. Carlos Sainz Jr. (Ferrari) 1:23.545; 8. Lando Norris (McLaren) 1:24.395; 9. Yuki Tsunoda (AlphaTauri) 1 lap; 10. Sebastian Vettel (Aston Martin) 1 lap; 11. Antonio Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo) 1 lap; 12. Lance Stroll (Aston Martin) 1 lap; 13. Kimi Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo) 1 lap; 14. George Russell (Williams) 1 lap; 15. Nicholas Latifi (Williams) 1 lap; 16. Mick Schumacher (Haas) 2 laps; 17. Nikita Mazepin (Haas) 2 laps.   Did not finish: Pierre Gasly (AlphaTauri), Esteban Ocon (Alpine), Fernando Alonso (Alpine); Fastest lap: Hamilton 1:38.485 (42nd lap).   Standings: Drivers: 1. Verstappen (Ned) 287.5pts, 2. Hamilton (GBR) 275.5, 3. Bottas (Fin) 185, 4. Perez (Mex) 150, 5. Norris (GBR) 149, 6. Leclerc (Mon) 128, 7. Sainz Jr. (Esp) 122.5, 8. Ricciardo (Aus) 105, 9. Gasly (Fra) 74, 10. Alonso (Esp) 58, 11. Ocon (Fra) 46, 12. Vettel (Ger) 36, 13. Stroll (Can) 26, 14. Tsunoda (Jpn) 20, 15. Russell (GBR) 16, 16. Latifi (Can) 7, 17. Raikkonen (Fin) 6, 18. Giovinazzi (Ita) 1, 19. Schumacher (Ger) 0, 20. Mazepin (Rus) 0, 21. Robert Kubica (Pol) 0.   Constructors: 1. Mercedes 460.5, 2. Red Bull 437.5, 3. McLaren 254, 4. Ferrari 250.5, 5. Alpine 104, 6. AlphaTauri 94, 7. Aston Martin 62, 8. Williams 23, 9. Alfa Romeo 7, 10. Haas 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verstappen-holds-off-hamilton-to-win-thriller/article37170846.ece
28 October 2021||DUBAI,||Welcome Lucknow and Ahmedabad||Lucknow and Ahmedabad formally joined the Indian Premier League (IPL) bandwagon after the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) awarded them the franchise rights on Monday. While the choice of cities by the nine bidders who entered the fray was along expected lines, there was a huge surprise with regard to owners for the respective franchises. While the RPSG Group, the Kolkata-based business conglomerate, paid a whopping Rs. 7,090 crore for Lucknow, CVC Capital Partners, a European equity firm with diverse interest in sports, pipped favourite Adani Group in the race for Ahmedabad. The Adani Group submitted identical bids of Rs. 5,100 crore for Ahmedabad and Lucknow while CVC Capital came up with bids of Rs. 5,625 cr. and Rs. 5,166 cr. for Ahmedabad and Lucknow respectively. The show-stopper, however, was the Sanjiv Goenka-promoted group that was desperate to return to the IPL fold. As a result, it went with a bid of Rs. 7,090 each for Lucknow and Ahmedabad, it also submitted a Rs. 4,790 crore bid for Indore. Being the highest bidder, RPSG Group was given the choice of preferred base. Once it went ahead with Lucknow, CVC Capital, which had submitted the bid through its subsidiary Irelia Company Pte. Ltd., was awarded Ahmedabad as it was the second-highest bidder. Only other bid RPSG’s bid for Indore was the only other bid received for the other four cities — Dharamshala, Cuttack and Guwahati the others — that were also made available as a base to the prospective bidders. With the addition of two teams, the BCCI announced that the IPL will become a 10-team affair with a total of 74 matches to be played in each edition. The bids were opened in the presence of the IPL governing council members, chaired by Brijesh Patel, and the BCCI office-bearers after the technical proceedings were overseen by BCCI’s interm chief executive Hemang Amin. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly told reporters after the proceedings were completed at Taj Dubai that the BCCI was “not surprised” at being assured of an additional revenue of more than Rs. 12,500 crore over the next 10 years. He informed that “the money will go back to Indian cricket for improvement across levels.” Ownership rights The two IPL franchises, just like the original eight in 2008, have been awarded ownership rights in perpetuity with franchise fees to be paid in 10 equal annual instalments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lucknow-ahmedabad-new-franchises/article37170780.ece
26 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Top swimmers to kick-start preparations for major events next year||India’s top swimmers will return to the pool for a home competition after two long years when the 74th senior National aquatic championship gets underway here on Tuesday. Though quite early in the fresh Olympic cycle leading up to Paris 2024, the meet assumes significance as it is a qualifying event for the FINA World Short Course Championship (Abu Dhabi, December 2021) and the FINA World Championships (Fukuoka, May 2022). With the Asian Games and Commonwealth Games also a part of the 2022 calendar, swimmers would want to kick-start their preparations in earnest. “It is an important meet. We will get a good idea as to where we are and what we need to work on moving into the next season,” said ace backstroker Srihari Nataraj, who will look to further Karnataka’s dominance after its stellar show in the sub-junior and junior Nationals last week. “There are few events where I will be putting in more than the others. I have been enjoying training for 100m and 200m freestyle. In backstroke, I just want to check where I am. We have a very good relay team too. Let’s see if I can come out of this Nationals with a perfect 10. Last edition, I won eight golds.” Fellow Olympian Maana Patel, from Gujarat, will brace for a challenge from the fast-rising Karnataka swimmer Ridhima Veerendrakumar, who has been in outstanding form. “I was winning quite comfortably in the Nationals before. So, it’s good to have competition,” said Maana. “Ridhima broke two of my records in the junior meet. Earlier, I was the one challenging and breaking records. So, this is something different I’ll be experiencing,” the 21-year-old added. Focus on water polo There will be special focus on men’s water polo, with the Swimming Federation of India prioritising it for the Asian Games. Slobodan Soro, a coach from Tokyo 2020 men’s gold medallist Serbia, is set to travel to Bengaluru during the Nationals and help select 25 players for a 45-day camp in November-December and 17 core probables for a 30-day camp next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-swimmers-to-kick-start-preparations-for-major-events-next-year/article37170842.ece
26 October 2021||DUBAI,||India needs to put its thinking cap on after big loss||Some things never change, especially for Indian cricket fans whenever its men’s team suffers a crucial defeat. Just that the mode of expressing wrath has altered over the years. From pelting stones and burning effigies till not so long ago to racially trolling certain players in the digital media age, the fans have persisted with their exaggerated emotional outburst. All is not lost The fans may feel that the big battle on Sunday night against Pakistan in the ICC T20 World Cup opener has been lost. But, for the Indian team, the contest has just started. After all, India has four more group games left in order to finish in the top two and make it to the semifinals. For that to happen, however, the team management has a lot to ponder, especially with regard to team combination. The XI that took the field on Sunday — six specialist batters, Ravindra Jadeja the all-rounder and four specialist bowlers — could have appeared to be tailormade for T20 cricket a decade ago. But to consistently succeed in a rapidly-evolving T20 scenario, it appeared to be missing the much-needed zing. Hardik and injuries Hardik Pandya was missing from the field in the latter half, having hurt his right shoulder while batting. With the injuries having taken a toll on his body and being unable to bowl, India may have been served better with Ishan Kishan in place of Hardik. Ishan’s inclusion would not only enable India to keep the left- and right-hand combination for most of the innings but also avoid letting things stagnate in the middle overs if Rohit Sharma and/or K.L. Rahul depart early, as it happened on Sunday. If Ishan and Rishabh Pant are in the XI, one of them can be slotted in at No. 3 in case of an early wicket to ensure India keeps pressing the accelerator. As for the bowling group, Bhuvneshwar Kumar should make way for Shardul Thakur to give a better option in the middle overs and down the order with the willow, if required. With India having a six-day break ahead of Sunday’s must-win clash against New Zealand, the management will have to get the combination right. Captain Virat Kohli asserted after the loss that the long gap will serve the team well to regroup. “It works really well for us from all points of view, knowing that we have played a full-fledged season already, we played the IPL, which is very high-octane by itself in testing conditions here in the UAE, and then we come into the World Cup,” Kohli said on Sunday. “These big breaks are definitely something that’s going to help us as a team to be in the prime physical condition that we need to be in to play this high intensity tournament.” Besides physical recovery, India will have to utilise the week for tactical purposes in order to bounce back after a demoralising loss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-needs-to-put-its-thinking-cap-on-after-big-loss/article37170800.ece
26 October 2021||Dubai,||SA and WI look to bounce back||Having lost their respective opening matches of the Super 12 stage, South Africa and West Indies will look to bounce back when they meet at the ICC Twenty20 World Cup here on Tuesday. Both teams have fragile batting to address. Against England, on a pitch where shot-making wasn’t easy, West Indies batters kept going after the bowling despite losing early wickets. The side was eventually bowled out for 55. If the pitch keeps low and slow, West Indies might start thinking about tweaking its approach with the bat. Roston Chase could replace Chris Gayle at No. 3. Chase can be the anchor and also provide an off-spin option.  South Africa, on the other hand, is light on experience with seven players featuring at their first World Cup. Against Australia, Temba Bavuma fell early and Quinton de Kock couldn’t get going. David Miller and Heinrich Klaasen’s lack of form is a concern. Kagiso Rabada wants the batters to play according to the situation. “In these conditions, the ball is sort of moving around a bit. It’s not going to be free-flowing play. The wickets aren’t that particularly flat. We just have to bat well, assess and adapt to the conditions,” he said.  Despite the losses, there were a few positives for both teams, notably their bowling. Defending a paltry 55, West Indies had England four down with left-arm spinner Akeal Hosein picking up two for 24. Meanwhile, West Indies will be wary of Tabraiz Shamsi, who starred during the recent T20I series in the Caribbean. He took seven wickets in five matches, going for just four runs an over as South Africa won the series 3-2. “Yeah, we’ve been looking back at that [T20I series in the West Indies] and seeing how in the games so far here [in the UAE], batsmen are going to find a way to score off him and without him being much of a threat,” West Indies head coach Phil Simmons said on Monday. Both sides will be eager to get their first points on the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sa-wi-look-to-bounce-back/article37170775.ece
26 October 2021||MADRID,||Suarez to Atletico’s rescue||Mohamed Salah hit a hat-trick as Liverpool humiliated Manchester United, romping to a stunning 5-0 victory at Old Trafford in the Premier League on Sunday. Naby Keita got the visitors off to the ideal start in the fifth minute and then a dreadful mix-up between Luke Shaw and Harry Maguire led to Diogo Jota turning in a low cross from Trent Alexander-Arnold to make it 2-0 after 13 minutes. United was in disarray at the back and Salah made it 3-0 — scoring for the tenth straight game in all competitions — converting a low ball from Naby Keita and then added the fourth after being set up by Jota. It was the first time United had been 4-0 behind at the interval in the Premier League era and was loudly booed off the field. It took just five minutes after the break for Salah to complete his hat-trick with a trademark clinical finish after a superb through ball from Jordan Henderson.  United’s day got worse as they had a Cristiano Ronaldo goal over-ruled for offside by VAR and then half-time substitute Paul Pogba was sent off for a two-footed tackle on Keita, 15 minutes after coming on. Luis Suarez scored a second half brace as Atletico Madrid came from two goals down to draw 2-2 at home against Spanish LaLiga leader Real Sociedad on Sunday. Imanol Alguacil’s Socieded took an early lead when Swedish striker Alexander Isak set up Alexander Sorloth in the seventh minute. Isak got on the scoresheet himself three minutes after halftime with a clinical finish from a set piece. However, Suarez rose to meet a pinpoint cross from Joao Felix around the hour mark to inspire the home fans inside the packed Wanda Metropolitano. The Uruguayan completed the comeback for the champion when he was fouled in the area 13 minutes from time and once the penalty was ratified by VAR, converted it with ease. Sociedad remains on top of standings with 21 points from 10 games, one point ahead of Real Madrid and Sevilla who both have a game in hand. Atletico is three points behind the leader in fourth. Juventus manages draw In Serie A, Juventus snatched a last-gasp draw at champion Inter Milan on Sunday after Argentine forward Paulo Dybala scored a penalty following a VAR intervention. Juventus travelled to Milan in fine form having won its previous six games in all competitions, but soon found itself behind as Inter striker Edin Dzeko fired home after Hakan Calhanoglu’s shot had hit the post in the 17th minute.  The results:   Premier League: Manchester United 0 lost to Liverpool 5 (Keita 5, Jota 13, Salah 38, 45+4, 50).   LaLiga: Sevilla 5 (Torres Munoz 8, Mir 24, Carlos 38, Munir 50, Fernando 64) bt Levante 3 (Morales 33, 55, Melero Manzanares 61); Real Betis 3 (Moreno Lopera 22, Juanmi 24, Willian Jose 75-pen) bt Rayo Vallecano 2 (Nteka 45+1, Garcia Rivera 65); Atletico Madrid 2 (Suarez 61, 77-pen) drew with Real Sociedad 2 (Sorloth 7, Isak 48).   Serie A: Inter Milan 1 (Dzeko 17) drew with Juventus 1 (Dybala 89-pen); Roma 0 Napoli 0   Bundesliga: Stuttgart 1 (Faghir 90+3) drew with Union Berlin 1 (Awoniyi 31); Bochum 2 (Blum 3, Polter 90) bt Eintracht Frankfurt 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/salah-at-the-forefront-as-liverpool-hammers-abject-manchester-united/article37170778.ece
26 October 2021||Sharjah,||On a high, Pakistan has another score to settle||Pakistan will have “revenge” on its mind for a recent off-field snub when it takes on New Zealand here on Tuesday. By beating India, the Babar Azam-led team has shown the hunger to “go all the way”. “We are not here just to win against India, we have come here to win the World Cup, always remember that,” Babar said after the match. His team will be eyeing another big scalp in New Zealand, which recently withdrew from a scheduled series after landing in Pakistan, citing security threat. The pull-out hampered Pakistan’s World Cup preparations, which took a further hit with England too withdrawing from a tour. Tuesday’s game is being seen by Pakistan’s cricket community as an opportunity to extract revenge. Pakistan’s batting, though not yet tested fully, seems to have the firepower. With seasoned pros like Fakhar Zaman, Mohammad Hafeez and Shoaib Malik forming the middle-order, it is safe to assume that New Zealand’s bowlers have a task on hand. Pakistan used seven bowlers against India and veteran Malik wasn’t even one of them. Shaheen Shah Afridi was sensational with the new ball and the New Zealand openers will have to watch out for his fast in-swinging yorkers. The Kiwis have not had the best of build-ups, having lost to Australia and England in the warm-ups. One of their main concerns is the fitness of skipper Kane Williamson, who has been battling elbow pain. The Black Caps have a world-class bowling attack but their batters need to step up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/on-a-high-pakistan-has-another-score-to-settle/article37170784.ece
26 October 2021||Chennai:,||Aravind bowls Hunters XI to victory; Vignesh’s ton in vain||Medium-pacer G. Aravind’s six-wicket haul helped Hunters XI script a 100-run win over Madras United Club in the TNCA fourth division A-zone recently. In the third division-A zone, T. Vignesh Pathy’s 115 went in vain as Reserve Bank fell short by 19 runs against Triplicane CC while chasing 264 for victory.  The scores:   III-A: Nungambakkam 185 in 49.4 overs (B. Karthik 47 n.o., S. Vignesh 36, I. Syed Imran Ahmed 4/45) bt Sumangali Homes 152 in 45.5 overs (I. Syed Imran Ahmed 61, B. Karthik 4/33, T. Muralitharan 3/41).   Jupiter SC 262/7 in 50 overs (S. Chandrashekar 56, C. Sarath Kumar 41 n.o., S.V. Muruganatham 37, P. Prabhakaran 33) bt Sounder 162/6 in 50 overs (R. Abinandh 58, N.P. Balaji 35 n.o., S. Vasanth Saravanan 3/28).   Southern Railway SA 196/9 in 47 overs (A. Nirmalraj 74, S. Selva 33, S. Thilak 4/46) bt Sical RC 112 in 35.4 overs (S. Tarun Srinivas 44, S. Suraj 5/25).   Triplicane CC 263/9 in 50 overs (P.S. Manikandan 71, B. Sai Rupesh 58, J. Gowri Sankar 45, Prabhu Balachandiran 3/69) bt Reserve Bank 244/7 in 50 overs (T. Vignesh Pathy 115, S. Murali 41, S. Vijaya Kumar 3/50).   IV-A: Kamyuth Club 232/9 in 50 overs (Rishabh Sudhir 66, R. Magesh 59, M. Dinakaran 39, M. Kaviyarasu 4/68, V. Vignesh Raja 3/13) bt Twentieth Century 115/9 in 44 overs.   Hunters XI 155 in 48 overs (J. Aswath Narayanan 45, T. Prasath 35, A. Abraham David Raj 4/30, S. Jafar 3/32, K. Vel Murugan 3/65) bt Madras United Club 55 in 23.3 overs (G. Aravind 6/28).   Cosmopolitan Club 162/6 in 28 overs (K.S. Siddarth 79, G. Jai Vardhan Rajiv 36, S. Inbarasu 3/22) lost to Purasawalkam 163/3 in 24.3 overs (M. Rushil Kumar 54 n.o., A. Mahizharasan 38, R. Prasanth 35 n.o.).   IV-B: Ranji CC 141/7 in 37 overs (C. Andre Siddarth 60) lost to ICI 142/8 in 35 overs (L. Vignesh 34, A.S. Rangarajan 3/30).   IV-C: Young Men’s 76 in 27.5 overs (B. Ajay 5/39, M.A. Stephen Raj 4/17) lost to Book Sellers XI 78/0 in 26.5 overs (Nayef Ahmed 39 n.o.).   V-D: Globe 150 in 48 overs (V. Ranjith Kumar 36, S. Daniel 33, Y. Narendra Reddy 3/31) lost to Triplicane RC 152/6 in 44.5 overs (M. Nishanth Raj 43, M. Rahul Srawan 42, S. Manikandan 3/41).   Comrades 220 in 49.2 overs (S. Prithivraj 91, B. Sachin 5/47) bt Nungambakkam SC 85 in 25.3 overs (V. Logeshwaran 4/10).   Eccentrics 111/9 in 28 overs (V. Saravanan 43, C. Velmurugan 6/34) lost to BSNL Chennai Telephones 112/2 in 17.2 overs (Huzefa M. Patel 52, P.T. Rama Rao 30 n.o.).   V-C: Lusuraj 178 in 35 overs (M. Suresh Kannan 37) bt Singam Puli 133 in 36.5 overs (R. Sibi 49, V. Dinakaran 4/48).   Grand Prix 186 in 42.4 overs (R. Suresh Babu 45, M. Rajasekaran 40, Rajeel Abdul Rahman 33, M. Venkata Krishna 3/45) bt Egmore Club 96 in 23.1 overs (M. Sarath Kumar 3/31, M. Rajasekaran 3/24).   Triplicane Cosmopolitan 152 in 39 overs (E. Karapaga Ganapathy 51, M. Subanadhan 4/43) bt Egmore Excelsiors 150 in 24.1 overs (P. Thamizharasan 52, S. Ashwath Narayanan 5/30, M. Dinesh Kumar 3/46).   VI-A: Free Lancers 177 in 25.4 overs (K. N. Siddharth 39, R. Prem Kumar 31, B. Sriram 3/22) bt Halifaxs 120/7 in 30 overs (J. Kannan 50).   Saidapet Gymkhana 215/7 in 30 overs (K. Karthikeyan 58, V. Naveen 45, G. Vinoth Kumar 36, V. Kirubakaran 3/58) bt Bank of India 95 in 27.2 overs (K. Immanuel 3/19).   VI-B: Ashok Leyland Athletic Association 66 in 22 overs (K. Srikanth 4/18, M.F. Jim Israel 3/17) lost to Minerva 68/2 in 19.3 overs (R. Srikanth 31).   T.V. Sivaprakasam Memorial 165/6 in 22 overs (M. Navaneetha Krishnan 92 n.o., M.A. Adithya 3/40) bt Madras Fertilisers 143/9 in 22 overs (V. C. Hemanaath Kumar 4/28).   Shivaji 138/9 in 30 overs (D. Muthu Rajan 33, N. Roshan 4/33, M. Saravanan 3/36) lost to Presidency College Athletic Association 139/8 in 27.3 overs (M. Saravanan 67 n.o., R. Waseem Akthar 5/42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aravind-bowls-hunters-xi-to-victory-vigneshs-ton-in-vain/article37170899.ece
26 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Prashansa defeats Harini to make the quarterfinals||Prashansa Bonam of Chetan Anand Badminton Academy defeated N.R.K. Harini of Hatsun Academy 15-8, 15-9 in the girls (under-17) singles pre-quarterfinals of the Transform Chetan Anand Badminton Academy tournament on Monday.  The results: Boys: U-15, quarterfinals: T. Sai Prasad (PGBA) bt Avi Basak (PGBA) 21-15, 21-5; A.R. Rohan Kumar (BBBA) bt Uma Maheshwar Reddy (Asian) 21-18, 21-12; Vishnu Kedar (BBBA) bt J. Showrya Kiran (PGBA) 21-15, 21-18; Abhishek (Harsha) bt V. Kaushik Reddy (PGBA) 21-15, 21-6.   Doubles, pre-quarterfinals: A.R. Rohan Kumar & Varshith Sai (BBBA) bt Armaan Khan & I. Suraj (Suchitra) 15-2, 15-3; Bala Pranay & Kalahasthi Mahendra (BBBA) bt J. Sriram Kiran Karthik & K. Madhukar (KBA) 15-6, 15-1; Bhavya Chhabra & Garv Sahni (PGBA) bt M. Navaneeth & Vishnu Kedar (BBBA) 15-7, 15-11; Lakshmi Swetan & Nishal Anumolu (BBBA) bt K. Mohan & K. Pardhu (Sudhakar Reddy Academy) 15-11, 10-15, 16-14.   Divyanash Agarwal & V. Kaushik Reddy (PGBA) bt Anupa Tharun & Srikar Praneeth (BBBA) 15-11, 11-15, 15-12; Arjun Tanaji Birajdar & Aryan Tanaji Birajdar (BBBA) bt J. Anirudh Reddy & N. Srikar (Game Point) 16-14, 15-10; B. Sai Nachiketh & Pranit Somani (BBBA) bt Anirudh Kodali (RBA) & K. Kaushik Reddy (Flying Lotus) 15-4, 15-11; Md. Karamat Ul Haq & V.S.M. Reddy (BBBA) bt J. Showrya Kiran & Rakshit Garg (PGBA) 15-9, 15-13.   U-17, quarterfinals: Pritam Prasad (Olympus) bt Himanish Das (PGBA) 13-21, 21-10, 21-19; Rushendra Thirupathi (PGBA) bt Ojas Gedam (BBBA) 21-11, 21-13; S. Pranay (BBBA) bt Numair Shaik (BBBA) 21-18, 23-21; K. Sathwik Reddy (PGBA) bt Abhinav Manglam (PGBA) 22-20, 21-18. Doubles, pre-quarterfinals: Pranauv Ram & Saitluangpuia Sailo (PGBA) bt Mohith Kumar (PGBA) & P. Hima Harsha Garuda 16-14, 15-11; Sravanth Suri & Vaibhavkrishna Bhatta (CABA) bt Rahul Dravid (Suchitra) & T. Koushik (NPBA) 15-17, 15-11, 15-12; Dheemanth & M. Ajay Karthik (PGBA) bt Aman Shaik (CABA) & P. Pranav Srikar (PGBA) 11-15, 15-8, 15-10; Krish Desai & Pranay Shettighar (BBBA) bt G. Akshat Reddy & Rushendra Thirupathi (PGBA) 11-15, 15-8, 15-9; Asmit Agarwal & K. Sathwik Reddy (PGBA) bt Naga Manikanta & Yudajith Reddy (BBBA) 19-17, 15-10; Ojas Gedam & Pranav Sai (BBBA) bt Amit Rama Apex & Raja Venkat (Flying Lotus) 9-15, 15-6, 15-7; Numair Shaik & Rahul Azad (BBBA) bt D. Paremjeth Nagarajan & R.P. Shaang Kiruthik (Hatsun) 15-7, 15-12.   Girls: U-17, pre-quarterfinals: K. Sreshta Reddy (LBS) bt Gargi (PGBA) 11-15, 15-7, 15-7; N. Deepshika (ASR) bt M. Deepika (CABA) 15-7, 15-6; Vaishnavi Khadkekar (BBBA) bt Fariha Shireen (SRA Badminton) 15-13, 15-8; Shravya Dande (SSBA) bt Driti Bhonsle (CABA) 16-14, 15-9; M. Tejaswini (SSBA) bt Alisha Khan (BBBA) 15-7, 15-12; Prashansa Bonam (CABA) bt N.R.K. Harini (Hatsun) 15-8, 15-9; A. Tanvi Reddy (CABA) bt K. Nayanika Reddy (SR Battledore) 15-11, 15-9; Muskaan Khan (Suchitra) bt Eshita (BBBA) 15-11, 11-15, 15-7.   U-15, quarterfinals: Prashansa Bonam (CABA) bt D. Jashvitha (BBBA) 21-14, 21-12; Durga Esha (PGBA) bt P. Sarvani (SRK Academy) 21-14, 21-10; A. Tanvi Reddy (CABA) bt D. Deepika (Pro Shuttlers) 21-18, 15-21, 21-13; N. Deepshika (ASR) bt Gargi (PGBA) 21-11, 21-18.   Doubles, quarterfinals: Devanaboina Deepika & Devanaboina Sravanthi (Pro Shuttlers) bt D. Jashvitha & Ski Deep Kour (BBBA) 21-16, 23-21; G. Poojitha & Revilla Reddy Padmini (Suchitra) bt K. Hasini & R. Sphoorthy (PGBA) 16-21, 21-17, 21-17; M. Keerthy & Maheshwari (PGBA) bt Avanthika & P. Yasasri (BBBA) 21-12, 21-16; K. Vaishnavi & Matte Eesha (RGV) bt Hemabindu Yavarna & Y. Renushree (PGBA) 21-13, 21-17 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prashansa-defeats-harini-to-make-the-quarterfinals/article37171111.ece
26 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||KSEB clinches the title||KSEB overcame a determined fightback from Kerala Police to win 82-70 and lift the title in the SBL all-Kerala basketball tournament at the St. Joseph's floodlit court here on Sunday night. KSEB got off to a good start scoring points regularly to build a 23-11 lead at the end of the first quarter. Though KSEB went with a 10-point lead into half-time, Kerala Police, through its prolific scorers junior international Muhammed Shiras and Shanazil Mohammad, kept gnawing at the lead. Kerala Police won the third quarter 23-19 and reduced the lead to six points (48-54). Kerala Police rode on the momentum to level the scores at 56 in the fourth quarter. But Jishnu Nair, Sharath and Rahul Sarath regained their scoring touch at the right time as KSEB pulled away to win match 82-70. Earlier, Sree Kerala Varma College came third after beating Central GST and Customs 70-55. St. Mary's Club, Vettucadu defeated Dream Squad 40-35 to win the tournament for local sides.  The results: Final: KSEB 82 (Rahul Sarath 21, Jishnu G. Nair 16, A.S. Sarath 16, Sugeethnath 15) bt Kerala Police 70 (Muhammed Shiras 29, Shanazil Muhammed 21).   Losers final: Sree Kerala Varma College 70( Abhinandu 26) bt Central GST and Customs 55 (Aaron Blessen 13, B. Akhil 13).   Local tournament (final): St. Mary's Club, Vettucadu 40 (Umesh 12) bt Dream Squad 35 (Shaun Cyriac 10, Sarath Krishna 10) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kseb-clinches-the-title/article37171232.ece
26 October 2021||HISAR,||Manish keen to shine in CWG, Asian Games||After his Olympics debut in Tokyo, Manish Kaushik has returned to training at the Army Sports Institute in Pune with an aim to perform well in the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games next year. Manish missed the Services selection trials for the National championships due to his post-Olympic Games engagements and could not make it to the World championships.  However, he wasted no time in getting back to training. “The Olympics was a good experience and I gave my best. My training was affected as I had COVID-19 two months before the Games. “After the meeting with the Prime Minister on August 15, I went to Pune to train there for about a month and half. “My next target is doing well in the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games next year,” Manish, who graced the National women’s championships here as a special guest on Monday, told The Hindu . Manish said he would like to take part in both the Games even though the two would be held in quick succession. “I know there is a small gap between the two events and it will be taxing. But I would like to participate in both if I don’t have any injury issues. “There is enough time to prepare for the events. When the National camp starts, we will get to know whether we can get any exposure trips in the run-up.” Short break Manish is on a short break to attend a special function where Arjuna awardees of last year would be presented the trophies in Delhi on November 1. The event was held virtually due to COVID-19 last year.  I would like to participate in both if I don’t have any injury issues||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manish-keen-to-shine-in-cwg-asian-games/article37170983.ece
26 October 2021||HISAR,||Simranjit dethrones Pwilao||Olympian Simranjit Kaur gave a clinical performance to beat defending champion Pwilao Basumatary by a split decision in a 60kg quarterfinal bout in the National women’s boxing championships here on Monday. A World championship bronze medallist, Simranjit used her long reach and accurate combinations against her hard-hitting opponent to record a 4-1 victory and assure herself of a berth in the semifinals. In another fascinating contest, Shiksha of Railways staved off a strong challenge from World youth champion Babyrojisana Chanu to post a 5-0 win in a 54kg bout. Former Asian bronze medallist Manisha Moun executed her plans well to beat Radha Patidar of Madhya Pradesh 5-0 in a 57kg quarterfinal duel.  Important results (quarterfinals): 48kg: Manju Rani (RSPB) bt Simran (Chd) 5-0, S. Kalaivani (TN) bt Jyotika Bisht (HP) 5-0, Nitu (Har) bt Amisha Bharti (Asm) 5-0   50kg: Ramya Guduru (AP) bt Neha Bai (Jha) 5-0, Anamika (RSPB) bt Sanjeeta (Har) 5-0; 52kg: Nikhat Zareen (Tel) bt Manju Basumatary (Asm) 5-0, Jyoti Gulia (RSPB) bt Vanlalduati (AIP) 5-0   54kg: Jamuna Boro (Asm) bt Gayatri Kasnyal (Utk) 5-0, Shiksha (RSPB) bt Babyrojisana Chanu (Man) 5-0.   57kg: Poonam (Har) bt Mandeep Kaur (Pun) 4-1, Manisha Moun (AIP) bt Radha Patidar (MP) 5-0, Sonia Lather (RSPB) bt Vinakshi Dhota (HP) 5-0;   60kg: Simranjit Kaur (Pun) bt Pwilao Basumatary (Asm) 4-1, Jaismine (Har) bt Ritu (Chd) 5-0   63kg: Parveen (Har) bt Manju Bamboria (MP) 5-0.   66kg: Ankushita Boro (Asm) bt Lalbuatsihi (AIP) 5-0, Niharika Gonella (Tel) bt Babita Bisht (Utk) 5-0; 70kg: Srisha Jampula (Goa) bt Shivani Bharti (Bih) 3-2, Arundhati Choudhary (Raj) bt Shretima Thakur (HP) 5-0.   75kg: Saweety (Har) bt Kavita (Utk) 5-0; 81kg: Pooja Rani (Har) bt Sakshi Gaidhani (Mah) 5-0, Kavita Goyat (AIP) bt Anaswara P.M. (Ker) 5-0; 81+kg: Kanwaljit Kaur (Pun) bt Lipakshi (Raj) 4-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/simranjit-dethrones-pwilao-shikhsha-and-manisha-cruise/article37170829.ece
26 October 2021||KOCHI,||Nidhiya scores four, Thrissur in semifinal||S. Nidhiya fired in four goals as Thrissur thrashed Palakkad 11-0 and entered the semifinal of the 23rd State senior inter-district women’s football championship at the Maharaja’s Stadium here on Monday. Meanwhile Wayanad, riding on M.S. Sruthi’s two goals, blanked Kannur 3-0 and made the quarterfinal. Another match, between Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam, had to be cancelled as one of the host district’s players tested positive for COVID-19. With that, Thiruvananthapuram also entered the last eight. Special trail “Though the match was cancelled, we will conduct a trial for Ernakulam players later before we pick the State probables,” said P. Anilkumar, general secretary, KFA. “Only players who are 18 and above are allowed in the State women’s championship because players under that age have not got the COVID vaccine yet. And players are tested 48 hours before a match.”  The results:   Quarterfinals: Thrissur 11 (C. Reshma 1, C. Sivisha 23 & 37, R. Abhirami 26 & 71, S. Nidhiya 29, 44, 73 & 88, Gadha 56, Vinitha 60) bt Palakkad 0.   Pre-quarterfinals: Wayanad 3 (M.S. Sruthi 15, 51; Lubna Basheer 79) bt Kannur 0; Thiruvananthapuram w/o Ernakulam .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nidhiya-scores-four-thrissur-in-semifinal/article37171229.ece
26 October 2021||Hyderabad:,||Juliette lives up to her billing in feature||Champion mare Juliette, piloted by A. Sandesh, won the Golconda St. Leger, the last Classic of the Hyderabad Monsoon season, at the concluding day’s races here on Monday (Oct. 25). The winner is owned by M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust rep. by Mr. A.C. Muthiah. Karthik Ganapathy trains the winner. Sandesh calmly kept this Musketier’s daughter third, almost a distance behind the front running pair, till 1200m. She accelerated well to cover the leeway near 600m and in the home-stretch sped away to score a resounding victory.  Leading owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar Of Chettinad Charitable Trust rep. by Mr. A.C. Muthiah.  Leading trainer: R.H. Sequeira and D. Netto (19 winners each).  Leading jockey: Akshay Kumar (35 winners).  Leading apprentice jockey: Gaurav Singh (7 winners).  1. MIDNIGHT COWBOY PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): FLYING JET (R.S. Jodha) 1, Beauty Flame (B. Nikhil) 2, Ashwa Pushkin (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Star Cruise (Aneel) 4. Not run: Reining Queen. 3/4, 2 and 1-1/4. 1m, 15.10s. Rs. 18 (w), 11, 19 and 12 (p). SHP: 42, THP: 42, SHW: 16, and 22, FP: 95, Q: 50, Tanala: 422. Favourite: Flying Jet. Owners: Mr. S. Saleem Shah & Mr. L D’ Silva. Trainer: L D’ Silva.  2. PLAYBOY PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): RHYTHM SELECTION (Md. Ismail) 1, Explosive (B.R. Kumar) 2, City Of Blessing (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Star Babe (Akshay Kumar) 4. 1, 3-1/4 and Nk. 1m, 26.21s. Rs. 495 (w), 126, 25 and 14 (p). SHP: 91, THP: 58, SHW: 317 and 63, FP: 17, 216, Q: 4,693, Tanala: 61, 252. Favourite: Able Love. Owner: Mr. Syed Abdul Subhan. Trainer: Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan.  3. MIDNIGHT COWBOY PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): THANKS (Nakhat Singh) 1, Gregor Clegane (Mukesh Kumar) 2, Total Darc (Afroz Khan) 3 and Hot Seat (Akshay Kumar) 4. 3/4, 2-1/4 and 3/4. 1m, 14.68s. Rs. 31 (w), 13, 14 and 15 (p). SHP: 41, THP: 34, SHW: 17 and 18, FP: 103, Q: 42, Tanala: 253. Favourite: Gregor Clegane. Owner: Mrs. Lingala Aarti Reddy. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  4. NEON PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): BEDAZZLED (Ajeeth Kumar) 1, Win Vision (Santosh Raj) 2, Dillon (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Lorena (Deepak Singh) 4. 1-1/4, 1-1/4 and Nose. 1m, 28.35s. Rs. 142 (w), 24, 15 and 18 (p). SHP: 36, THP: 54, SHW: 39 and 12 (p). FP: 460, Q: 89, Tanala: 2,220. Favourite: Win Vision. Owner: Mr. Syed Abdu Subhan. Trainer: Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan.  5. BOLD VENTURE PLATE (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): LAGOS (Deepak Singh) 1, Green Turf (Abhay Singh) 2, Mirana (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Different (Md. Ismail) 4. 2, 2-3/4 and 1/2. 1m, 12.79s. Rs. 16 (w), 15, 22 and 17 (p). SHP: 88, THP: 54, SHW: 12 and 88 (p). FP: 128, Q: 122, Tanala: 642. Favourite: Lagos. Owners: Mr. S. Pathy & Mr. B.E. Vasanth Kumar. Trainer: D. Netto.  6. GOLCONDA ST. LEGER (Gr. 2) (2,800m) (Terms), 4-y-o & 5-y-o & upward: JULIETTE (Musketier– Gimmesumsugar) (Sandesh) 1, BISATE (Western Aristocrat–Verbier) (Akshay Kumar) 2, POINT TO PROVE (Multidimensional–Burooq) (Antony Raj) 3 and LOMBARDY (Leitir Mor–Lombardia) (Ashad Asbar) 4. 3-1/2, 3-1/2 and Dist. 3m, 0.31s. Rs. 11 (w), 10 and 13 (p). SHP: 20, THP: 26, SHW: 10 and 24, FP: 23, Q: 20. Favourite: Juliette. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar Of Chettinad Charitable Trust rep. by A.C. Muthiah. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy.  7. NEON PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): THEO’S CHOICE (Santosh Raj) 1, Lightning Fairy (Ajeeth Kumar) 2, Winning Player (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Ice Berry (C.P. Bopanna) 4. Not run: Royal Avenger. Nk, 1 and Nk. 1m, 29.07s. Rs. 93 (w), 21, 30 and 15 (p). SHP: 73, THP: 42, SHW: 43 and 104, FP: 2,455, Q: 639, Tanala: 18, 173. Favourite: Turning Wheel. Owner: Mr. Maddali Sai Kumar. Trainer: G. Shashikanth. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 2,42,161 (c/o) & 30%: 1,03, 783 (1 tkt.). Treble: (i) 1,379 (40 tkts.), (ii) 262 (255 tkts.). Mini jackpot: (i) 48, 916 (c/o), (ii) 7, 333 (15 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juliette-lives-up-to-her-billing-in-feature/article37170838.ece
26 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Reshma knocks out Arthi||Reshma Maruri played a sharp and steady game to knock out the seventh seed Arthi Muniyan 6-2, 6-1 in the women’s first round of the Fenesta National tennis championship at the DLTA Complex here on Monday. Arthi played well, but lacked the match experience in recent weeks, against an opponent who has been regularly playing matches at the national level, including the junior Nationals at the same venue. Fourth seed Sai Samhitha overcame a late surge from Kashish Bhatia to pull through in straight sets. Top seed Zeel Desai had to work her way past the gritty Yubrani Banerjee, despite dropping only three games. Smart play In the men’s section, Fardeen Qamar was quite smart in blunting the power play of Chinmay Dev Chauhan 6-4, 7-6(6). Former national champion V.M. Ranjeet recovered from losing the first set to fluently stroke his way past Yugal Bansal. Another former national champion Dalwinder Singh beat Bharath Kumaran to set up a pre-quarterfinal against Digvijay Pratap Singh. Digvijay outplayed the young Chirag Duhan for the loss of two games, even though the latter showed glimpses of his strong game. It looked a sheer lack of match exposure that stopped Chirag from playing his best. Once the final qualifying match in the men’s event was finished in the morning, one of the qualifiers, national junior champion Karan Singh was drawn to play the fourth seed Paras Dahiya. Vishnu Vardhan, who won three rounds in the qualifying event, will play Adil Kalyanpur.  The results (first round): Men: Prithvi Sekhar bt Kunal Anand 6-3, 6-2; Fardeen Qamar bt Chinmay Dev Chauhan 6-4, 7-6(6); Rishi Reddy bt Raghav Jaisinghani 6-2, 6-1; Prajwal Dev bt Lakshya Gupta 6-4, 6-2; VM Ranjeet bt Yugal Bansal 5-7, 6-3, 6-1; Dalwinder Singh bt Bharath Kumaran 6-2, 6-2; Digvijay Pratap Singh bt Chirag Duhan 6-1, 6-1. Women: Zeel Desai bt Yubrani Banerjee 6-1, 6-2; Shreya Tatavarthy bt Pratibha Narayan 6-2, 6-3; Nidhi Chilumula bt Sai Dedeepya 6-3, 6-2; Shrivalli Bhamidipaty bt Ayushi Singh 6-1, 6-0; Sai Samhitha bt Kashish Bhatia 6-1, 7-5; Jagmeet Kaur bt Veda Varshita Ranabothu 6-2, 6-1; Reshma Maruri bt Arthi Muniyan 6-2, 6-1; Akanksha Nitture bt Ishwari Matere 6-2, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/reshma-knocks-out-arthi/article37170843.ece
26 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Pankaj Advani claims top spot||Pankaj Advani stamped his supremacy with an all-win record and finished on a high in the GSC World Snooker Qualifiers, clinching the top position in the tournament. The 36-year-old Advani maintained his excellent form and won all 12 matches — six each in the Y-Camp and Z-Camp. He accumulated 10,760 points (3,560 National and 3,600 each from Y and Z Camps) to take pole position, according to a media release on Monday. National champion Aditya Mehta, who finished with four wins and two defeats, was placed second with 10,156 points (4,000 Nationals, 2,916 Y-Camp and 3,240 Z-Camp) while Laxman Rawat (PSPB) was third with 9,396 points. Both Advani and Mehta will represent India in the World snooker championship, likely to be held in Doha in November or December. “I’m thrilled to qualify as India No. 1 and represent the country at the IBSF World snooker championships in Doha,” Advani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pankaj-advani-claims-top-spot/article37170840.ece
26 October 2021||Chennai,||TN team set to depart for Mushtaq Ali Trophy today||The Tamil Nadu cricket team will leave for Lucknow on Tuesday to defend its crown in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament that begins next month. TN has been one of the most consistent performers in the shortest format, finishing runner-up in 2019 before winning the title earlier this year for the 2020-21 season. The team will be led by Vijay Shankar after regular skipper Dinesh Karthik pulled out of the competition due to a knee injury. It will open its campaign against Maharashtra on November 4 and is drawn with sides like Punjab, Odisha, Goa, Puducherry in Elite Group A.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-team-set-to-depart-for-mushtaq-ali-today/article37170882.ece
26 October 2021||KOLLAM:,||Arjun, Ashok have it easy||Thiruvananthapuram’s Arjun Krishna and Kollam’s Ashik Kafoor posted easy first round wins in the Kerala State senior snooker championship, which began at the Club Yolo here on Monday.  The results (first round, best-of-five frames):   Arjun Krishna (Tvm) bt Cherian Philip (Klm) 3-0.   Ashik Kafoor (Cult, Tvm) bt Thomas Sebastian (Yolo, Klm) 3-1.   Shahid Mohammed (Cult, Tvm) bt Navin Elias (Yolo, Klm) 3-0.   Shamnad Hashim (Yolo, Klm) bt Arun (Cult, Tvm) 3-1; Azim (Yolo, Klm) bt Anilan (Tvm) 3-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-ashok-have-it-easy/article37171233.ece
26 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Advani claims top spot||Pankaj Advani stamped his supremacy with an all-win record and finished on a high in the GSC World Snooker Qualifiers, clinching the top position in the tournament. The 36-year-old Advani maintained his excellent form and won all 12 matches — six each in the Y-Camp and Z-Camp. He accumulated 10,760 points (3,560 National and 3,600 each from Y and Z Camps) to take pole position, according to a media release on Monday. National champion Aditya Mehta, who finished with four wins and two defeats, was placed second with 10,156 points (4,000 Nationals, 2,916 Y-Camp and 3,240 Z-Camp). Both Advani and Mehta will represent India in the World snooker championship, likely to be held in Doha in November or December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/advani-claims-top-spot/article37171234.ece
26 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Vizianagaram posts win||Vizianagaram scored a 25-16, 19-25, 25-20 win over Srikakulam in the league phase of the second DRM Cup all-India invitation volleyball tournament, organised by ECoRSA, here on Monday.  The results: Vizianagaram bt Srikakulam 25-16, 19-25, 25-20; Customs & Central Tax bt West Godavari 25-17, 25-23; Customs & Central Tax bt ECoRSA (Khurda) 25-22, 25-22; ECORSA (Vskp) bt Vizianagaram 20-25; 25-22; 27-25 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vizianagaram-posts-win/article37171283.ece
26 October 2021||London,||Stokes in Ashes squad||All-rounder Ben Stokes has been added to the England squad for the tour of Australia later this year, delivering a huge boost to its bid to reclaim the Ashes. The 30-year-old said he is refreshed after having taken time out for his mental health as well as to undergo two operations on a fractured left index finger. “I had a break to prioritise my mental well-being and I got my finger sorted out,” said Stokes in an ECB statement on Monday. Ashley Giles, ECB managing director of men’s cricket, said Stokes’ return to the squad was terrific news, but, due to lack of game time, they needed to move cautiously. Stokes has not played for England since July, when he cut short his injury rehabilitation to captain the one-day side against Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stokes-in-ashes-squad/article37170830.ece
26 October 2021||Dubai,||India defeats Oman||The Indian football team defeated Oman 2-1 in the qualifiers of the AFC U-23 Asian Cup here on Sunday. Rahim Ali put India ahead as early as the seventh minute when he successfully converted from the spot. Vikram doubled the lead in the 38th minute when he received the ball from Rahim and placed his shot past the goalkeeper. Waleed halved India’s lead when he scored in the 89th minute after receiving a cross from Abdullah. “It was an exciting game. We (India) were trying for an early goal and we got that. “After that, we changed tactics,” India head coach Igor Stimac said after the match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-defeats-oman/article37170831.ece
26 October 2021||Coimbatore:,||Bharath BBC, PSGCAS top the charts||Bharath BBC and PSG College of Arts and Science, both from Coimbatore, clinched the men’s and women’s titles in the senior State championships (Coimbatore Zone), jointly organised by the Tamil Nadu Basketball Association and the Coimbatore District Basketball Association, here on Sunday.  The results:   Men, league: Bharath 80 bt Thriveni (Slm) 72.     United (Cbe) 77 bt Jayabharathi (Cbe) 75.   Jayabharathi 70 bt Bharath 60; United 79 bt Thriveni 76; Jayabharathi 94 bt Thriveni 88.   Bharath 95 bt United 74.   Final placings:   1. Bharath; 2. Jayabharathi; 3. United; 4. Thriveni.   Women, final: PSGCAS 51 bt Alvernia 21.   Final placings: 1. PSGCAS; 2. Alvernia.   3. Holy Angels; 4. JASA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bharath-bbc-psgcas-top-the-charts/article37170949.ece
26 October 2021||CHENNAI,||CHA trials on Oct. 30||Chennai Hockey Association will conduct trials to select its men’s team on October 30 at the SDAT-Mayor Radhakrishnan Stadium at 6.30 a.m. Those selected will take part in the inter-district tournament to be held in Thoothukudi from Nov. 10 to 14. Call 63831 46742 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cha-trials-on-oct-30/article37170886.ece
26 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Pankaj Advani claims top spot||Pankaj Advani stamped his supremacy with an all-win record and finished on a high in the GSC World Snooker Qualifiers, clinching the top position in the tournament. The 36-year-old Advani won all 12 matches — six each in the Y-Camp and Z-Camp. National champion Aditya Mehta, who finished with four wins and two defeats, was placed second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pankaj-advani-claims-top-spot/article37170950.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 09:23 IST,||Sudoku — October 26, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-26-2021/article37171647.ece
26 October 2021||October 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Three make a party||Failure can be as much a cause for cheer as success, but not when it comes to your cocktail. So when Sophia Sinha, marketing head for Moët Hennessy (MH) India, concocted a “terrible cocktail” by her own reckoning (pineapple juice, chillies and Belvedere vodka; “basically, I killed Belvedere”) out of pantry staples during the lockdown last year, it was something not to be laughed away. “I am a good cook but I can’t make cocktails,” she chuckles. She was not alone either. Social media then was full of posts about “pantry mixologists”, people concocting drinks with whatever ingredients they had at home, aspiring to imaginative DIYness, but failing to pour palatable or consistent drinks into their coupes. It was this failure that led Sinha to pick up the phone to Shehan Minocher, brand ambassador of MH in India, and the company’s resident bar expert, to discuss the idea of creating mixers that could go with some of the luxe alcohol the French major sells. The result has now been unveiled. MH has collaborated with home-grown brand Svami, a leader in the non-alcoholic drinks category, to produce three fairly sophisticated mixers: a pomelo ‘spritz’, tangerine ‘highball’, and cinnamon and pepper-accented ginger ale — to go with the conglomerate’s top-of-the-line brands Belvedere (vodka), Glenmorangie (single malt) and Hennessy VS (cognac) respectively. Home consumers who buy these spirits get packs of mixers matched with the spirit.  When opposites meet  This collaboration is interesting for more reasons than taste alone. Its significance lies in the fact that this is the first time in India that a spirits major is joining forces with a non-spirits drinks company to address changing consumer tastes and habits. Developed markets globally have been seeing phenomenal growth in the non-alcoholic, “not quite mocktails” category since 2018-19. The founding brand of this category, Seedlip (a complex botanicals-based formulation that mimics gin) came into its own around then with listings at Selfridges and top London bars. A host of similar start-ups have followed suit, the likes of My Celtic Soul (‘whisky’-esque), Spiritless Kentuky 74 (‘bourbon’), Fluere (‘rum’), Ritual Zero Proof (‘tequila’) and so on. The category as a whole should have hurt spirits majors. Except that some of the biggest companies globally were quick to recognise changing trends and jump on to this bandwagon. Diageo, in fact, picked up a 20% stake in Seedlip pretty early in its incubation (in 2016), and, more recently, last year, Pernod Ricard U.K. partnered with the South African award-winning Ceder’s (a non-alcoholic ‘gin’).  Bringing choice to the table  In India, the MH x Svami tie up is the first in this space — and the first globally, too, for MH. “Last year, as home consumption shot up, we did a small collaboration with Pernod Ricard,” says Svami co-founder Aneesh Bhasin. “But this is the first big tie-up where we have been contracted to make mixers exclusively for top-of-the-line brands.” For Svami, launched in early 2018, this is an important landmark. Just before Bhasin and his co-founders had come up with their lean tonic water — cracking the category till then dominated by sugary stuff — I had run into him socially in Mumbai and landed up going for a microbrewery crawl through Andheri with him and chef Saransh Goila. After a rather long evening out, Bhasin had taken us to his office, where we had tasted the still-under experimentation tonic water. It has been an eventful journey since then for Svami, now a market leader with a wide product range, including non-alcoholic gin and tonic, rum and cola, and most recently a “2 cal” cola (the equivalent of a diet cola). “We are pricing these slightly higher than mass brands since the aim is to go for scale instead of being a niche player,” says Bhasin. This is an important ambition. The spurt in the craft category of both alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks in the last two years means that a bevy of entrepreneurs are now in the game, but most remain inconsequential with limited reach and production. With its own state-of-the-art 18,000 sq ft manufacturing facility and reach in tier 1 and 2 cities (the aim is to go to the kirana store level), Svami is getting bigger. The big brand tie up will boost its footprint and cred further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-make-a-party/article37171278.ece
26 October 2021||gurugram,||Court seeks reply in Singhu murder case||A local court in Sonipat on Monday directed the Haryana police to furnish a reply on invoking the Arms Act against the accused in the Singhu border murder case for wielding swords. All the four accused were remanded in judicial custody till November 8. The police said more arrests were likely. ‘Reply in a week’ Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Arvind Kumar directed the police to file a reply within a week. “Since the Nihang Sikhs are allowed to keep swords as per their religion, the court has directed the police to file a reply on the imposition of the Arms Act,” said accused’s counsel Yogesh. The court also directed the police to drop charges under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against three of the four accused since they belong to Scheduled Caste. “Except Govind Preet, the court has directed to drop charges against the three accused under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,” said Mr. Yogesh. Virender Singh, DSP, Law and Order, Sonipat, said the accused had identified more suspects during their police remand and more arrests could not be ruled out. He clarified that charges under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act were invoked in the FIR since the accused were not named. Tied to barricade Lakhbir Singh, a resident of Punjab’s Tarn Taran, was found dead near the farmers’ protest site at the Singhu border in Haryana’s Sonipat on October 15, tied to a police barricade with his wrist and leg severed. Of the four accused, Sarabjit Singh, was the first to surrender a few hours after the murder. A day after his arrest three more accused — Narain Singh, Bhagwant Singh and Govind Preet — had surrendered before the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/local-court-seeks-reply-in-singhu-border-murder-case/article37171021.ece
26 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab parties oppose Centre’s decision on BSF jurisdiction||At an all-party meeting convened by Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday, the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party passed a resolution against the Centre’s decision on enhancing the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF). The BJP, however, boycotted the meeting asserting the decision is in the interest of the country. The meeting resolved to oppose the decision legally and politically and fight for the position which existed before the notification of October 11, 2021. Special session Mr. Channi said the State Government would soon convene a special session of the Assembly on the issue. It would also file a petition in the Supreme Court against the Centre’s unilateral decision which he said amounts to infringement on the States’ constitutional rights and is against the spirit of federalism. On the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws, he said they would be outrightly rejected in the forthcoming session of the Assembly. Will meet PM After detailed discussions, the political parties decided to seek an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi so that the Chief Minister could lead a delegation to urge him to review the decision on the BSF and withdraw the contentious notification. The SAD (Sanyukt), the SAD (Amritsar), the CPI(M), the CPI, the Trinamool Congress and the Lok Insaf Party also took part in the meeting. Senior BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia said here at a press conference that the NDA government has extended the area of operation of the BSF in the country’s interest.  “The extension of the area of operation of the BSF is necessary due to the use of advanced technologies in illegal activities from across the border. In Punjab’s border belt, drones with GPS coordinates from Pakistan are the new unseen enemy that keeps the security forces on their toes. Enhancement of the BSF’s jurisdiction does not curtail the Punjab police jurisdiction,” he said. ‘No attack’ “The sole aim of the notification is to improve the operational efficiency of the BSF. After a suspect has been detained or a consignment seized within the specified area, the BSF can only conduct “preliminary questioning” and must hand over the suspect to the Punjab police in 24 hours. The BSF does not have the powers to prosecute crime suspects. Thus, it is going to complement and supplement the efforts of the Punjab police. The local police can also act within the jurisdiction of the BSF. Hence, there is no attack on the federal structure,” Mr. Kalia added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bsf-jurisdiction-parties-in-punjab-oppose-centres-decision/article37171014.ece
26 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha government gearing up for civic bodies elections||The Odisha government has directed all District Collectors to complete delimitation of wards and reservation of seats afresh in wake of the general elections to civic bodies which are likely to be conducted early next year. The five-year term of councils of 101 urban local bodies and six months period in case of newly constituted four Notified Area Councils have already been completed. According to an order issued by Director of Municipal Administration, “The State Election Commission has desired that necessary immediate steps may be taken by the government for issue of schedule for delimitation of wards and reservation of seats at the earliest so as to enable the commission to take steps for preparation of electoral roll and conduct of election.” Collectors have been asked to divide municipal areas in wards and reserve seats for Scheduled Caste, Schedule Tribe, Backward Class category and women with equitable distribution of population as per 2011 Census. The process of delimitation of wards and reservation of wards in respect of the municipal bodies are required to be completed by January 13, said the director of Municipal Administration. Objections, suggestions The draft notification inviting objections and suggestions on delimitation of wards is scheduled to be issued on November 11. Out of 105 civic bodies which are going to polls early next year, highest 17 civic bodies fall in the jurisdiction of Ganjam — home district of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik. Final notification Similarly, Municipal Commissioners of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Berhampur have been asked to carry out delimitation and reservation in their respective jurisdiction and publish final notification relating to delimitation and reservation before January 20 of next year. With elections to both panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies likely to be conducted simultaneously or without much gap, these elections carry immense significance for political parties as they would position them to face next Assembly and general elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-gearing-up-for-civic-body-polls/article37171024.ece
26 October 2021||New Delhi,||Naidu meets Kovind, demands President’s Rule in A.P.||Former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) chief N. Chandrababu Naidu on Monday met President Ram Nath Kovind demanding imposition of President’s Rule in Andhra Pradesh, alleging that State-sponsored terror had reached “unimaginable heights” threatening democracy, institutions and the very fabric of the State. He claimed that the current situation was an apt case for the invocation of Article 356. “As you are well aware, Article 356 is not something to be imposed in a cavalier fashion. The TDP itself does not condone its imposition except in grave circumstances. We strongly urge you to see the current situation in Andhra Pradesh,” he added. Mr. Naidu sought the recall of the Director General of Police of Andhra Pradesh in view of his alleged collusion with the ruling YSR Congress Party and eschewing his constitutional duties and responsibilities. “The people of the State are facing daily threats to their constitutionally mandated rights... State-sponsored terror has reached unimaginable level of heights threatening democracy, institutions and the very fabric of the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/naidu-meets-kovind-demands-presidents-rule-in-ap/article37170774.ece
26 October 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records its lowest single-day count since first wave||Maharashtra recorded its lowest single-day surge since the first wave of the pandemic, with the State reporting just 889 new COVID-19 cases on Monday as against 1,586 new recoveries as the active case tally dipped further to 23,184, said State Health Department authorities. An equally low fatality of 12 deaths were reported, with no deaths being reported in 32 of the 36 districts. Pune, Mumbai, Thane and Ratnagiri were the only places where fatalities were recorded, said authorities. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate informed that 14 districts in the State had not reported a single case today while in 12 other districts, single-digit case surges were observed. However, the low cases have to be seen in the context of a comparatively low number of samples being tested – less than one lakh in the last 24 hours as opposed to the average daily sample testing figure of over 1.75 lakh. 1,40,028 fatalities Maharashtra’s cumulative fatalities now stand at 1,40,028. The case fatality rate remains constant at 2.12%. The total cases now stand at 66,03,850 while the State’s cumulative recoveries have risen to 64,37,025 with the recovery rate at 97.47%. “Of a total 6,19,78,155 laboratory samples tested thus far, 66,03,850 (with the average case positivity falling to 10.66%) have returned positive with over 85,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said Dr. Awate. Pune reported just 179 new cases taking its total cases to 11,53,419 while two deaths pushed the total deaths over 19,080. As per district authorities, the active case tally has fallen below 3,700. Mumbai reported 263 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,54,770 while the active count stood at 4,979. Seven deaths took the city's death count to 16,220. Satara reported just 30 new cases and no deaths, taking the total cases to 2,50,287 of whom just 674 are active, while the death toll stands at 6,411. Kolhapur reported a mere three cases and no deaths as well, taking its total case tally to 2,06,619.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-records-its-lowest-single-day-count-since-first-wave/article37171019.ece
26 October 2021||Ghaziabad,||AMU students demand offline classes||Hundreds of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) students took out a protest on Monday, demanding the opening of the campus for offline classes. In a memorandum addressed to the Vice-Chancellor, the students demanded immediate commencement of offline classes and alleged irregularities in the entrance tests. They also urged that elections be held for the university bodies without delay. Students leaders said if demands were not met, they would start a sit-in protest after a week. University authorities said they were following the UGC norms regarding the pandemic. “When other Central universities are functioning normally with offline classes why AMU has been held up with lockdown scenario. It is affecting the careers of thousands of students,” the memorandum said. The residential university, with more than 16,000 students, was shut down in December 2019 when the protests against Citizenship Amendment Act broke out. The university announced the winter vacation and before the normalcy could be restored, the pandemic stuck. Former vice president of AMU Students’ Union Umar Qadri said it seemed the absence of students was providing the administration an opportunity to hide its lapses. “The papers of entrance exams of at least two courses got leaked but the university brushed the issue under the carpet after a ‘customary’ inquiry by two ex-employees of the university. We demand an independent inquiry by a sitting judge,” he said. ‘Wifi not restored’ “While research scholars are residing on the campus, libraries are out of bound for them. The wifi has not been restored,” said Memoona Ansari, former secretary of Abdullah Students Union. Mr. Qadri said if there was a will, the university could have accommodated boys in the hostels as per the COVID protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amu-students-demand-offline-classes/article37171226.ece
26 October 2021||DHARIAWAD (RAJASTHAN),||Tribal nominee challenges mainstream parties||A tribal youth chosen by community elders to contest as an independent candidate, largely because development issues in the area were ignored, is posing a tough challenge to the mainstream political parties for the Dhariawad Assembly bypoll scheduled for October 30. Thawarchand Damor, 26, is likely to upset the prospects of half-a-dozen other contestants. An increase in the reservation for tribals in the Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) area is a major electoral plank in the constituency because of high unemployment among youth. The voters feel that successive Congress and BJP governments have ignored the issue, despite its provision in the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution. Instead, they say, “undue benefits” have been extended to other communities, which comprise barely 20% of the region’s population. Damor has promised to work for establishing a Krishi Upaj Mandi and bringing better medical facilities to the constituency reserved for Scheduled Tribes, which is spread across two districts — Pratapgarh and Udaipur. Jolt to BTP The nascent Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP), which has two MLAs from the adjacent Dungarpur district, is also feeling the heat of Mr. Damor’s candidature. One of its legislators, Rajkumar Roat from Chorasi, has joined Mr. Damor’s election campaign, making an appeal to the tribal voters to support him. Established in neighbouring Gujarat in 2017, the BTP entered the electoral fray in Rajsthan in 2018 and won the Chorasi and Sagwara seats and extended support to the ruling Congress after the government formation. However, the party severed ties with the Congress and withdrew support to the ruling party in December 2020 when the latter allegedly blocked the election of a BTP-backed independent candidate to the post of Zila Pramukh in Dungarpur during the panchayat elections. Campaign via awareness Mr. Damor's election agent Nilesh Barot told The Hindu that while the BTP had started wielding a considerable influence in the tribal-dominated regions of southern Rajasthan, this was the first instance of a tribal youth directly confronting the political parties. “As an educated young crusader, Thawarchand Ji has been organising chintan shivirs (discussion forums) in hamlets and has generated awareness among tribals about their rights,” he said. Mr. Barot said Dhariawad was steeped in poverty and ignorance despite being the highest cereal producer in Udaipur division. Farmers would vote with the expectation to get water supply in the tail-ends of Jakham Canal, while the people in the town hoped for better medical, civic and education facilities, he said. The by-election was necessitated after the death of sitting BJP MLA Gautam Lal Meena because of COVID-19 infection in May this year. The BJP, which persuaded Mr. Meena’s son Kanhaiya Lal to withdraw his nomination, has fielded former Sarpanch Sangh president Khet Singh Meena, who is considered a loyalist of Gulab Chand Kataria, the seniormost BJP leader in the Mewar region. Congress candidate and former MLA Nagraj Meena, who was defeated by Mr. Gautam Lal Meena in the 2018 Assembly election, has been helping the people since the outbreak of pandemic last year. Block Congress Committee president Madan Singh Ghatela said Mr. Meena's popularity among all communities would be reflected on the polling day, as he took good care of the constituency during his tenures twice as a legislator. Among the three panchayat samiti areas in the constituency, Lasadiya has a considerable presence of BJP supporters, while Congress has an upper hand in Jhallara. Dhariawad panchayat samiti, where the maximum number of voters reside, is likely to witness the division tribal votes, making the ballot of non-tribals important, for which the mainstream parties are making great efforts. The BTP’s official candidate Ganesh Meena is likely to bear the brunt of division in the tribal votes because of Mr. Damor's candidature. Separate State demand The outcome of Dhariawad by-election will also make an impact on the movement spearheaded by tribal groups for creation of a separate State, Bhil Pradesh, to be carved out of the tribal-dominated areas of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The issue has gained strength after the victory of the two BTP candidates in 2018. Tribal outfits in the State have already demanded inclusion of over 165 village panchayats of seven districts in the scheduled areas under the TSP to facilitate the control of local communities over minor minerals and minor forest produce as well as development activities in the region. The scheduled areas at present comprise 5,697 villages in southern Rajasthan, having a tribal population of more than 50%, as notified in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tribal-nominee-challenges-mainstream-parties/article37171023.ece
26 October 2021||Pune,||MVA govt. faces flak over medical exam chaos||The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra and State Health Minister Rajesh Tope came under fire from student bodies and the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party after chaos reigned for the second successive time in the Health Department’s medical recruitment exams held on Sunday. Irate students alleged confusion over hall tickets while at some exam centres in Pune and Nashik the questions papers were delivered late. At an exam centre in Mumbai’s Andheri area, some students alleged that exam papers had been given out an hour earlier and that the paper had been ‘leaked’. At a number of centres, students complained that supervisors arrived after the scheduled 10 a.m. time. Speaking to The Hindu , Kuldeep Ambekar, president, Student Helping Hand, said the government was behaving in an extremely insensitive manner. He said students had completely lost faith in the government after the chaos and were now worried about the conduct of the MPSC exams to be held on January 2 next year. Holding Mr. Tope responsible for the Sunday’s confusion, senior BJP leader Madhav Bhandari demanded his resigntion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mva-govt-faces-flak-over-medical-exam-chaos/article37171012.ece
26 October 2021||Pune,||‘58 sugar mills sold at well below market prices’||After Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar last week refuted the BJP allegations pertaining to the sale of sugar factories in the State, farmer leader and Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) chief Raju Shetti on Monday hit out at both the NCP and the BJP by alleging that 58 sugar mills were “fraudulently sold” well below their market prices over a 10-year period between 2007 and 2017. Mr. Shetti, a former two-time MP from Hatkanangale in Kolhapur district, has written to the Reserve Bank of India Governor and the Finance Secretary of India among others, seeking revaluation of the assets of these mills which were reportedly sold at knockdown prices by the Maharashtra Co-operative bank (MSCB), which is mired in a multi-crore scam. Mr. Shetti said the mills were sold during the tenures of both the erstwhile Congress-NCP and the Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP-Shiv Sena government. In his letter, the farmer leader, seeking the RBI’s urgent intervention, has claimed that all sugar mills in question were owned and constructed by farmer shareholders and that alleged irregularities committed by the board members had forced the mills into closure. “All these mills occupied a huge swathe of land in prime location. But during the valuation of assets during sale, the valuation of land was done at their respective book values.,” Mr. Shetti alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/58-sugar-mills-sold-at-well-below-market-prices/article37171018.ece
26 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Scuffle between students after India-Pakistan match||A scuffle broke out between a group of Kashmiri students and those from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar at an engineering institute in Punjab’s Sangrur district following the T20 World Cup match between India and Pakistan, the police said on Monday. National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said he was distressed to hear about the alleged physical assault of some Kashmiri students and urged Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to look into the matter. The incident took place after some slogans were raised after the match on Sunday night, the police said. The Kashmiri students and the students from U.P. and Bihar were watching the match on television in their respective rooms at the Bhai Gurdas Institute of Engineering and Technology in Sangrur. The Kashmiri students allegedly cheered for Pakistan and raised some slogans, which did not go well with other students. Heated exchanges took place between the two sides. A video clip surfaced on social media purportedly showing a Kashmiri student alleging that some students from U.P. barged into their room and assaulted them. The police later said the issue has been resolved. In a tweet, J&K former CM Abdullah said, “It is distressing to hear about the incidents of physical & verbal assault against some Kashmiri students in a college in Punjab last night. I request @CHARANJITCHANNI ji to direct @PunjabPoliceInd to look in to this & also to reassure the students studying in Punjab.” J&K Students’ Association spokesperson Nasir Khuehami urged Mr. Channi to take action in the matter and ensure security to the Kashmiris studying and working in the State. He alleged that the Kashmiri students were thrashed by the students from Bihar and U.P. Their rooms were vandalised, he alleged in a statement. Youth Cong. support Meanwhile, some members of the Punjab Youth Congress met the Kashmiri students. “Important to give them a shoulder and assurance of safety, our DYC president Gobinder and DYC Incharge Deep Tiwana on direction of @IYCPunjab president @brinderdhillon met them and assured them of all support as this is very much their home, even if away from native place,” the Punjab Youth Congress said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/scuffle-between-students-after-india-pakistan-match/article37171015.ece
26 October 2021||Agartala,||Tripura Cong. deserters float new party||A line-up of old and young leaders who recently quit the Congress formally announced the formation of a new regional party, the Tripura Democratic Front (TDF), on Monday. Former State Youth Congress president Pujan Biswas was introduced as the president of the TDF, while octogenarian Tapas Dey was appointed chairman of its advisory committee. Mr. Pujan’s father, Pijush Biswas, former president of the Tripura Congress who had also resigned after he was replaced by former Minister Birajit Sinha, did not hold any position in the new party. He was present when the deserters announced the decision to float a new party. The TDF has declared teams to represent OBCs, SCs, STs and minority communities. Wings for students, youth and women were also formed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tripura-cong-deserters-float-new-party/article37171016.ece
26 October 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat farmers upset over power cuts||Farmers in Gujarat are upset over erratic power cuts they are facing for the last three weeks as the power utilities have been curbing supplies for agriculture. In several districts of North Gujarat and Saurashtra regions, farmers have taken out protests marches. Written to authorities Several Opposition MLAs and even the Bhartiya Kisan Sangh (BKS), a farmers’ wing of the RSS, have written to the authorities demanding the power supply be restored for the farm sector. The government has admitted that the power plants were facing shortage of coal and therefore the supply was curtailed but the energy companies apparently did not purchase power from private players to meet the growing demand from farmers. “For the last 20 days, we have been getting power only for a few hours. We want uninterrupted supply for at least 8-9 hours to irrigate fields,” said Laljibhai Chaudhary, a farmer from Banaskantha district. He added that members of BKS have even submitted a memorandum to the local authorities seeking regular supply till November end. On Saturday, Gujarat’s Energy Minister Kanubhai Desai admitted about shortage of coal and said the situation will improve in next two weeks. ‘Global scarcity’ “There is a scarcity of coal across the globe because coal mines are facing issues of flooding due to excessive rain. It is also happening because of climate change. As a result, the supply of coal has been hampered. But, this is a temporary issue,” he told reporters in Vapi town of south Gujarat when asked about the frequent power cuts. However, local representatives and even legislators feel that the power shortage would affect farmers very badly if not addressed on urgent basis. On Monday, Gujarat’s Agriculture Minister Raghavji Patel also reportedly sought intervention from the top to ease the crisis. Officials in the GUVNL have said that power demand from farmers has gone up suddenly and therefore is a shortage and power cuts in a few pockets. ‘Cotton crop destroyed’ “Our cotton crop is getting destroyed as there is no power to irrigate the field. We have water but no power to pump it to irrigate,” said Jivan Gajera, a farmer from Amreli district. Protest marches So far, farmers have held protests in Banaskantha, Sabarkantha, Mehsana, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Sabarkantha, Amreli and other districts. “There is massive shortage and it appears that the government is not serious to help the farmers,” said Congress leader Arjun Modhvadia, who has demanded that the State should purchase power and supply of its own plants are not working.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gujarat-farmers-upset-over-erratic-power-supply/article37171025.ece
