27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Supreme Court to pass orders on pleas in Pegasus case today||A Supreme Court Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana is scheduled to pronounce its decision on Wednesday in pleas to form an independent committee to probe reports that the government used Israel-based Pegasus software to spy on citizens. On September 23, the court indicated its intention to form a committee to examine the allegations. The CJI, at the time, said the court wanted to pass the orders without delay, but had been temporarily stalled because some of the members it had shortlisted for the committee were unavailable for personal reasons. The court on September 13 had reserved the case, led by a petition filed by veteran journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, after the government expressed reservations about filing a “detailed” affidavit responding to the allegations. The Centre had said it would be too public and compromise national security. The petitioners had sought either an affidavit from the Cabinet Secretary or formation of a committee led by a sitting judge to probe the snooping controversy. A Bench of Chief Justice Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli made it clear that there would be no more “beating around the bush” in the issue. The CJI had said the court had given the government a fair opportunity to file a detailed affidavit to get a clear idea of its stand in the case. “We thought the government would file a counter-affidavit... Now we will pass our interim orders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supreme-court-to-pass-orders-on-pleas-in-pegasus-case-today/article37182956.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Sasikala factor widens gap between OPS and EPS||Even as the AIADMK’s former interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala is planning to visit Madurai and Ramanathapuram on Friday, the gap between the camps of coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami seems to be widening over the issue of re-admitting her into the party. Nearly a week after Mr. Palaniswami declared that Ms. Sasikala was no longer part of the AIADMK, Mr. Panneerservlam said on Monday that it was for the party’s “high command” to decide on taking her back. This was immediately followed by the statements of senior leaders such as K.P. Munusamy and D. Jayakumar, dismissing the coordinator’s position and backing Mr. Palaniswami’s stand. Last week, a complaint was given to the police against Ms. Sasikala identifying her as the AIADMK general secretary. Though several senior leaders of southern districts were seen in Madurai along with Mr. Panneerselvam at the time of his remarks on the issue, none has come out in support of him. The stated purpose of Ms. Sasikala’s visit to the southern districts is to pay homage at the memorial of U. Muthuramalinga Thevar, regarded as one of the important leaders of the State, at Pasumpon in Ramanathapuram district and to garland the statues of Thevar and the Marudhu Pandiar brothers in Madurai. Even in December 2019, Mr. Panneerselvam aired a similar view. In early September this year, the rapprochement between Mr. Panneerselvam and Ms. Sasikala was evident when she called on him when his wife died. A middle-level functionary, who hails from the southern region, says there is nothing wrong in the AIADMK coordinator’s statement as he is keen on taking all sections along. A former Minister, who is also from the south, says Mr, Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami are “on good terms with each other and there is no problem between them.” However, C.Ve. Shanmugam, Villupuram district secretary of the party and former Law Minister, feels, “We will lose our credibility if we take Ms. Sasikala back, though we have nothing against her personally. The opposition to her re-admission is only in the interests of the party.”  We will lose our credibility if we take Ms. Sasikala back, though we have nothing against her personally. The opposition to her re-admission is only in the interests of the party C.Ve. Shanmugam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sasikala-factor-widens-gap-between-ops-and-eps/article37183044.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,||No doctor should be punished without a hearing, says HC||The Madras High Court has disapproved of punishment of suspension imposed by Tamil Nadu Medical Council (TNMC) against a gastroenterologist who was only a witness in disciplinary proceedings initiated against another doctor. The court has also insisted the Council lay down a standard operating procedure (SOP) to ensure that no doctor gets punished without following the principles of natural justice. Justice R. Mahadevan wrote: “It is the responsibility of the medical council to proceed against medical practitioners, if there is any breach or violation… At the same time, the council also owes a duty to protect the medical practitioners who are rendering yeomen service for the betterment of the general public from the onslaught of frivolous complaints.” The orders were passed while allowing a writ petition filed by gastroenterologist P. Basumani who had put in 35 years of practice. The judge quashed an order passed by TNMC on May 4 removing the petitioner’s name from the Medical Register for a period of six months. He held that the petitioner had been punished without being afforded an opportunity to defend himself effectively. The judge pointed out that the writ petitioner had actually treated a patient in a private hospital in Chennai from September 27, 2015 till the latter’s death on October 11, 2015. After his death, the patient’s daughter lodged a complaint with Medical Council of India (now National Medical Commission) accusing a Coimbatore-based doctor Radhakrishnan of having issued a false fitness certificate for her father when he was hospitalised. According to the complainant, her father’s immovable properties worth Rs. 50 crore had been transferred to the name of Dr. Radhakrishnan’s son-in-law on the basis of the false medical fitness certificate. The woman also lodged a police complaint. When the police called for details from the Chennai-based private hospital, its medical superintendent wrote back saying that the patient was conscious on October 8, 2015. However, during the inquiry by TNMC, Dr. Basumani stated that the patient was not conscious on October 8, 2015 and he was not oriented to understand the legal documents. On the basis of such submission, the TNMC had decided to remove his name from the medical register for the alleged misconduct of having given false information to the police. Disagreeing with such a stand, Justice Mahadevan held that there was absolutely no ground for taking disciplinary action against the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-doctor-should-be-punished-without-a-hearing-says-hc/article37183049.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Bus fares shoot up ahead of Deepavali||Going home for Deepavali festival from Chennai could cost a fortune. There have been reports that cashing in on the festival rush, private bus operators have increased fares steeply and are fleecing passengers ignoring the warning from the authorities. S. Paul Raj, a shopkeeper in Adambakkam, said, “We don’t have direct train to our native near Thisayanvilai in Tirunelveli district. For puja holidays, we were not able to get seat in State-run special buses because we planned our travel in the last minute. Hence, we had to pay Rs. 2,000 a person in a non-AC omnibus. It is daylight robbery. You can imagine the cost for a family of four and the earnings of three months were spent. For this Deepavali, they have already increased the price. We don’t know how we will go home to celebrate the festival.” K. Kumaresan, a businessman at Tambaram and regular traveller to Tirunelveli, said, “On normal days, the operators call passengers for only Rs. 550 a seat to Tirunelveli in a non-AC bus. But during the festival season, they charge Rs. 2,000 without any qualms. This time they hiked the fares. A family will have to spend at least Rs. 10,000.” There is a huge gap between fares of the State-run buses and private buses. For instance, the TNSTC charges Rs. 391 in non-AC and Rs. 663 in AC sleeper to Coimbatore on any day. Whereas the omnibuses charge Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 1,900 for AC sleeper two days ahead of Deepavali and their non-AC fare hovers around Rs. 1,080-Rs. 1,400. The charge increased two-fold from off season. Similarly, the fares to Madurai, Thoothukudi and Nagercoil for AC sleeper touch Rs. 2,600. Passengers say as the railway reservation closes, the private bus operators hike their fares. K.P. Krishnadoss, a Madurai-based advocate, said: “The normal fare is around Rs. 800 for Madurai and now it has been hiked to Rs. 1,500 for non-AC buses. Some are operating omnibuses utilising the rush during the season and they charge Rs. 2,000-Rs. 2,500 for Madurai and charge up to Rs. 4,000 for travel to Nagercoil.” Some operators even block online booking giving an impression that all seats have been booked. This is a ploy to create artificial demand. Last-minute travellers have to buy tickets at astronomical rates. In some towns, the operators engage middlemen to get passengers and there is no proper receipt issued. Closer to festival days, some “fly by night” operators get the buses ready and operate them to make money. In the run-up to the festival, transport authorities are not strict enough to curb the illegal business. ‘Poor occupancy’ However, M. Afzal, president of The Tamil Nadu Omni Bus Owners Association (TOBOA), said: “The occupancy still has not picked up since the lockdown was relaxed. There is only 40% to 60% occupancy. The ground reality is different. Out of 3,000 buses, only 400 are operated. That itself gives clear a indication of the state of the industry now. Fuel cost has gone up and are higher than the revenue. “A few fly-by-night operators post Rs. 2,000 on online portal and later will take passengers for Rs. 400 since people may not book the tickets. Those buses are operated by brokers and drivers. We cannot stop them completely. Police fine such operators and sometimes, we stop them with the help of transport authorities. We determine fares after taking various factors into account and passengers can check the fare onwww.toboa.into decide the booking”, said Mr. Afzal.  The occupancy still has not picked up since the lockdown was relaxed. There is only 60 to 40% occupancy M. Afzal President, The Tamil Nadu Omni Bus Owners Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bus-fares-shoot-up-ahead-of-deepavali/article37183009.ece
27 October 2021||Kolkata,||Give permanent solution for Darjeeling development: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday urged political parties in Darjeeling hills to come up with a plan for a “permanent solution” to the issues faced by the region. The Trinamool Congress chief emphasised that creation of a separate State would not bring development to the hills, making a reference to Uttarakhand that is grappling with frequent natural disasters. While chairing an administrative meeting in the hills, she told representatives of political parties to chalk out a plan to develop Darjeeling and the region as part of West Bengal. Separate State demand Since the 1980s, politics in the Darjeeling hills has been centred around the demand for creation of a separate State — Gorkhaland. In the 2021 Bengal Assembly election, despite registering an emphatic win across the State, the Trinamool Congress could not win a majority of seats in north Bengal, including in Darjeeling district. In an indirect attack on the BJP, Ms. Banerjee said, “Before every election, some political party comes and promises separate State for Darjeeling. In reality, they want to create a division among the people of the region.” She said every 10 years, a new movement for a separate State came up and destroyed all the possibilities for the Darjeeling hills. The Chief Minister also announced allocation of Rs. 43 crore to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). During the meeting that lasted over an hour, the Chief Minister also assured the representatives of political parties that elections to the GTA would be held after the voter list is updated. The GTA was created as a result of a tripartite agreement between the Union government, the State government and the Gorkha Janamukti Morcha in 2011. Elections to the GTA have been pending for the past four years. At the meeting, some participants, including the MLA of Kalimpong, raised the issue that lack of public representatives was hampering development work in the hills. Ms. Banerjee also chided her own party MP from the hills, Shanta Chettri, who had made remarks against another hill leader Anit Thapa who had recently launched his own party. “We will not fight with any other political party in the hills,” Ms. Banerjee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-for-permanent-solution-for-darjeeling/article37183101.ece
27 October 2021||GUNTUR,||Rs. 2,052 cr. credited to farmers’ accounts||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday said the government was committed to farmer welfare and kept the promise by crediting Rs. 2,052 crore under YSR Rythu Bharosa for the third consecutive year benefiting 50.37 lakh farmers. Mr. Jagan, by the click of a mouse, credited Rs. 2,190 crore under YSR Rythu Bharosa, YSR Sunna Vaddi Panta Runalu and YSR Yantra Seva Padhakam directly into the accounts of all the eligible farmers across the State. So far, through Rythu Bharosa alone, the government disbursed Rs. 18,777 crore benefiting all the farmers cultivating their own lands and all the eligible tenant farmers of BC, SC, ST and minorities along with those cultivating RoFR and endowment lands. Similarly, reimbursing the interest for the loans taken under YSR Sunna Vaddi Panta Runalu, the Chief Minister credited Rs. 112.7 crore directly into the accounts of 6.67 lakh farmers. Since the inception the government, nearly Rs. 1,674 crore was given under YSR Sunna Vaddi Panta Runalu scheme, which included Rs. 1,180 crore evaded by the previous government, Mr, Jagan said. He said that 9,160 banking correspondents were brought to 10,778 RBKs to facilitate loans and other banking services to the farmers. Also, under YSR Yantra Seva Padhakam, a subsidy of Rs. 25.55 crore had been deposited into the accounts of 1,720 farmer groups. The Chief Minister announced that the government had established 10,750 community hiring centres at a cost of Rs. 2,134 crore, which was aimed at providing farming machinery to small and tenant farmers on rental basis. Further, the Chief Minister stated that 1,035 cluster level community hiring centres would be set up with harverstors, at the rate of five units in each mandal of East and West Godavari, Krishna and Guntur districts, where paddy cultivation was extensive. “We have been implementing welfare schemes despite financial difficulties, and brought several changes in the last 29 months where agricultural advisory boards have been set up, and providing agricultural schemes through e-cropping registration. Also, the government has taken the responsibility of clearing the pending arrears of the previous government which is about Rs. 10,000 crore,” Mr. Jagan said. He said that in the last 29 months, Rs. 18,000 crore was spent on providing quality power for nine hours during the day benefiting almost 18 lakh farmers. The government was taking steps in providing quality fertilizers and pesticides through RBKs and providing input subsidy to the farmers for the crops within the same season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-2052-cr-credited-to-farmers-accounts/article37182948.ece
27 October 2021||KOCHI,||Kudumbashree holds social fairs to reclaim ‘old normal’||In what is considered to be one of the biggest mobilisations of the Kudumbashree Mission in the district since the pandemic, its gender development wing has launched week-long social fairs under the aegis of gender resource centres (GRCs). The fairs, which were organised for three years, were held online last year owing to the pandemic. This year, the motto of the event is to reclaim normal life by overcoming the pandemic responsibly. Financial crisis “The pandemic has inflicted untold financial misery on women, throwing a spanner in their livelihood, including their entrepreneurship initiatives run with the help of Kudumbashree. There is an inherent fear from which we aim to bail them out. We want to hand-hold them out of their situation through these fairs by showcasing various Kudumbashree loans and schemes,” said Shine T. Money, District Programme Manager (Gender), Kudumbashree. The physical and mental trauma of women, who got infected by COVID-19, remains another major concern as many remain in the grip of insomnia and anxiety. The problems faced by children such as screen addiction owing to continued exposure to online platforms are also being widely reported. “We are trying to address these issues by roping in primary health centres and local doctors along with community counsellors of our GRCs,” said Mr. Money. The GRCs, meanwhile, are conducting a drive to increase the number of community counsellors in the district from the present 30 to 35 to further enhance their reach and service. At present, a counsellor is assigned three GRCs each and they hold a session for each one of them once in a week. The social fairs are part of Kudumbashree’s efforts to take life to the pre-COVID times by activating the labour, educational, and cultural spheres in compliance with the health protocol. The fairs will also feature awareness seminars on COVID-19 prevention, yoga, gender debates, street plays and flash mobs, legal awareness classes, door-to-door campaigns, two-wheeler rallies, and cultural programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kudumbashree-holds-social-fairs-to-reclaim-old-normal/article37183286.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC quizzes U.P. over dearth of witnesses||The Supreme Court on Tuesday was surprised to find that the Uttar Pradesh Police could find only 23 eyewitnesses to the alleged incident of a Union Minister’s convoy mowing down farmers at a public place in Lakhimpur Kheri where 4,000 to 5,000 people had gathered for a rally to protest the agricultural laws on October 3. “There were hundreds at the farmers’ rally and only 23 people are witnesses,” Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, leading a three-judge Bench, told the Uttar Pradesh Government. Senior advocate Harish Salve, for U.P., said the “first ring” of people close to the scene of the incident and those who saw the cars and the people inside these vehicles were among the 23. The U.P. Government has filed a second status report on the investigation which said there were 23 eyewitnesses out of a total 68 witnesses. The statements of 30 of them have already been taken before the Magistrate. ‘Overlapping videos’ Mr. Salve said there were also videos on digital media about the incident. There are “overlapping videos”. “We will receive the exact frames of these videos, which would be certified and sent to us... All that process is going on. Many of the witnesses are formal... No need to take their statements under Section 164 Cr.PC [witness statement before a Magistrate],” Mr. Salve submitted. Justice Surya Kant, on the Bench, asked the State Government, “Is it not your case too there were 4,000 to 5,000 people in that place. They were locals... But even after the incident, they have hesitated to come forward... Is access to these people or their identification going to be a major problem?” “Out of 4,000 and 5,000 people at the place of incident, some would be fence-sitters. They would not be serious witnesses. You need to find people who can stand up and say what they saw...” Justice Kant told the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-quizzes-up-over-dearth-of-witnesses/article37182954.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jayalalithaa death: SC ticks off probe panel||The Supreme Court on Tuesday wondered whether the trajectory followed by the Justice (retired) A. Arumughaswamy Commission of Inquiry (CoI) into the death of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa is redolent of “virtually becoming a judge of his own cause” or an “umpire playing the game himself”. The oral remarks made by a Bench of Justices Abdul S. Nazeer and Krishna Murari were in reaction to submissions made by Apollo Hospitals, represented by senior advocate Aryama Sundaram, accusing the Commission of Inquiry of bias, violation of the principles of natural justice and conducting the fact-finding exercise outside its jurisdiction. ‘Reputation blighted’ Mr. Sundaram said the reputation of the premier Chennai hospital, where Jayalalithaa breathed her last in 2016, was “blighted overnight” by the CoI who took a tangent which was “unbelievable”. The senior lawyer said the path followed by the CoI was straight out of the fairy tale Alice in Wonderland . Mr. Sundaram submitted that the CoI had even got about to ask for the medical records concerning the hospitalisation of another former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran, 37 years ago, and his shifting to the Brooklyn hospital in the U.S. The CoI had written to Apollo chairperson Prathap C. Reddy for the information. “How will one centre get the medical records from another centre where the patient was referred to?” Justice Murari asked. “How will Dr. Reddy gets the documents of a U.S. hospital? What they did was out of a Robert Ludlum novel,” Mr. Sundaram said. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, for Tamil Nadu which wants the Commission to finish its work and submit its report, retorted sarcastically that John Grisham would be a better choice of author. “Grisham is more straight-forward. Ludlum is better, considering the intricacies involved,” Mr. Sundaram shot back. He clarified that he was not seeking to arrest the inquiry into the circumstances leading to the former Chief Minister’s death. “Please do not stop the inquiry, but do appoint someone else with very strict guidelines. They should have a competent medical board to assist them… I am not here to thwart the inquiry,” Mr. Sundaram submitted on record. The proceedings before the CoI were stayed by the Supreme Court in April 2019 on the basis of a plea by the Apollo Hospitals that the inquiry panel’s functioning was “replete with bias”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jayalalithaa-death-sc-ticks-off-probe-panel/article37183305.ece
27 October 2021||Udhagamandalam,||The Nilgiris to have wildlife rescue centre||Steps will be taken to open a wildlife rescue and rehabilitation centre in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, Forest Minister and Coonoor MLA K. Ramachandran said on Tuesday. His comments came after animals, captured or rescued recently in the Nilgiris, needed to be taken to the Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Chennai or the Mysore Zoo for treatment. Talking to reporters here about the 22-day operation to capture the tiger MDT23, Mr. Ramachandran said such tigers preyed only on cattle or had problematic interactions with humans because of old age and injuries. The government, he said, was planning a rescue and rehabilitation centre for injured wild animals at Mudumalai. Such a facility would obviate the need for these animals to be taken to other districts or neighbouring States for treatment. The Minister said MDT23 was recovering well in Mysore, and the government was considering whether to take it to the Arignar Anna Zoological Park or let it live out the rest of its life in captivity at the Mysore Zoo. Mr. Ramachandran took part at a government function to distribute welfare assistance to persons with disabilities and then chaired a review meeting with government officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/the-nilgiris-to-have-wildlife-rescue-centre/article37183176.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jayalalithaa death: SC ticks off probe panel||The Supreme Court on Tuesday wondered whether the trajectory followed by the Justice (retired) A. Arumughaswamy Commission of Inquiry (CoI) into the death of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa is redolent of “virtually becoming a judge of his own cause” or an “umpire playing the game himself”. The remarks made by a Bench of Justices Abdul S. Nazeer and Krishna Murari were in reaction to submissions made by Apollo Hospitals, represented by senior advocate Aryama Sundaram and advocate Rohini Musa, accusing the Commission of bias, violation of principles of natural justice and conducting the fact-finding exercise outside its jurisdiction. ‘Reputation blighted’ Mr. Sundaram said the reputation of the premier Chennai hospital, where Jayalalithaa breathed her last in 2016, was “blighted overnight” by the CoI who took a tangent which was “unbelievable”. The senior lawyer said the path followed by the CoI was straight out of the fairy tale Alice in Wonderland . Mr. Sundaram submitted that the CoI had even got about to ask for the medical records concerning the hospitalisation of another former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran, 37 years ago, and his shifting to the Brooklyn hospital in the U.S. The CoI had written to Apollo chairperson Prathap C. Reddy for the information. “How will one centre get the medical records from another centre where the patient was referred to?” Justice Murari asked. “How will Dr. Reddy get the documents of a U.S. hospital? What they did was out of a Robert Ludlum novel,” Mr. Sundaram said. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave — appearing for Tamil Nadu, which wants the Commission to finish its work and submit its report — retorted sarcastically that John Grisham would be a better choice of author. “Grisham is more straight-forward. Ludlum is better, considering the intricacies involved,” Mr. Sundaram shot back. Mr. Sundaram clarified that he was not seeking to arrest the inquiry. “Please do not stop the inquiry, but do appoint someone else with very strict guidelines. They should have a competent medical board to assist them...,” he submitted on record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jayalalithaa-death-sc-ticks-off-probe-panel/article37183073.ece
27 October 2021||Mumbai,||Fully-vaccinated people can board Mumbai locals||The Maharashtra Government on Tuesday issued an order allowing the common people who are vaccinated fully against COVID-19 to board suburban trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). In this order, the State Government has extended the definition of fully vaccinated people to cover even those people who are working in non-essential sectors. This means people who have taken both the doses of vaccines against COVID-19 and completed 14 days after inoculation can travel in local trains. The Government also stated that the people working in essential sectors must be fully vaccinated and should have completed the 14 days post-inoculation before they can be allowed to board local trains. Currently, the Central Railway and the Western Railway have been issuing a monthly pass to vaccinated commuters instead of daily tickets to curtail the crowd. Notably, both the railways on Monday said suburban services in Mumbai will be operated at the 100% capacity from October 28, but the existing travel restrictions for the general public will remain unchanged. This decision was taken considering the increased flow of commuters, an official said. Central Railway and Western Railway will run 1,774 and 1,367 services, respectively, on their suburban network from October 28. The zonal railways used to operate these many services before the COVID outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fully-vaccinated-people-can-board-mumbai-locals/article37183099.ece
27 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Chief Minister pats rankers from welfare schools||Students of Social Welfare and Girijan Residential schools, who secured ranks in the entrance exams to IITs and other premium educational institutions, received a pat from Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday. The Chief Minister, who met them at his camp office, interacted with them and enquired about their family backgrounds. He said that the priority given to the education sector by the government reflected in the flying colours with which the students had made it to the top educational institutions. Pointing to the IAS officers Kantilal Dande and Sunitha, who were present there, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that they were a great source of inspiration as they did not belong to a privileged community but became civil servants to serve the society. “Now that you have come this far, a bright future awaits you,” he said, adding, “This achievement is the first step towards your successful future.” Citing the example of Additional Secretary in CMO Mutyala Raju, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy spoke about his humble background and his village that only had a boat facility as a mode of transport. “If you continue to work hard, you will reach this stage one day,” he said. Mr. Mutyala Raju shared his experiences with the students. He said he wanted to ensure construction of a bridge in his village before he retired from service, but a bridge was constructed within three years, thanks to Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, the late Chief Minister, who sanctioned Rs. 26 crore for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chief-minister-pats-rankers-from-welfare-schools/article37182951.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Four of a family killed in Delhi fire||Four members of a family died in a fire that broke out at their residence in Shahdara’s Old Seemapuri in the early hours of Tuesday. DCP (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said the deceased have been identified as Hori Lal, 59, his wife Reena, 55, their son Ashu, 24, and daughter Rohini, 18. The couple’s younger son Akshay survived the incident. Mr. Sathiyasundaram said a call was received at 4 a.m. after which the police and Delhi Fire Service personnel reached the spot “The fire was small and only domestic articles were damaged. The four are suspected to have died of smoke inhalation,” DFS chief Atul Garg said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-of-a-family-killed-in-delhi-fire/article37183071.ece
27 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,||Anti-Sterlite protest probe panel grills 17 persons||The Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission which on October 20 started its 31st sitting of inquiry into the police firing during anti-Sterlite protest has grilled 17 persons over the past eight days. The Commission’s advocate Arul Vadivel Sekar told reporters that 17 persons, including forensic experts who examined the rifles used for firing, doctors who conducted post-mortem on the victims and the tahsildars who ordered firing to control rioting, appeared before it to record their statements. So far, 979 persons had appeared before the Commission even though 1,360 persons were summoned. A total of 1,223 documents and materials had been marked as evidence. The next 10-day-long sitting of the Commission would commence on November 16 during which the policemen who fired at the protesters would be questioned, he said. After this, the then District Collector, former Superintendent of Police, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli, and Inspector General of Police, South Zone, would be summoned. When asked if former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would also be summoned, Mr. Sekar said there was no need for it. “We are summoning only the people who have knowledge about the police firing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anti-sterlite-protest-probe-panel-grills-17-persons/article37183359.ece
27 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,||Nilgiris to have wildlife rescue centre: Minister||Steps will be taken to open a wildlife rescue and rehabilitation centre in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, Forest Minister and Coonoor MLA K. Ramachandran said on Tuesday. His comments came after animals, captured or rescued recently in the Nilgiris, needed to be taken to the Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Chennai or the Mysore Zoo for treatment. Talking to reporters here about the 22-day operation to capture the tiger MDT23, Mr. Ramachandran said such tigers preyed only on cattle or had problematic interactions with humans because of old age and injuries. The government, he said, was planning a rescue and rehabilitation centre for injured wild animals at Mudumalai. Such a facility would obviate the need for these animals to be taken to other districts or neighbouring States for treatment. The Minister said MDT23 was recovering well in Mysore, and the government was considering whether to take it to the Arignar Anna Zoological Park or let it live out the rest of its life in captivity at the Mysore Zoo. Mr. Ramachandran took part at a government function to distribute welfare assistance to persons with disabilities and then chaired a review meeting with government officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/the-nilgiris-to-have-wildlife-rescue-centre/article37183046.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lack of clarity among State leaders: Sonia||There is a lack of “clarity and cohesion” among several State-level leaders on policy issues, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said on Tuesday in an address to State unit chiefs and general secretaries in-charge. She said the party must ideologically fight the “diabolical campaign of the BJP/RSS” and expose the BJP government’s lies. “The AICC releases important statements almost every day on issues facing the nation. But it is my experience that they do not percolate down to our grassroots cadre. There are policy issues on which I find a lack of clarity and cohesion even amongst our State-level leaders,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lack-of-clarity-among-state-leaders-sonia/article37183306.ece
27 October 2021||Kochi,||75 schools yet to get fitness certificates||Seventy-five schools out of the total 1,153 institutions under the General Education Department in Ernakulam have not yet received fitness certificates ahead of the school reopening on November 1. Shortcomings Fitness certificates are issued by the local bodies concerned before the start of each academic year. They have to be renewed annually. Local bodies cite shortcomings that include roof made of aluminium or asbestos sheets for not issuing fitness certificates. School managements have to ensure the safety of children before the start of the academic year. Honey G. Alexander, Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam, said that the 75 schools were expected to get fitness certificates by Thursday. These schools had fitness certificate in the previous academic year. “The local bodies have informed that the certificates will be issued by October 28,” she said. The safety of children assumes significance as the schools are reopening after a gap of nearly 20 months following the pandemic crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/75-schools-yet-to-get-fitness-certificates/article37183288.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Tough terrain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tough-terrain/article37183048.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||White knights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/white-knights/article37183304.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Updated NPR forms retain contentious questions||The latest form of the National Population Register (NPR) appears to have retained contentious questions such as “mother tongue, place of birth of father and mother and last place of residence”, according to a document compiled by a committee under the Registrar-General of India and shared with the District Census officers. The questions were part of a trial exercise involving 30 lakh respondents in September 2019. The exercise has been opposed by some States and citizen groups as the NPR is the first step toward compilation of the National Register of Citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/updated-npr-form-retains-contentious-questions/article37183070.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Wankhede rubbishes allegations||Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede, who is supervising the drugs case probe against actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, met senior agency officials at its Delhi headquarters on Tuesday. Terming all the allegations against him baseless, Mr. Wankhede told reporters at the airport that he had not been summoned in connection with the case. After attending a meeting on Tuesday morning, he arrived at the NCB headquarters around half past noon and met senior officials. The visit came amid several charges levelled against Mr. Wankhede by Maharashtra Minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik and others. On Monday, Mr. Malik had said: “Sameer Dawood Wankhede is a Muslim by birth. He forged a caste certificate claiming to be Scheduled Caste. I have given his birth certificate which mentions his father’s name as Dawood Wankhede, who had converted to Islam. He used fake caste certificate and denied a true Dalit the opportunity to become the officer.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wankhede-rubbishes-allegations/article37182946.ece
27 October 2021||new delhi,||Horses, tanks force revision of Rajpath plan||Amid concerns over the movement of horses of the President’s Bodyguard and tanks during the Republic Day parade, the paving on Rajpath under the new Central Vista project has been tweaked, said Bimal Patel of HCP Design, Planning and Management. While the plan to use granite around India Gate has been shelved for now, the stone pavement replacing the sand path along Rajpath has been tweaked to be coarser at the point where the President’s Bodyguard salute the President on January 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/horses-tanks-force-revision-of-rajpath-plan/article37182952.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||On a mission||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/on-a-mission/article37183149.ece
27 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Muzrai temples to conduct ‘go puja’ on Deepavali||The Karnataka Muzrai Department has issued a circular asking all the temples coming under it to conduct “go puja” (worship of cow) on November 5, which marks Balipadyami. The circular said that it is mandatory for all the temples and religious institutions coming under the department to conduct the puja between 5.30 p.m. and 6 p.m. on that day. The circular states this was being introduced “to create public awareness about the importance of protecting cows” which are an integral part of the Hindu religion and culture. The circular further stated that worshipping cows was believed to “resolve various problems, including vaastu dosha”. Pointing out that the system of worshipping cows during Deepavali/Balipadyami day was an old practice, it expressed concern that the system had been discontinued by those in towns and big cities. The department has asked temples to conduct ‘go puja’ to reintroduce the tradition to the next generation, the release said. It may be noted that Karnataka recently amended the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act with more stringent clauses. Meanwhile, farmers’ leaders, though not opposed to offering puja, are upset that the government, which is talking about the importance of protecting cows, has not done much to protect the interests of farmers who are rearing them. Milk procurement prices have been slashed by the Karnataka Milk Federation. Farmers contend that it has rendered dairying a loss-making proposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/muzrai-temples-to-conduct-go-puja-on-deepavali/article37182974.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal offers prayers at Ram Janmabhoomi site||Setting the tone for his campaign for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal offered prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi site in Ayodhya on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-offers-prayers-at-ram-janmabhoomi-site/article37183075.ece
27 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Two held for death of BJP workers in Kheri||The U.P. Police on Tuesday made the first arrests in an FIR lodged in connection with the alleged lynching of three BJP workers in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-held-for-death-of-bjp-workers-in-kheri/article37183307.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Updated NPR form appears to retain contentious questions||The latest form of the National Population Register (NPR) appears to have retained contentious questions such as “mother tongue, place of birth of father and mother and last place of residence”, according to a document compiled by a committee under the Registrar-General of India and shared with the District Census officers. Though the NPR was first compiled in 2010 and updated in 2015, the new questions were part of a trial exercise involving 30 lakh respondents in September 2019. The exercise has been opposed by some States and citizen groups as the NPR is the first step toward compilation of the National Register of Indian Citizens (NRC) according to Citizenship Rules, 2003. “Along with Census 2021, the database of NPR collected in 2010 and updated in 2015 would be further updated in the first phase of census. The NPR schedule to be used in Census 2021 is given at Annexure X,” the document says. So far, the Government has not officially released the NPR schedule. According to the Annexure: “National Population Register 2020”, the respondent will have to specify the “name of State and district” if the place of birth of father and mother is in India and mention the country’s name if not born here. The form will collect details on 14 parameters of all family members. The sub-heads include passport number, relationship to head of the family, whether divorced/widowed or separated, mother tongue, if non-worker, cultivator, labourer, government employee, daily wage earner among others. The form also has a column on Aadhaar, mobile phone, voter ID and driver’s licence number, which are to be provided if available with the respondent. The document says that the objective of the NPR is to create a comprehensive identity database of every usual resident in the country and it is “mandatory for every usual resident of India to register in the NPR.” While similar data is collected through Census, according to Section 15 of the Census Act, 1948, all individual level information collected in Census are confidential and “only aggregated data are released at various administrative levels.” The Home Ministry said earlier that data collected under NPR are shared with States and used by Central government for various welfare schemes at individual level. The NPR already has an electronic database of more than 119 crore residents. Along with Census, NPR will also be updated digitally for the first time. A mobile application for enumerators has been developed where the existing database will be uploaded. Respondents can also self enumerate. The schedule or the form generated through an online system on August 18, is part of a handbook that has been shared with all States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/updated-npr-form-appears-to-retain-contentious-questions/article37182748.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lack of clarity, cohesion among State leaders in Congress: Sonia||There is a lack of “clarity and cohesion” among several State-level leaders on policy issues, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday said in an address to State unit chiefs and general secretaries in-charge, adding that communication from the party’s headquarters often did not percolate down to the grassroots cadre. She said the party must ideologically fight the “diabolical campaign of the BJP/RSS” and expose the BJP government’s lies. She complained that this was not happening.” “The AICC releases important and detailed statements almost every day on issues facing the nation. But it is my experience that they do not percolate down to our grassroots cadre at the block and district levels. There are policy issues on which I find a lack of clarity and cohesion even amongst our State-level leaders,” she said. Training programmes for the workers were an absolute necessity, Ms. Gandhi noted, calling it a priority. She added, “The fight to defend our democracy, our Constitution and the Congress party’s ideology begins with being fully prepared to identify and counter false propaganda.” She also exhorted State leaders to ensure that the campaign for the five State elections, which are due in next few months, were based on discussions with a cross-section of society. Addressing G-23 With voices of dissent growing stronger within the party, especially after a group of leaders — widely known as the G-23 — questioned the Gandhi family’s leadership demanding reforms, Ms. Gandhi emphasised the need to override personal ambitions. “I would like to re-emphasise the paramount need for discipline and unity. What should matter to each and every one of us is the strengthening of the organisation. This must override personal ambitions. In this lies both collective and individual success,” Ms. Gandhi observed. In the run-up to internal elections, there will be a nation-wide Congress membership enrolment programme from November 1 to March 31, 2022. Briefing reporters later, general secretary, communications, Randeep Surjewala said the core idea was to bring out the fact that the Congress was the only vehicle to fight the “designed attack on the lives and livelihoods of these sections by the policies of the Modi government”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lack-of-clarity-cohesion-among-state-leaders-in-congress-sonia/article37182765.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre plans 2 mobile hospitals||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday said the recently launched PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission, with an outlay of more than Rs. 64,000 crore, is aimed at filling critical gaps in public health infrastructure, especially in critical care and primary care facilities in both urban and rural areas. At a press conference, the Minister pointed out that the Mission would prepare the health care sector to deal with any future outbreaks. “COVID-19 has provided us with an opportunity to boost healthcare facilities, including laboratories, hospitals and diagnostic facilities at all the levels of healthcare,” said the Minister. Highlighting some of the key features of PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission, Dr. Mandaviya said that 134 different types of tests would be done for free at the district level, which will not only do away expenses but also reduce unnecessary travel for the poor. He said that for the first time in Asia, two container-based hospitals, equipped with comprehensive medical facilities, will be stationed in Chennai and Delhi and kept at the ready to be swiftly mobilised by rail or air to respond to any calamity or disaster in the country. Infectious diseases “Initiatives under the Mission, including strengthening of points of entry will ring-fence our borders against the import of new infectious diseases and pathogens. Health Emergency Operation Centres and the container-based mobile hospitals shall further build capacities for effective emergency response during such times,” he said. Stating that the pandemic showed the country the importance of ensuring regular medical services even during a time of crisis, the Minister said that development of critical care hospital blocks in 602 districts as proposed under the scheme, shall make the districts self-sufficient, to a large extent, in providing comprehensive treatment for infectious diseases without disruption to other essential health services. It will also augment the critical care capacities in the public health facilities. The Mission is expected to bring about a paradigm shift in India’s healthcare infrastructure. In order to ensure better primary healthcare facilities, 1,50,000 Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centres are in line to be set up, of which around 79,000 are already functioning. In addition, work has started on ensuring that every district has at least one medical college with the Government already sanctioning 157 medical colleges, the Minister added. “The Mission aims to produce robust outcomes in public health, leapfrogging India to one of the most advanced countries in the world in terms of management of public health outbreaks,” said the Minister. He added that the components, such as setting up of the National Platform for One Health, setting up a Division for Research on Disease Elimination Sciences and Health as a satellite centre of National Aids Research Institute, setting up of the Regional National Institutes of Virology, strengthening of existing national research institutions, the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and existing laboratory infrastructure, upgrade of labs and creation of additional BSL-3 facilities under the Indian Council of Medical Research and the NCDC, will further strengthen the country’s capacity to detect and diagnose new infections. He said that the interventions will also lead to availability of adequately trained manpower to contribute to diagnosis and research on novel pathogens and biological threats, reducing dependence on foreign partners and laboratories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-launch-two-mobile-hospitals/article37182768.ece
27 October 2021||Mumbai,||Aryan seeks bail, says no drugs seized from him||No drugs have been recovered from Aryan Khan, nor any medical test conducted on him to show drug consumption, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi submitted before the Bombay High Court on Tuesday while arguing for his bail. The former Attorney-General appeared on behalf of Mr. Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, before a single judge Bench of Justice Nitin Sambre. Mr. Rohatgi said Mr. Khan was not directly involved in the case in which six grams of charas was recovered from his friend Arbaaz Merchant, who was accompanying him to the cruise ship. “There is no conscious possession. There has been no recovery from him [Mr. Khan] and no medical examination has been conducted to show any consumption,” the lawyer said. Referring to the WhatsApp chats relied upon by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) against Mr. Aryan Khan, Mr. Rohatgi said these were of 2018 and had “nothing to do with this saga”. Opposing Mr. Khan’s bail, the NCB said, “Khan is an influential person and is likely to tamper with evidence or flee justice if released on bail. During the investigation, some international linkages of Khan have been unearthed which prima facie indicate illicit drug procurement.” The NCB said Mr. Khan had procured contraband from Mr. Merchant. The two had been in close collaboration to procure drugs. Senior advocate Amit Desai, representing Mr. Merchant, will make his arguments on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aryan-seeks-bail-says-no-drugs-seized-from-him/article37182742.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Count on the not so big powers’||Syed Akbaruddin was India’s Permanent Representative to the UN when India scored an unprecedented diplomatic victory in 2017 by defeating the U.K. for a seat on the International Court of Justice. India’s Dalveer Bhandari was elected a judge of the ICJ. Mr. Akbaruddin’s recent book ‘ India vs UK: The Story of an Unprecedented Diplomatic Win ’ is an account of the contest in which all five permanent members of the UNSC united against India. Excerpts from the interview with Mr. Akbaruddin, who is currently Dean, Kautilya School of Public Policy, Hyderabad.  You say in the book that we were not very sure about contesting this election at all. What doubts did your colleagues have about contesting? So yes, it took us a long time to decide whether we should contest or not. In fact, I would suggest that it took us almost 15 months or so. And that was because never before in our own history, when a judge was elected for shorter than full term did India contest again. So that was one factor. The other factor was we were contesting many other elections at the same time, and the general feeling in India was that the ICJ is a distant body. It has no direct implications for India’s national interest. Things changed after India decided to take Kulbhushan Jadhav case to the ICJ. So even after the decision to go in for the contest was taken, the people who would still have doubts include the Union Minister according to your account? It’s normal again for people to have different views and there was a very senior Union Minister who actually reprimanded me. You begin to approach other countries for support, and it turns out that all the permanent members of the UNSC are supporting one among them, the U.K.? Yes. So two things we were confronted with many countries all said, ‘Look, we may have made commitments already, because you’ve come in very late’. So our argument to that was, ‘look, we are not asking for one, you have five votes, give us one.’ That is very instructive of how the world order functions ... how will the existing superpowers be thinking about India’s role in the world and India’s ambitions to have a bigger, larger role? It’s true that some among the P-5 felt we were disruptors, we were disrupting the established order. And some were actively opposed to us. However, there were some who were also tacit in their support, but they were not forthcoming because of their commitments to what they saw as a bigger cause. That is the unity of the global order.So what does it teach us? It teaches us, ‘Let’s not put all eggs in one basket.’ The big, and the great, are important, but so are the not so great, and the not so big, because they form the base of our global support.  Let’s not forget our very many friends who are neither big nor great, but they are our friends. And their support will be key.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/count-on-the-not-so-big-powers/article37182762.ece
27 October 2021||Srinagar,||Srinagar students booked under UAPA||The J&K police on Tuesday lodged two First Information Reports (FIRs) under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) a day after multiple videos allegedly showed students of two medical colleges in Srinagar celebrating the Pakistan cricket team’s victory over India in the T20 World Cup on Sunday. “Two FIRs have been lodged and investigations are on,” a senior police officer told The Hindu . Multiple videos, including those of medical students, went viral on social media on Sunday night, immediately after the Pakistan Team won the match in Dubai. In a few videos, students were seen cheering and raising slogans. The cases have been filed under Section 13 of the UAPA and Sections 105-A and 505 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). No arrests were made till late in the evening in the cases as the police were checking the veracity of the videos, officials said. Official sources said the FIRs mentioned that “the students pursuing MBBS and other degrees raised slogans and burst firecrackers” and “were crying and dancing”. Several medical students termed the police action “harsh” and “unprecedented”. “Students have been cheering for all the players, irrespective of their teams, who played well during the India-Pakistan clash. It’s a sport and people entertain themselves by cheering for their favourites,” one medical student told The Hindu.  Former Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti warned that such steps will “alienate them further”. “Instead of trying to ascertain why educated youth choose to identify with Pakistan, the Government of India is resorting to vindictive actions,” she said. Peoples Conference chief Sajad Lone said punitive actions won’t help. CPI (M) secretary Ghulam Nabi Malik also termed the FIRs against students “unwarranted and unnecessary”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/srinagar-medicos-booked-under-uapa/article37182756.ece
27 October 2021||Mumbai,||People threatening us, we are living in fear: Wankhede’s wife||The wife of NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede on Tuesday came out in strong support of her husband and said they were getting threat calls, facing vicious trolling online and living in fear as she rejected allegations levelled against him by NCP leader and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik. Talking to the media in Andheri, Kranti Redkar, who is an actor, described her husband as an honest government officer and also refuted the extortion attempt claims made by an NCB witness in the Mumbai cruise drugs case which is being supervised by Mr. Wankhede. Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan is among 20 people arrested in connection with the case, which relates to alleged seizure of drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast early this month. Ms. Redkar claimed a section is working against her husband. “My husband is an honest officer and doing his duty with sincerity for the last 15 years. Sameer is not attached to any political party, he is a central government employee and doing his work, some people are having a problem from his work due to which everything (row related to allegations against Wankhede) is happening,” Ms. Redkar said. “People who are against Sameer have been threatening us, saying they will burn us and kill our family, but the police have given us security, and they are taking very good care of us,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/people-threatening-us-we-are-living-in-fear-wankhedes-wife/article37183310.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Rijiju to discuss judicial facilities with State Ministers||Days after Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana said judicial infrastructure was the key to improving access to justice, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju on Tuesday said the issue would be taken up at a conference of State Law Ministers in November. “Judicial infrastructure is one of the agenda items for the meeting ... It is my responsibility to take the State Governments on board,” Mr. Rijiju told The Hindu . Development of physical infrastructure of the High Courts and the lower courts primarily comes under the domain of the State Governments. The Chief Justice, in the presence of the Union Law Minister, had said judicial infrastructure was often an afterthought and was done in an ad hoc manner. “We are faced with certain hard facts like several courts do not have proper facilities. Judicial infrastructure is important for improving access to justice,” Justice Ramana had said. Law Ministry sources, however, said the State Law Ministers’ conference was planned even before the CJI made the remarks on judicial infrastructure. The sources said the Union Cabinet in July had given a five-year extension to a Centrally sponsored scheme (CSS) for developing infrastructure for the judiciary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rijiju-to-discuss-judicial-facilities-with-state-ministers/article37182737.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI arrests naval officers||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested a serving and two retired Navy officers in Mumbai for unauthorised sharing of classified information regarding an ongoing submarine refit and upgrade, an official source said on Tuesday. “Investigation related to alleged information leak of administrative and commercial nature being with some unauthorised personnel has come to light and is being investigated by appropriate government agency,” the Navy said in a statement. The information shared was administrative and commercial in nature on the project and nothing operational, a Navy source said. The serving officer arrested is a Commander, equivalent to a Lieutenant-Colonel in the Army, it has been learnt. A month ago, the Navy has also ordered an internal inquiry, headed by a three-star Admiral. The matter came to light as one of the retired officers was under the CBI scanner and his arrest led to the detention of the other two, it has been learnt. A CBI source said five persons were arrested, and two of them were private persons. Searches were carried out at 19 locations in Delhi, Mumbai, Noida, Hyderabad and other places, the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-arrests-naval-officers/article37182745.ece
27 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Rajbhar’s party seems to be dumping AIMIM||By tying up with the Samajwadi Party, Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party seems to have distanced itself from the AIMIM of Asaduddin Owaisi. The AIMIM was part of the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha — a loose alliance of several smaller outfits, mainly OBC-based — led by Mr. Rajbhar. The parties had aimed to mutually benefit each other and hoped to bring one of the larger non-BJP parties to the table for negotiation ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election. However, with Mr. Rajbhar set to put up a show of strength in Mau on October 27 when he is also expected to formalise an alliance with the Samajwadi Party in the presence of its president Akhilesh Yadav, who is the chief guest at the event, the SBSP and the AIMIM seem to have drifted apart. Mr. Owaisi will not be at the rally — Vanchit, Pichda, Dalit, Alpsankhyak Bhagidhari Mahapanchayat — in Mau on the SBSP’s 19th foundation day. Mr. Rajbhar had last week said his partners in the Morcha would be present at the rally. AIMIM Uttar Pradesh president Shaukat Ali on Tuesday said Mr. Rajbhar did not inform the party about his programme nor sent an invitation to Mr. Owaisi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajbhars-party-seems-to-be-dumping-aimim/article37183080.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Welcoming hooves and tank treads||Horses and battle tanks that make their way down the Rajpath on Republic Day have forced some changes to the plans for the new look of Central Vista Avenue, according to the architect of the project. While the plan to use granite around India Gate has been shelved for now, the stone pavement replacing the sand path along Rajpath has been tweaked to be coarser at the point where the President’s Bodyguard salutes the President on January 26. Architect Bimal Patel, whose firm HCP Design, Planning and Management, is the Centre’s consultant for the entire Central Vista redevelopment project, said during a presentation at CEPT University in Ahmedabad on October 22 that the “ bajri ” (sand) along the road was being replaced with granite. He explained the idea of laying the footpath was to include infrastructure under it, replacing the temporary utilities installed for Republic Day parades every year. “When we are doing these new things, everybody is against it, or not against it but apprehensive. When we did the granite paving, we are looking at it and saying fantastic, it looks good. But these guys who bring their horses during the Republic Day parade said ‘no, no, no, hamare ghode nahi chalenge’ [our horses won’t walk]. We had to do an experiment and let them ride on it,” said Mr. Patel, who is also the president of CEPT University. Granular finish He added that the conclusion was that the paving would work, but the one place where the guards salute the President, the paving should be “more granular”. When asked what the concerns had been, HCP told The Hindu in a written response on Monday: “The horses were not facing any issues. The same paving as the rest of the area will continue along the pathway, with a more coarse finish to ensure additional friction”. On the other hand, the portion around India Gate that was proposed to be changed from bitumen to granite cobblestone, but the project’s tight deadline (before R-Day 2022) meant it had to be dropped for now. During the parade, heavy equipment like the Arjun Main Battle Tank (around 60 tonnes) and India’s longest-range ballistic missile Agni-V (launch weight of 50 tonnes) roll down Rajpath. “We didn’t have enough time to do samples and discover what would be the right way to do cobblestones that would take the weight of tanks. World over streets made of granite cobblestone take the weight of tanks, so in theory it is possible…But everybody was apprehensive that the granite should not get damaged,” Mr. Patel said. He said the first sample that was made did not pass the test and there wasn’t enough time to re-do samples. Mr. Patel said it was decided to drop the idea for now and try out samples at a different location in the future. Asked when the cobblestone around India Gate would be installed, HCP said: “There is no timeline for this. It will be done as and when an appropriate material and technique for laying the flooring is developed”. The Central Vista Avenue redevelopment started in February, after the project was awarded by the Central Public Works Department to Shapoorji Pallonji and Co at a cost of Rs. 477 crore in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/welcoming-hooves-and-tank-treads/article37182772.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Framework to manage drone traffic notified||The Ministry of Civil Aviation has notified a traffic management policy framework for drones, which envisages private, third-party service providers for ensuring safe operations. Under the framework, these Unmanned Traffic Management Service Providers (UTMSP) will extend automated, algorithm-driven software services instead of voice communication as in the traditional Air Traffic Management (ATM) systems. They will primarily be responsible for segregating and separating a drone from other drones and manned aircraft in the airspace below 1,000 feet in the country. The traffic management providers will be assisted by Supplementary Service Providers (SSPs), who will maintain data about terrain, weather, location of manned aircraft and provide services such as insurance, data analytics and drone fleet management. The drone traffic management policy also requires integration of UTM with ATM so that flight plans and real-time location of manned aircraft can be recorded as well in order to continuously separate manned and unmanned aircraft from each other. Law enforcement and security agencies will also have access to some information in the UTM ecosystem on a need-to-know basis. Service fee The policy also allows UTMSPs to levy a service fee on users, a small portion of which will also be shared with the Airports Authority of India. In order to implement this policy, the government is likely to carry out UTM-based experiments in the country and then float a request for proposal for onboarding UTMSPs. Following which an evaluation process will be undertaken and successful participants will be awarded regions for establishment of UTM services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/framework-to-manage-drone-traffic-notified/article37182776.ece
27 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Matrilineal Meghalaya to give land rights to men||Matrilineal Meghalaya is set to break the tradition of parents bequeathing the lion’s share of parental property to the khatduh , which means the youngest daughter in the Khasi language. The Khasi Hills Autonomous District Council (KHADC) is scheduled to introduce the Khasi Hills Autonomous District Khasi Inheritance of Property Bill, 2021, for equal distribution of parental property among siblings, both male and female. It would be tabled at the autumn session of the Council on November 8. Titosstarwell Chyne, Chief Executive Member of the KHADC, said the bill will enable equitable distribution of property among the heirs irrespective of gender. “We do not have any law for the equitable distribution of the family property in case the siblings are all male or where there are no children. Problems have cropped up in the absence of such a law,” he said. Mr. Chyne cited some cases where the clans have staked claim to properties in the absence of a genuine heir. “Apart from ensuring each sibling is not deprived of her or his share, the Bill has a provision for denying share of property to any ward who marries a non-tribal and accepts the culture and tradition of his or her spouse,” Mr. Chyne said. Assault on tradition A similar bill drafted by the Arunachal Pradesh State Commission for Women (APSCW) and the Arunachal State Commission for Protection of Child Rights seeking equal inheritance rights for women in the State has been put in cold storage following opposition from various organisations who viewed it as an “assault on tradition”. APSCW Chairperson Radhilu Chai Techi said the proposed bill took many years of research to be drafted and was finalised after several awareness camps, discussions with community-based organisations and students’ unions. But NGOs opposed the draft after it was submitted to Chief Minister Pema Khandu two months ago. Some organisations called it “anti-tribal”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/matrilineal-meghalaya-to-give-land-rights-to-men/article37182781.ece
27 October 2021||Mumbai,||Letter reveals extortion by Wankhede: Minister||Continuing his series of allegations against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB)’s Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and State Minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday released a letter which he claimed he received from an unnamed NCB official which listed a total of 26 cases where rules were violated by the NCB team. Mr. Malik also alleged that Mr. Wankhede was illegally intercepting mobile phone conversations through two private individuals in Mumbai and Thane. In a letter, which the Minister has sent to the Director-General, NCB, for further action, serious allegations have been made against Rakesh Asthana, former chief of the NCB and present Delhi Police Commissioner. “Rakesh Asthana directed Sameer Wankhede and K.P.S. Malhotra to frame Bollywood artists through any means necessary,” the letter reads, adding that extortion money of crores were demanded and even Mr. Asthana was given the share. At a press conference, Mr. Malik said he was not against the agency, but an individual who was doing a fraud. The Minister added that call records of his daughter Nilofer had been sought by Mr. Wankhede. “Those who are doing this will be brought in front of you soon,” he said. The letter has named an advocate Ayaz Khan as a friend of Mr. Wankhede, someone who can enter the NCB office any time and allegedly collected money from celebrities. Mr. Wankhede termed the letter and the allegations a joke and a lie. “He can do whatever he wants. The content of the letter is wrong,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/letter-reveals-extortion-by-wankhede-minister/article37182731.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Wankhede rubbishes allegations of graft||The visit came amid several charges against Mr. Wankhede by Maharashtra Minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik and others. On Monday, Mr. Malik had said: “Sameer Dawood Wankhede is a Muslim by birth. He forged a caste certificate claiming to be Scheduled Caste. I have given his birth certificate which mentions his father’s name as Dawood Wankhede, who had converted to Islam. He used fake caste certificate and denied a true Dalit the opportunity to become the officer.” In response, Mr. Wankhede issued a statement saying he belonged to a composite, multi-religious and secular family in true Indian tradition and was proud of his heritage. “The publishing of my personal documents on Twitter is defamatory in nature and unnecessary invasion of my family privacy. It is intended to malign me, my family, my father and my late mother,” he said. “In this context, I would like to express that my father Sh Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede retired as Senior Police Inspector of State Excise Department, Pune on 30.06.2007. My father is a Hindu and my mother Late Mrs Zaheeda was a Muslim,” he said. “The series of acts of Hon’ble Minister over the past few days have put me and my family under tremendous mental and emotional pressure. I am pained by the nature of personal, defamatory and slanderous attacks by Hon’ble Minister without any justification,” said Mr. Wankhede. Meanwhile, a copy of an affidavit filed by Prabhakar R. Sail has been sent to the agency’s vigilance wing for scrutiny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wankhede-rubbishes-allegations-of-graft/article37182733.ece
27 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||2 held for death of BJP men in Lakhimpur Kheri||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Tuesday made the first arrests in an FIR lodged in connection with the alleged lynching of three BJP workers moments after their vehicles ran over a group of protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The Crime Branch in Lakhimpur Kheri said Vichitra Singh and Gurvinder Singh, residents of the district hailing from the Bheera and Gola areas, respectively, were the arrested. A special investigation team is probing the case. Eight persons were killed in the violence in Tikonia — four farmers, three BJP workers and a local journalist, Raman Kashyap. The police have arrested 13 persons, including Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra, on an FIR lodged over the murder of the four farmers. Shubham Mishra and Shyam, BJP workers, and Hari Om Mishra, driver of one of the vehicles that ran amok, were among those killed. The Crime Branch said Vichitra Singh and Gurvinder Singh were lodged in the district jail after being produced in a local court which sent them to judicial custody. The first FIR in the case names Ashish and 15 to 20 others on charges of murder, criminal conspiracy and death by negligence for allegedly mowing down farmers. The second FIR, lodged by the BJP worker Sumit Jaiswal against unidentified persons for murder and other charges, alleged that farmers had thrown stones at the vehicle and attacked it with sticks while it was passing by the protesters. Hari Om’s vehicle came to a halt after he was hit in the head, the FIR alleged. The driver was then pulled out of the car and attacked with lathis and swords. As the other BJP workers tried to flee, the protesters caught hold of Shubham Mishra, who was later found dead, it added. Mr. Jaiswal, caught on video escaping from one of the SUVs after it ran into the farmers, was recently arrested over the first FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-held-for-death-of-bjp-men-in-lakhimpur-kheri/article37182734.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Entries open for BLoC Boardroom challenge||Entries are now open for the BLoC Boardroom Challenge 2021, a unique case challenge for B-schoolers and engineering students, now in its fifth year. The Challenge will be across three levels: a preliminary round which will be online, semi-finals across nine cities, and a grand finale. The shortlisted teams in each city will have to solve a business problem that they will receive one week before the semi-finals. The teams will present their strategies city-wise to a jury. The winning teams from each of the nine cities will compete in the Grand Finale. The winning team which bags the coveted title of CXOs of the year will win a prize money of Rs. 1 lakh at the finale, the first runner-up Rs. 75,000, and the second runner-up Rs. 50,000. For the preliminary qualifying round, students will need to take an online test on www.blboardroomchallenge.in . Registrations for the first round are open till October 29. The first three editions of the Challenge saw the semi-finals being staged in B-schools across eight cities around the country, with the grand finale in Chennai. The fourth edition in 2020 was held across nine cities and 800 teams across all the top B-schools in the preliminary test participated. Like the previous year, keeping in mind the safety of the students and others, it is being held online. The 2021 edition is sponsored by Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund and powered by Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages Pvt Ltd while Punjab National Bank is an associate sponsor. The knowledge partners are Brand Vectors and Potential Genesis. Regular updates will be on www.bloncampus.com .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/entries-open-for-bloc-boardroom-challenge/article37182740.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||SC quizzes U.P. over dearth of witnesses||Chief Justice Ramana, without spelling out the court’s “apprehension”, indicated that the influence wielded by the accused may spook the witnesses. Additional Advocate General of Uttar Pradesh Garima Parshad said seven more were arrested late on Monday evening, on the eve of the Supreme Court hearing. Last week, the State had informed the court that 10 accused had been arrested. Mr. Salve said the State was even willing to share with the court, in a sealed cover, some of the Section 164 statements made by the witnesses so far. The court said it was the State’s duty to dig out more witnesses who could provide credible statements which would further the police investigation. “You ask your agency, who can say more than these 23 witnesses... We have an apprehension, you know what that is, don’t you?” the CJI addressed Mr. Salve. Mr. Salve said there was no doubt that the incident — the killing of the farmers — happened. “That the incident happened is not an issue,” Mr. Salve said. The CJI asked if there were any injured witnesses. Mr. Salve initially said there were only “fatalities”. “Not even one single injured witness,” the CJI asked again. Mr. Salve, shortly thereafter, said there were injured witnesses. “I believe there are some injured witnesses. One or two of them have given Section 164 statements,” Mr. Salve said. In its order, the court directed the State to get more witnesses to come forward with their statements of the incident. The court said the District Judge should ensure that there are enough Judicial Magistrates available to record the statements of the witnesses to avoid any delay. The Bench ordered forensic laboratories to process the evidence collected without delay. Protection to witnesses The court ordered the Uttar Pradesh Government to provide protection to the witnesses though the State said it had already stationed guards and installed CCTVs for the benefits of the witnesses. The court also sought a separate status report on the probe into the alleged murders of a man, Shyam Sundar, and a journalist, Raman Kashyap. They were allegedly in the cars which ran over the farmers. Uttar Pradesh said the two were killed in the ensuing violence. The next hearing has been scheduled for November 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-quizzes-up-over-dearth-of-witnesses/article37182751.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Pegasus case: SC to pass orders on pleas today||Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Mr. Ram and Mr. Kumar, had found the government’s refusal to file a detailed affidavit “unbelievable”. Expert panel Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the government, had reasoned that a public discourse on whether a particular software was used or not would alert terrorists. He had urged the court to allow the government to form a committee of “domain experts” who would look into the allegations of snooping orchestrated against citizens, including journalists, activists, Ministers, parliamentarians, among others. The Solicitor-General had assured the court that the committee members would have “no relationship” with the government and would place their report before the Supreme Court. “The committee report will have to withstand the Supreme Court’s judicial scrutiny... I am not averse to an enquiry. The government takes individuals’ plea of violation of their privacy seriously. It has to be gone into, it must be gone into… It is the feeling of the government that such an issue cannot be placed on affidavit. It has to be gone through by a committee. It concerns national security,” Mr. Mehta had submitted. He had said the government could not afford to “sensationalise” such an “important” issue. He objected to assertions by the petitioners that the “government is denying protection to its own citizens” or was “assaulting democracy”. Privacy concerns Justice Kant had put matters in perspective by observing that while the court was equally concerned about national security, it could not turn a deaf ear to concerns about privacy raised by citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pegasus-case-sc-to-pass-orders-on-pleas-today/article37182752.ece
27 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Adityanath alleges appeasement politics||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said under previous governments, Opposition parties would compete with each other on who will hold more Iftar parties while curfews would be imposed during Hindu festivals. “Earlier, they would compete with each other on who will hold more Iftar parties. Who would organise government programmes. But they don’t happen any more. If our status is secular, it will be equal for everyone,” Mr. Adityanath said. Addressing representatives of the Lodh OBC caste, as part of the BJP’s outreach towards backward castes through samajik pratinidhi sammelans , Mr. Adityanath claimed that earlier curfew would be imposed during Hindu festivals like Deepavali, Ramnavami, Durga Puja, and Holi, raising communal temperatures in the run-up to Assembly polls in 2022. “Would not allow to celebrate festivals…they would imprison faith,” Mr. Adityanath alleged, adding that such things no longer happened under the BJP government. Deepavali would be celebrated in a similar manner as COVID-19 was almost finished, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adityanath-alleges-appeasement-politics/article37182754.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Opposition unable to act freely in Tripura’||There is absolutely no space for democratic and political activity for the Opposition in Tripura, Trinamool Congress leader Sushmita Dev said at a press conference here on Tuesday. A party delegation will meet President Ram Nath Kovind soon on the violence against the party workers in the State. Ms. Dev, who was sworn in as a Rajya Sabha member on Tuesday, said the Tripura police had been dragging their feet on investigating or making any arrests in last Friday’s incident when she and other party workers were attacked. “The police may not be able to prevent a violent attack, but even after we provided them the evidence, including videos and photographers, there have been no arrests in any of the incidents of violence against us,” Ms. Dev said. Answering questions on the party’s expansion plans and efforts to elbow out the Congress from the lead Opposition role, another Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Ray said, “We waited for six months for the Congress and the others to decide the Opposition road map to take on the BJP but we didn’t hear from them, so we decided to go ahead with our expansion plans.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-unable-to-act-freely-in-tripura/article37182757.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Draft rules seek to make airports disabled-friendly||The Government on Tuesday released draft norms for ensuring accessibility for the differently abled at airports, which include reserved parking, passenger lifts for boarding an aircraft, and aisle chairs on flights longer than three hours for in-flight use, among other measures. The draft guidelines follow an incident involving danseuse Sudha Chandran who complained that she was often asked to remove her prosthetic leg during security checks at airports. This is despite security norms being amended four years ago which require prosthetics or wheelchairs to be put through an X-ray only on sufficient reason or justification. The draft released by the Ministry of Civil Aviation details various infrastructural requirements that an airport must provide, including reserved parking space for the differently abled which is connected to the entrance of the passenger terminal through an accessible route and a tactile path, designated seating spaces, bigger lifts, ramps and handrails with Braille indicators, steps and staircase that conform to the specifications laid down. It says that air travellers desirous of bringing a service dog along will have to check with the airline whether they are “agreeable to have service dogs on board”. Air India allows small and inoffensive domestic pets such as dogs, cats and birds, accompanied by valid health and rabies vaccination certificates, on domestic flights in the cabin or in cargo hold. Airports will also be required to have toilets for service animals accompanying the differently abled. One “relief area” can serve two or more terminals provided it meets reasonable transit time. These can be either indoor or outdoor facilities, but within the sterile area of the airport. The draft follows the Rights of Person with Disabilities Rules, 2017, under which the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is required to frame harmonised guidelines for accessibility standards for persons with disabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/draft-rules-seek-to-make-airports-disabled-friendly/article37182941.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s AQI likely to worsen||Air quality of the city deteriorated to the “moderate” category on Tuesday and it is expected to further worsen as per official data. The effect of stubble burning is also expected to increase during the week. “Delhi’s AQI is in the moderate category. Fire emission is expected to increase due to dry weather over north India (upwind region) in next 3 days due to which PM2.5 is likely to increase. “Drier conditions tend to increase PM10. Thus overall AQI is likely to degrade to moderate to poor category for next three days,” government-run monitoring agency System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said in a statement. On Monday, the contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5 was increased to 8% and the number of active fires counts in the region to 348. The AQI of Delhi was 139 on Tuesday, up from 82 on Monday, as per Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours and considered the day’s AQI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/citys-aqi-likely-to-worsen/article37183088.ece
27 October 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal extends ban on gutkha containing tobacco||The West Bengal Government has extended ban on the manufacture, storage, sale and distribution of gutkha and panmasala containing tobacco and nicotine by another year from November 7. The order, issued by the office of the Commissioner of Food Safety, said the reason for the ban is that gutkha and panmasala are “articles of food in which tobacco and/or nicotine are used as ingredients” and may be injurious to health. The State has been extending the ban on all products containing tobacco and nicotine since 2013. Organisations campaigning against tobacco use pointed out that about 20.3% of adult population is using chewable tobacco products in West Bengal. “While the cigarette consumption has come down, the use of chewable tobacco including gutkha has remained almost same,” said Niirmalya Mukherjee, director MANT, an NGO advocating restrictions on the sale of tobacco.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-extends-ban-on-gutkha-containing-tobacco/article37183311.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Young riders to wear safety harnesses||Soon, children up to four years old riding pillion on a bike will be mandatorily required to wear a harness. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on Monday notified draft rules governing safety of children between nine months and four years old, which also require the speed of motorcycles carrying them to not exceed 40 kmph and the children to wear helmets. The harness will be used for attaching the child to the driver. The child will wear the vest of the safety harness, while the adult riding the bike will wear the attached shoulder loops. The draft rules also lay down specifications for such harnesses, which require them to be designed to hold up to 30 kg. The government has invited stakeholders’ comments for a period of 30 days before the rules are finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/young-riders-to-wear-safety-harnesses/article37182779.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Waiting for a chance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/waiting-for-a-chance/article37183079.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC holds order on quota in promotions||The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved its judgment in a batch of petitions seeking firm guidelines and basis for granting reservation in promotions for Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe candidates in Government jobs. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao heard Attorney General K.K. Venugopal submit that 75 years of Independence had not been able to bring members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes on a par with the forward classes of society. Mr. Venugopal reiterated that it was still tough for a member of the SC/ST to get ‘Group A’ category jobs. Previous hearing In the previous hearing, the Bench itself had referred to records filed before it to note that there was low representation of SC/ST category in Group A jobs. Instead of improving the situation in the Group A ranks, the court had said, efforts were on to ensure adequate representation in Groups B and C. Mr. Venugopal agreed that it was a “fact of life”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-holds-order-on-quota-in-promotions/article37182753.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||5 CBI officials compulsorily retired||Five officials of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), including a senior Public Prosecutor, have been compulsorily retired by the government under clause 56(j) of the Fundamental Rules. “One of them is an Additional Superintendent of Police and three are Deputy Superintendents of Police,” said an official. The exact nature of the charges is not clear. The clause 56(j) extends absolute right to the government to retire any government servant, fulfilling the criteria of age and service, in public interest by giving notice of not less than three months or three months’ pay in lieu of such a notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-cbi-officials-compulsorily-retired/article37182758.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal offers prayers at Ayodhya, vows to bring more pilgrims||Setting the tone for his campaign for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Kejriwal offered prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi site in Ayodhya on Tuesday. He said his Government would include Ayodhya in the Delhi Government’s free pilgrimage scheme. During his two-day visit to Ayodhya, this was his third stop at a temple. On Monday, he offered aarti at the Saryu river. On Tuesday he also offered prayers at the Hanumangarhi temple. “I was fortunate that I got the chance to bow before Ram Lalla and I wish everyone gest this chance. Whatever capability I have, I will use that to make more and more people have ‘darshan’ here,” Mr. Kejriwal said. In the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, Mr. Kejriwal had unsuccessfully contested against Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi. Though a distant second, he managed to get a little over 20% votes. The 2022 elections will be the Aam Aadmi Party’s first serious foray into Uttar Pradesh politics. The party has announced that it will contest all 403 seats. Pilgrimage plans Making his first election promise for the State, Mr. Kejriwal said he would bring more pilgrims to Ayodhya. He said, “In Delhi, we are running the ‘Chief Minister’s Tirth Yatra Yojana’ under which free pilgrimage is provided to the people of Delhi to all the pilgrim places. We will have a special Cabinet meeting on Wednesday in which Ayodhya will be included in the scheme.” Under this scheme, Delhiites will be provided travel by AC trains and stay in AC hotels and all the expenses will be borne by the Delhi Government. This service would be free of charge, he said. Under the ‘Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana’ for senior citizens, the Delhi Government bears the expenses of about 77,000 pilgrims every year. Delhi residents above the age of 60 are covered under this scheme. On being asked whether he had made any donation for construction of the Ram Temple, Mr. Kejriwal said, “I have also donated for Ram Mandir but donations must always be kept a secret”. Mr. Kejriwal’s visit to the Ram Temple was not a first for the party. The AAP had formally kicked off its poll campaign in September with its senior leaders Manish Sisodia and Sanjay Singh offering prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi and Hanumangarhi shrine in the temple town. The party had also taken out a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Ayodhya from the 18th Century mausoleum of Nawab Shujaudaulah to the Gandhi Park. The party’s other poll promises include 300 units of electricity free of cost to all domestic consumers, waiver of outstanding bills of 38 lakh families and ensuring 24x7 power supply in Uttar Pradesh if the AAP is voted to power in the Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kejriwal-offers-prayers-at-ayodhya-vows-to-bring-more-pilgrims/article37182760.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC begins hearing Zakia Jafri’s plea||The Supreme Court on Tuesday began hearing a petition filed by Zakia Jafri, widow of slain Congress MP Ehsan Jafri, challenging the Special Investigation Team’s clean chit to then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi in the 2002 post-Godhra riots. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for Ms. Jafri, said her case concerned “larger conspiracy” involving “bureaucratic inaction, police complacency and conspired, directed unleashing of violence”. “This Republic is too great to look the other way,” Mr. Sibal said. On February 8, 2012, the SIT had filed a closure report giving clean chit to Mr. Modi, now the Prime Minister, and 63 others, including senior officials, saying there was “no prosecutable evidence” against them. On October 5, 2017, the Gujarat High Court had rejected Ms. Jafri’s appeal against the SIT closure report and the Magistrate order. “People were massacred due to police inaction. I am giving you official evidence. Who will be answerable for this?” Mr. Sibal asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-begins-hearing-zakia-jafris-plea/article37182782.ece
27 October 2021||United Nations/ Geneva,||Covaxin nod: WHO seeks more data||The World Health Organisation’s technical advisory group on Tuesday sought “additional clarifications” from Bharat Biotech for its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin to conduct a final “risk-benefit assessment” for Emergency Use Listing of the vaccine. The technical advisory group will now meet on November 3 for a final assessment. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech had submitted an EOI (Expression of Interest) to the WHO on April 19 for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) of Covaxin. The technical advisory group met on Tuesday to review data. “The TAG met today and decided that additional clarifications from the manufacturer are needed to conduct a final EUL risk-benefit assessment for global use of the vaccine,” the WHO said. “The TAG expects these clarifications from the manufacturer by the end of this week, and aims to reconvene for the final risk-benefit assessment on Wednesday, 3 November.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-nod-who-seeks-more-data/article37182940.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. abolishes post of CEO for museum development||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on Tuesday abolished the post of CEO, Development of Museums and Cultural Spaces, and accepted the resignation of retired IAS officer Raghvendra Singh from the post. The Government had created the post in 2019 by upgrading the post of the Director of the National Museum and Mr. Singh, who had retired as Culture Secretary, was appointed for a three-year term till September 2022. In its order on Tuesday, the ACC accepted Mr. Singh’s resignation with effect from October 8 and abolished the CEO post. Culture Ministry Additional Secretary Partha Sarthi Sensharma was given additional charge of the post of DG, National Museum, and Joint Secretary Lily Pandeya was given additional charge of the post of Nehru Memorial Museum and Library director with effect from October 13 and October 12 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-abolishes-post-of-ceo-for-museum-development/article37183077.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||NHRC notice to Centre on death of patient due to ESI hospital ‘negligence’||The National Human Rights Commission said that it had issued a show-cause notice to the Union Labour and Employment Secretary in the case of a COVID-19 patient who “died due to medical negligence” at an Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) hospital in Delhi. The NHRC said the complainant alleged that his father was seriously ill and was suspected to be suffering from COVID-19 when the ESI Hospital in Jhilmil, kept referring him from one hospital to another, without treating him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-notice-to-centre-on-death-of-patient-due-to-esi-hospital-negligence/article37182743.ece
27 October 2021||Kolkata,||Give plan for a permanent solution for Darjeeling development, Mamata urges hill parties||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee urged political parties in Darjeeling hills to come up with a plan for a “permanent solution” to the issues faced by the region. The Trinamool Congress chief emphasised that the creation of a separate State would not bring development, making a reference to Uttarakhand that is grappling with natural disasters. While chairing an administrative meeting in the hills, she told representatives of political parties to chalk out a plan to develop Darjeeling and the region as part of West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/give-plan-for-a-permanent-solution-for-darjeeling-development-mamata-urges-hill-parties/article37182746.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||110 special trains to clear festive rush||The Railways on Wednesday said it was running 110 trains, in addition to increasing the number of coaches in regular trains, to clear extra rush of passengers during this festival season. “For the convenience of travellers and to clear extra rush during this festive season, the Railways is running 668 trips of 110 special trains from Durga Puja till Chhath Puja this year. Also, augmentation of coaches in regular trains is being done to ensure berth availability,” a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/110-special-trains-to-clear-festive-rush/article37182750.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul tweet seen as rap to squabbling Cong. leaders||Amid bitter factionalism and a leadership power tussle in Congress-ruled States of Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday tweeted a message for his colleagues. “True Congress persons can never be each other’s weakness but a source of strength. #StayUnited,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-tweet-seen-as-rap-to-squabbling-cong-leaders/article37182930.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Gokhale to be new Secretary of biotechnology dept.||The Centre has appointed Rajesh Gokhale, 54, as Secretary of Department of Biotechnology (DBT) on Tuesday. “It is a big responsibility and I look forward to doing my best,” Dr. Gokhale told The Hindu . The DBT played a crucial role during the pandemic, particularly in the development of indigenous vaccines. Mr. Gokhale takes over from Renu Swarup, who retires on October 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gokhale-to-be-new-secretary-of-biotechnology-dept/article37182935.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Govt abolishes post, accepts resignation of museums development CEO||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on Tuesday abolished the post of CEO, Development of Museums and Cultural Spaces, and accepted the resignation of retired IAS officer Raghvendra Singh from the post. The Government had created the post in 2019 by upgrading the post of the Director of the National Museum and Mr. Singh, who had retired as Culture Secretary, was appointed for a three-year term till September 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-abolishes-post-accepts-resignation-of-museums-development-ceo/article37182936.ece
27 October 2021||Guwahati,||Assam CM gets ECI notice for violating Model Code of Conduct||The Election Commission of India has sought an explanation from Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for the alleged violation of the Model Code of Conduct during campaigning for the Assembly bypolls. The ECI notice, issued on October 25, was based on complaints lodged by Assam Congress leaders Bhupen Kumar Borah and Debabrata Saikia. A reply to the notice has been sought in 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-cm-gets-eci-notice-for-violating-model-code-of-conduct/article37182938.ece
27 October 2021||Guwahati,||Assam links public benefits to vaccination||The Assam government has decided to link welfare schemes to the COVID-19 vaccination status of the beneficiaries. Health Minister Keshab Mahanta said anyone not vaccinated with both doses will be deprived of the benefits of all State government schemes. “From next month (November), we will check the vaccination status of people while rolling out the schemes for the beneficiaries,” he said. The Minister also said the government has set the goal to vaccinate 3 crore people aged 18 years and above. According to the draft National Register of Citizens published in August 2019, Assam has 3.3 crore people. Munindra Nath Ngatey, the Director of Assam’s Health Services, said vaccine hesitancy among a section of the people has remained a worry for the government. “Unless they get vaccinated early, the possibility of their infecting others cannot be ruled out,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-links-public-benefits-to-vaccination/article37182780.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Kyrgyz Republic security official meets Doval on Afghanistan [Or] Top security official of Kyrgyz Republic meets NSA Doval on Afghanistan||Secretary of Kyrgyz Republic Security Council Lt. Gen. Marat Imankulov met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval on Tuesday in Delhi. “The two sides held discussions on threats and challenges facing both countries as well as the regional security environment, with special reference to Afghanistan,” said a source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kyrgyz-republic-security-official-meets-doval-on-afghanistan-or-top-security-official-of-kyrgyz-republic-meets-nsa-doval-on-afghanistan/article37182939.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Brief- News 1||Secretary of Kyrgyz Republic Security Council Lt. Gen. Marat Imankulov met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval on Tuesday in Delhi. “The two sides held discussions on threats and challenges facing both countries as well as the regional security environment, with special reference to Afghanistan,” said a source. Mr. Imankulov’s visit is significant as it took place a day ahead of the Tehran meeting on Afghanistan where Kyrgyz Republic is expected to participate alongside other Central Asian countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brief-news-1/article37183076.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Preparations for local body election kick off in Chennai||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started preparations for the election of Chennai Mayor and 200 councillors. The election is likely to be completed in three months. Announcement in this regard has not been made yet. Senior officials of the civic body held a preliminary meeting on Tuesday. Officials have started checking the condition of polling stations at 200 divisions of the city. Physical checking of 5,700 polling stations has started and will be completed this week. “We are checking the physical condition of the buildings. We will remove from list all that are demolished or in unusable condition,” said an official. Work on appointment of nodal officers for various tasks, including allocation to Deputy Commissioners, has started. An election cell has been formed in Chennai Corporation Revenue Department to coordinate all activities. Draft roll of Assembly election will be released on November 1. Based on that, the electoral roll for local body election will be prepared. BEL engineers will carry out first level checking of EVMs. The work will be completed by November 15. Former councillor S. Mangala Raj said the officials should ensure that all electors are aware of the changes in polling stations during the election. “During the previous elections, many residents have been unable to vote in areas where polling stations were changed to a new building. Information about changes should be shared with all the residents,” said Mr. Mangala Raj. Local administration in Chennai, which covers 426 sq.km area, has been carried out by a special officer’s council for the past five years, instead of the elected members of the GCC council. Once the council is elected, debates and resolutions pertaining to civic issues would be held every month in the presence of 200 elected councillors, commissioner and the mayor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/preparations-for-local-body-election-kick-off-in-chennai/article37183006.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Thermal plants emit high levels of noxious gas’||People in Tamil Nadu are suffering high levels of pollution because of the toxic gases emitted by thermal power plants. Particularly, Chennai is on the cusp of an environmental disaster as several thermal plants are located in the northern part of the city. In a State where the demand is around 16,500 MW, thermal power plants account for 13,600 MW. The high levels of toxic gases being emitted by the thermal power plants have caused an irreparable damage to the environment, says a study conducted by Poovulagin Nanbargal, along with CREA and ASAR. The study also points to the lack of will to cut air pollution. The report, ‘Emission Watch-Status assessment of SO2 emissions and Flue Gas Desulfuriser (FGD) installation for coal-based power plants in Tamil Nadu,’ was authored by Prabhakaran Veeraarasu, Satheesh Lakshmanan and Sunil Dahiya. It brings out the level of toxic emissions from the thermal power plants, the mismatch between the actual and projected peak electricity demands, the discrepancies in the data provided by the pollution control board and the failure to install FGD at the thermal plants. It shows the way forward to reduce pollution from the coal-based power plants by stopping the construction of new ones. The report brings out the high level of SO2 emissions through the data collected from the Online Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems (OCEMS). According to the OCEMS data, SO2 emissions at several State- and Central Government-owned plants exceed the permissible limit. According to the CREA and Greenpeace 2020 global emission ranking, Neyveli, where the thermal power plants emitted 299 kilo tonnes of SO2, was ranked 14th in the hotspot emission list. Chennai stood at the 36th place, with the North Chennai and Vallur plants having emitted 142 kilo tonnes, Thoothukudi ranked 131 by emitting 52 kilo tonnes and Mettur stood 144 with the emission of 47 kilo tonnes.The amount of SO2 and NOx emitted by the thermal plants have been well documented in the report, with a thermal plant of the Neyveli Lignite Corporate (NLC) coughing out 2,498 milligram/normal cubic metre per hour. While the permissible SO2 emission for this plant is only 600 mg/NM3. The study, which compares the difference in the actual and projected peak power demands in the State over three years, shows the actual peak demand has been less than 15% of the projected demand and pitches for discontinuing the construction of new plants. Non-compliance The study also mentions the failure of the State power utility to comply with notifications issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change in December 2015 to retrofit all coal-based plants with the Flue Gas Desulfuriser so as to control SO2 and NOx pollution. Even as the Environment Ministry has been extending the deadlines and diluting the emission standards, no thermal plant in the State has complied with the norms. The Supreme Court has also given several warnings, the report states. The study finds that except for two thermal plants of ITPCL (IL&FS Tamilnadu Power Corporation Limited) having a capacity of 1,200 MW, all other plants belonging to the State and Union Governments and private entities have not commissioned the Flue Gas Desulfuriser, which is mandated by the Environment Ministry to reduce emissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thermal-plants-emit-high-levels-of-noxious-gas/article37183039.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu reports 1,090 fresh infections||With 1,090 more persons testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, the number of patients under treatment rose to 12,540 and the total number of cases went up to 26,97,418. Among those who tested positive was a passenger from the United Arab Emirates. Chennai tops table Chennai reported the highest number of fresh cases, 141, followed by Coimbatore, 128; Chengalpattu, 93; Tiruppur, 75; Erode, 67; Salem, 59; and Thanjavur, 52, according to the daily bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health. In Chengalpattu, the number of persons under treatment dropped to 993 after the discharge of 109 persons. With 1,326 persons discharged all over the State, the number of recovered patients went up to 26,48,830. The State reported 15 deaths — five at private hospitals and 10 at government hospitals. Nagapattinam recorded the maximum number of deaths, four, followed by Thanjavur with three. One death each was reported in Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Karur, Madurai, Ranipet, Tiruvallur, Tiruvarur and Villupuram. So far, 36,048 persons have died of the infection. Among them was a 39-year-old man from Coimbatore. He was admitted on October 18 to Coimbatore Medical College and ESI Hospital after testing positive two days earlier. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on October 24. An 80-year-old woman from Karur with type 2 diabetes and systemic hypertension tested positive, and was admitted to the Mahathma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi on October 17. She died of COVID-19 pneumonia on October 24. At 2,754 sessions, 1,45,969 persons were vaccinated. Among them were 40 healthcare workers; 369 frontline workers; 87,679 persons aged 18-44; 42,534 aged 45-59; and 15,347 senior citizens. So far, 5,43,79,414 persons have been inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-reports-1090-fresh-infections/article37183033.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Include Tirumalai’s book in curriculum’||The Chennai-based Gandhi Peace Foundation (GPF) has urged the State government to include Gandhi - Vinobha, A Memoir , a book penned by Gandhiya Mamani T.D. Tirumalai in the school curriculum. Speaking at the valedictory of the centenary celebrations of Tirumalai organised by The Hindu on Tuesday, GPF’s secretary S. Kulandaisamy said that Tirumalai learnt many ideals of both Mahatma Gandhi and Acharya Vinoba Bhave and put these into practice. Love for nature “He had immense love for all living beings and nature. He would tell us to appreciate everything,” he said. Navaneeth L.V., CEO, The Hindu Group Publishing Private Ltd., launched the GPF’s mobile application, which would help the foundation to reach out to more students. Chartered accountant and a long-time friend of Tirumalai R. Sivakumar released the first copy of the book. Vivekananda was the inspiration for both Gandhiji and Vinobha. “They taught us to not look at the caste or religion of people and always be truthful,” he said. Rosary Matriculation School Principal Sister Mary Zackariah said that students must follow the principles of Gandhiji. C. Shenbagavalli, Joint Secretary of GPF, said she had joined the Foundation despite not being paid anything in the beginning. Several city schools participated in the event. The book has a set of questions, which children can answer and send to info@gandhi- peace.foundation. Tirumalai was born to Thothadri Deivanayakam and Janaki on October 26, 1921, at Srivilliputtur. He was drawn to the principles of Gandhiji from an early age. During his later years, he became an ardent follower of Acharya Vinoba Bhave. In his 20s, Tirumalai formed a students’ organisation in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai to train students in constructive programmes advocated by Gandhiji, especially with regard to individual Satyagraha. The Quit India Movement of 1942 saw him evolve into a youth leader as he organised bandhs in colleges to protest against the British rule, and was arrested 25 times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/include-tirumalais-book-in-curriculum/article37183001.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu gears up to face northeast monsoon||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday chaired a meeting to review the precautionary measures being taken in view of the onset of the northeast monsoon in Tamil Nadu. He instructed officials to take all measures to protect the people. “The nature keeps changing. In recent times, the change is quite puzzling. The climate change is severe and we cannot mark a certain period as monsoon or summer. Officials have to realise this and act accordingly,” Mr. Stalin said at the meeting. He also referred to the heavy rainfall in nine districts, including Erode, Kanniyakumari and the Nilgiris, and said 17 other districts received rain this month. The Chief Minister said the mindset of people should be to face natural disasters and underlined the need for government measures to meet people’s expectations. The alerts and updates from the India Meteorological Department and other government agencies should reach members of the public and fishermen through newspapers and the electronic media. Officials should ensure the functioning of round-the-clock helplines. People could use 1070 and 1077 helplines. Mr. Stalin instructed officials to monitor the storage at waterbodies across the State. He also underlined the need for various departments to work together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-gears-up-to-face-northeast-monsoon/article37183031.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on Stroke Golden Hour||Kauvery Hospital presents The Hindu Wellness Series on ‘Stroke Golden Hour’, which will be held at 11.30 a.m. on October 28. The webinar will touch upon how stroke occurs and the reasons, prevention and treatment and risk factors. It will have a question-and-answer session for the audience as well. Dr. G Jos Jasper, HOD, Brain & Spine Surgery, Kauvery Hospital, Tiruchi, and Dr. Prithika Chary, Senior Consultant Neurologist & Neurosurgeon & Chief Neurologist, Kauvery Hospital, Chennai, will be the panellists in the discussion, which will be moderated by Pon Vasanth B.A, Senior Reporter, The Hindu . Those interested can register for the event athttps://bit.ly/- 3jCkRJpor scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-stroke-golden-hour/article37183042.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna Nagar burglary case solved, six arrested||Six persons, including two women, have been arrested in connection with the burglary at a businessman’s house in Anna Nagar West. The police said the complainant, D. Elangovan, 54, lives in Anna Nagar West and runs a transport business. While Mr. Elangovan, his wife Sasikala and their son Hariharan were asleep on the first floor, burglars broke into the ground floor of the house and took away 100 sovereigns of gold jewellery, diamonds and silver articles from a steel bureau. A case was registered in Thirumangalam police station based on his complaint. After investigation and analysing CCTV footage, the police found the involvement of a few offenders who had come out from prison recently. After working on clues, the police arrested V. Dinakaran, 35, of Ambasamudram in Tirunelveli district. He was suspected to be an associate of Thiruvarur Murugan, the mastermind of the Lalithaa Jewellery heist in Tiruchi and house break-ins in Anna Nagar. Dinakaran’s wife Usharani, 27, A.Siva, 32, of Uthangarai, and N. Lokesh, 25, of Jolarpet were also arrested. Based on their confession, the police nabbed K. Mohan, 55, and Rani, 48, of Ernavur for receiving the stolen articles. The police recovered 65 sovereigns of gold jewellery, Rs. 2 lakh worth diamonds and Rs. 2.5 lakh cash from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-nagar-burglary-case-solved-six-arrested/article37182999.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IOB releases loans to 3,000 applicants||Chennai District Collector J. Vijaya Rani on Tuesday launched the disbursement of loans to 3,000 beneficiaries at an event organised by the Chennai district lead bank, Indian Overseas Bank. Loans totalling Rs. 1,035 crore were disbursed to 3,000 beneficiaries for purchase of houses, cars, launch of business and education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iob-releases-loans-to-3000-applicants/article37183002.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three auto drivers arrested for overcharging||Three autorickshaw drivers have been arrested for overcharging and forcibly robbing a few migrant labourers in Gummidipoondi police station limits. The police said Uma Magesh Yadav and Magesh Thakur of Bihar work for a private company in Gummidipoondi. On Sunday night, they reached Chennai Central to receive 13 youth who were new recruits from their native. Mr. Yadav hailed three autorickshaws. Money snatched On reaching the spot, the drivers allegedly demanded Rs. 19,000 as fare. They threatened Mr. Yadav and snatched money from him. Based on Mr. Yadav’s complaint, the police registered a case and arrested the autorickshaw drivers P. Akash, 22, of Vyasarpadi, R. Lenin, 30, of Vyasarpadi, and K. Balaji, 30, of Choolai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-auto-drivers-arrested-for-overcharging/article37183003.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth Congress membership drive||The Tamil Nadu Youth Congress on Tuesday launched a membership drive. Abraham Roy Mani, national general secretary of Indian Youth Congress, told presspersons here that the membership drive would start from November 8 and go on till December 7 and the age limit for enrolment is 18-35. Candidates can file their nominations for various posts in Tamil Nadu Youth Congress till November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-congress-membership-drive/article37183011.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Baby with rare condition treated at city hospital||Doctors at Rainbow Children’s Hospital have treated a baby with a rare genetic condition, who had a bone marrow transplant, and subsequently survived a stint on an ECMO machine. The child is doing well. When six-week-old Lochen was brought to the hospital, it was for diarrhoea and severe dehydration. While parents suspected a simple infection, repeated hospitalisation for over four months led to investigation and Lochen was diagnosed with monogenic inflammatory bowel disease caused by a genetic mutation. The doctors said it was caused by IL-10 R deficiency. “The only available treatment was an early bone marrow transplant,” said R. Karthik Narayanan, senior consultant at the paediatric intensive care unit, who treated the child. Since the hospital did not have a licence for transplantation, the child was shifted to another hospital for treatment. At five months, Lochen underwent bone marrow transplant with CMCHIS support but suffered severe complications owing to infection. Almost all his organs were damaged as BMT wipes out immunity. Fourteen days post-transplant his kidneys, liver, heart and lungs failed. The only option was to provide ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) which would only treat the heart. Lochen was on ECMO for 20 days after which he was put on dialysis. The ventilator support was removed after tracheostomy. A team of doctors, including Karthik Narayanan, Geetha and Nataraj Palaniappan, provided round-the-clock care for the baby. The child weighed 5kg instead of 7kg for normal growth. ECMO increases the risk of bleeding and the child developed bleeding in the right side of the brain. Consultant neurosurgeon Santhosh Mohan Rao did a craneotomy to remove the blood clot. Consultant Paediatric hematologist Dhaarani Jayaraman helped in post BMT care. Lochen, who was born in March 2020, underwent treatment from December 2020 to February 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/baby-with-rare-condition-treated-at-city-hospital/article37183018.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Letter to Secretaries is routine’||Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu on Tuesday maintained that his communication requesting the Secretaries of government departments to prepare presentations for the Governor on government schemes was “routine” in an administrative set-up. In a statement, Mr. Anbu termed “unnecessary” the debate on his communication. “It is not appropriate to make it a controversy by giving it a political colour. Those who are aware of the government’s administrative actions would realise they are among the routine activities.” In light of the fact that a new Governor had assumed office, the communication was sent, the Chief Secretary said. His statement came on the day when several political leaders opposed the Governor’s action. The Hindu published a report in this regard on Tuesday. In his communication, Mr. Irai Anbu had asked the Secretaries to prepare presentations. A month after taking charge, Governor R.N. Ravi has sought details of the functioning of the Departments and of the welfare schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/letter-to-secretaries-is-routine/article37183029.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mega vaccination camp on Oct. 30||Tamil Nadu will conduct another mega vaccination camp on Saturday. This week too, 50,000 centres will administer COVID-19 vaccines, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Tuesday. The camp would mainly be for those requiring Covishield, he said, after inspecting the vaccine depot at the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services here. On Wednesday, the Minister and the Health Secretary would take part in a meeting called by the Union Health Minister. The Union Government had invited the Health Ministers and Secretaries of all States to inform them of the next course of action after the country crossed the 100-crore vaccination target, Mr. Subramanian said. The State government had also prepared a list of demands to be presented to the Union Government. It would seek 10 lakh doses of Covaxin. “We are seeking funds to set up a vaccine depot and buy vehicles to transport the vaccines across the State. We have 11 new medical colleges and we want to make them the district headquarters hospitals. We have proposed 19 district headquarters hospitals, including in the newly created districts,” he said. For each of these hospitals, the State government would seek Rs. 50 crore. “Once the sum is sanctioned, the place for establishing the facility would be finalised.” The Minister said the State would urge the Union Government to give approval for 800 more seats in 11 new medical colleges. The Union Government had approved only 850 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-vaccination-camp-on-oct-30/article37183037.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister warns of action||The Transport Department will be take a serious view of any complaints from passengers about overcharging by omni-bus operators during the festival season. Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan told The Hindu that circulars had been issued by the Transport Commissioner to the Regional Transport Officers (RTOs) in the city to form special squads to conduct surprise checks in the bus termini to prevent overcharging. Mr. Rajakannappan said aggrieved passengers can contact the toll-free number 18004255161 to register their complaint.  A senior official of the department said that if any complaints were received about ‘overcharging’, the RTOs would not only levy fine on the operator but also seize the vehicles. The officials of the RTOs would be visiting bus stops and enquire with the passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-warns-of-action/article37183010.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Increase meal timings in schools’||PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss on Tuesday said that the noon meal timings should be increased in all schools across Tamil Nadu and one period should be set aside for games and exercise to enable students overcome micronutrient deficiencies and stress. In a statement, he said that students should be taught about healthy eating at least once a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-meal-timings-in-schools/article37183012.ece
27 October 2021||CHENNAI/THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Cong. slams Governor for seeking details from govt. departments||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri and State Minorities Commission Chairman Peter Alphonse came down on Governor R.N. Ravi for seeking details on the functioning of various departments. “It is shocking. The Governor has no right to seek any such details. He has been appointed by the President of the country and not elected by the people,” Mr. Alagiri said in a statement. The Chief Minister had secured more votes and assumed office after being elected by the MLAs of his party. “Only he has the right and responsibility to implement welfare schemes. The Governor’s intervention is motivated and against the Constitution,” he said. ‘Parallel government’ Mr. Alphonse said the Governor could not afford to run a parallel government in the State. Talking to reporters at Thanjavur, he said the DMK government, led by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, had won the confidence of the people and the intervention of the Governor was unnecessary. “The Chief Minister is ready to accord the respect that is due to the Governor. But the Centre cannot not exceed its limits through the Governor. Moreover, Mr. Stalin, unlike former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, cannot be cowed down by the interventions of the Governor,” he said. “When the previous Governor, Banwarilal Purohit, decided to tour the State for supervising the activities of the district administrations, it drew strong opposition. Mr. Purohit stopped his tours after Opposition leaders objected to his decision by pointing out that the Constitutional tradition did not entertain such actions and also organised protests,” Mr. Alphonse said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-slams-governor-for-seeking-details-from-govt-departments/article37183034.ece
27 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. organises competition for revenue wing officials||Starting November 1, Coimbatore Corporation will organise ‘Municipal Premier League’ (MPL) for revenue wing officials – an exercise aimed at boosting tax collection. The officials starting with bill collectors on ground to assistant revenue officers in zones to assistant commissioners will compete with one another in the MPL. The Corporation will recognise and reward best performers with certificates and trophies. The Corporation has joined hands with Bengaluru-based non-government organisation Janaagraha, which is coordinating the MPL. Janaagraha said by recognising and rewarding the revenue wing officials, whose work often went unnoticed and unrecognised, the Corporation tried to boost revenue collection as well. Review of performance The Corporation revenue wing officials said the civic body would review the performance of bill collectors, ward-wise, at the end of every month till the end of the current financial year and once at the end of the first three months. Janaagraha said the competition would be in four revenue streams – property tax, water charges, professional tax and non-tax. While the Corporation would weigh the bill collectors’ performance on tax collected, the parameters of assessing assistant revenue officers and assistant commissioners would be on collection efficiency, new assessments and digital collections. The Corporation sources said the competition was a part of the civic body’s efforts to improve revenue collection at a time when the financial position was weak. Another measure the Corporation had taken sometime ago was going after the top 100 tax defaulter in each of the 100 wards. After issuing notices and sending notices between June and September, the Corporation saw the tax collection improve. Of the Rs. 173 crore property tax arrears at the start of the financial year, the Corporation registered a collection of Rs. 13.22 crore. And, Rs. 47.30 crore as collection of property tax for the current financial year. Likewise, the Corporation collected Rs. 4.50 crore in arrears and current demand of vacant land tax, the sources added. As of October 25, the Corporation had collected Rs. 78.37 crore in property tax as against the demand of Rs. 204.09 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-organises-competition-for-revenue-wing-officials/article37183055.ece
27 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Burglaries at police quarters||The Race Course police on Tuesday registered two cases of burglaries in two residences of Armed Reserve police personnel attached to Coimbatore District Police at the police quarters on the Police Recruits School premises. Sources said the miscreants stole laptop, gold and silver jewellery, silver utensils and cash from the houses of two constables. Special teams have been formed to nab the accused, according to the sources. Ganja seized from train Personnel from Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) seized bundles of ganja weighing around 23.5 kg from a train at the Coimbatore Railway Station on Tuesday. According to police sources, the RPF and GRP personnel searched the Allepey-Dhanbad special train that halted at the railway station based on a tip-off. The personnel found two bags under the seats in reserved coach S4, which contained seven kg and 16.5 kg bundles containing ganja. Efforts to nab the accused are under way. Boy held on rape charges The Pollachi All Women Police on Monday arrested a 17-year-old boy on charges of raping a 16-year-old girl near Pollachi in Coimbatore district. According to the police, the victim was studying Class XI at a government school and the accused had finished his Class XII from the same school. The police said they were allegedly in a relationship and that the boy allegedly raped the victim at her residence. The victim’s mother admitted her to the Government Hospital in Pollachi after complaints of stomach ache, where the doctors found that the girl was three months pregnant. Following a complaint from the girl, the boy was arrested and sent to the Juvenile Observation Home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burglaries-at-police-quarters/article37183053.ece
27 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Banks sanction Rs. 430-cr. loans to various sectors||The banks that took part in the mega customer outreach programme here on Tuesday sanctioned Rs. 430-crore loans to applicants from different sectors. As many as 22 banks and various government departments took part in the programme, which was organised by the district lead bank and the district administration, and inaugurated by Coimbatore MP PR Natarajan. Coimbatore south MLA Vanathi Sreenivasan and Project Director of District Rural Development Agency Kavitha also participated in the inaugural. P. Palanisamy, Chief General Manager of Canara Bank, said nationalised, private, and grameen banks took part in the one-day camp. All the loan products and schemes were already available at the banks and approvals would continue after the camp too at all the branches. The loans sanctioned were mainly in MSMEs, retail, and agriculture sectors. The banks had exhibited details of schemes related to all the three sectors. Loans worth about Rs. 200 crore were disbursed too. P. Kousalya Devi, district lead bank manager, said priority would be given for education loans. The other loans sanctioned would be followed up on a continual basis. The banks would now expedite sanctions under different schemes of the governments. Coimbatore district had been sanctioning loans higher than the targets fixed, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banks-sanction-rs-430-cr-loans-to-various-sectors/article37183051.ece
27 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments in bus stands removed||Coimbatore Corporation officials on Tuesday removed encroachments at over 60 points within the Gandhipuram town and mofussil bus stands. A team led by Assistant Town Planning Officer A. Babu and comprising conservancy workers removed projections of various shops in both the bus stands that the shop occupants had erected illegally by encroaching upon platforms. The Corporation also asked push cart owners and other vendors, who had illegally occupied public places, to move out, said the Corporation sources. Following instructions from Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, the team went there to remove the encroachments. Personnel from the Coimbatore City Police had accompanied the Corporation team. The projections in front of shops included those erected by tea stall owners, fruit vendors and others who had used the space to prepare tea, prepare parotta batter or showcase their wares. The encroachment within the town bus stand was also similar, the sources said and added that the team also removed encroachments on the stretch of Dr. Nanjappa Road between the mofussil bus stand and Cross Cut Road junction. Now, that stretch of footpath was wide open for pedestrians, the Corporation officials said and added that more such eviction drive would continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachments-in-bus-stands-removed/article37183057.ece
27 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mucormycosis patient undergoes lung surgery at CMCH||Doctors at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) recently performed a complex lung surgery on a patient suffering from mucormycosis, which involved removal of a portion of his left lung. According to a statement from the hospital, L. Govindharajan (37) from Mettur in Salem district contracted COVID-19 in April and was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore for treatment of severe pulmonary involvement. He was discharged from the hospital upon recovering from COVID-19. After a few months, he was hospitalised in Salem after complaints of coughing up blood (haemoptysis), where he was diagnosed of mucormycosis. He was subsequently referred to CMCH on September 28. Medical examination by the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery revealed that the lower portion of the patient’s left lung was damaged due to mucormycosis. To prevent the spread of infection to the right lung or other organs such as heart, the doctors decided to perform left lower lobectomy, according to the statement. The surgery was done on September 30 by a team of doctors led by Head of Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery E. Sreenivasan and Head of Department of Anaesthesiology Kalyana Sundharam as per the guidance of Dean A. Nirmala. This procedure, which costs around Rs. 5 lakh at private hospitals, was done free of cost under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme and the patient remains stable, according to the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mucormycosis-patient-undergoes-lung-surgery-at-cmch/article37183060.ece
27 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Nothing wrong in Governor seeking details, says Vanathi||BJP MLA Vanathi Srinivasan on Tuesday said that there was “nothing wrong” in Governor R.N. Ravi seeking details regarding the functioning of various departments under the State government and implementation of welfare schemes. She told mediapersons here this was “not against the Constitution” and claimed that it was a “regular” procedure. Some were deliberately attempting to find faults with the Governor, she alleged. On V.K. Sasikala, Ms. Srinivasan said that it was up to the AIADMK to decide whether to allow her back into the party and the BJP had no role to play in this issue. She flagged off a vehicle containing relief materials for the flood-affected regions of Kerala and launched a campaign to redress the grievances of the residents of Coimbatore South Assembly constituency on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nothing-wrong-in-governor-seeking-details-says-vanathi/article37183061.ece
27 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore urged to tap potential in IT sector||Coimbatore has everything that can enable it to be the next Bengaluru in the country in the IT sector, said Neeraj Mittal, Principal Secretary, IT Department, Tamil Nadu. At the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Coimbatore’s virtual IT event - Connect Coimbatore on Tuesday, he said Coimbatore district had connectivity, educational institutions and pleasant weather that would all help in catapulting it to become the second Bengaluru in the IT sector. Scope to grow The entire district had scope to grow in this sector. COVID-19 had shown that technology was the only way to go forward and there were new challenges too. The public policy should change to accommodate the new challenges, he said. According to Ajay Yadav, Managing Director of Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu, Elcot had developed IT parks in different parts of the State so that all regions benefited from the IT revolution. Apart from the IT park that it developed with Tidel in Coimbatore, it was developing a new IT building as well. Centres of excellence Sanjay Tyagi, Director of STPI, said the Central and State governments were setting up centres of excellence and entrepreneurship to remove the barriers of growth for startups. As part of this initiative, a centre of excellence for start-ups in the financial technology sector was set up in Tamil Nadu. Co-convenor of the ICT panel of CII - Coimbatore, Aruna Thangaraj, said automation had disrupted the digital world in the last one-and-a-half years because of COVID-19. It was now the key factor of all innovation. Focus Hence, Connect Coimbatore’s focus was on ‘Digital Disruption Post COVID’, she said. Arjun Prakash, chairman of CII - Coimbatore, said the Connect event had been instrumental in spearheading investments in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-urged-to-tap-potential-in-it-sector/article37183065.ece
27 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Camps on Oct. 27, 29||Special camps will be held on October 27 and 29 for those who want to make corrections in the pattas. An official release said all land document related works had been computerised and patta transfers were also computerised. In this process, there were reports of minor mistakes in the pattas. Camps would be held on Wednesdays and Fridays to correct these mistakes. In Coimbatore district, camps would be held at villages in Coimbatore north, Mettupalayam, Annur, Sulur, Madukkarai, Perur, Pollachi, Annamalai, and Kinathukadavu areas on October 27 and 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/camps-on-oct-27-29/article37183052.ece
27 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||HM stages demonstrations||Members of Hindu Munnani on Tuesday staged demonstrations demanding the withdrawal of the temple jewellery monetisation scheme of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. The demonstration held near Muniappan Temple in Gandhipuram was led by State secretary J.S. Kishore Kumar. In Tiruppur, State president Kadeswara C. Subramaniam participated in the demonstration held on Mangalam Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hm-stages-demonstrations/article37183062.ece
27 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ grievances redress meet||The district administration will hold the monthly farmers grievances redress meet on October 29. A release said the meeting would begin at 10.30 a.m. at the meeting hall at the Collectorate. Farmers could participate in the meeting in person to have their grievances redressed. They were told to follow COVID-19 safety protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-grievances-redress-meet/article37183058.ece
27 October 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore logs nil deaths, 19 fresh cases||Cuddalore recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Tuesday. As many as 19 persons tested positive, taking the tally to 63,995. The district saw 62,909 recoveries, leaving 219 active cases. Villupuram saw one death, takng the toll to 356, and 11 cases, taking the tally of cases to 45,803. Kallakurichi reported nine new cases, taking the total 31,315.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-logs-nil-deaths-19-cases/article37183433.ece
27 October 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||‘Athoor dam will be made a tourist spot’||Minister for Cooperation I. Periyasamy has promised to convert Athoor Kamarajar reservoir into a tourist spot. Inspecting the water body that has been overflowing for the last few days due to torrential rains along the Western Ghats, he showered flower petals on the water. The lake is the major source of drinking water for Dindigul Corporation with a population of 2.36 lakh people and eight way-side villages including Periya Pallapatti, Chinna Pallapatti, Pillayarpalayam, Athoor and Vakkampatti. The dam has water to its full reservoir level of 23.5 feet. He said Dindigul city would not face drinking water shortage for the next two years. The wild growth around the lake would be removed and it would be made into a tourist attraction, he added. While Dindigul city was drawing 14 million litres a day for its drinking water requirement, one MLD of water was supplied to other local bodies, said Corporation Assistant Engineer S. Navaneethakrishnan. The dam was overflowing for the second time in 2021 after surplus water was released in January, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dindigul-not-to-face-drinking-water-shortage/article37183170.ece
27 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani stages protest against melting temple jewellery||Condemning the State government’s decision to melt the gold ornaments offered by devotees to temples, the members of Hindu Munnani staged a protest near Veerappanchatiram bus stand here on Tuesday. The protesters said that devotees had offered the ornaments to the temples and the decision of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) to convert the ornaments into gold bars would hurt them. “The move will affect the faith that devotees have on God,” they said. They questioned the motive behind converting the ornaments into gold bars. “What will happen to the diamonds and other precious stones in the ornaments while melting them,” they questioned. They said that the government has no right to intervene in the puja and tradition of the temples and wanted the decision reversed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-munnani-stages-protest-against-melting-temple-jewellery/article37183181.ece
27 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Pothole-riddled roads a nightmare for motorists||The pothole-riddled Cauvery Road and R.K.V. Road in the city cause immense hardship to motorists and they have requested the State Highways Department to carry out repair works before the Northeast monsoon intensifies. The one-and-a-half km stretch from Karungalpalayam to Manikoondu was dug for underground sewerage scheme (UGSS) works four months ago and the roads are yet to be re-laid. The roads connect the city with Pallipalayam in Namakkal district. The stretch from fish market to Manikoondu is busy round the clock due to the presence of commercial establishments, textile and jewellery showrooms, and provision stores. Two-wheelers, cars, commercial vehicles, buses and lorries use the stretch throughout the day. In the absence of pathways, pedestrians walk on the road disrupting vehicle movement. Motorists find it difficult to negotiate the potholes and pits as rain often turns the roads slushy. “The roads have turned unmotorable,” said V. Kannan, a motorist from Pallipalayam who has urged the authorities concerned to re-lay the surface with bitumen. Motorists and pedestrians said that executing the work during rainy days affected road users and shopkeepers in the area. “It has been over five months since the sewerage work commenced and it is moving at a snail’s pace,”, said a shopkeeper who runs a tea stall at Karungalpalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pothole-riddled-roads-a-nightmare-for-motorists/article37183188.ece
27 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Fix yarn price on a monthly basis’||Stating that they were facing a loss of Rs. 5.83 a metre due to regular increase in price of yarn, the Tamil Nadu Federation of Power Looms Associations has urged the district administration to take up the issue with the State government and ensure that price of yarn is fixed once in a month. In a petition submitted to the administration, the federation coordinator P. Kandavel said that next to agriculture, the power loom sector provides more jobs to people in the State. Most of the power looms produce rayon fabrics using yarn, which in turn is made from synthetic fibre. The price of fibre has increased from Rs. 153 a kg to Rs. 160 a kg in the last one month, whereas the price of yarn has increased from Rs. 190 a kg to Rs. 250 a kg during the same period. The petition said that on October 1, one kg of 30 count rayon yarn was sold at Rs. 214 and now it has increased to Rs. 255. Though the price of raw materials increased by Rs. 7 a kg, the price of yarn was increased by Rs. 41 a kg. The federation blamed mill owners for hiking the price. Since the price of fabrics did not increase, owners are facing a loss of Rs. 5.83 a metre, the petition said and added that orders cannot be executed now. The federation wanted the price of yarn fixed once in a month based on the price of raw materials. It also wanted the Central government to make the six National Textile Corporation mills in South India operational and the 18 mills of the State government modernised. “If these mills are operational, the price of yarn will be under control”, the petition said. Of the total six lakh power looms in the State, rayon is produced in 50% units that provides employment directly and indirectly to three lakh workers. The petition urged the district administration to take up the issue with the State government and recommend necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fix-yarn-price-on-a-monthly-basis/article37183190.ece
27 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Special camps from Oct. 27 to solve patta-related issues||Special camps will be held in all the revenue villages in the district on Wednesdays and Fridays from October 27 to January 12, 2022, to solve patta-related issues. Collector H. Krishnanunni in a statement said that Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran had in the State Assembly on August 31 announced that the government would conduct special camps in villages for landowners and farmers to sort out issues related to patta. An officer in the rank of Deputy Collector has been appointed as the monitoring and disposal officer for each taluk. During the camp, zonal deputy tahsildar, revenue inspector and village administrative officer would collect petitions from the people and make necessary corrections such as spellings, names, relationships online. Issues related to name transfer of patta would also be solved during the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camps-from-oct-27-to-solve-patta-related-issues/article37183186.ece
27 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 67 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Tuesday reported 67 new COVID-19 cases, which took the overall tally to 1,03,953. While 69 persons were discharged after recovery, a total of 872 persons are under treatment. Salem district reported 59 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 99,588. While 62 persons were discharged, 608 persons are under treatment. Namakkal district reported 44 cases, taking the overall tally to 52,022. While 65 persons were discharged, 536 are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-67-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37183185.ece
27 October 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||District Collector reviews preparations ahead of reopening of schools||District Collector P.N. Sridhar has directed the School Education Department to complete precautionary measures ahead of the November 1 resumption of in-person classes for students of Classes I to VIII in the district. Chairing a meeting at the Collectorate here on Tuesday, Mr. Sridhar instructed the authorities to adhere to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the government. As many as 931 government and private schools in the district will resume regular classes from November 1. He said schools would be required to follow all COVID-19 protocols strictly, such as wearing of masks, using hand sanitisers and maintaining physical distancing, which were mandatory, and should be followed while inside the premises. He advised school authorities to ensure that the premises were disinfected before and after classes. Students whose family members had tested positive should avoid coming to school. Complete sterilisation The premises, furniture, stationery, staff room, water tank, kitchen, canteen, laboratory, library, and toilets should be disinfected. Mr. Sridhar said physical distancing should be observed in classrooms. Thermal screening should be done before allowing students inside the classrooms. Chief Educational Officer T. Vijayalakshmi and officials were present.  As many as 931 government and private schools in Kallakurichi will resume regular classes from November 1||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-collector-reviews-preparations-ahead-of-reopening-of-schools/article37183430.ece
27 October 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Fire at cracker shop claims five lives||Five persons were killed in a fire that broke out at a cracker shop in Sankarapuram, near here, on Tuesday. The identity of the victims were not known immediately. Around 6.30 p.m., the fire broke out at a retail shop selling crackers on the Kallakurichi Road. As flames engulfed the shop, five persons were trapped inside. The blaze soon spread to two adjacent shops, gutting them completely. The bodies were sent to the Kallakurichi Government Medical College and Hospital for a post-mortem examination. The police said the reason for the fire could not be ascertained immediately. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin condoled the deaths and announced a solatium of Rs. 5 lakh to the victims’ families. Mr Stalin also issued orders to grant Rs. 1 lakh to those who suffered serious injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-at-cracker-shop-claims-five-lives/article37183069.ece
27 October 2021||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||NITPY set to formulate structured plan for implementation of NEP||NIT Puducherry (NITPY), Karaikal, is on course to submitting a structured plan early on to Ministry of Education for implementation of National Education Policy (NEP) in institutions imparting technical education. The plan will have creative schemes for easy multiple entries and exits, and bridge courses for the students to meet the requirement of the industry such that students choosing exit option will be employed suitably, NITPY Director K. Sankaranaranayasamy said. A national workshop on ‘Road Map for Implementation of NEP 2020 In Higher Education Institutes’ conducted earlier this month by NITPY was preceded by several webinars to disseminate the policy among higher educational institutions. The workshop was meant to arrive at an action plan for effective and immediate implementation of various technical higher educations, Prof. Sankaranarayanasamy said, adding that more such workshops will be conducted to analyse new ideas through interactions. NITPY will be getting ready to take up the first phase of the implementation from 2022-23. NEP 2020 will bring about holistic development in every individual with traits of innovations and affinity for Indian culture and tradition. “A citizen coming through this education system will definitely have knowledge with human values; a universal teacher concept namely 'Vishwa Guru', will be accepted globally,” Anil D. Sahasrabudhe, Chairman, AICTE- New Delhi, Member of the Drafting Committee said. Addressing the inaugural session, Prof. Sahasrabudhe said successful implementation of NEP will give freedom for students to utilise facilities in the institutes and gain effective mentorship of teachers as ‘motherly affection’. This will enhance the bond between the alumni and the institute beyond their graduation like ‘Guru Kula’ system of Indian tradition, he said. Workshop convenor Amrtha Bhide elicited view points from faculty members. NITPY Registrar In-Charge Aghila said the aspects of multiple entry and exit options enshrined in NEP 20, conceptualised to expedite the country's progress, will be disseminated among the students to prepare them for corporate society, academics and research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nitpy-set-to-formulate-structured-plan-for-implementation-of-nep/article37183140.ece
27 October 2021||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||‘ Technology addiction ruining people’s lives’||Under the aegis of Indian Council of Social Science Research, a two-day conference on ‘Prevalence of screen addiction among college students’ was organised by the Department of Women’s Studies at Alagappa University here recently. K. Manimekalai, Head, Department of Women’s Studies, referred to the negative impact of screen addiction on physical, mental and social well-being of adolescents and its reflection on the nation’s economy. Because of screen addiction, suicide rate had increased among those aged between 10 and 24 years as their thoughts were preoccupied with a game, social media or smart phone even when it was not being used, she said. M. Selvam, Vice-Chancellor, Bharathidasan University, Tiruchi, said technology addiction was ruining people’s lives. With lesser time spent on outdoor games, reading books, or socialising with peers, children ruined their health. This affected their mental health and also their relationship with friends and family. Screen addiction was detrimental to one’s cognitive abilities. It is believed that information gathered online made one smarter, but in reality it hampered a person’s ability to develop a deeper interest in a subject. This might be reflected in poor academic performance. C. Sekar, Registrar, said proper thought processing and creativity were missing among students owing to screen addiction. The only remedy was to limit gadget use. V. Manikavasagam, former Registrar, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/technology-addiction-ruining-peoples-lives/article37183159.ece
27 October 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Collector’s swift action wins appreciation||Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu has joined others in lauding Karur Collector T. Prabhushankar for his swift action in allotting a house to a destitute woman and her disabled son within a few hours of receiving their petition. On October 11, Chandra, 50, of Gandhigramam, arrived at the Collector Office along with her 28-year-old physically challenged son, Ravichandran, and narrated her difficulties in finding a house for rent. Dr. Prabhushankar gave her a patient hearing. She told him that the house owner was asking her to vacate as she could not pay rent due to her poor economic condition. Also, the house owner had reservations about her son’s condition. Moved by her predicament, the Collector began to initiate steps on Chandra’s petition immediately and handed over an order allotting a house of Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB). He also released Rs. 1.88 lakh, share of the allotter, from the Collector’s Discretionary Fund to TNUHDB. His swift action drew accolades from different sections of society. Mr. Irai Anbu too joined them and sent an appreciation letter to the Collector. Expressing his gratitude to the Chief Secretary and others, Dr. Prabhushankar said it was one of the best days of his career. It had motivated him to extend all possible help to the poor and needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-swift-action-wins-appreciation/article37183145.ece
27 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Urban local body polls to be completed before Jan 26: SEC||With limited time available, State Election Commissioner, V. Palanikumar, has instructed officials to take prompt efforts to complete the urban local body elections in the State before January 26 as per the Supreme Court’s directive. Chairing a review meeting with the Collectors and the Superintendents of Police from southern districts here on Tuesday, Mr. Palanikumar said the elections would be conducted based on the electoral rolls of the Election Commission of India. Officials should get into act immediately after the publication of the draft electoral rolls on November 1, he said. The SEC instructed that all the poll-related officials should be thorough with the booklets on election rules, candidates, polling booths and the EVMs. Polling booths and EVMs-related details should be explained to representatives of political parties. Mr. Palanikumar, who earlier inspected the first-level checking of EVMs here, said after the checking the machines should be distributed among the southern districts. Collectors S. Aneesh Sekhar (Madurai), S. Visakan (Dindigul), K.V. Muralidharan (Theni), P. Madusudhan (Sivaganga) and J. Meghanath Reddy (Virudhunagar), and Corporation Commissioners K.P. Karthikeyan (Madurai) and S. Sivasubramanian (Dindigul) were present. Besides, SPs V. Baskaran (Madurai), V.R. Srinivasan (Dindigul), Praveen Umesh Dongre (Theni) and M. Manohar (Virudhunagar), and Principal Election Officers K. Arunmani (Panchayats), Dhanalakshmi (Municipalities) and Assistant Commissioner (Elections) Sri. Sampathkumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/urban-local-body-polls-to-be-completed-by-jan-26/article37183045.ece
27 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Silver Forget-me-not butterfly recorded in Tamil Nadu for the first time||Within a span of five weeks, a rare butterfly species named Silver Forget-me-not (FMN), has been spotted twice inside Srivilliputhur-Meghamalai Tiger Reserve in Virudhunagar district. It was first sighted on September 5 inside Srivilliputhur Grizzled Squirrel Sanctuary and again on October 9 near Ayyanar Falls by a team from Rhopalocera and Odonata Association of Rajapalayam (ROAR). “We are thrilled to submit the first photographic evidence of Silver FMN in Tamil Nadu,” ROAR founder Sharan Venkatesh told The Hindu . The team has been visiting the tiger reserve for the past six years to study butterfly diversity in the region. Mr. Venkatesh sent his photographs to butterfly experts for reconfirmation and uploaded them on ifoundbutterflies.org, a peer-reviewed citizen science platform. It was validated as the 318th species of butterflies found in Tamil Nadu. The website also vetted third sighting of the same species at Vettaiparayampalayam in Erode on October 11. “We were lucky to stumble upon the same species twice and photograph both upper wing and close-up shots of the underwing,” said Mr.Venkatesh. According to Thiruvananthapuram-based butterfly expert Kalesh Sadasivan, the species is not known to be migratory. “Indigosa is its food plant and probably Silver FMN is overlooked due to its resemblance to Common FMN,” he said. Both are silver in colour with a spot on the forewing. The slight variation in the discal bands, colour of the upper wing and position of the spot determines the species. “Common FMN is bluish silver with the spot in the middle of the two straight discal bands. Silver FMN is pale silvery with slightly curved bands and the spot is near the upper band,” Mr. Kalesh said. Silver FMN was earlier recorded in Chinnar in Kerala in 2019; the Andaman & Nicobar Islands between 2015 and 2017; and Sikkim, West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura between 2005 and 2020. In Bombay Natural History Society’s journal, an article by T.B. Larsen titled Butterflies of the Nilgiris mentions the strange absence of Silver FMN in South India, particularly when it was seen in abundance in Sri Lanka and South Asia till the mid-90s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silver-forget-me-not-butterfly-recorded-in-tamil-nadu-for-the-first-time/article37183362.ece
27 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Consider plea for use of initial from mother’s name’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to consider the representation made by a woman from Kadavur in Karur district who had sought a direction to authorities to allow her daughter to use the first letter of her name as the initial. Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the Director of School Education and Assistant Director of Government Examinations to consider the representation made by the petitioner, M. Pothumponnu. The court took note of the fact that a government order issued earlier had allowed the use of the first letter of the mother’s name as the child’s initial. The court took into account the fact that government documents, including Aadhaar card, ration card and school identity card, carried the first letter of the mother’s name as the child’s initial. The court said the woman had made out a case to consider her representation favourably. The petitioner said her daughter P. Kaviya was studying in Class IX at Kadavur Government High School. She said her husband had deserted the family and she was living with her parents. She was taking care of the family and the educational expenses of her daughter. At the time of admitting her daughter to the school, she had provided the first letter of her name as the initial to the child and the government records carried the same. Her daughter preferred the first letter of the name of her mother as the initial and not that of her father, she said. Her daughter applied for a scholarship examination. But, the government school authorities advised her to provide the first letter of the father’s name as the initial. She said the authorities had told her that the issue would be raised at the time of Class X public examination too. The court directed the authorities to consider the representation so that the student could apply for scholarship examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-plea-for-use-of-initial-from-mothers-name/article37183141.ece
27 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Set up flying squads to monitor corruption’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the Centre and the State on a public interest litigation petition, filed by filed by K.K. Ramesh of Madurai, that sought a direction to the government to set up flying squads at State and district levels to monitor corruption and irregularities in all government departments. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M. Duraiswamy observed that corruption was a bane on the economy. It was so deep-rooted. The matter required consideration, the court observed. The Judges directed the Centre and the State to file the counter affidavits in four weeks. The court directed the case to be listed before the Principal Bench in Chennai in six weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-up-flying-squads-to-monitor-corruption/article37183363.ece
27 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Keep prices of construction materials under check’||Prices of construction materials were skyrocketing, making it difficult for the people to realise their dream of owning a house, said K. Rameshkumar, president, Association of Madurai Civil Engineers. The association has sought the State government to set up a Price Regulatory Commission to keep the prices of construction materials under check. Members of the association staged a demonstration here on Tuesday and also boycotted purchase of construction materials for a day. The prices were on the rise in the last one year and continued to increase even now, Mr. Rameshkumar said. The price of a bag of cement that used to be Rs. 380 one year back was now Rs. 550. Similarly, the price of steel rods that was Rs. 42 a kg last year had increased to Rs. 80 a kg. The prices of other materials like PVC pipes and electrical cables too had gone up by 40%, Mr. Rameshkumar added. Even gravel and m-sand now cost 40% more. “We are told that due to lack of adequate number of quarries, the price of gravel has gone up,” he added. It was not only the builders and engineers who suffered due to the price rise, but also the people who were constructing houses. “The size of the houses is coming down as they are not able to meet the additional costs of the materials,” he added. Association secretary D.S. Manikandan and CREDAI Madurai district secretary S.R. Muthuvijayan were among those who took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keep-prices-of-construction-materials-under-check/article37183154.ece
27 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Tuesday stood at 137.60 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 3,244 cusecs and a discharge of 2,077 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 59.38 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 2,218 cusecs and a discharge of 632 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,381 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37183161.ece
27 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Adi Dravidar families to get Rs. 500 for Deepavali, says CM||The government will provide a sum of Rs. 500 each to ration card holders belonging to the Adi Dravidar community to buy clothes during Deepavali festival, said Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Tuesday. Talking to reporters after issuing orders enhancing salary of employees in the government-owned Cooperative Milk Producers Union, popularly known as Ponlait, the Chief Minister said the amount to buy clothing material would be remitted to the beneficiaries’ account very soon. He said the minimum salary of employees in Ponlait had been enhanced to Rs. 10,000 per month. Daily rated casual labourers, working for more than five years and earning Rs. 176 per day, will hereafter be eligible to earn a daily wage of Rs. 430, and those working for less than five years and earning Rs. 176 per day will be eligible to draw a daily salary of Rs. 330 per day. For both the sections of employees, the salary would now range between Rs. 13,000 to Rs. 10,000 per month. The enhancement will come into force from November 1, the Chief Minister said. Also, steps were being taken to fill 10,000 vacancies in various departments. Recruitment of around 300 homeguards would be soon held. The government has decided to approach the Centre to raise two more battalions of the India Reserve Battalion in the Union Territory, he said. More festival gifts Mr. Rangasamy also announced 10 kg of rice and 2 kg of sugar to all family cardholders in Puducherry as Deepavali gift. He directed the immediate reopening of all fair price shop (FPS) outlets to ensure smooth distribution of the commodities. A government order said: “As desired by the Chief Minister, 2 kg of sugar and 10 kg of rice have to be distributed to all family cardholders free of cost through fair price shops. The Managing Director, FPS Society, may ensure the functioning of all outlets and submit a list of the ones which are not/could not be opened, with valid reasons to the undersigned within two days.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adi-dravidar-families-to-get-rs-500-for-deepavali-says-cm/article37183427.ece
27 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry’s law and order situation worse under NDA govt.: Narayanasamy||The Congress has joined the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in criticising the National Democratic Alliance government for its “poor” handling of law-and-order situation in the Union Territory. In a virtual statement released to the media on Monday night, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said the recent spate in organised crime had brought to light the “worsening” law and order situation in the Union Territory. A prominent leader of a political party was hacked to death in broad daylight by a gang four days ago in Karaikal. Again, two days ago, a double murder occurred in broad daylight at Vanarapet here, he said. Around 10 murders occurred after Mr. Rangasamy took over as the Chief Minister. History-sheeters were also indulging in extortion and grabbing property by creating fake documents, he charged. “Industrialists are being threatened for money by the ruling party members themselves. Whenever Mr. Rangasamy comes to power, the law-and-order situation takes a beating. Now again people are living in fear after the recent incidents of murder,” Mr Narayanasamy said. Hurting tourism If the government failed to control the activities of anti-social elements, the Union Territory would suffer economically due to decline in tourist arrivals and disruption in industrial activity, the former Chief Minister said. He also flayed the government for not taking enough steps to control rise in price of essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherrys-law-and-order-situation-worse-under-nda-govt-narayanasamy/article37183435.ece
27 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reports 41 new cases; no deaths||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory while 41 new cases were detected on Tuesday. Puducherry accounted for 20 of the new cases, which were confirmed by 3,122 tests, followed by Karaikal (10), Yanam (2) and Mahe (9). The cumulative toll stood at 1,857. Puducherry accounted for 1,453 cases, Karaikal 250, Yanam 107 and Mahe 47. With 42 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 453. Of this, 94 patients were in hospitals and 359 in home isolation. The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,27,806 cases against 1,25,496 patients recovered. Meanwhile, 10,709 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. As many as 11,12,237 vaccine doses have been administered in Puducherry so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-41-new-cases-no-deaths-reported/article37183428.ece
27 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. staff body welcomes DA hike||The Puducherry Unified Ministerial Staff Association has welcomed the government’s decision to implement the revised dearness allowance rate for employees. A. Rajendran, association general secretary, said this was in contrast with the past delay ranging from three months to over a year in implementation of revised dearness allowance notified by the Centre in the 2017-19 period. It was creditable that Puducherry Chief Minister N. Rangasamy had announced expeditious implementation of the dearness allowance hike from 28% to 31% shortly after it was notified by the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-staff-body-welcomes-da-hike/article37183429.ece
27 October 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Relaying of PACR Salai begins||The Rajapalayam Municipality has taken up relaying of a small stretch of PACR Salai that has been ridden with potholes for several months. The contract for the road was awarded six months back, but the work was not taken up. Light vehicles and two-wheelers were using this road to commute to and from Chatrapatti after the railway gate on Rajapalayam-Chatrapatti Road was closed for taking up road over bridge work. “Traffic on this road has increased manifold as the town residents were forced to use this road after the closure of the railway gate. However, it has been in a very bad shape for long despite continuous protests,” said Communist Party of India (Marxist) town secretary, B. Mariappan. The party took up a signature campaign underlining the need for re-laying the work before the monsoon as it was posing danger to the road users. The copy of the signature campaign was handed over to the Tenkasi MP Dhanush M Kumar, Rajapalayam MLA, S. Thangapandian, and the municipal Commissioner, A. Sundarammal a fortnight back. The party had threatened to intensify its protest if the work was not started immediately. “We are happy that the municipality has begun the road laying work for nearly 250 metres. The road will be of great help for the road users to reach Chatrapatti via Ganapathiyapuram,” he said. He hoped the road work was completed before the monsoon rain got intensified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relaying-of-pacr-salai-begins/article37183163.ece
27 October 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Fisherman drowns in sea||S. Thangaiya, 68, drowned when he was swimming at the sea in Pamban to take anchor ropes of his country craft on Tuesday. The police said that the deceased from Light House Street went to the sea for some 100 metres and drowned. Local fishermen rescued him and took him to the Primary Health Centre in Pamban where he was declared dead. Mandapam Marine police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fisherman-drowns-in-sea/article37183360.ece
27 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Hyderabad-based start-up to train pilots at Salem airport||A Hyderabad-based start-up, Hercules Aviation Training School, is expected to use Salem airport to train pilots after it gets the required permission from the Union government. The start-up is run by Indian Air Force veterans. The Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) gave a no objection certificate on August 17 to set up a flying club. The start-up was then given parking and maintenance space at the airport for its aircraft. The school held a roll-out ceremony on October 17 at the airport hangar. Captain Abhinav Singh, a retired Indian Air Force pilot and founder and Chief Executive Officer of the school, said the start-up had been allotted a hangar at Salem Airport and, at present, permitted only to park and maintain aircraft. The final clearance for the flight training school was awaited, he said. Senior officials of the Airports Authority of India here also confirmed the present position and that the final clearance was awaited. Captain Singh said the start-up planned to initially have three light training aircraft and the number would be increased to eight or nine. A team of 30-35 people would be involved in running the training school here and the theory classes would be held in Hyderabad. The start-up is waiting for the final inspection by the DGCA and plans to launch the school by December this year or January next year. The airport currently has flights between Salem and Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hyderabad-based-start-up-to-train-pilots-at-salem-airport/article37183067.ece
27 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Display expiry dates of sweets, manufacturers told||The Food Safety Department has advised sweet and savoury manufacturers here to adhere to food safety norms while preparing sweets for Deepavali and to display manufacturing and expiry dates of food items on packages. The department on Monday organised an awareness meeting for sweet manufacturers in the district and advised them on dos and don’ts to be followed. R.Kathiravan, Designated Officer, Food Safety Department, advised all manufacturers to take COVID-19 vaccines and to ensure that all their staff were vaccinated. The manufacturers were also advised on the extent of usage of artificial colours in the preparation of sweets and savouries. Sweets prepared using permissible and non-permissible levels of artificial colours were displayed at the meeting venue. Close to 150 sweet manufacturers took part. Mr. Kathiravan advised the manufacturers not to reuse oil, and to reduce use of vanaspathi while manufacturing food items and to follow hygienic practices. They have been asked to display expiry date of the items on gift packs. He said that temporary registration certificates would be issued to units that manufactured food items only during festivities. He advised customers to check for expiry date and avoid sweets if they were brightly coloured. Special teams of Food Safety officers have been formed to check shops and units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/display-expiry-dates-of-sweets-manufacturers-told/article37183179.ece
27 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Helpline launched to address monsoon woes||The Forest Department has set up a helpline at the Divisional Forest Office here to provide necessary assistance to the public during the Northeast monsoon. District Forest Officer R. Gowtham said that personnel have been deployed in three shifts round the clock to handle calls to the helpline (0427-2415097). Rescue of animals Public may contact the Department in case of snakebite, entry of snakes into residential premises during floods, and to rescue animals in distress. The Forest Officer said that as a precautionary measure, the Department has pruned tree branches posing risk to the public in tourism sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helpline-launched-to-address-monsoon-woes/article37183193.ece
27 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Timings of PDS shops extended||The State government has extended the working hours of ration shops for three days before Deepavali to ensure availability of essential items to the public. According to a release, the timings of the shop has been extended from 8 a.m to 7 p.m on November 1, 2 and 3 to facilitate delivery of essential commodities to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/timings-of-pds-shops-extended/article37183182.ece
27 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami’s private assistant booked||The District Crime Branch on Monday registered a case against the then private assistant of former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Mani, for allegedly taking Rs. 17 lakh as a bribe from a youth on the pretext of securing him a government job. Money dispute The police said Mani, along with his accomplice Selvakumar, had demanded the sum from Tamilselvan of Neyveli in return for a job at the State Transport Corporation. As Mani could not get him the job, Tamilselvan pressed him to return the money. But Mani did not return the amount and allegedly threatened Tamilselvan, who petitioned the Salem District Police on October 25 for action against the duo. The District Crime Branch has registered a case. An investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswamis-private-assistant-booked/article37183183.ece
27 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Avoid selfies near water bodies’||The district administration has advised the public not to take selfies near the water bodies in the district in view of monsoon. District Collector S. Karmegham said in a release that there were three water bodies in Salem Corporation limits, 276 water bodies under village panchayats, 44 water bodies in town panchayat, 18 in Mettur basin, 89 in Sarbanga basin here. Thirty-three water bodies have filled to the brim. He advised the departments concerned to place warning boards near water bodies advising the public not to go closer to them and avoid taking photographs/selfies standing near them. The Forest Department has advised the public not to bathe in streams close to reserve forests and avoid venturing into reserve forest. Violators have been warned of stern action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/avoid-selfies-near-water-bodies/article37183192.ece
27 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murder||Ammapettai police have arrested Periyasamy, 28, of Soozhiyakottai hamlet after the latter reportedly admitted to assault and murder of a woman. Police said the victim, Kanagavalli, 33, of Soozhiyakottai took the sheep for grazing on the morning of October 24, but failed to return home in the evening. However, the sheep came back. Her relatives found her body with injuries and clothes torn at an isolated place in the same village. Ammapettai police rushed to the spot and removed the body to government hospital at Papanasam. A thorough search at the scene of crime and nearby areas led to the seizure of a fishing rod. Interrogation led to the arrest of Periyasamy, who reportedly admitted to have assaulted the woman and then killed her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murder/article37183142.ece
27 October 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Temple burgled||A few panchaloka idols were burgled from Dakshinamoorthy temple at Aranmanaipudur here on Monday night. The theft of the idols, measuring upto 1 foot, came to light when the temple was opened on Wednesday. Superintendent of Police, Praveen Umesh Dongre, inspected the scene of crime. Services of forensic experts and sniffer dogs were used there. During a search along the forest area, the police found one of the idols lying on the ground. The police said that CCTV network on the temple premises was not working. Palanichetti police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-burgled/article37183171.ece
27 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Child marriage still prevalent in a few districts, says Minister||Admitting that child marriage is still prevalent in a few districts in Tamil Nadu, particularly during the lockdown period, Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan said special efforts were being taken to sensitise the parents to prevent the practice. Addressing a workshop for local body representatives on ‘Child protection’ here on Tuesday, she said the districts like Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri and Theni were witnessing child marriages during the lockdown. The government was initiating tough measures against the parents who were conducting marriages for their children, especially girl children, before they attained the legal age for marriage. Special attention was being given to check child marriage in the districts where the social evil was so prevalent in the past. Besides creating awareness among the parents on the problems the children were facing due to early marriage, stringent actions were being taken through police against the violating parents. Those who happened to know about child marriage and abuse of children should inform officials through 1098, 1091 and 181. The local body members should play a vital role in this connection as the panchayat-level committees would monitor and submit reports to the district administration once in three months, she said. Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi said Centre should increase the girls’ minimum age for marriage to 21 and urged the local body representatives to make the district a ‘paradise for children’ by ensuring their rights and protection. Earlier, they participated in a function organised at Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital and interacted with the women who have recovered from breast cancer. Corporation Commissioner T. Charusree, Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital Dean D. Nehru and Resident Medical Officer Silas Jayamani were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-marriage-still-prevalent-in-a-few-districts-minister/article37183165.ece
27 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||27,000 tonnes of potash received from Israel||Collector K. Senthil Raj on Tuesday visited the godowns, where 27,000 tonnes of potash imported from Israel is being packed. As the VOC Port recently received potash from Israel, the chemical nutrient is being packed in 50 kg bags to be sent to various destinations in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Of this, 8,636.10 tonne has been sent to various districts in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka had received 2,645.70 tonnes. Andhra Pradesh and Kerala had been given 1,331.85 tonnes and 1,331.85 tonnes respectively. “Thoothukudi district has received 422 tonnes of the chemical nutrient, being used by farmers for paddy and plantain,” he said. The remaining quantity of 13,054.50 tonnes of potash is being packed now. After inspecting the packing of potash, he randomly checked the weight of fertilizer bags in the presence of S.I. Mohideen, Joint Director of Agriculture and Deputy Director Palani Velayutham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27000-tonnes-of-potash-received-from-israel/article37183167.ece
27 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco plans land acquisition for solar power parks||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has begun preliminary steps to identify lands for setting up solar power parks in central districts. Aimed at tapping natural energy as well as bringing down the power generation cost, the State government had recently announced its decision to establish solar power parks in all districts. Though the capacity of solar power park in each district is yet to be known, it is said that Tangedco planned to produce at least 2,000 MW from the solar power parks during the firsr phase. The capacity would vary in each district. A senior official of Tangedco told The Hindu that Tiruvarur had been chosen to establish the first solar power park in the State. The process of identifying land had begun. The idea was to find barren or uncultivable land for the power park. A proposal had been sent to the Collector to identify 50 acres of land for the project. The revenue officials of the district had also been apprised of the land requirement. The land should be available at a stretch. If the government land was not available at a stretch, the revenue officials had been asked to explore the avenues of land acquisition. Once the land was acquired it would be handed over to Tangedco for launching the solar power park. The park is likely to have a capacity to produce 25 to 30 MW. Though Tiruvarur district was known for having vast tracts of fertile land, the official hoped that there were dry patches of land where no cultivation had taken place for so long. Another official said that Collectors in other central districts, including Tiruchi, had been asked to identify at least 50 acres of land. However, it would gain momentum only after establishment of the first solar power park in Tiruvarur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-plans-land-acquisition-for-solar-power-parks/article37183143.ece
27 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-AIADMK MLA, eight others booked||The Valanadu police in the district on Monday registered a case against former AIADMK MLA of Manapparai R. Chandrasekar and eight others for allegedly transporting gravel and sand, without obtaining permission, from a pond at Akulampatti. Five vehicles, including three tipper lorries, which were allegedly used for the transportation of the gravel were seized. The Valanadu police arrested four drivers of the vehicles. The former MLA is said to be the owner of a couple of earthmovers also. The materials were allegedly transported to a petrol outlet under construction, said to belong to those close to the former MLA, the sources said. A case has been registered against the accused under IPC Section 379 (theft) and Section 21 (1) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act. Further investigation was on.  They had allegedly transported gravel and sand, without obtaining permission, from a pond at Akulampatti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-aiadmk-mla-eight-others-booked/article37183068.ece
27 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tahsildar arrested on bribery charge||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption here on Tuesday arrested a Settlement Tahsildar on graft charge. Gokul, the Settlement Tahsildar attached to Ponmalai section, allegedly demanded Rs. 50,000 as bribe from the complainant for processing a Thadang al petition given by the latter. The petition was regarding the the complainant’s ancestral property at Kottapattu village extending up to 1.11 acres of land. A trap was laid and the Tahsildar was arrested by the DVAC officials when he received the bribe money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tahsildar-arrested-on-bribe-charge/article37183139.ece
27 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Meet on improving export of agriculture products||The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), in association with Agriculture College and Research Institute, Killikulam, organised a meet on ‘accelerating agricultural exports in southern districts of Tamil Nadu’ on the college premises recently. The objective was to tell the stakeholders about the business opportunities available within the country and abroad for farm produce and value-added products. Though Kanniyakumari, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi are known for better agriculture production like paddy, fruits, spices, flowers, vegetables, millets, coconut and clove, the districts lag behind in exporting these products through Thoothukudi port and the airports in Thoothukudi, Madurai and Thiruvananthapuram. Speakers exhorted farmers and exporters to earn more by marketing value-added products. The meet provided the much-needed common platform for the growers, processing industry and exporters to interact with one another to explore the new business opportunities. Inaugurating the event, N. Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Tamil Nadu Agriculture University, elaborated on the export potential for agricultural products from the southern districts through Thoothukudi port. Chairman of APEDA M. Angamuthu appealed to the participants to concentrate more on the promoting palmyra products for which the demand was quite high in domestic and foreign markets. “The APEDA is ready to organise capacity-building programmes in every district to equip the farmers, food processing units and the exporters with the skills required for cultivating, processing and exporting the area-specific produce,” he said. The meet had 20 stalls in which dairy, millet, value-added millet products, banana varieties, sprouted millet laddu, palmyra products and herbal and medicinal plants were showcased by the food processing units, farmers and a few exporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meet-on-improving-export-of-agricultural-products/article37183168.ece
27 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Physically challenged persons demand special job fair||Urging the Tamil Nadu government to organise special job fair for the recruitment of physically challenged people by private organisations, manufacturing units and public sector undertakings, members of Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) staged a dharna here on Tuesday. They said the members of TARATDAC, who were battling poverty due to unemployment, were ready to work in private firms, manufacturing units and PSUs. However, they were not being given opportunities by these firms due to the hesitation that they would become burden for the employers. Since the physically challenged persons could do certain work with utmost precision and dedication, they should be recruited through special job fairs organised by the government, they said. Later, they submitted petition in the Collector’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/physically-challenged-persons-demand-special-job-fair/article37183457.ece
27 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murdering elder brother||The police have arrested a man for allegedly murdering his elder brother. Moneylender S. Murugan alias Muruganandam, 48, of Thendral Nagar in Thaazhaiyooththu was found murdered on Monday night when his wife Jaya, who had gone out, returned home. Murugan had property dispute with his younger brother Krishna Perumal, 43, and was murdered by the latter on Monday night. Krishna Perumal’s associate Manikandan surrendered before the police on Tuesday. Muruganandam, who hailed from Naaraikinaru in Thoothukudi district, moved to Thaazhaiyooththu a few years ago. He was facing a few cases against him including a case pertaining to the damaging of the glass doors of a textile showroom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murdering-elder-brother/article37183155.ece
27 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Less noisy crackers to be sold in Vellore and nearby districts||The District Consumers’ Cooperative Wholesale Stores has opened its stalls across Vellore and the neighbouring districts with less noisy crackers for this festival season. District Collectors in Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur inaugurated government crackers stores on Tuesday. In Vellore, Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian opened them on Monday. Sparklers, flower pots, pencils, chakkars, rockets and night sky shots form around 60% of crackers in these districts. With the easing of lockdown restrictions, cooperative society officials were expecting more sales. Each of the four districts had set a sale target of Rs. 1 crore. “Fire safety measures and COVID-19 safety measures have been taken at temporary cracker shops in the district. Special teams have been formed to ensure these shops follow the norms,” said B. Murugesh, Collector, Tiruvannamalai. Respective district administrations have given licence to temporary cracker shops to run their outlets only for a month. The Superintendents of Police in these districts have also set up low cost cracker shops at the district headquarters for their personnel and the public. “After nearly a year and a half, we are going to celebrate Deepavali with more sparkling crackers. Our children always prefer flower pots and sparklers,” said S. Vanitha, a resident in Katpadi. Special police teams were formed to monitor the cracker shops in these districts. Some of the safety aspects that are monitored at these shops include adequate space, better ventilation, safe storage facilities, fire extinguishers and less crowded spots. A weekly safety audit will also be done by the district administration. Meanwhile, Collectors in these districts issued a circular stating that all PDS outlets in these districts will function between 8 a.m and 7 p.m from November 1 to 3 to provide essential items before Deepavali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/less-noisy-crackers-to-be-sold-in-vellore-and-nearby-districts/article37183462.ece
27 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district reports 21 new COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,783, with 21 new cases reported on October 26. While a total 48,473 have been discharged, the active cases stands at 180. The death toll is 1,130. In Ranipet, six cases were reported and the total stood at 43,381. In Tirupattur, three new cases were reported, and the total stood at 29,258. In Tiruvannamalai, 15 new cases were reported, taking the total to 54,883. Out of this, 54,003 have been discharged, and active cases stands at 213.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-21-new-covid-19-cases/article37183460.ece
27 October 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Rural local bodies polls candidates asked to submit election expenses||The district administration has directed candidates who contested the rural local bodies polls in the district to submit details of their poll expenses in the prescribed format. In a release, Collector D. Mohan said those who contested elections to the district panchayat should submit their expenses to the respective secretaries. Those who contested for the panchayat union ward member posts should submit their expenses to the concerned panchayat union commissioner. Those who contested to the village panchayat and panchayat ward members posts should submit their accounts to the block development officer/union commissioner concerned. The deadline for submissions is November 11. Those failing to submit will be debarred from contesting in local bodies elections for three years.  The deadline is November 11. Those failing to submit will be debarred from contesting in local bodies elections for three years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rural-local-bodies-polls-candidates-asked-to-submit-election-expenses/article37183431.ece
27 October 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited from girl children for bravery award||Applications have been invited for the State award for adolescent girls/girl children for acts of courage that helped rescue girl children from social ills. According to a press release, girls under 18, who have performed acts of courage, including ensuring education for children, preventing child labour and child marriage and other acts that sought to liberate girl children, have been called upon to apply for the award. The award envisions honouring girls for acts of courage on the occasion of National Girl Child Day on January 24. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh and a certificate. The applicant should not be older than 18 as of January 2020.  The application should be accompanied by an endorsement from any of the following persons — the Chief Education Officer, District Education Officer, District Child Protection Officer, project officers, the police department and non-governmental organisations. The application should be submitted to the District Social Welfare Officer. The Collector will peruse submissions and forward them to the Social Welfare Commissioner. A State-level committee will select the most eligible candidate for the award, which will be handed out on January 24, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-from-girl-children-for-bravery-award/article37183432.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SC ticks off panel probing Jaya’s death||“How will Dr. Reddy get the documents of a U.S. hospital? What they did was out of a Robert Ludlum novel,” Mr. Sundaram said. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Tamil Nadu, which wants the Commission to finish its work and submit its report, retorted sarcastically that John Grisham would be a better choice of author. “Grisham is more straight-forward. Ludlum is better, considering the intricacies involved,” Mr. Sundaram shot back. Mr. Sundaram clarified that he was not seeking to arrest the inquiry into the circumstances leading to the former Chief Minister’s death. “Please do not stop the inquiry, but do appoint someone else with very strict guidelines. They should have a competent medical board to assist them… I am not here to thwart the inquiry,” he submitted on record. The proceedings before the CoI were stayed by the Supreme Court in April 2019 on a plea by Apollo Hospitals that the inquiry panel’s functioning was “replete with bias”. “Parties who had criticised her while she was living now express sadness after her death,” Mr. Sundaram said. He said the CoI was supposed to be a fact-finding body and not a “fault-finding body”. Justice Nazeer then asked a legal question about the hospital approaching the court at this stage. The judge said the CoI reports are usually placed before the Legislative Assembly. “Bias is a ground for me to come to court at any time of the inquiry. If my reputation is affected, anytime. There are three grounds on which I can come. They are bias, natural justice and jurisdiction... Can I have a reasonable feeling of non-bias here?” Mr. Sundaram replied. Apollo Hospitals had submitted that the Commission, instead of conducting an impartial probe, had filed a pleading alleging “criminal intent” on the part of the hospital and its doctors. Justice Nazeer asked whether the process of the CoI was adversarial or not. “Can the Commission participate as a litigant?” he asked. Mr. Sundaram replied that the process was not supposed to be adversarial. Mr. Sundaram had previously argued that the Commission was filing applications “on its own behalf before itself” alleging negligence on the part of the hospital in the treatment of Jayalalithaa. “The CoI has to only extract the facts... This Commission goes about saying how this or the other treatment could have prolonged the CM’s life — now is this a medical fact-finding body? The CoI may be proficient in law but how does the CoI give expert views on medical terms which can be hardly pronounced... I have no faith in the Commission and everything it has done has to be called off,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-ticks-off-panel-probing-jayas-death/article37183035.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 128 new COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district reported 128 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, raising the overall tally to 2,46,172. The Health Department reported one new death, taking the district’s toll to 2,404. The district had 1,381 active cases and 154 persons were discharged on Tuesday. The positivity rate of Coimbatore district as per Monday’s data was 1.3%. Tiruppur reported 75 fresh cases on Tuesday and the district’s tally stood at 95,058. The toll remained at 974 as no new deaths were reported for the fourth consecutive day. The district had 752 active cases and 94 patients recovered from COVID-19 on Tuesday. The positivity rate of Tiruppur district based on Monday’s data was 1.7%. Doctor dies of infection A 56-year-old doctor attached to the Urban Primary Health Centre at New Ramakrishnapuram within the Tiruppur Corporation limits died due to COVID-19 on Monday. Officials said the doctor died at the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai, where he was undergoing treatment. On Tuesday, Tiruppur North MLA K.N. Vijeyakumar along with doctors and nurses from the UPHC paid floral tributes to the portrait of the doctor. In the Nilgiris, 18 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 33,479. The toll stood at 209 on Tuesday while 253 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-128-new-covid-19-cases/article37183054.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Briefly - must||There will be no power supply in the following areas on October 28 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. as overhead lines will be taken underground and because of flyover works :  Kavundampalayam sub-station: Lakshmi Nagar, part of Siva nagar, Mettupalayam Road Ramasamy Kalyana Mandapam to Cheran Nagar Bus Stand||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly-must/article37183059.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Bharathiar School of Management and Entrepreneur Development: Exhibition and Demonstration of E-Vehicles, Food Court, Bharathiar University, 10 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College: First Year B.E/B.Tech Orientation Programme, 10.30 a.m.  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: First Year Student Induction Programme, 10.30 a.m.  KPR Institutions: Inauguration of ‘Kurinchi Tamil Sangam’, 10.30 a.m.  Karpagam College of Engineering: Yuva 2021 Induction Programme, 8.45 a.m.  Dr R.V. Arts and Science College: Online Workshop by Commerce Department, 11 a.m.  Vaidyaratnam Oushadhasala: Inauguration of New Branch, Ramanathapuram, 11 a.m.  Mirakle Wellness Clinic: Inauguration of Coimbatore Branch, Varadharajapuram, 10 a.m.    Nallamuthu Gounder Mahalingam College: Conference on ‘Emerging Trends in Science and Technology’, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37183063.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam: International visiting faculty engagement on ‘Customer Relations in Service Marketing’, Balasubramanian Kandappan of Taylor’s University, Malaysia, resource person, virtual mode, 9 a.m.  Nandha Engineering College: Inauguration of first year batches of B.E. and B.Tech. 2021, Fresher’s Day ’21, V. Shanmugan, Chairman, Sri Nandha Educational Trust, presides, 9.30 a.m.  Builders Engineering College, Kangayam: First year BE and MBA students induction, K. Dhanapalan, Past International Director, Lions Clubs International, chief guest, 10 a.m.  RD National College of Arts and Science: Signing of MoU with CII-YI, Erode Chapter, 11.30 a.m.  Kongu Arts and Science College: Department of Computer Science (PG), Orientation on ‘Tips for Enhancing Communication Skills’, R. Vignesh, Assistant Professor, Department of English, resource person, 10 a.m.    Shri Sakthikailassh Women’s College: One-day workshop on ‘Existentialism’, 10 a.m.  Knowledge Institute of Technology: Inauguration for First year B.E and B.Tech programmes, 9.30 a.m.  Sona College of Technology: Freshers Day 2021, 9.30 a.m.; Inauguration of PG programmes, 2.30 p.m.    Selvam College of Technology: 14th batch induction programme and SIGMA association inauguration, 10 a.m.  K.S.Rangasamy College of Technology: Inauguration of First Year B.E. and B.Tech programmes, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article37183191.ece
27 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rally taken out to express solidarity with minorities in Bangladesh||Various pro-Hindutva organisations took out a rally in Belagavi on Tuesday, expressing solidarity with the minority communities in Bangladesh. They marched from Rani Channamma Circle to the Deputy Commissioner’s office shouting slogans against terrorist groups in Bangladesh that had attacked Hindu temples in that country. They demanded action against the accused in Bangladesh and sought protection for the Hindus in that country. They also asked the government to prohibit organisations that supported violence on minorities. They urged the Union Government to enforce a ban on Indian organisations that expressed support to the terrorist organisations in Bangladesh and other countries. The protesters submitted a memorandum to the Union Government through Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath. Members of Vishwa Hindu Parishat, Sri Ram Sena Hindustan, Hindu Jagaran Vedike and Sri Ram Bhajana Mandali and others participated. VHP convenor Krishna Bhat, seers of some religious institutions and some members of city corporation and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rally-taken-out-to-express-solidarity-with-minorities-in-bangladesh/article37183205.ece
27 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Price rise is only temporary’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is not responsible for the rise in fuel prices. Diesel and petrol prices are increasing because crude oil price is increasing in the international market, BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi said in Vijayapura on Tuesday. According to him, the price of crude oil had crossed 110 dollars per barrel. However, the international price of crude oil on Tuesday was between 83- 85 dollars per barrel, as per the U.S. energy information administration website. Mr. Ravi also said that the rise in the prices of fuel and the inflation in essential commodities are a temporary phase. “In no time, fuel prices will come down and so will those of essential commodities. Mr. Modi is trying hard to rein in prices,’’ he said. He criticised the Congress and the Janata Dal(S) for trying to portray some of their leaders as champions of backward classes. “Mr. Modi is the real champion of backward classes. Do we need a better OBC champion than him? However, Mr. Modi does not indulge in caste politics,” he said. He has implemented a relief package for Rs. 27 lakh crore. He has helped the poor get free ration during the lockdown. His work speaks for itself, he said. The former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi once said that of every Rs. 100 released by the Union Government, only 10 paise reached the poor. That was because the Congress regime was completely corrupt. But Mr. Modi’s Government is providing clean administration. “The Congress is a sinking ship. All major leaders have abandoned that ship. Only the foolish and slavish are left behind in the Congress,” he said. Earlier, he held a roadshow in Sindgi Assembly constituency. The former MLA Appu Pattanashetty and others accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/price-rise-is-only-temporary/article37183207.ece
27 October 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah took money to help BJP win bypolls: HDK||“Siddaramaiah took money from some persons to help the BJP in the 2008 byelections,” H.D. Kumaraswamy, JD(S) leader, alleged in Vijayapura on Tuesday. “There were byelections in 20 places in the State in 2008. Mr. Siddaramaiah helped the BJP in these bypolls by accepting money. I know it because some of those who gave money to Mr. Siddaramaiah have told me,” the former Chief Minister told journalists. Mr. Siddaramaiah should not accuse me of helping the BJP as he has been helping them win elections, Mr. Kumaraswamy said. He complained that Mr. Siddaramaiah had not exposed the misrule of the BJP in 2008, as he wanted to help the party. He claimed that the BJP’s seat count dropped to 40 from 105, owing to the political struggle of the JD(S). “Even today, some Congress leaders are going around saying that voting for the JD(S) would be a vote for the BJP. Some leaders are terming us the B team of the BJP. These are the same leaders who had approached H.D. Deve Gowda requesting him to form an alliance of the government with the Congress,” he said. “Mr. Siddaramaiah is saying Mr. Deve Gowda is siding with the BJP. He has no moral right to make such allegations. Anyway, we don’t care for such allegations. We are doing our job. We went to Gubbi to speak at a party rally on October 25. We are back in Sindgi today,” he said. He claimed that his contribution to the formation of a government in 1994 was more than the contribution of Mr. Siddaramaiah. “I was away from politics then. But I contributed in my own way,” he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah was trying to finish the JD(S) by creating the AHINDA organisation. I was constrained to form a government with the BJP, only to save the JD(S), he said. “BJP leader Vaman Acharya, journalist Agni Shreedhar and the owner of Abhimani publications held a meeting and told me that the BJP would make me Chief Minister as they had allowed Naveen Patnaik to become the CM in Odisha. I listened to them and formed the government,” he said. He also claimed that he had never gone back on his word to B.S. Yediyurappa about power transfer. “I transferred power to Mr. Yediyurappa, but could not retain it,” he said. “Mr. Siddaramaiah has said that he was instrumental in Mr. Deve Gowda becoming the CM. That is false. But I successfully stopped Mr. Siddaramaiah from becoming the CM once. Janata Parivar leaders were trying to send J.H. Patel out of Karnataka, by making him a Governor, and appoint Mr. Siddaramaiah as the CM. But I entered the scene and stopped it. I have said this in the Assembly in the past,” he said. Mr. Kumaraswamy also alleged that B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan had forced him to transfer power to the BJP. He had even threatened me, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-took-money-to-help-bjp-win-bypolls-hdk/article37183217.ece
27 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Boy survives snakebite||A boy suffered a non-fatal snakebite on his school grounds in Madamakkanal village near Hukkeri in Belagavi district on Tuesday. Mallikarjun Harijan, a fifth standard student, was bitten by a snake on the school grounds when he was walking to school in the morning. He went inside and told his teachers. They found and killed the snake and admitted him to hospital. He is out of danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-survives-snakebite/article37183208.ece
27 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sewage inflow to lakes: BBMP complains against BWSSB||It’s not just the heavy rains that lashed the city over the past two weeks that have helped fill up many lakes, untreated sewage is also getting into many lakes. The problem is chronic in around 12 lakes that have already been developed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), prompting the civic body to complain against the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) with the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). A senior official from the civic body’s lakes department told The Hindu that some of the lakes that had been polluted with sewage include Dodda Kudlu, Chikka Kudlu, Haraluru, Kasavanahalli, Kaikondrahalli and others in the same series. “We have written to the KSPCB to take action against the BWSSB for not doing anything to prevent sewage from flowing into lakes. We have also sought penalty to be levied for damage caused to the waterbodies, as it costs around Rs. 1 lakh to purify water in one acre,” the official, who wished to remain anonymous, said. The audit report by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India on the ‘Management of storm-water in Bengaluru Urban area’ released in September last had pointed out that rampant mixing of sewage (780 MLD) with storm-water was a serious problem. “Sewerage lines were drawn inside the storm-water drains (SWDs) and a large quantity of sewage was illegally let into them. A joint inspection of drains confirmed the existence of sewerage lines within SWDs and sewage being discharged into the SWDs directly or through fractured manholes at many places. Since the water in SWDs is not treated in the same manner as sewage, the untreated sewage is flowing into waterbodies and affecting the quality of ground water adversely,” the audit report had noted, adding that this carries substantial risk of spurt in vector/waterborne diseases such as dengue, typhoid, cholera, hepatitis, etc., and adverse environmental outcomes including disappearance of biodiversity and aquatic ecosystems. Lateral connections BBMP officials stated that BWSSB had already provided lateral drinking water and underground drainage pipelines in the newly-added areas. However, in many places, the trunk lines are yet to be laid. The lateral connections are let off downstream, which eventually flow into the drains and reach the waterbodies. V. Ramaprasad, environmentalist and member of Friends of Lakes, claimed that practically all 210 lakes in the city are polluted with sewage. “There are manholes in the middle of Puttenahalli and Chunchaghatta lakes. Ideally, the BBMP’s SWD department should have complained to the KSPCB,” he said and hoped that this complaint does not become a case of passing the buck. However, he also sought to know why the KSPCB had failed to take up suo motu case against the BWSSB all these years. “There have been many reports that have pointed fingers at the board. Why was no action taken so far?” he asked. Lack of details The CAG report called for high priority to be accorded to prevention of discharge of sewage into drains. The report also goes on to state that though the Karnataka Government claimed BWSSB was in the process of segregation of sewage from SWDs, no details were provided on works taken up, the action plan drawn and proposed to be drawn to prevent mixing of sewage with storm-water and the time frame within which these works would be completed. The government had also stated (in August 2020) that many of the lakes were disconnected from the drains owing to the presence of sewage in the SWDs. The CAG had then recommended that both BBMP and BWSSB jointly prepare a plan of action to prevent sewage flow into SWDs within a definite time schedule. Despite several attempts, there was no response from BWSSB.  There are manholes in the middle of Puttenahalli and Chunchaghatta lakes. Ideally, the BBMP’s storm-water drain department should have complained to the KSPCB. V. Ramaprasad environmentalist and member of Friends of Lakes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sewage-inflow-to-lakes-bbmp-complains-against-bwssb/article37182985.ece
27 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to abide by SC order on Rohingyas||While Karnataka has not taken any coercive action against Rohingyas in the State till date, it will abide by the apex court directions on the matter, Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi has said. The State Government recently submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court, which is hearing a PIL petition filed by Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay against the presence of immigrants and infiltrators, including Rohingyas, stating that Karnataka had not taken coercive action against Rohingyas. “Our affidavit is being misunderstood as though we have opposed the deportation of Rohingyas. We have only stated the ground situation.We have specifically said we will abide by the apex court’s directions in letter and spirit,” Mr. Navadgi said. A senior police official said a policy on the Rohingyas was to be formulated by the Union Government. “As on date, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs has not asked us to identify, arrest, and deport Rohingyas like it has for illegal Bangladeshi immigrants. While Rohingyas have also not been officially recognised as refugees and given asylum like the Tibetans, they are also not being pursued and deported,” the official explained. “As per our records, there are 72 Rohingyas in Bengaluru. Less than 1% of Rohingya refugees in India are based out of Karnataka,” a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-abide-by-sc-order-on-rohingyas/article37182994.ece
27 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Notice to private hospital for conducting foetal medicine training sans govt. nod||The Health and Family Welfare Department has served a notice to Sparsh Super Speciality Hospital at Yeshwantpur here for allegedly conducting foetal medicine training without the approval of the State Government. Bengaluru Urban Family Welfare Officer Srinivas said the hospital was found giving training to students who have not registered with the Karnataka Medical Council (KMC). The alleged lapses were found during an inspection by a team of doctors and other officials as per the provisions of the Pre-Conception and Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act of 1994. A press release from the Department of Information and Public Relations stated that the hospital had licence for 11 scanning machines. The department accused the hospital of not providing details online as per Form 6 prior to conducting scanning. The officials found out that the hospital was submitting details online in the evening after conducting the scanning. The hospital is also accused of illegally installing a panel inside the scanning room to display foetal photos. Responding to the notice, hospital authorities said the Foetal Medicine Department at the facility was outsourced to ADI Foetal Care Center run by Adinarayana Makam, a foetal medicine specialist trained in the U.K. “Dr. Makam does foetal interventions, which include amniocentesis, foetal anomaly scans, and foetal echocardiogram. We understand they follow highly ethical medical practices and strictly follow the PCPNDT Act. The observations made by the PCPNDT committee will be looked into carefully and responded to in detail after discussing with ADI Foetal Care Center administration,” said Guruprasad B.R., director, Strategy and Business Development at SPARSH Group of Hospitals. Centre closed The officials, who also conducted inspections in other locations in the city, closed NarayanaHealth Care Centre at Rajagopalanagar for allegedly illegally conducting abortions. During the inspection, the officials found medical equipment used for abortions. The release added that two Ayush doctors working at the centre were absconding. The officials also found out the centre was running without registration and complaints had been received from the public against illegal abortions at the centre. During an inspection at Vivek Scans in Dasarahalli, the officials instructed for removal of a panel allegedly displaying foetal photos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notice-to-private-hospital-for-conducting-foetal-medicine-training-sans-govt-nod/article37182997.ece
27 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Karnataka sees 277 fresh cases||Karnataka reported 277 new COVID-19 cases and seven deaths according to the Tuesday bulletin of the Department of Health and Family Welfare. The number of active cases stood at 8,510. As many as 343 persons were discharged, taking the total number to 29.39 lakh. The total number of cases so far stood at 29.86 lakh. The positivity rate was 0.36%, and case fatality rate 2.52%. As many as 38,024 people have died in the State owing to COVID-19. While 1.75 lakh people got vaccinated on Tuesday, 75,283 tests were conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/277-new-cases-seven-deaths/article37182988.ece
27 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Case booked for use of inflammatory language||The Tilak Park police in Tumakuru have stepped up investigations to track down protesters who allegedly used inflammatory words and utterances against members of minority community during a bandh called by Hindu organisations on October 22. Based on a complaint filed by Syed Mudassir, president of the Minority Welfare Organisation, the police have registered a case against members of Bajrang Dal, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, and others, charging them under various sections for promoting disharmony, unlawful assembly, among others. The police are gathering CCTV camera footage and video recordings of the protests and the speeches to identify the people involved in the offence, said an officer. Inquiries had revealed that most of the protesters had been called from outside to form a huge gathering and they shouted provocative slogans, he added. The police would also summon the organisers for questioning. Complaint In his complaint, Mr. Mudassir said the protesters had called for a bandh over a bike stuntby a group of youngsters which had led to an altercation and assault. However, the protesters targetted Muslim community and used provocative and abusive words, he alleged. On Monday, a delegation led by KPCC working president Ramalinga Reddy, Nasir Hussain, MP, and other leaders met Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood and submitted a representation seeking action against those responsible for the incidents during Tumakuru bandh. They alleged that an MLA was also part of the event and used provocative words.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-booked-for-use-of-inflammatory-language/article37182992.ece
27 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City road conditions dominate review meeting||The poor condition of roads was the main discussion point during the review meeting of areas under Bengaluru South Assembly segment. The Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) is yet to complete laying drinking water pipelines, while Bengaluru Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) is yet to complete laying 11 kV lines underground. Chairing the meeting along with Bengaluru South MLA M. Krishnappa, BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta directed officials of Bescom, BWSSB, BMRCL and BBMP to coordinate to better solve issues related to road repair, pothole filling and other development works, besides ensuring it is all completed in a time-bound manner. A press release said BWSSB officials were directed to submit proof of work completed to the BBMP, based on which road repair works could be drawn up. Legal action would be initiated against non-compliant officials. The release also said that if roads are damaged, the civic officials have been directed to ascertain if the same was under the Defect Liability Period (DLP). If under DLP, the contractors should be asked to take up repair works. To avoid drainage from entering the stormwater drains, the civic chief directed BBMP and BWSSB to jointly conduct awareness drives among citizens about lakes getting polluted. Inspecting Bannerghatta Road (stretch between NICE Road and Meenakshi Temple) and Gottigere Road, civic officials were directed to take up asphalting work immediately. K-100 review Later, Mr. Gupta, accompanied by Development Commissioner and Additional Chief Secretary Vandita Sharma, inspected the K-100 stormwater being developed as a water way at a cost of Rs. 175 crore under the Chief Minister Navanagarothana project. While inflow of sewage into the drain has been stopped and BWSSB had provided separate sewage lines, cleaning of 6-km of the 9.2-km drain has been completed. The cleaning of the remaining 3.2-km drain is in progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-road-conditions-dominate-review-meeting/article37182983.ece
27 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Boy missing from school reunited with family within hours||A six-year-old boy who had wandered out of the school campus in Chamarajpet on Tuesday was reunited with his family thanks to an autorickshaw driver. The boy was identified as Rohan, the son of Ajith, a cook from Bihar. Rohan is Class I student at a school in Chamarajpet. The incident occurred during the afternoon break when Rohan, who went to the washroom, slipped out of campus and was lost in no time as he was new to the area, Sanjeev Patil, DCP, West Division, said. Lower primary classes were reopened after a long gap on Monday. Meanwhile, the school staff noticed Rohan missing and alerted his parents. They searched for the child before filing a missing complaint with the jurisdictional Chamarajpet police station, who in turn sounded an alert. Meanwhile, Govindaraju, an autorickshaw driver, noticed the boy wandering in the evening and took him to the V.V. Puram police station. The police alerted their Chamarajpet counterparts and Ajith and his wife rushed to the station, where they were reunited with their son. The police appreciated and thanked Govindaraju for his help. The Chamarajpet police have warned school staff to be careful about children and not allow them to go out of the campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-missing-from-school-reunited-with-family-within-hours/article37182986.ece
27 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Film producer’s family allegedly assaults domestic help||The North Division police have formed special teams to track down the family members of film producer Soundarya Jagadish who had allegedly attacked two domestic helpers in their neighbourhood over a trivial row on Sunday. The Mahalakshmi Layout police on Sunday had registered a case against the producer’s son and actor Snehit Jagadish along with seven others on charges of outraging the modesty of the two workers and trespassing. A senior police officer said that soon after the incident came to light and the CCTV footage of the attack went viral on news channels, the family was absconding and all of them have switched off their phones. A notice was issued to the accused, including Snehit and his mother Rekha Jadadish, to appear before an investigation officer on Monday. However, they did not turn up for inquiry, but have moved the anticipatory bail petition. Two women were sweeping on the premises of Manjula Purushotham and asked the bodyguards to move. The angry bodyguards allegedly started hitting them and Snehit and others joined them in manhandling the workers and hurling abuses at them. Members of a women’s association on Tuesday gathered in front of the producer’s residence and staged a protest to demand the immediate arrest of the accused. The protesters also alleged that there is a pressure on the police to not take any legal action against the family and that some influential persons called the police to request a compromise between the complainant and accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-producers-family-allegedly-assaults-domestic-help/article37182987.ece
27 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Entry allowed into temple during Hasanamba festival||The Hassan district administration has decided to allow the public to visit Hasanamba Temple during Hasanamba festival beginning on Thursday. Earlier, the administration had resolved to allow only elected representatives and very important persons. Excise Minister K. Gopalaiah, who is also the Minister in charge of Hassan district, said on Tuesday that members of the public could visit the temple barring on the first day (October 28) and the last day (November 6). The devotees would be allowed between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. and later between 3 p.m. and 8 p.m. The visitors would have to carry copies of their COVID-19 vaccination certificate and an identity card to gain entry to the temple. Those who are not vaccinated will not be allowed inside, the Minister said. The administration would make all the necessary arrangements for the smooth conduct of the festival. There would be special entry passes worth Rs. 300 and Rs. 1,000 each, the Minister said. However, he appealed to elderly people to stay put at home and take care of their health instead of visiting the temple amidst a huge crowd. The police would deploy personnel to handle the crowd and CCTV cameras would be installed around the temple, he added. Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda, Deputy Commissioner R. Girish and others were present at the press conference. Earlier, the Minister held a meeting with officials about the festival preparations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/entry-allowed-into-temple-during-hasanamba-festival/article37183390.ece
27 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ganja from AOB area makes its way to Malnad town||While all the focus is on drug peddling in bigger cities, the Shivamogga police are engaged in efforts to tackle the consumption and sale of ganja coming from the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) area. In the last four months, the Shivamogga police seized four consignments, each weighing over 20 kg of ganja. In all the four incidents, it was the “Sheelavathi Ganja” sourced from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh that was seized. The hilly terrain bordering Andhra Pradesh and Odisha is known for this variety of ganja cultivation. Locals grow ganja in large quantities and sell them at low prices. The people who carry it to different places make a huge profit by selling it at higher prices, say police. A senior police officer told The Hindu that a kilo of ganja is sold at Rs. 1,500 at the AOB area. The peddlers, who carry it to places like Shivamogga, Mangaluru, and parts of Kerala sell it at Rs. 15,000 per kilo. Given the profit margin, it has been a money-making trade. The public in smaller towns is also worried about many youths getting addicted to ganja. Ayanur Manjunath, BJP MLC, has also written to the SP appealing to him to take strict measures necessary to stop consumption and peddling of ganja. He has also urged Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, who is also from Shivamogga, to take the issue seriously. B.M. Laxmi Prasad, SP of Shivamogga, told The Hindu that he would reply to the MLC’s letter along with the details of cases registered in the last three years. “As per the data available with us, a majority of consumers are the school dropouts in the age group of 15 to 19. Labourers and college students were among the other clients for the peddlers. We have been keeping a tab on people who supply ganja around colleges,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ganja-from-aob-area-makes-its-way-to-malnad-town/article37183215.ece
27 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Video statement emerges after death of student||The engineering student who allegedly committed suicide on Monday had circulated a video statement expressing concern over the education system to his friends before taking the extreme step. The video clip went viral on Tuesday. Hemanth Gowda, a sixth-semester student of Rajeev Institute of Technology, was found dead in his hostel room. He was a native of Hiriyalu in Arsikere taluk. In the video clips, he spoke of the education system and said it required reforms. He said he was “sacrificing his life” to draw people’s attention to the matter. In his 13-minute-long video statement, he thanked his parents, friends, and teachers for their support. He said he expected the Chief Minister, the Ministers of education, and the pontiff of the Adichunchanagiri Mutt to attend his funeral. He also appealed to his parents to donate his organs to the needy.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can contact the state’s helpline 104 for counselling.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/video-statement-emerges-after-death-of-student/article37183384.ece
27 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Zameer Ahmed wished me best when I joined BJP’||Excise Minister K. Gopalaiah on Tuesday said Congress leader and former Minister Zameer Ahmed Khan had wished him the best when he chose to quit the Janata Dal (S) and join the Bharatiya Janata Party. Speaking to presspersons in Hassan, Mr. Gopalaiah said he and Mr. Khan have been friends as since their days in the JD(S). “We used to meetoften. It is true that he wished me all the best when I joined the BJP,” he said. He was reacting to former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s recent allegation that Mr. Khan himself had sent Mr. Gopalaiah to the BJP. When asked if he would quit the BJP if Mr. Khan advised him to do so now, Mr. Gopalaiah said he would stay with the saffron party till the end of his career and there was no question of quitting the party. “I won in the byelection and I have been inducted into the State Cabinet, as I was promised earlier. Why should I quit the BJP? I have told my children also that I will remain withthe BJP,” he said. Reacting to another question, on if he would invite Mr. Khan to the BJP, the Minister maintained that the party would decide on that.  Why should I quit the BJP? I have told my children also that I will remain with the BJP K. Gopalaiah, Excise Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zameer-ahmed-wished-me-best-when-i-joined-bjp/article37183388.ece
27 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Get relief announced for coffee growers’||The Karnataka Growers Federation (KGF) has urged elected representatives to pressure the State and the Union Governments to announce relief for coffee growers. KGF chairman H.T. Mohan Kumar and general secretary K.B. Krishnappa, in a press release issued here on Tuesday, said the recent untimely rains had hit the growers bad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/get-relief-announced-for-coffee-growers/article37183218.ece
27 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Rajyotsava music show||Around 25,000 people will join the special music programme to be held to mark the 66th Kannada Rajyotsava celebrations on Thursday in Hassan district, said Excise Minister K. Gopalaiah on Tuesday. Speaking to presspersons in Hassan, he said the Kannada and Culture Department has organised a Statewide music programme involving thousands. The participants will sing three Kannada songs at 11 a.m. on Thursday. In Hassan, the programme will be held at 15 places, including tourist attractions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rajyotsava-music-show/article37183383.ece
27 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Public canvassing for bypolls ends today in Hangal||With public canvassing for the byelections to Hangal Assembly Constituency ending on Wednesday evening, the Haveri district administration has made elaborate arrangements for the smooth conduct of the polling on October 30. Addressing presspersons in Haveri on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner of Haveri and District Election Officer Sanjay Shettennavar said that public canvassing will end at 7 p.m. on Wednesday and subsequently, no public campaign or poll meeting will be allowed. Although candidates will be allowed to carry out door-to-door campaigning, not more than five persons will be permitted in each group for canvassing. The 72 hours preceding the completion of polling will be considered as the Silence Hour. And, candidates and their followers should mandatorily follow COVID-19 guidelines during canvassing, he said. “As per Election Commission guidelines, publication of any kind of opinion poll is banned in the 48 hours preceding the deadline for polling. Similarly, no exit poll results should be published or telecast from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. on the day of polling on October 30,” Mr. Shettennavar said. He said that star campaigners fielded by political parties and other political leaders from outside the constituency, barring the candidates and poll agents, should leave the constituency before 7 p.m. on Wednesday. Candidates should not use party vehicles and loud speakers. Also, they should not canvass at religious places and seek votes based on caste, language and religion, he said. Marriages The Deputy Commissioner said that taking the requisite permission for conducting marriages within 72 hours preceding the polling deadline is mandatory. The condition is applicable to marriages happening within a radii of 5 km from polling stations. Listing out various dos and don’ts for candidates and poll agents, Mr. Shettennavar said that all vehicles will be compulsorily checked at check-posts. In the border and sensitive areas, teams comprising police, excise and sector officials will do patrolling, he said. 263 booths Mr. Shettennavar said that, in all, 263 polling stations have been set up for polling. A total of 1,155 personnel and officials will be deployed for poll duty. The Hangal Assembly constituency has a total of 2,04,481 voters — 1,05,525 male, 98,953 female and three voters belonging to the third gender. Seized Meanwhile, the Excise Department has seized 14 vehicles for violation of guidelines and recovered 776 litres of liquor worth Rs. 3.12 lakh. This apart, 196 FIRs have been registered under Excise Act, while five cases have been booked for model poll code violations. Superintendent of Police Hanumantharaya and Additional Deputy Commissioner N. Thippeswamy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/public-canvassing-for-bypolls-ends-today-in-hangal/article37183213.ece
27 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||RSS national executive meeting to discuss attacks on Hindus, among other issues||The three-day national executive meeting of RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) scheduled to begin on Thursday at Rashtrotthana Vidya Kendra near Dharwad will deliberate on attacks on the minority Hindus in Bangladesh, among other issues. Addressing presspersons at the Vidya Kendra located at Garag in Dharwad taluk on Tuesday, RSS National Prachar Pramukh (Publicity in-charge) Sunil Ambekar said that meaningful patriotic programmes as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, promoting Swadeshi products and finalising programmes to mark the centenary year celebrations of the sangha in 2025 are also on the agenda. Mr. Ambekar said that Sarsanghachalak (chief) Mohan Bhagwat will chair the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS) this year and review the action plan. As many as 350 delegates, including sarakaryavah (General Secretary) Dattatreya Hosabale, and various regional and national office-bearers will participate in the meeting. He said that around 10 lakh volunteers of Seva Bharati had taken up relief work during the pandemic and further training will also be imparted to swayamsevaks on handling the crisis in the event of another wave. Programmes for training swayamsevaks in promoting Swadeshi concept in the country and instilling love and affinity towards native language, culture and heritage will be conducted in the days to come. As the RSS founded in 1925 will complete 100 years in 2025, special programmes will be chalked out for the next four years ahead of the centenary celebrations, he said. No Ministers Mr. Ambekar clarified that no Union or State Ministers will participate in the meeting as it was meant for only RSS functionaries. Security Meanwhile, bandobast has been tightened around the venue as several functionaries have been provided security. It may be mentioned that the RSS Sarsanghachalak [Mohan Bhagwat] has been provided Z category security arrangement. On Tuesday, Superintendent of Police of Dharwad P. Krishnakant visited the venue and reviewed the security arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rss-national-executive-meeting-to-discuss-attacks-on-hindus-among-other-issues/article37183211.ece
27 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Elections||The 130-year-old Karnatak Vidyavardhaka Sangha, a representative body of Kannada and Kannadigas, will go to the polls to elect a new body on November 28. On Tuesday, Election officer C.S. Neginhal announced the calendar of events for the elections. Mr. Neginhal said that filing of nomination papers will begin on November 12. The last date for filing nomination papers is November 16. Scrutiny of papers will be taken up on November 17. Candidates will have time till November 19 to withdraw their nomination papers. The results will be declared on November 29 after counting of votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elections/article37183214.ece
27 October 2021||Hubballi/Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Bypolls see leaders perfecting their ‘caste maths’ skills||It is no secret that caste calculations play a dominant role every step of the way in elections, starting with candidate selection to wooing voters. But the byelections to Sindgi and Hangal Assembly constituencies have elevated this to a new high. Wooing various castes is the most visible form of campaign in both the segments, while leaders are in the same breath also blaming others of being “casteist”. At the very start of the process, in the Lingayat-dominant Hangal segment, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had to personally rush to Davangere to ensure withdrawal of the candidature of a former bureaucrat from the dominant Panchamasali sect. Each to their own Subsequently, Panchamasali Ministers and leaders from the BJP, including Murugesh Nirani and C.C. Patil, are leading the campaign in the constituency. In both Sindgi and Hangal, leaders and Ministers are making an all-out effort to woo the communities they belong to, even at the cost of inviting criticism for ignoring governance. While the Congress and the JD(S) too are wooing specific caste groups, the BJP has been more“methodical” in its approach, with each worker being armed with a list of voters with a caste-wise break-up in a tabulated format.However, Minister Laxman Savadi, a Ganiga-Lingayat leader busy in Sindgi, insisted that the focus was on “nationalist spirit” and not caste. “Unlike theCongress and the JD(S), we are not appealing to any caste groups,” he said. The meetings he has been having with his community members were “not planned ones”, he claimed. Though Congress workers do not have a any checklist to go with, they have not fallen behind in deputing community leaders to villages and hoblis that have a high concentration from their respective communities. The Congress is relying heavily on Siddaramaiah and his team to work in places that have a concentration of OBC communities. Some Congress leaders openly admittedto their caste-specific campaign. “We are touring villages that are dominated by SC communities. Leaders such as Prakash Rathod are touring Lambani tandas. Why hide the fact?” asked Congress leader Shankar Rao Doddi in Sindgi. “Elections and caste politics are interrelated. This is a hard reality. We can not wish it away,” said Asad Alimoddi, JD(S) minority cell leader from Sindgi. The JD(S) had prepared a list of leadersof various communities and deputed them to pockets of their influence. Turning the “casteism” argument on its head, he added, “It shows that our party has space for leaders from all communities.”  On Twitter Meanwhile, on Twitter and while talking to the press, there is an unceasing war of words between the BJP and the Congress about “caste politics”.While the BJP and the JD(S) have, significantly, trained their guns on Mr. Siddaramaiah in their accusations of “casteism” and efforts to “divide communities”, the latter has been tweeting and making speeches accusing the former two of being “hypocrites” when it comes to addressing issues of caste. Interestingly, there is also plenty to be seen in terms of optics. Mr. Bommai was seen wearing a “kambali” (a traditional rug symbolising Kurubas) on his shoulder while addressing the community to which Mr. Siddaramaiah belongs. This was followed by a war of words between the two on the “entitlement” to wear such a caste symbol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bypolls-see-leaders-perfecting-their-caste-maths-skills/article37182996.ece
27 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sericulture farmers want market to be set up in Kalaburagi||Expressing their difficulties in transporting their sericulture produce to the faraway Ramanagaram market in South Karnataka, sericulture farmers in Kalaburagi district demanded that a local market be set up, preferably in Kalaburagi, for selling their produce. “I am doing well in sericulture farming. My income is no less than a government employee’s. However, I am, like many others in the region, finding it very difficult to transport the produce to the faraway market in Ramanagaram. I request the government to open a similar market in Kalaburagi so that sericulture farmers in the region will get rid of the transportation difficulties and save some money,” Srishaila Gobbur, a farmer, told Sericulture Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda when the latter was interacting with farmers at Melakunda (B) village near here on Tuesday. Describing his success story to the Minister, the farmer said that he has been engaged in sericulture farming in his three acres of land for the last 15 years and his current year’s income from two crops crossed Rs. 4.4 lakh. Other farmers, including Ambaraya and Nagendrappa, also shared their experiences in sericulture and presented their problems before the Minister. Responding to the farmers, Mr. Narayana Gowda assured the farmers of getting their problems resolved at the earliest. “I have had a meeting of senior officers in Kalaburagi today. The same issues were raised in the meeting. I have directed the Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner to provide 10 acres of land near Kalaburagi city for establishing the sericulture market. Once the land is identified, the bhumi puja will be performed and the construction of the market complex will be commenced,” Mr. Narayana Gowda said. Sharing his own experience as a sericulture farmer, Mr. Narayana Gowda advised farmers to take up sericulture to become economically sound. “I too hail from an agriculture family. My father and I had been involved in sericulture. I know that it is a good option for farmers as it fetches good income. I advise you to take up sericulture and get your sons and daughters involved in it instead of them endlessly aspiring for jobs in cities,” he said. Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board chairperson Dattatreya Patil Revoor, Karnataka Silk Marketing Board chairperson Savita Amarashetty, Kalaburagi-Yadgir District Cooperative Bank director Shivanand Manakar, Kalaburagi Silk Producers Association chairperson Veeraiah Matapathi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sericulture-farmers-want-market-to-be-set-up-in-kalaburagi/article37183210.ece
27 October 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||State is not getting enough teachers: Education Minister||Considering that the Karnataka government did not get the required number of qualified teachers for its primary and high schools during the last round of recruitment, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh said his department would conduct the Common Entrance Test (CET) for appointment of teachers to government schools twice in the next round. “We are not getting as many qualified teachers as called in the recruitment notification. Last time, only 3,000 candidates passed when the requirement was higher. Keeping in mind that fewer candidates are passing the CET, we have decided to conduct the exam twice this time. We are going to start the process for recruitment of 5,000 teachers. We will continue to conduct CETs till we get the required number of teachers,” he told mediapersons after visiting a government high school and a pre-university college in Kalaburagi on October 26, and interacting with the students. The Minister added that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was showing much interest in the appointment of teachers and providing better infrastructure to government schools. He dismissed the allegation that teachers from Kalyana Karnataka were being transferred to schools outside the region though schools in the region are facing a shortage of teachers, and clarified that no teacher had been transferred from the region in the last three months. “We know that transferring teachers from Kalyana Karnataka would have an adverse effect on the quality of education in the region. Hence, we have not transferred any teacher from the region,” he said. The Minister also said that the response from children and parents to reopening of classes from I to V was good, and hoped that attendance of students would gradually increase. He said that the National Education Policy 2020 would be implemented in primary and secondary education from the next academic year. Later, the Minister met Deputy Directors of Pre-University Education and Deputy Directors of Public Instruction of all districts in Kalyana Karnataka to review the work in the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-enough-teachers/article37182982.ece
27 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||More CCTV cameras to come up at Wenlock Hospital||Dismissing the charge that doctors at Government Wenlock Hospital here are not attending to patients properly, Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath said on Tuesday that doctors and other hospital staff are striving to provide good health care to patients. Mr. Kamath told reporters that CCTV cameras will be installed in the corridors of the old block of the hospital and at ward entrance. With this, allegations that doctors and nurses are not attending to patients on arrival can be ascertained. New members are being appointed to different committees of the hospital. Care for patients will continue to be the top priority for the hospital that caters to patients from Dakshina Kannada and neighbouring districts, including Kasaragod in Kerala, he said. Mr. Kamath visited the hospital on Tuesday after complaints were made by Vishwa Hindu Parishad activists manning the hospital's help desk that there is delay in treating patients. A help desk person said that a 50-year-old woman from Kasaragod in Kerala died as two hours were taken to allocate her a bed in the Intensive Care Unit on Monday evening. Brushing aside the charge, Hospital Superintendent Sadashiva said that the woman had breathing problem and was brought with invasive ventilation. She was among the three patients in a critical state who came to the hospital at around 6 p.m. and they were in need of ICU beds. “Beds were readied and by 6.20 p.m. the woman was moved to the ICU. Unfortunately, she died,” he said. Malati, wife of 45-year-old Ramesh Kumar, from Karkala taluk of Udupi district, said that the hospital personnel took six hours on Sunday to admit her husband who was diagnosed with tumour in his brain. She said that doctors were not regularly attending to her husband in the ward and that she has not been clearly told about her husband’s condition. Dr. Sadashiva said that it took six hours for them to carry out blood tests and other diagnosis and then admit Ramesh Kumar. The treating doctor and other specialist doctors were closely monitoring the condition of the patient and medicine is being given based on symptoms. Ruling out any delay in treatment, Dr. Sadashiva said that Ramesh Kumar does not have any health complications now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-cctv-cameras-to-come-up-at-wenlock-hospital/article37183373.ece
27 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vijayapura-Mangaluru train to resume services on Nov. 1||South Western Railway (SWR) has decided to resume the services of Vijayapura-Mangaluru Junction-Vijayapura Express Daily Special on November 1. However, the services will follow the earlier timings despite a demand to change it. Patrons and Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, had urged Railways to ensure the train arrives in Mangaluru by 9 a.m. instead of 12.40 p.m. and that it leaves at 5.30 p.m. instead of 4.30 p.m. Its arrival in the afternoon did not suit passengers travelling for official work or such other purposes. Similarly, if the train leaves after 5 p.m., it helps passengers complete the day’s work and then board the train, the patrons had said. However, Southern Railway that manages Mangaluru Junction, informed SWR that it cannot accommodate the train at the desired timings as the platforms remain occupied during those times.  Accordingly, Train 07327 leaves Vijayapura at 6 p.m. to reach Mangaluru Junction at 12.40 p.m. from November 1 via Bagalkot (departure 7.46 p.m.), Gadag (10.30 p.m.), Hubballi (11.45 p.m.), Karjagi (1.20 a.m.), Sakleshpur (7.30 a.m.), Subrahmanya Road (10.25 a.m.), Kabaka Puttur (11.12 a.m.), and Bantwal (11.42 a.m.) to reach Mangaluru Junction at 12.40 a.m. the next day. In the return direction, Train 07328 leaves Mangaluru Junction from November 2 at 4.30 p.m., Bantwal (5.07 p.m.), Kabaka Puttur (5.35 p.m.), Subrahmanya Road (6.30 p.m.), Sakleshpur (9 p.m.), Karjagi (3.18 a.m.), Hubballi (5.15 a.m.), Gadag (6.55 a.m.), and Bagalkot (9 a.m.) to reach Vijayapura at 11.45 a.m. the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vijayapura-mangaluru-train-to-resume-services-on-nov-1/article37183375.ece
27 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No water supply in city for two days||There will be no water supply in the city for two days from 6 a.m. on October 28 to 6 a.m. on October 30. It is for taking up emergency maintenance works at the jackwell in the Thumbe pump house, according to a release from the City Corporation here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-water-supply-in-city-for-two-days/article37183370.ece
27 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MRPL reports Rs. 243 cr. net loss in Q2||Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd., (MRPL) on Tuesday reported a net loss of Rs. 243 crore in the second quarter of 2021-22 as against a net profit of Rs. 31 crore in Q2 of the previous fiscal. In its filing before the Bombay Stock Exchange, the company said the Board of Directors approved MRPL’s standalone and consolidated unaudited financial results for Q2 and Half Year ending September 30 of the current financial year. The company earned a gross revenue of Rs. 17,692 crore from operations in Q2 as against Rs. 9,686 crore during Q2 of the previous fiscal. The gross refining margin was 2.22 $/bbl during the current Q2 as against 3.85$/bbl during the corresponding period in the previous fiscal. For the half year ending September 30, 2021, the compnay reported a net loss of Rs. 329 crore as against Rs. 493 crore net loss during the corresponding period in 2020-21. The gross revenue from operations stood at Rs. 32,840 crore and Rs. 16,095 crore respectively during the periods. The throughput during the current Q2 was 3.21 million tonnes as against 2.52 million tonnes in Q2 of 2020-21, MRPL said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mrpl-reports-rs-243-cr-net-loss-in-q2/article37183374.ece
27 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||32 new cases in twin districts||Dakshina Kannada reported 23 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. With 26 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 280. Test positivity rate was put at 0.41%. Fines totalling Rs. 1,07,33,870 has so far been collected. Udupi district reported nine new cases. With 14 patients discharged, there are 51 active cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/32-new-cases-in-twin-districts/article37183377.ece
27 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rape accused sentenced to 10 years RI||Udupi Additional District and Sessions Judge, Fast Track Sessions Court, Yermal Kalpana, on Tuesday sentenced 30-year-old Venkatesh to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) on finding him guilty of sexually assaulting a five-year-old girl. According to the charge-sheet, Venkatesh stayed near the victim’s house. He raped the child when she had come to play at his house in 2018. A few days later the child became unwell. As she was being taken to the doctor, the victim revealed about the sexual assault to her mother. After a complaint, the then Sub-Inspector of Karkala Rural Police Station Nanja Naika arrested Venkatesh. The then Karkala Circle Inspector Joy Antony filed the charge-sheet. Special Public Prosecutor Y.T. Raghavendra examined 12 of the total 19 witnesses The judge on Tuesday sentenced Venkatesh to 10 years and fined him Rs. 20,000 for an offence punishable under Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Of the fine amount, Rs. 15,000 is to be paid to the victim. The girl is entitled to Rs. 75,000 as victim compensation, which is payable by the State Government, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rape-accused-sentenced-to-10-years-ri/article37183371.ece
27 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||As rains continue, KRS inches towards FRL||Continuing rains in South Interior Karnataka region and in the catchment area of the Cauvery has augmented the inflow into Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS). As a result, the water level in the dam is expected to reach the Full Reservoir Level (FRL) of 124.80 ft on Wednesday. The water level was 123.75 ft at 6 p.m. on Tuesday and the rate of inflow was 16,998 cusecs and is expected to increase further. Hence, Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd. (CNNL) has issued a flood warning according to which the surplus water will be discharged from the reservoir and the rate of release would be anywhere between 10,000 cusecs and 20,000 cusecs, or above. The release stated that there was heavy rain in the catchment area of the KRS and the water level was increasing to its full storage capacity. Due to the impending discharge of surplus water, CNNL has appealed to people living on both sides of the river bank downstream of the reservoir and those living in low-lying areas of the Cauvery to move to safer places and take all precautionary measures for the safety to their life and property. This is the first time in decades that KRS has attained FRL as late as in the last week of October. In a normal year, the dam attains FRL in the last week of July or the first week of August, and depending on the intensity of rains the water level used to be maintained at FRL till as late as November. Also, there have been years when the dam has failed to attain FRL owing to monsoon failure. This year, the authorities had given up hope of the reservoir attaining FRL as the southwest monsoon was deficient by nearly 25% in the Cauvery catchment area. But the continuous rains in the month of October have not only bridged the deficit, but also put the reservoir on the way to hitting 124.8 ft by Wednesday. The gross storage in the reservoir is 47.871 tmcft, as against the capacity of 49.45 tmcft. The water level at Kabini reservoir is around 2,283 ft, against the FRL of 2,284 ft, and the gross storage 19.08 tmcft against the capacity of 19.52 tmcft. The cumulative outflow from the reservoir since the onset of monsoon in June was 138 tmcft as on Tuesday, according to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre. This does not include the water accruing due to rains downstream of the KRS-Kabini reservoirs since June.  This year, the authorities had given up hope of the dam attaining FRL as the southwest monsoon was deficient by nearly 25% in the Cauvery catchment area. But the continuous rains in October have more than bridged the deficit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/as-rains-continue-krs-inches-towards-frl/article37182981.ece
27 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath questions ex-CM’s contribution to Kuruba welfare||Former Minister and BJP MLC A.H. Vishwanath on Tuesday questioned former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s contribution to the welfare of the Kuruba community in Karnataka. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Vishwanath lashed out at the Congress leader for “making no meaningful contribution” for the welfare of the community to which he belonged. Both Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Vishwanath belong to Kuruba community. “What have you given the community, which stood by you?” the BJP leader asked. “Your contribution is nothing. You failed to even develop the Karnataka Sheep and Wool Development Corporation started by former Chief Minister Devaraj Urs,” he said. He claimed that Mr. Siddaramaiah had failed to uplift the community educationally. “He did not allot even a single medical, engineering or pharmacy college [for them]. He ignored the community,” he said. Accusing Mr. Siddaramaiah of failing to groom a second-line leadership in the community, Mr. Vishwanath said the former Chief Minister gave no representation to the community in his Cabinet for four years. He accused the Congress leader of destroying the political career of former Badami MLA B.B. Chimmankatti. “You snatched his seat. He is on the streets now. You did not even make him an MLC,” he said, accusing Mr. Siddaramaiah of ending the careers of several AHINDA leaders. Seeking support Mr. Vishwanath also sought to remind the Kuruba community in the State that the BJP Government would remain in power for another year and a half and called upon them to extend their support to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in the interest of the community and the State. He said Mr. Bommai has promised to work for the welfare of the community and Kurubas should repose their trust in the Chief Minister’s word. He criticised Mr. Siddaramaiah for his remarks against the Chief Minister after the community leaders felicitated him with a kambali (handwoven woolen blanket) recently. He came down heavily on the Congress leader for “lacking gratitude”. Claiming that he, along with other leaders in the Congress such as H.M. Revanna, Mallikarjun Kharge, Jaffer Sharief and M. Veerappa Moily, had facilitated his entry into the Congress after Janata Dal (S) leader H.D. Deve Gowda removed him from the party in 2005, Mr. Vishwanath said Mr. Siddaramaiah had showed no gratitude to them for their efforts. Taking serious exception to Mr. Siddaramaiah’s “language” against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Mr. Vishwanath said the Congress leader cannot justify his arrogance by claiming it was his “rustic” language. “Will he use the same language to address Congress leaders such as Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi?” Mr. Vishwanath asked. On bypolls Mr. Vishwanath also claimed that the entire exercise of holding byelections to the Assembly was a “waste of energy, time and money”. The person with the second-highest number of votes should be declared the winner, he said, adding that he told the Centre there was no need to hold bypolls at all.  [Siddaramaiah’s] contribution is nothing. You failed to even develop the Karnataka Sheep and Wool Development Corporation started by former Chief Minister Devaraj Urs A.H. Vishwanath,MLC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vishwanath-questions-ex-cms-contribution-to-kuruba-welfare/article37183387.ece
27 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||SWR observes Vigilance Awareness Week||The Central Vigilance Commission is observing Vigilance Awareness Week from October 26 to November 1. As per the directives of the Railway Board, Mysuru division of South Western Railway is observing Vigilance Awareness Week 2021. “Independent India at 75; self-reliance with integrity” is the theme for the Vigilance Awareness Week. “This awareness week campaign affirms our commitment to promote transparency and probity in public life through citizen participation,” a release said. Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru division, SWR, administered the integrity pledge to officers and staff of the divisional office at the Open Air Auditorium of the office on Irwin Road. He also emphasised that corruption has been one of the major obstacles to economic, political and social progress of the country. While administering the pledge, he urged all the stakeholders, supervisors and staff to stay firm and commit to the highest standards of honesty and integrity at all times and work together to eradicate corruption. Prashanth Mastiholi, Senior Divisional Personnel Officer, briefed about the various events planned during the week and motivated all the staff and other stakeholders to participate in them. The events that have been planned in the week include cycle rally, general knowledge and quiz competition, essay competition, and skit by scouts and guides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-observes-vigilance-awareness-week/article37183381.ece
27 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Roads flooded as Bogadi lake breaches||The breach in Bogadi lake bund, or the boundary wall, on Tuesday following incessant rain led to the flooding of houses and roads in the areas adjoining the lake. The stretch of Outer Ring Road near Bogadi and thoroughfares attached to the ring road were among the affected ones. The flooded roads disrupted vehicular movement for some time. The ring road junction at Bogadi had knee-deep water on Tuesday morning with the large storm-water drain running through the area overflowing, inundating the nearby areas, including some commercial establishments. The police had to block the flooded roads to prevent motorists, especially the two-wheelers, from using the road as a precautionary measure. Only four-wheelers and heavy vehicles were permitted to ply on Bogadi Road. The water receded by evening. Bogadi Lake (Mariyappana Kere) located close to Vijayanagar is one of the last remaining lakes in the city. The lake’s expanse has shrunk because of encroachment. The breach is said to have occurred at two locations, but the extent of damage caused to the bund has not been established as the authorities are waiting for the water to recede. Illegal dumping and burning of solid waste around Bogadi lake, close to Vijayanagar III Stage here, has been a big nuisance for the locals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/roads-flooded-as-bogadi-lake-breaches/article37183382.ece
27 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||SWR takes up tree-planting in Mysuru||The Railways undertakes extensive plantation of trees every year. Besides increasing the green cover over its land, planting of tree saplings and harvesting of mature trees is a continuous process. The Mysuru division of South Western Railway has partnered with Schneider Electric India Pvt. Ltd. and an NGO, Communitree, and planted 1,500 trees at the Divisional Railway Hospital here recently. Saplings of 10 different indigenous species of trees, including neem, jamun, guava, mango, mahogany, rosewood, and fig, were planted. The drive is aimed at creating a self-sustained dense micro-forest with the objective of making the city greener.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-takes-up-tree-planting-in-mysuru/article37183385.ece
27 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||A story of friendship in cardamom fields||A frog species endemic to the Western Ghats has been identified as cardamom-friendly, killing moths that are known to destroy cardamom’s pseudo-stem, a major menace faced by farmers. The bush frog, or Raorchestes ponmudi eats up the shoot borer Conogethes punctiferalis that enters through immature panicles and attacks the shoots and stems, thus destroying cardamom plants, often in a large-scale. The bush frog is widely found in the Ponmudi area of the Western Ghats and is familiar to cardamom planters. Unlike other frog species, the bush frog’s life cycle is entirely different, and water sources are not primarily needed for the growth of its eggs. Effect of pesticides A.K. Vijayan, scientist and former head of crop protection, Indian Cardamom Research Institute, told The Hindu that the bush frog is, however, quite absent in cardamom plantations where toxic pesticides are sprayed. An adult moth lays about 20 to 35 eggs on cardamom leaf margins, leaf axils, panicles and racemes. The eggs hatch within five to six days. Emerging larvae bore into tender panicles, unopened leaves or immature capsules. At a later stage, the larvae bore into the shoots and feed on the central core of the pseudo-stem, resulting in decaying. The caterpillars of this insect bore and feed on flower buds, flowers and capsules. The pest attacks are particularly high from June to September, points out Dr. Vijayan. Studies have found that each larva feeds about 25 to 27 capsules to attain maturity. Its life cycle is completed within 38-45 days. The adult moth is orange/yellow in colour and is 22-24 mm long with a number of black dots on its wings. The bush frog is also common in the CHR (Cardamom Hill Reserve) areas of Udumbanchola and Peerumade in Idukki district. Farmers in these regions have reported its presence on cardamom plants, where the species are often spotted at night when it comes out for feeding on the moths. However, aggressive pesticide application is a threat to the bush frog, said Dr. Vijayan.  The bush frog’s life cycle is different from others in the species, and water sources are not primarily needed for the growth of its eggs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/why-cardamom-farmers-welcome-these-frogs/article37183263.ece
27 October 2021||KALLAKURICHI,KERALA||Fire at cracker shop claims five lives||Five persons were killed in a fire that broke out at a cracker shop in Sankarapuram on Tuesday. Two adjacent shops were also gutted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-at-cracker-shop-claims-five-lives/article37183299.ece
27 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||KVK’s apiculture training set to create a buzz||The Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) has launched an initiative to promote apiculture by providing colonies of honeybees and boxes free of cost to those who have completed the training conducted by the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Ambalavayal. Free training programmes are conducted by many government agencies across the country, but they usually do not provide the main components such as colonies of bees and boxes free of cost to trainees. “However, we started providing the components by realising the fact that many participants could not enter into the venture even after completing the training programme owing to a dearth of major components in their locality,” Allan Thomas, head of KVK, told The Hindu . At a time when the cultivation of exotic fruits such as litchi, rambutan, mangosteen, avocado, and passion fruit was gaining momentum in Wayanad, apiculture had a significant role to play as bees enhanced the productivity of plants since they were excellent pollinators, he added. If farmers began the venture with basic components, they could multiply the colonies of honey bees in a short while, said Mr. Thomas. From a single unit itself, a farmer could collect eight to 10 kg of honey a year and pure honey had a fair demand in the market, said master trainer K. Viswan. KAU faculty members are handling the scientific sessions while practical training is being given at the demonstration unit of KVK. Field visits and other aspects such as setting up of boxes and placing of colonies, rearing and management of honey bees, and value addition of honey are also covered under the seven-day training programme. “Training followed by providing necessary components to farmers will make interventions of institutions like agricultural universities meaningful and the KVKs should take up such activities for the betterment of the farming community,” said KAU Vice Chancellor R. Chandra Babu. The programme is being conducted with financial assistance of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and as many as 100 persons have been trained so far. KAU Director of Extension Jayasree Krishnankutty inaugurated the distribution of boxes and colonies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kvks-apiculture-training-set-to-create-a-buzz/article37183279.ece
27 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Maoist surrenders in Wayanad||Lijesh, alias Ramu, a senior leader of the proscribed Communist Party of India (Maoist), has surrendered before the police in Wayanad. Speaking to mediapersons here on Tuesday, Ashok Yadav, Inspector General of Police, North Zone, said Lijesh, 37, surrendered before Wayanad Police Chief Aravind Sukumar around 10 p.m. on Monday without arms. “Lijesh is the first Maoist cadre to surrender in the State after the Surrender and Rehabilitation scheme announced by the State Government in 2018,” Mr. Yadav said. The scheme seeks to ensure that Maoists who have surrendered do not revert back to extremism by providing them gainful employment and entrepreneurial opportunities. The surrender is an achievement of the State police force, he said. “The Kerala Police had registered cases against the militant and relevant details will be screened by a monitoring committee before announcing the rehabilitation package for him,” Mr.Yadav said adding that the police would ensure security of the surrendered and his family. Joined seven years ago Lijesh, a native of Amarakkuni, near Pulpally, in the district, said he joined the militant group seven years ago while working at a ginger plantation in Karnataka along with his parents. He claimed that he was the deputy commander of the Kabanidalam of the Western Ghats Special Zone Committee of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) and had worked for the organisation in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka. “I surrendered before the police after realising that there was no point in continuing in the militant group,” Lijesh said. He is married to Rema (name changed), who is still a member of the extremist group, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maoist-surrenders-in-wayanad/article37183355.ece
27 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||In a first, Kannur Corporation launches GIS mapping project||The Kannur Municipal Corporation has crossed another milestone by becoming the first corporation in the State to launch “Drishti”, a GIS mapping project aimed at urban planning and comprehensive development of the fast growing city. K. Sudhakaran, MP, announced the completion of Drishti, at the Chamber Hall on Monday. Despite a slight delay due to COVID-19, all information regarding the Kannur Corporation has been collected through various surveys such as drone survey, DGPS survey, GPS survey and building survey with the help of special mobile application and is available on the web portal in a useful manner for various projects. Urban planning The Drishti web portal, which is aimed at urban planning and comprehensive development, provides information on over 1 lakh buildings, roads, wetlands, parks, and landmarks of the corporation, along with photographs of all the properties within the corporation’s limits. The portal has been developed by Uralungal Labour Technology Solutions Private Limited. With the help of the portal, modern city planning and implementation and delivery of welfare schemes to the most deserving are possible. It can also effectively implement projects in the areas of agriculture, health, industry, and disaster management. This will enable officials and people’s representatives to analyse the information of the places they want and prepare necessary reports. In addition, geographical analysis and analysis of changes that have taken place in different periods are also possible. Mayor T.O. Mohanan presided over the function. Deputy Mayor K. Shabeena Teacher, Corporation Standing Committee Chairpersons Shamima Teacher and other public representatives participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-a-first-kannur-corporation-launches-gis-mapping-project/article37183281.ece
27 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Alert appraiser foils bid to pledge spurious gold||An alert appraiser at the Elayavoor Cooperative Bank helped to arrest two members of a gang, who attempted to pledge fake gold at two banks. The police arrested Rijesh, 40, a resident of Mulanpara in Manjeri and V.S. Nidhish, who resides in the BSNL quarters. Rijesh approached the bank for pledging 4 sovereigns gold for a loan of Rs. 1 lakh. However, the appraiser found that the gold given for pledging was fake. The bank officials immediately informed the police. During the inquiry, Rijesh revealed that his accomplice, Nidhish, had attempted to obtain a loan of Rs. 90,000 from the Chovva Cooperative Bank by pledging fake gold. Following their arrest, it was revealed that they had swindled money from several banks in a similar manner. The police suspect that there is a gang involved in duping banks by pledging fake gold. The police have sent alerts to banks to carry out stringent checking while granting gold loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alert-appraiser-foils-bid-to-pledge-spurious-gold/article37183282.ece
27 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Preparations in final stage ahead of school reopening||Schools in the district have reached the final stage of preparations ahead of their reopening on November 1. Managements have drawn out a standard operating procedure based on the guidelines prescribed by General Education and Health departments. Offline sessions for Classes 1 to 7 and 10 and 12 will begin on November 1. For students in classes 8, 9 and 11, offline sessions will start from November 15. Online and offline classes will be held simultaneously from Monday to Friday. Many students have opted to continue attending online classes in view of the pandemic situation and other practical hurdles in joining offline sessions. With many unaided managements not offering bus services, working parents have decided to stick to the online mode. Principals of city schools said that a short break would be provided between each period for students to relax in the presence of teachers. A snack break of around 10 minutes will be given for children. Schools have asked parents to ensure that students bring their own drinking water and snacks. They should compulsorily wear N95 masks and keep one as spare in their school bags. Some of the managements have also recommended carrying sanitisers. Teachers would ensure physical distancing on campuses, they said. Parents have to ensure that private vehicles transporting children are adhering to the health protocol. They will not be permitted to crowd inside campuses after dropping children. Children having fever, cough, cold or any other ailments should remain at home. Batches are not compulsory in schools where student strength is low, according to the Education Department. Differently abled students or those with co-morbidities need not come to school initially. If a school has more than 1,000 students, only 25% of the students need to reach the campus at one time. Bio-bubbles will be implemented at the class-level to ensure physical distancing. Each bio-bubble will comprise six to 10 students. One class may have two or three bio-bubbles. Only the students in the bubble will interact with each other. On no account should the students in one bubble interact with one in another bubble.  A short break will be provided between each period for students to relax in the presence of teachers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/preparations-in-final-stage-ahead-of-school-reopening/article37183298.ece
27 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Killer whales sighted off Lakshadweep again||Following up on the sighting of a group of three killer whales (orca) on the eastern side of Kadmat island in Lakshadweep in November last year, marine scientists, working through a network of fishers, recorded seeing an orca on October 12 off Kavaratti while a pair of them were sighted around the island on October 22. The Marine Mammals Research team was able to see and take videos and pictures of at least the male in the pair, said Ahmed Amirsha, senior project officer in the department of environment and forests in Kavaratti. “The sightings in Lakshadweep are very important for understanding killer whales in the larger Arabian Sea and such sightings are rare, as very little is known about killer whale occurrence, seasonal movements, habitat and prey preferences, and behaviour in the northern Indian Ocean,” he said. Biodiversity Additionally, such records highlight the rich whale and dolphin biodiversity in Lakshadweep waters. The team has recorded 879 live sightings and 15 dead strandings of marine mammals over the past two-and-a-half years. While most killer whale populations in other regions show high site fidelity and residence rates, resident populations were yet to be identified in the northern Indian Ocean, Dr. Amirsha said. Given their highly social and curious behaviour, orcas often approached fishing vessels to assess if there was any fish in the net, or just to observe people on the vessel. In the wild, there were no instances of killer whales fatally attacking humans, he said. Toothed whales Orcas belong to a highly evolved group of toothed whales under the suborder Cetacean and dolphin family and are widely distributed in temperate and tropical waters. They have long life spans and are highly social, feeding cooperatively, and with complex vocal behaviours.  A Marine Mammals Research team was able to see and take videos and pictures of at least the male in the pair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/killer-whale-sighted-again-off-lakshadweep/article37182906.ece
27 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC adjourns plea by Monson’s driver||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday adjourned till Friday the hearing on a petition filed by the driver of the fake antiquities dealer, Monson Mavunkal, against police harassment The petition was filed by Ajith E.V. of Ernakulam seeking a directive to the Circle Inspector of Police, Cherthala, and the Station House Officer, Ernakulam North police station, to desist from harassing the petitioner. When the petition came up for hearing, the Director-General of Prosecution sought more time to file a detailed affidavit on the probe being conducted into the allegations against Monson. According to the petitioner, he had appeared before the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Crime Branch, Alappuzha, for interrogation in connection with a cheating complaint against Monson and given statements on August 7. The petitioner was threatened by Monson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monsons-drivers-plea-adjourned/article37183283.ece
27 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Clergy should face congregation: priests||A meeting of more than 300 priests from the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese here on Tuesday reiterated that there would be no compromise on continuing with the practice of celebrating the Mass with the celebrant (priest) facing the congregation throughout the duration of the Mass. Senior priests Kuriakose Mundadan, Joseph Vailikodath, and Mathew Kilukkan told mediapersons after the meeting that they expected the Vatican to intervene in the matter after an appeal was made to Pope Francis not to impose the decision by the Synod of Bishops of the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church to bring about uniformity in the celebration of the Mass. The priests insisted that the Universal Synod of the Catholic Church, the Second Vatican Council, had said that when liturgy is renewed, unity should be the matter of essence. There was no recommendation from the council to impose uniformity if matters of the faith were not involved. The priests expressed optimism that a favourable decision by the Vatican on the issue would be conveyed before November 28, the first Sunday of Advent, which marks the beginning of the liturgical calendar for the Catholic Church. The Synod of Bishops had decided that the uniform way of celebrating the Mass would be introduced on the day. The newly recommended uniform way involves celebrating the Mass with the celebrant facing the congregation during the first half and and facing the tabernacle (holy of holies and away from the congregation), during the other half. Opposing the change Priests, parishioners and religious from Ernakulam-Angamaly, Irinjalakuda, and Thrissur dioceses are among those who have vehemently opposed the change. The priests said that celebration of the Mass in the archdiocese, involving the celebrant facing the congregation during the entire course of rituals, had been a practice for half a century. There had been no disruption or lack of unity in this regard. Peaceful The archdiocesan administration had gone on peacefully. Though there was a difference of opinion on the issue during the Synod of Bishops early last month, these opinions were not considered or put on record, they alleged. Discussions on the way the Mass is celebrated in the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church has been going on for decades. However, the synod last month sent out an instruction that the uniform practice would come into effect on November 28. The priests alleged that there was a “Chaldean lobby” that was trying to capture power in the church and the lobby was the cause of disruption and lack of accord among the faithful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-compromise-on-mass-rituals-say-dissenting-priests/article37183269.ece
27 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bribe: HC seeks report||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the Kochi City Police Commissioner to file a report explaining the action taken against the police officers who had allegedly demanded Rs. 5 lakh for releasing two daughters of a family from Delhi residing in Kochi from a children’s home. Justice Devan Ramachandran issued the order when a suo motu case registered on the basis of a newspaper report came up for hearing. The court also directed the District Legal Services Authority, Ernakulam (DLSA), to depute a competent lady officer to talk to the family, as also to the girls, and ascertain their views particularly whether the latter would like to be with the family or otherwise. The court said that what it was primarily concerned about was the allegation of a police officer having accepted or demanded amounts from the family, and as to the well-being of the two girls, who were now stated to be in a care home. The court directed the Police Commissioner to ensure that the family was adequately protected. Family’s allegation The newspaper report said that the family had alleged that the police did not arrest one of the accused, who had sexually abused their daughter in Delhi, and that their sons were implicated in a false case. They also alleged that an assistant sub-inspector of the North police station had demanded a bribe of Rs. 5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-seeks-action-taken-report-on-bribe-charge-against-cops/article37183284.ece
27 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Crime Branch takes SPC’s statement in Monson case||The Crime Branch (CB) probing the cheating cases against alleged fraudster Monson Mavunkal on Tuesday recorded the statement of the State Police Chief (SPC) Anil Kant. This was after an image of Monson handing over a gift to Mr. Kant circulated on social media shortly after the conman was arrested. Mr. Kant is learned to have explained that Monson was a member of a contingent of the Pravasi Malayali Federation that visited him shortly after he assumed office in July. Monson reportedly tinkered with the snap and cropped out the images of others before circulating it on social media. The CB had already recorded the statements of former State Police Chief Loknath Behera, Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham, and Inspector General of Police G. Lakshmana after the High Court made critical remarks about Monson’s alleged links with senior police officers. Meanwhile, the investigation team on Tuesday took Monson to his residence at Kaloor for evidence collection in the case related to cheating Santhosh Elamakkara from whom he had procured the majority of the cheap knock-offs which he exhibited as rare antiquities. Monson now stands booked in nine cases, including one registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crime-branch-takes-spcs-statement-in-monson-case/article37183358.ece
27 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC quashes criminal case against two Pakistanis||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday quashed a criminal case registered under the Foreigners Act against two Pakistani nationals and ordered the police to issue clearance certificate for their travel back to Pakistan. The order came on a petition filed by Imran Muhammed and Ali Asghar who were on a visit to Kochi for medical treatment of the former. Issuing the directive, Justice K. Haripal observed that it was expected that when foreign nationals were involved, responsible officials should show a little more sensibility and act cautiously. An exception had to be taken to registering a crime at the drop of a hat. No reason was made out for initiating criminal prosecution against the petitioners who had reached India with valid travel documents. Their arrival was duly intimated to the Special Branch and the officials were monitoring them, he observed.  The petitioners pointed out that after the treatment, their plan was to fly out through Chennai. But when they reached Chennai, they were not allowed to leave for want of a police clearance certificate. Then they came back to Kochi and sought a certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-quashes-criminal-case-against-two-pakistanis/article37183285.ece
27 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||64 bottles of IMFL seized; man arrested||Excise officials arrested a man after 64 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor were seized from his house in North Paravur on Tuesday. The arrested man was identified as Saju, 32, of Gothuruth. The arrest was made on a tip-off received by excise circle inspector S. Nijumon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/64-bottles-of-imfl-seized-man-arrested/article37183294.ece
27 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat grant for start-up ventures||Cochin University of Science and Technology-Technology Business Incubator under the Cusat Tech Foundation will provide about Rs. 50 lakh under its Cusat RUSA start-up fund 2021 to encourage quality product-oriented startup ventures. The idea is to bring such start-ups to Cusat-TBI and to promote new and innovative ideas. External start-ups can also apply. The application form and the guidelines can also be downloaded fromhttps://cittic.cusat.ac.in/? page_id=4828. The scheme is designed as a non-refundable grant sponsored by Cusat Tech Foundation and is implemented through its TBI hub.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-grant-for-start-up-ventures/article37183295.ece
27 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ganja seized from bus||In a joint operation, the rural district anti-narcotic special action force and the Perumbavoor police on Tuesday seized around half-a-kilogram of ganja and 10 gm of brown sugar from a bus transporting migrant workers from Assam to Perumbavoor. The drug was found hidden beneath the seats. The driver, Mahesh, 31, of Ezhikkara, was arrested after he was found to be drunk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ganja-seized-from-bus/article37183296.ece
27 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Thengode land to be considered for KV||A team of officials from the Kendriya Vidyalaya that visited two plots of land identified by the Thrikkakara municipality as possible locations for the proposed Kendriya Vidyalaya, found that the plot at Thuthiyoor was not suited for the institution. However, the team will consider the land at Thengode. Chairman of the standing committee for education in the Thrikkakara municipality Noushad Pallechi said that further action would be taken after the Kendriya Vidyalaya team submits its report. The Thuthiyoor land had two deficiencies. First of all, a Kendriya Vidyalaya campus requires at least five or even up to six acres. The Thuthiyoor plot had an extent of four acres. Besides, the river that runs about 200 metres away from the potential site is an impediment because the requirement is that there should be no rivers within 500 metres of the border of the campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thengode-land-to-be-considered-for-kv/article37183297.ece
27 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Private bus operators’ stir from Nov. 9||Private bus operators have decided to go on an indefinite agitation from November 9 demanding fare hike, revision in students’ concession and exemption from paying vehicle tax in view of the skyrocketing fuel price and fall in patronage for public transport. The operators demand an increase in minimum fare to Rs. 12 and per km charge to Re 1, and revision of students fare to half the regular fare. A strike notice in this regard has been given to Minister for Transport Antony Raju, said office-bearers of the Samyukta Samiti of bus operator organisations Lawrence Babu, T. Gopinathan and Gokulam Gokuldas here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-bus-operators-stir-from-nov-9/article37183344.ece
27 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Case posted to Nov. 3||The Kochi Corporation and the State government were asked by the Kerala High Court to file reports on the proposed sewage treatment plant (STP) at West Kochi. It was on a petition filed by C.A. Faisal challenging the move of Cochin Smart Mission Limited that a Single judge of the court issued the order on Tuesday. The court asked the government to come up with its statement on the earlier order of the Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO), Fort Kochi, that banned the construction activities on Pathayathodu, a canal that flows through the Kalvathy area in West Kochi. The petitioner contended that the Kochi Corporation had violated the order of the RDO and cleared the project proposal. The court also sought a report on the statement of the village officer that the area where the plant is proposed has been marked as a pond in the Basic Tax Register. The Kochi Corporation is of the view that the plant is being set up by the Mission though its council had earlier cleared the proposal. The move to set up the plant was greeted by a series of protests. The protesters demanded that the plant be shifted from the highly populated location to a safer place. The Court has posted the case to November 3. Meanwhile, the Mission authorities have instructed the firm concerned to finalise the design component of the plant as it obtained the results of the soil investigation conducted at the site. The results of the soil investigation were handed over to the contractor the other day. Once the finer changes in the design are completed, the work would start, said Mission officials. The proposal is to complete the plant in two years. Opposition councillors had protested against the reported statement of the Mission authorities that the plant would come up at the site, despite the protests. T.K. Asharaf, who became the chairman of the Health Standing Committee of the Kochi Corporation with the support of the LDF in the council, is in the forefront of the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sewage-treatment-plant-hc-posts-case-to-november-3/article37183291.ece
27 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Meet drafts blueprint for safe school reopening||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has instructed all school teachers, non-teaching staff, drivers of school vehicles and cooks to get vaccinated against COVID-19. The decisions were taken at a meeting convened at the initiative of the commission. While the water in school wells will be tested, the authorities have been directed to offer a hygienic and safe environment focusing on the physical and mental health of students. Awareness against substance abuse and strengthening Police and Excise surveillance are also among the recommendations that came up at a district-level meeting here on Tuesday. The commission has instructed to pay special attention to children who are differently abled and those belonging to backward classes. While the School Health Programme will be revived, steps will be adopted to ensure that students do not drop out. Measures will be taken to improve the mental health of students returning to schools after a long gap of 20 months. Protocol compliance The services of the Student Police Cadet will be utilised to ensure COVID-19 protocol compliance and thermal scanners will be made available in schools depending on the number of students. Commission chairperson K.V. Manoj Kumar inaugurated a meeting held as part of efforts to protect the Right to Education while ensuring the safety of children. Member Renee Antony presented the topic. District Child Protection Officer G. Prasanna Kumari, District Medical Officer R. Sreelatha and Deputy Director of Education Subin Paul were among those present. Meanwhile, District Collector Afsana Parveen said COVID-19 preventive measures in Kollam district would be further strengthened ahead of reopening of schools. While local bodies would ensure all arrangements are in place, special inspections would be conducted during holidays and strict action taken against quarantine violations. "Vaccination of teachers is nearing completion in the district. Steps have been taken to issue fitness certificates for school vehicles at the earliest. Fitness certificates for autorickshaws and vans arranged by parents for school trips are also under consideration," she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-drafts-blueprint-for-safe-school-reopening/article37183330.ece
27 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||707 fresh COVID cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 707 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,047 recoveries on Tuesday. While 700 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include two NRIs and five health workers. At present, the district has 18,180 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 25,16,319. While 1,575 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 3,99,429 primary and 21,574 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) in Kollam is 11.9%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/707-fresh-covid-cases-in-kollam/article37183333.ece
27 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Online training session in dairy sector||The Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is conducting an online training programme on the business opportunities in the dairy sector. The session will be held from 11 a.m. on October 28. Those who want to attend the programme can whatsapp their name and details to 9947775978 or call 04762698550 till 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-training-session-in-dairy-sector/article37183332.ece
27 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Railway works: meet set to review progress||As part of expediting the ongoing railway development activities in Kottayam, Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, will hold a meeting with senior railway officials, including Divisional Railway Manager Mukund Ramaswamy, in Kottayam on Wednesday According to Mr. Chazhikadan, the meeting will review the progress of ongoing works, including the renovation of the Kottayam railway station building, construction of the second entrance from Goods Shed Road at Nagampadam, operation of multi-level parking for two-wheelers, and steps to resume the operations of the escalator in the station. After the meeting the MP, the Divisional Railway Manager and other officials will jointly inspect the sites where construction work is progressing. The permission sought by the Athirampuzha grama panchayat for setting up a ‘Take a Break’ centre on the Ettumanur station premises as well the proposed upgrade of the railway station-Kattathi road too will be taken up for discussion. Apart from the DRM, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager P.A. Dhanajayan and Divisional Engineer (Special Work) Sreekumar A.V. are also slated to attend the meeting  Ongoing works include renovation of Kottayam railway station and construction of a second entrance at Nagampadam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railway-works-meet-set-to-review-progress/article37183335.ece
27 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||ED raids hospital in Kottayam||Sleuths from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday raided the office and premises of the KIMS Bellerose Institute of Medical Sciences, Kottayam, in connection with an alleged fund diversion scam. Official sources said the raid followed a complaint that a few members of the hospital director board, including its chairman M.I. Sahadulla, obtained a loan of Rs. 43 crore from the Corporate branch of South Indian Bank on the pretext of constructing a multi-speciality hospital building with 130 beds. The funds, however, were allegedly diverted to the sister concerns of the KIMS management in violation of the Reserve Bank rules. The action followed a complaint in this regard filed by Juby Devassya, another member of the hospital director board. The case had been earlier probed by the district Crime Branch, which submitted a report before the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, Kottayam, in February last year. As many as eight persons, including two officials of South Indian Bank, had been arraigned as accused in the Crime Branch’s case.  Funds allegedly diverted to sister concerns of the management||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fund-scam-ed-raids-kottayam-hospital/article37183334.ece
27 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||KSRTC complex: Govt. forms panel to study IIT-M report||The Transport Department has constituted a five-member committee to study and give recommendations on a report by the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M) that stated that the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus-terminal-cum-shopping-complex constructed six years ago at the cost of Rs. 75 crore had serious structural flaws and that the twin towers required immediate strengthening. The committee comprises Chief Technical Examiner S. Harikumar (convener); Nirjhar Dhang, Head of the Department of Civil Engineering, IIT, Kharagpur; T.M. Madhavan Pillai of Department of Civil Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Calicut; L. Beena, Chief Engineer (Buildings), Public Works Department; and K.R. Bindu of College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram. It will submit a report to the State Government within two weeks. Transport Minister Antony Raju has sought the committee to examine the report submitted by P. Alagusundaramoorthy, Professor, Structural Engineering, IIT-M, and submit its recommendations, according to a press release. When contacted, Mr. Alagusundaramoorthy refused to disclose the contents of the IIT-M report and its recommendations. He said he was unaware that the Kerala Government had constituted a new panel to study the report. A member of the newly appointed panel said he had not received any communication on the constitution of the committee. He said he was unaware of the terms of reference as the IIT-M panel had already submitted a report with recommendations. However, sources said the operations of KSRTC buses would be shifted soon to the mofussil bus stand in wake of the IIT-M panel finding flaws in construction. A decision on working out modalities for renovation of the twin towers would be taken only after the panel submitted its report. A tender will be floated soon to carry out the building strengthening work, which will take at least three to four months. The project for renovation would entail about Rs. 15 crore to Rs. 20 crore, the sources said. Opposition parties including the Congress and the BJP have questioned the decision of awarding the contract to ALIF Builders for Rs. 17 crore without a tender to operate the commercial space of the terminal. That memorandum of understanding would have to be called off temporarily, said the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-complex-govt-forms-panel-to-study-iit-m-report/article37183272.ece
27 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||State to pursue SilverLine with PM||Unfazed by the volte-face by the Ministry of Railways, the State Government will again pursue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi the ambitious Thiruvananthapuram-Kasaragod semi high-speed rail (SilverLine) project. The Rs. 63,941-crore project of the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (K-Rail) is a joint venture company under the State Government and the Ministry of Railways. Now, questions are being raised on the decision of the Centre not to bear liability of the foreign loans for the project. Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw had conveyed the decision to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in New Delhi last week. Incidentally, when Mr. Vijayan met Mr. Modi in July, the latter had promised support for multi-crore projects in Kerala. The proposed 530-km corridor with 11 stations had also received in-principle approval. “This sudden policy change appears to be more of a political decision,” John Brittas, Rajya Sabha MP, said on Tuesday. Mr. Brittas, as a newly elected member, had accompanied Mr. Vijayan during his meetings with the Prime Minister and Union Ministers. State politics “Now Opposition Congress and State Bharatiya Janata Party leaders are against the project. Perhaps they do not want the Left Democratic Front Government to get mileage out of this,” he said adding acquisition of land is minimal when compared to development of highways in the State. The Chief Minister had informed the Assembly that 9,314 buildings, including residential houses, would have to be demolished and 1,383 ha would be required for rehabilitation and other purposes. Of this, 1,198 ha is in the possession of private parties. “Previously, the Centre wanted State governments to be involved in rail projects for economic reasons. That is why it still encourages joint venture initiatives. Thus, in the case of the K-Rail project, the Ministry of Railways cannot abdicate its responsibility in dealing with transportation needs of the State. Significantly, the Ministry has been pointing out that freight transportation is suffering financial losses and that railway lines in Kerala are saturated,” Mr. Brittas said. The Centre, he said, had been always stressing on revenue generated by the project on the GDP of the State. “For every rupee spent, the impact will be Rs. 10 on the State’s economy, leading to employment opportunities and increased demand for domestic production,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-pursue-silverline-with-pm/article37183343.ece
27 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID: call to give Ayurvedic drugs in schools||Industry representatives have demanded that the State Government take steps to distribute Ayurvedic drugs in schools close on the heels of the launch of distribution of Arsenicum Album 30 C as a preventive medicine against COVID-19 among students. D. Ramanathan, general secretary, Ayurvedic Medicine Manufacturers Organisation of India (AMMOI), said recent studies had found that around one lakh people who were given Ayurvedic drugs had developed immunity against the infection. The schools in Kerala are set to reopen on November 1. Results of the study conducted by Sharmila Mary Joseph, Divya S. Iyer, and Rajmohan Velayudhan Pillai were published in the Frontiers in Public Health journal. The study claimed that Ayurvedic programmes “implemented systematically under an organised framework with social participation” enabled wider utilisation of the services. ‘Integrative approach’ “Such a framework is easily replicable even in resource-poor settings. Rather than a pluralistic approach, an integrative health system approach may be more viable in the Kerala scenario in public health emergencies,” it says. The paper was titled ‘Ayurvedic Response to COVID-19 Pandemic in Kerala, India and its Impact on Quarantined Individuals – A Community Case Study’. It was supported by the AYUSH Department and the Government Ayurveda Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram. The demand could lead to another round of debate between modern medicine practitioners and those who follow alternative branches of medicine. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) and the Indian Academy of Pediatrics and a number of public health experts had already opposed the distribution of Arsenicum Album. The pro-Left Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad too objected to the initiative. Dr. Ramanathan claimed that Ayurvedic drugs had been in use for centuries and they were safe. The Government should take steps to distribute the medicines with clinically proven efficacy. The AMMOI also sought awareness campaigns against what it called misleading propaganda to counter the Government’s efforts to contain the pandemic.  Recent studies found that around one lakh people who were given Ayurvedic drugs developed immunity against the infection D. Ramanathan General secretary, AMMOI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-give-ayurvedic-drugs-in-schools-to-prevent-covid/article37183273.ece
27 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Food poisoning: officials inspect restaurants||Food Safety Department officials on Tuesday inspected the restaurants from where breakfast is parcelled to the hostel of the private entrance coaching centre whose students were hospitalised after suspected food poisoning on Monday. Officials said that only lunch and supper were being served at the hostel canteen which did not have a licence. Breakfast was being brought from these restaurants. They didn't have a certificate to prove the quality of drinking water and the cooks had not taken the mandatory medical fitness test. Drinking water samples have been sent to the regional analytical laboratory for detailed tests. A notice had already been served on the coaching centre. The officials said, however, said that no violations were noticed in the restaurants. Meanwhile, sources at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, where eight of the students are undergoing treatment, said their condition was improving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-poisoning-officials-inspect-restaurants/article37183270.ece
27 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Headload worker wins award for charity work||K.B. Sivadasan, a headload worker affiliated to the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) from Changaramkulam, who grabbed headlines by dedicating a portion of his income and time for charity has been honoured with the Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar Memorial Award. The award was given by Nadikal Trust, based at Sankarankovil in Tamil Nadu, as part of the 114th birthday celebration of freedom fighter and social worker Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/headload-worker-wins-award-for-charity-work/article37183277.ece
27 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Kalpathy fete: action plan sought||District Collector Mrunmai Joshi has sought a detailed action plan from the organisers of the Kalpathy temple festival in view of the COVID-19 restrictions. A meeting was held here on Tuesday in connection with the conduct of the famous Kalpathy festival. Ms. Joshi asked the festival organisers to consult with the temple officials and people’s representatives and to submit a detailed action plan before the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The DDMA will then discuss the matter and take a suitable decision about giving permission for the conduct of the festival. Officials of the Kalpathy temples demanded that permission be granted for the conduct of the famous chariot festival in line with the permission given to other temple festivals. The Kalpathy festival had been reduced to nominal functions in 2019 and 2020 because of COVID-19 restrictions. Temple officials have raised the demand for conducting the festival with pomp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalpathy-temple-fete-action-plan-sought/article37183266.ece
27 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Man gets 10-year imprisonment in POCSO case||The Principal Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Special Court in Pathanamathitta on Tuesday awarded 10 years of imprisonment to a man who had broken into a house and sexually assaulted a minor girl in 2016. Pronouncing the judgement, the court found Sijo Raju (30) of Manchadimukku, Vadakkekara, Pattazhi, Kollam, guilty under Indian Penal Code Section 452 (house trespass), Section 354 (assaults or uses criminal force to any woman, intending to outrage her modesty) and Section 8 of the POCSO Act. As per the order, the accused should undergo five years imprisonment and pay a fine of Rs. 40,000 under Section 452. The incident pertained to a case registered by the Enathu police in 2016. The convict, who had reached the girl's village to meet his friend, broke into her house at night and attempted to assault the girl who had been lying with her mother. The victim woke up and raised an alarm, but the accused had already fled the spot. He landed in police custody later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-gets-10-year-imprisonment-in-pocso-case/article37183265.ece
27 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Plan to mitigate risks posed by lightning||A first-of-its-kind Kerala State Lightning Action Plan, aimed at mitigating the risks posed by lightning strikes, is expected to get the approval soon. Prepared by the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA), the draft action plan lists risk-reduction measures to be adopted by Government departments/agencies, long and short-term mitigation measures for the State, scientific aspects of the natural phenomenon and standard precautions. Published in June this year, the draft is expected to come up before the KSDMA State executive committee shortly, officials said. Two periods The pre-monsoon months of April, May and the northeast monsoon months from October to December are two periods when lightning activity sees a spurt in the State. The northeast monsoon rainfall commenced over Kerala on Monday, according to the India Meteorological Department. As short- and long-term measures, the draft recommends the establishment of early warning systems on thunderstorm activity and the formation of a special task force for inspecting tall buildings ahead of the ‘lightning season.’ The Government agencies concerned should ensure that buildings are adequately protected against lightning bolts. Recommendations The draft recommends the establishment of a Lightning Research and Monitoring Cell under the KSDMA and urges the Government to encourage research on risk-mitigation aspects by engineering and architecture students. It discusses protection measures for buildings and outlines risk mitigation measures for people engaged in outdoor jobs such as fishing and farming. State-specific disaster In 2015, the Kerala Government notified lightning a State-specific disaster, entitling victims for compensation from the State Disaster Response Fund. In October last year, the State Emergency Operations Centre under the KSDMA inked an agreement with the Earth Networks for sourcing thunderstorm warnings. An increase in general awareness and constructive intervention by Government agencies have helped reduce lightning fatalities since 2010 in Kerala, according to the KSDMA. Between then and 2014, the State reported 110 fatalities. 80 deaths Eighty deaths were reported between 2015 and 2020. But the KSDMA notes warnings by climate experts that lightnings could increase in number and intensity due to the effects of global warming and climate change. Last year, the KSDMA had also brought out a Kerala State Heat Action Plan for the State for the summer months.  Published in June this year, the draft is expected to come up before the KSDMA State executive committee shortly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-plan-to-mitigate-risks-posed-by-lightning/article37183261.ece
27 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Parents divided over sending children back to school||Though just a few days remain for schools in the State to reopen on November 1 after nearly 19 months of closure owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, parents are adopting a wait-and-watch approach. While the Government has issued guidelines for the reopening and the institutions will be adhering to the COVID-19 protocols, parents are split over sending their wards back to school. At a prominent CBSE school in the city, only 14% of parents have given their consent to send their wards for on-campus classes. For Class 1, it is 36 out of 255 students. A parent said, in his child’s class only seven parents had given the nod. Hybrid mode The numbers are slightly better for Class 10 and 12 – 35% and 42% respectively. The figures may improve as reopening date approaches, say the school authorities, admitting that even parents who are doctors have apprehensions. Hybrid mode of classes will be adopted in the months ahead. At another CBSE school on the outskirts, only class 10 and 12 students will resume classes on November 1. School authorities say as per the ICMR, schools can reopen if the test positivity rate is less than 5%. However, it is mystifying why the State Government or the Minister for General Education are not saying anything about the TPR that has been hovering around 9 to 10%. A district-wise reopening depending on the TPR can also be considered, they say. 80% willing Nearly 80% of parents are ready to send their children for offline classes is what an aided school in the heart of the city has sensed from the parent-teacher meetings. However, only from the turnout on the first day the exact numbers can be known, say the authorities. In a Government girls school in the city, only around 40 to 45% of parents of Class 1 students opted for physical classes. While a good number of parents said they will reconsider the decision after a month, there are also many who prefer to keep the children at home completely. The headmaster of the lower primary section, though, asks how much longer can one keep students at home, considering the repercussions on their physical and mental health. Online classes are no replacement for offline classes. Resuming school will also bring some schedule into their daily activities. Extension The chairman of a CBSE school, however, feels that an extension of reopening even by a couple of weeks will help, as the caseload is going down already and vaccination numbers up. Once the TPR is steady below 5% for a few consecutive days, schools can be reopened safely. Some schools will get parental feedback this week, but heads of most institutions say they are ready with detailed plans — bio-bubbles, limiting student strength to half in each division and getting only some classes to come on a single day, fewer hours in school, capping the number of students in school transport, staggered toilet breaks, health audits before sending the children, and sick rooms in schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parents-divided-over-sending-children-back-to-school/article37183341.ece
27 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Substandard drugs very low in State: Minister||Only a minuscule proportion of the drugs tested in the laboratories in the State has been found to be substandard, Health Minister Veena George has said. This has been corroborated by the nation-wide survey (2014-16) on the extent of Problems of ‘Spurious and Not of Standard Quality Drugs’ done by the National Institute of Biologicals (NIB), which reported that the proportion of substandard drugs was quite low in Kerala and that spurious drugs were not found in the State, she said. Ms. George was replying to a calling attention motion raised by Anoop Jacob, on the need to control the sale of substandard drugs in the State and to ensure that only quality drugs were available in the open market, in the Assembly on Tuesday. ‘No follow-up’ Mr. Jacob said that laboratory infrastructure and human resource capacity in the State was totally inadequate to control the drugs market where over two lakh batches of medicines were being sold every month. He also pointed out that even when the vigilance wing of the Drugs Control Department seized substandard drugs, no follow-up action was taken to bring the offenders to book. He said that the Drugs and Cosmetics Act of 1945 needed to be amended to suit the times and that the State should pressurise the Centre on this. Three labs Ms. George said that there were three statutory drug quality testing laboratories in the State at present. While about 2.5 lakh batches of drugs were being sold in the State every month, through the accepted method of random sampling, 1,155 drugs were being tested every month, utilising the existing capacity. Given that Kerala was a small State, the lab strength was found to be sufficient and the State was much ahead of the rest of India when it came to drug quality monitoring. However, when the drugs testing lab in Konni and Thrissur became fully functional, the State would be able to test up to 2,000 drugs every month. The Government was in the process of improving its drugs testing infrastructure as well as human resource capacity to ensure that only quality drugs entered the market. Cosmetics Act Ms. George added that the committee appointed by the Centre for proposing amendments to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act is expected to come out with the draft amendments in November. Kerala has already submitted its recommendations to the committee, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/substandard-drugs-low-in-state-veena/article37183327.ece
27 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MP booked for remarks about Mayor||The Thiruvananthapuram City police on Tuesday registered a case against K. Muraleedharan, MP, for his alleged defamatory comments against Mayor Arya Rajendran during a demonstration against the tax fraud in the city Corporation. The Museum police booked the MP who is also the chairman of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee’s campaign committee under Section 354A (outraging the modesty of woman) and Section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code. Notwithstanding the Mayor’s demand to invoke stringent provisions, the Congress leader has been charged under bailable sections. The case was registered after the police examined the legal aspects of the issue, officials said. They said that no decision had been made on recording his arrest. Facing heat over his contentious remarks, Mr. Muraleedharan expressed regret “if my statement had caused her mental trauma.” He, however, said that the Mayor lacked maturity and that he stood by what he said in that regard. Mayor’s stand Speaking to media persons later, Ms. Rajendran retorted: “I have not entrusted anyone to gauge my maturity. My actions alone can determine my maturity.” The Kerala Municipal and Corporation Staff Union (KMCSU) and the Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation Workers Association (TMCWA - CITU) held a joint protest on the Corporation premises on Tuesday against the MP’s remarks. KMCSU general secretary P. Suresh and TMCWA general secretary Kannammoola Vijayan spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-booked-for-remarks-on-mayor/article37183329.ece
27 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||7,163 new cases in the State||The State reported 7,163 new cases of COVID-19 when 79,122 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The active case pool had 74,456 patients on Tuesday, with 6,960 more recovering. According to the Health Department, only 10% of the active cases are currently in hospitals or first-line or second-line treatment centres in the State. The cumulative case fatality in the State now stands at 29,355 with the State adding 482 deaths to the toll list on Tuesday. These include 90 deaths which occurred in the past few days, 341 undeclared deaths during the period before June 2021 and 51 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. On Tuesday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 614. According to the bulletin issued by the Health Department, the proportion of breakthrough infections amongst the positive cases reported on the day had climbed to 36.4%. This increase is to be expected as the proportion of the vaccinated population goes up in the State. The cumulative case burden now stands at 49,29,158 cases. Thrissur tops Among the districts, Thrissur had the highest number of new cases at 974, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 808, Kottayam 762, Kozhikode 722, Ernakulam 709, Kollam 707, Palakkad 441, Kannur 427, Pathanamthitta 392, Malappuram 336, Alappuzha 318, Idukki 274, Wayanad 166, and Kasaragod 127.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7163-new-cases-in-the-state/article37183350.ece
27 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MGU clash: Oppn. stages walkout||The Opposition staged a walkout in the Assembly on Tuesday accusing the Government of downplaying the alleged attack on a Dalit woman leader of the All India Students Federation (AISF) by Students Federation of India (SFI) activists at Mahatma Gandhi University. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, who made a submission, accused SFI activists of sexually assaulting and passing casteist comments on the complainant. Besides, the police had been slow-pedalling in investigating the case. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu said the Government had endorsed unfettered campus activism that was credited for preventing ragging, gender and caste discrimination, and other social evils. Besides, orders had been issued to constitute gender justice fora, internal complaints committees and other panels mandated by the University Grants Commission. Referring to the Mahatma Gandhi University incident, Dr. Bindu said the election to the Senate and the student council were held in a free and fair manner and that the university received no complaints. The Gandhi Nagar police (in Kottayam) had, however, registered four cases in connection with the clash. She denied the involvement of any member of her personal staff in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-clash-oppn-stages-walkout/article37183353.ece
27 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tax fraud: main accused held||The Nemom police on Tuesday arrested the main accused in the revenue tax fraud reported in the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation. S. Santhi, superintendent at the Corporation’s Nemom zonal office, was arrested after she reached the police station on receiving summons. The number of arrests in connection with the embezzlement that was unearthed in the Nemom, Sreekaryam and Attipra zonal offices has gone up to four. Seven suspended The City Corporation had suspended seven persons in connection with the scam. The State Audit Department had detected fund misappropriation to the tune of nearly Rs. 34 lakh. Of this, over Rs. 26 lakh was found to be missing from the Corporation’s accounts in the Nemom zonal office. Sunitha, a cashier at the office, was arrested earlier. But Santhi had gone absconding soon after the scam came to light. She had been making efforts to obtain anticipatory bail, an official said. Major controversy The fraud has snowballed into a major political controversy in the local body with both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) launching indefinite agitations demanding the arrest of all responsible. The Opposition has accused the ruling Left Democratic Front of shielding the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tax-fraud-main-accused-held/article37183470.ece
27 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police to hold drone development hackathon||The Kerala Police are organising the first International Drone Development Hackathon Series, Drone KP 2021, on December 10. The programme will bring together organisations, academia and technology enthusiasts in order to improve operational effectiveness of policing by leveraging drone-enabled technologies and to devise mechanisms to counter the emerging threats posed by drones. State Police Chief Anil Kant on Tuesday inaugurated its official website (www.drone.cyberdome.kerala.gov.in) and launched participant registration for the hackathon. Additional Director General of Police (Headquarters) and Cyberdome nodal officer Manoj Abraham and Deputy Inspector General (Armed Police Battalion) P. Prakash were present at the programme held at the State Police Headquarters. Registration will close on November 20.  Registration can be made on website till November 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-hold-drone-development-hackathon/article37183268.ece
27 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Schemes to aid foreign returnees launched||The resources of the Malayali diaspora with its experience in various sectors should be utilised in more job sectors in the State, Minister for Finance K.N. Balagopal has said. He was speaking after inaugurating Pravasi Bhadratha – Micro, an entrepreneurship scheme implemented by NoRKA ROOTS in association with Kerala State Financial Enterprises, on Tuesday. The Minister said that the expatriate community was exposed to better living standards, basic facilities, mechanisation and was experienced in doing things professionally. May of those who had returned from West Asia possessed effective ideas. Making available facilities for utilising these was the aim of the Pravasi Bhadratha – Micro scheme. The KSFE, with 626 branches across the State, could implement this scheme faster than banks. It would also benefit self-employed entrepreneurs, he said. An amount of Rs. 5 lakh would be disbursed as self-employment loan. The scheme would be an asset to expatriates and to the State, said Mr. Balagopal. The non-resident community had experience of using small and medium scale machinery on a large scale. If used in the State’s agriculture and business sector, it could lead to huge changes. Among expatriates, Malayalis invested the most amount of money in their home State. In the wake of the global economic slowdown owing to reasons ranging from fall in petroleum prices to the pandemic, earnest efforts needed to be made to create more job opportunities in the State, he said. Pearl scheme The Pravasi Bhadratha – Pearl scheme formulated towards this end was making good progress. An amount of Rs. 2 lakh was given as interest-free loan under Pearl. The Kudumbashree mission had been given Rs. 30 crore as revolving funds under this scheme. Hence, it would give manifold returns, the Minister said, adding that the Micro scheme credit too should be able to benefit entrepreneurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schemes-to-aid-foreign-returnees-launched/article37183466.ece
27 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Engg. courses have hit saturation point: Bindu||Higher Education Minister R. Bindu has said that conventional engineering studies have hit a saturation point and this has led to unemployment among graduates. Under such circumstances, many people have been prompted to pursue other disciplines and trades. The decline in academic quality due to the unchecked proliferation of self-financing colleges has also worsened the situation. Dr. Bindu, who lamented the state of affairs of engineering education in the State while replying to questions in the Assembly on Tuesday, said the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) was focussing on introducing new-generation and job-oriented courses to boost employment possibilities. Importance was also being given to establishing industrial collaboration. Research activities with social relevance were being encouraged in Government engineering colleges. Rural Technology Development Centre at Government Engineering College (GEC), Kannur; Reusable Building Systems at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Technology, Kottayam; Centre for Bamboo Technology, GEC Barton Hill; and Transportation Research Centre, College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram (CET); are some centres that have been focusing on such initiatives. The proposed Electric Vehicle Testing Laboratory at CET would boost research in the field. While Government and aided colleges mostly had qualified teachers who satisfied the norms laid down by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), there had been complaints regarding some engineering colleges in the self-financing sector, the Minister said. Such inadequacies would be scrutinised by KTU’s academic council as well as through an academic audit. Both the qualifications of teaching faculty and infrastructural facilities of colleges were examined while they apply for affiliation, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/engg-courses-hit-saturation-point-bindu/article37183328.ece
27 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nod to start industries in 7 days: Rajeeve||Industries Minister P. Rajeeve on Tuesday said the State Government would give sanction to start enterprises within seven days of receiving application. Speaking to mediapersons here, Mr. Rajeeve said the Government had included the provision in the Kerala Medium, Small Scale and Micro Industries Facilitation (Amendment) Bill, 2021. It would apply to industrial investments from Rs. 50 crore and upwards. The Bill would help make the State more investment-friendly and upgrade its ease of doing business categorisation. The Assembly had passed the Bill unanimously on Monday. The Bill grants the Government to give a composite licence to industries. It envisages an Investment Facilitation Bureau to make the process more business-friendly, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-to-start-industries-in-7-days-rajeeve/article37183351.ece
27 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Schools reluctant to ply buses: Raju||With schools set to reopen next week after 18 months, only a fraction of them have expressed willingness to subject their bus fleets for fitness tests. Transport Minister Antony Raju, while replying to questions on the preparedness of the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) for school reopening in the Assembly on Tuesday, pointed out that only 2,828 out of the 22,718 school buses registered for the mandatory inspection as of October 15. Elaborating on the students transportation protocol released by the Transport Department, Mr. Raju said all buses to ferry students must be equipped with thermal scanners and hand sanitisers. Students will be permitted entry after only recording their temperatures and recording their details on a register. To enforce physical distancing, only one child will be allowed to occupy a seat. While many legislators feared the restriction and the schools’ reluctance could lead to a shortage of buses, Mr. Raju said the Kerala State Road Transportation Corporation will operate services as much as possible to overcome the situation. BOND services Nearly 1,000 schools have evinced interest in the utility’s Bus on Demand (BOND) services for which reasonable rates will soon be fixed on the basis of the bus routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schools-reluctant-to-ply-buses-raju/article37183352.ece
27 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||58,000 applications for Plus One allotment||More than 58,000 applications have been received for supplementary allotment to Plus One higher secondary courses. The maximum number of applications has been received from Malappuram – 11,310. There were 6,268 applications from Palakkad and 5,638 from Thrissur. The least was from Pathanamthitta – 1,110. Till tomorrow Applications for supplementary allotment can be submitted till 5 p.m. on Thursday. Those who did not receive allotment in the main phase despite applying or could not apply till now can apply for supplementary allotment. The allotment will be published on November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/58000-applications-for-plus-one-allotment/article37183467.ece
27 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital posts 808 fresh cases||The district recorded 808 COVID-19 cases and 598 recoveries on Tuesday. The active caseload stood at 9,395 and the test positivity rate was 8.5%. As many as 45,590 people are in quarantine in the district. The death toll stood at 4,908.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-posts-808-fresh-cases/article37183468.ece
27 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yemeni arrested||The Vanchiyoor police have arrested a Yemeni national on charges of circulating child pornography. According to City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay, Abdullah Ali Abdo Al-Hada, 52, who resides at Eenchakkal, was apprehended after he was found to be circulating pornographic content on WhatsApp. He has been working in a restaurant in the locality, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yemeni-arrested/article37183471.ece
27 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vendor killed as car rams shop||A 55-year-old woman was killed after a car rammed a vegetable shop she was running near Chembazhanthy on Tuesday. The Sreekaryam police identified the deceased as Chandrika of Udayagiri. The incident occurred around 12 p.m. when the driver of the car lost control of his vehicle and rammed the shop while Chandrika was inside. She was soon rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital here. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vendor-killed-as-car-rams-shop/article37183472.ece
27 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU organises training in nutmeg cultivation||The Central Training Institute, Mannuthy, under the Directorate of Extension, Kerala Agricultural University(KAU), has been organising an online training on Entrepreneurial Opportunities in Nutmeg Cultivation. The five-day training programme, which has been done in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Spices Research (ISSR), Calicut, started on Monday. Experts, who are involved in the relevant areas of research from the KAU and the ISSR, Calicut, are handling the sessions. The training was organised with an objective of orienting the farmers, entrepreneurs, and stakeholders on the scientific management practices and entrepreneurial opportunities in nutmeg cultivation, according to KAU sources. In all, 270 participants from across the country are attending the programme. To be discussed High-yielding varieties, package of practices recommended by the KAU, soil and plant health management practices, value addition, and entrepreneurial opportunities in nutmeg cultivation, will be discussed in the sessions. Mini Raj N., Dean, College of Agriculture, Vellanikkara, led the first session on scientific management practices and high-yielding varieties in nutmeg. The KAU has conducted a field survey to identify the super-yielding trees of nutmeg. Based on the studies, five high-yielding nutmeg varieties were released by the KAU with due credit to nutmeg growing farmers. Jayasree Krishnankutty, Director of Extension, KAU, said the five-day-long training programme was organised based on the requests from farmers. The programme will create awareness on scientific management of nutmeg cultivation and value addition in farmers for finding out income-generating avenues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-in-nutmeg-cultivation/article37183267.ece
27 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Kalamandalam awards declared||Kerala Kalamandalam fellowships and awards for the year 2020 were declared on Tuesday. A committee led by Kalamandalam Vice Chancellor T.K. Narayanan selected the awardees. Koodiyattam maestro Ammannur Parameswaran Chakyar and Kathakali musician Cherthala Thankappa Panicker were selected for the fellowships, which carry Rs. 50,000 cash award and citation. Other winners Margi Vijayakumar (Kathakali Vesham), Kalamandalam K.P. Achuthan (Kathakali Music), Kalamandalam Rajan (Kathakali – Chenda), Kalamandalam Achutha Warrier (Kathakali Maddalam), Appunni Tharakan (Aniyara), Sarojini Naghyaramma (Koodiyattam), Pallavi Krishnan (Mohiniyattam), Kunjan Smarakam Sankaranarayanan (Thullal), N.K. Madhusudhanan (Mrudangam). Madathilathu Govindankutty Nair (ASN Nambeeshan Puraskaram – Panchavadyam), K.B. Rajanand (MKK Nair total contribution award), Kalamandalam Aiswarya K.A. (Young talent award), C.K. Narayanan Namboodiri (Mukundaraja Smriti Award), Sumita Nair (Kalaratnam Endowment), Kalamandalam Anil Kumar P. (V.S. Sarma Endowment), Kalamandalam Krishnendu (Painkulam Rama Chakyar Smaraka Puraskaram), Maruthorvattam Kannan (Vadakkan Kannan Nair Smrithi Puraskaram), Karivallur Ratnakumar (K.S. Divakaran Nair Smaraka Sougandika Puraskaram), Nedumbully Rammohan (Bhagavathar Kunjunni Thampuran Endowment), Janakasankar P. (Brahmasree Pakaravur Chitran Namboodirippad Endowment), and Kalamandalam Gopinadha Prabha (Killimangalam Vasudevan Namboodirippad Smaraka Award.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalamandalam-awards-declared/article37183347.ece
27 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Guruvayur main Tantri dead||Chennas Narayanan Namboodirippad, main Tantri of the Sreekrishna Temple, Guruvayur, and management committee member of the Guruvayur Devaswom, died at a private hospital here on Tuesday. He was 70. He was under treatment for post-COVID-19 complications and was on ventilator. A voracious reader and Kathakali connoisseur, he took charge as main Tantri of the temple in 2014. He worked in Nedungadi Bank before becoming Tantri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guruvayur-main-tantri-dead/article37183348.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||It’s show time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-show-time/article37183290.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Marking a milestone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marking-a-milestone/article37183275.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Theatre beckons||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/theatre-beckons/article37183357.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For quick response||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-quick-response/article37183337.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Down to a fine art||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/down-to-a-fine-art/article37183339.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For cleaner classrooms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-cleaner-classrooms/article37183421.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against Central policies||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-central-policies/article37183425.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ready to tackle||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-to-tackle/article37183474.ece
27 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women stage dharna with mother’s body||Three women staged a demonstration by placing their mother’s dead body on the table of the Bathalapalli Tahsildar on Tuesday, sending shockwaves among the staff and visitors. Ratnamma, Nagendramma and Lingamma sat on a demonstration at the office, after placing their mother Lakshmi Devi’s body on the office table. After her husband Peddanna’s death seven years ago, Lakshmi Devi had been running from pillar to post requesting for transfer of documents pertaining to their five-acre land on her name, but in vain. The daughters squarely blamed the revenue authorities for the death of their mother “out of mental agony”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/women-stage-dharna-with-mothers-body/article37183402.ece
27 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elderly man arrested for son’s social media post||The Anantapur police arrested an elderly man for a social media post by his son who has settled abroad. Obul Reddy, currently staying in Uganda, had reportedly shared a post against Kadiri MLA Sidda Reddy, belonging to the YSRCP. Tracing the roots of Obul Reddy’s origin, the Kadiri police landed at his native village in N.P. Kunta mandal and whisked away his father Srinivas Reddy (70). Despite fervent pleas made by the senior citizen on his ignorance over the social media, the police turned a deaf ear and reportedly took him to the Kadiri police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elderly-man-arrested-for-sons-social-media-post/article37183404.ece
27 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man, sister held for tour package fraud||Central Crime Branch (CCB) officials on Tuesday arrested a man and his sister who were allegedly cheating people by luring them with tour packages through a chain link business module. Based on a tip-off, a police team raided Royal Dream to Fly Private Limited office in Sir M. Vishweshwaraiah Layout in Annapoorneshwarinagar and arrested Prashanth B. and his sister. According to the police, the accused had cheated many people in Chandra Layout earlier and a case had been registered against him. After the police investigations, he shifted his base to Girinagar and, using the same modus operandi, cheated many before shutting down the shop. He later opened an office in Annapoorneshwarinagar in the name of his sister and mother and lured people by offering them basic membership fees in return for freebies and trips to many international holiday destinations. The accused also offered 25% of the profit if more members were introduced to his business module. Lured by this offer, many paid membership fees and introduced others. However, some of them realised that Prashath was taking them for a ride, and approached the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-sister-held-for-tour-package-fraud/article37182897.ece
27 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two samples in Karnataka with AY.4.2||Although two samples from Karnataka were retrospectively found to be infected with AY.4.2 — a sub-lineage of the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 — State health officials and genome sequencing experts say there is no reason to panic as of now. Scientists have indicated that this new sub-lineage may be more contagious than the original Delta variant. AY.4.2 has now been declared as a ‘Variant under Investigation’ (VuI) in the U.K., where cases are on the rise. However, State health officials said there was no reason to panic as the two samples collected in July were retrospectively found to be infected with this sub-lineage during reanalysis of over 1,300 samples that were genome sequenced in the last few months. “Both the persons infected are from Bengaluru and were asymptomatic,” D. Randeep, State Health Commissioner, told The Hindu .  “We identified a total of 50 primary contacts of these two cases and all have tested negative. We did not find any more cases so far with AY.4.2 and this evidence shows that this sub-lineage is not highly transmissible in Karnataka,” he said. V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said when the two cases were infected with AY.4.2 in July, the sub-lineage was not even classified. “After the sub-lineage was declared as a VuI in the U.K., all genome sequenced samples were reanalysed in the country and a total of 17 samples were found to have been infected with AY.4.2 in the country. Of these, two are from Karnataka. Though there is no reason to panic, we have to continue to be more vigilant. People should realise that the virus is still mutating,” Dr. Ravi said. U.S. Vishal Rao, member of the State’s Genomic Surveillance Committee, said genomic surveillance had been stepped up following the detection of the two cases. “The detection of another sub-lineage reiterates the fact that the SARS-CoV-2 virus is not at rest. It is continuously transforming itself to attain more transmissibility, virulence and vaccine-escape mutations,” he said. “Hence it is prudent at this juncture to further strengthen the vaccination drive so that in this race between the vaccine and the variants, we are able to overcome the variants through accelerated vaccination,” he added. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said he was discussing the issue with the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-samples-in-karnataka-with-ay42/article37182943.ece
27 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will ask Govt. to reconsider Kannada G.O.’||The State Advocate-General on Tuesday assured the High Court of Karnataka that he would advise the State Government to reconsider its new policy of making Kannada a compulsory language for undergraduate courses from the academic year 2021–22. A-G Prabhuling K. Navadgi gave the assurance after a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum orally indicated to the A-G that it would stay the Government Orders of making Kannada a compulsory language for UG courses if the Government was not inclined to reconsider its decision. The Bench adjourned further hearing till November 10 on the petitions, filed by Samskrita Bharati (Karnataka) Trust and other educational institutions, while orally making it clear to the A-G that it was adjourning the hearing with a clear understanding that the Government would reconsider the decision.  Earlier, A-G told the Court that students of UG courses are required to study only “functional Kannada” and not as a full-scale subject and the functional Kannada course will be only for six months so that students know Kannada when they seek employment in Karnataka. However, the Bench orally observed that the Government may impose restriction on Kannada language at the time of employment but it cannot impose Kannada language on UG students. The petitioners have challenged the legality of the Government Orders (GOs) issued on August 7, 2021, and September, 15, 2021, making Kannada one of the two languages to be compulsorily studied in UG courses irrespective of the languages they studied up to class XII, the state from which they hail from, and their mother tongue or the regional language. Pointing out that the NEP-2020 does not specify any mandatory language criteria for higher education courses, the petitioners have contended the GOs issued in the guise of implementing NEP-2020 take away the choice-based credit system offered in the NEP to promote inclusivity and access to education, and making Kannada as a compulsory subject is contrary to the object of NEP-2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-ask-govt-to-reconsider-kannada-go/article37182898.ece
27 October 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tight security in Agency mandals||Security has been tightened in the Agency mandals abutting Chhattisgarh as the police intensified area domination and vehicle checking operations in the border areas in view of the bandh called by the CPI (Maoist) on October 27 in protest against Monday’s ‘encounter’ in Tekulagudem forest area, in which three Maoists were killed. The death of three key members, well trained in guerilla warfare, of the CPI (Maoist)’s Central Regional Company (CRC), on Monday’s ‘encounter’ in the forest area straddling the Chhattisgarh’s Tekulagudem in Bijapur district and Telangana’s Peruru in Mulugu district dealt a severe blow to the outlawed outfit in the Dandakaranya forests. Four weapons, including one Light Machine Gun, one Self-Loading Rifle, an AK 47 rifle and a firearm, were recovered at the ‘encounter’ site, police said. Police in coordination with the CRPF personnel intensified the joint combing operations and vehicle checking drives along the forest stretches of roads connecting the border villages in Bhadrachalam Agency with remote tribal pockets in Chhattisgarh’s south Bastar division. According to sources, security has been beefed up at mobile phone towers and other vital installations in the Left-Wing Extremism (LWE) affected areas in Agency mandals in the district and also neighbouring Mulugu district to thwart possible retaliatory attacks by Maoists to avenge the killing of their three key cadres. It may be mentioned here that the CPI (Maoist) State committee official spokesman Jagan issued a statement on Monday alleging that three members of the CPI (Maoist) CRC – Dhamal, ACM, from Gadchiroli in Maharashtra and two other cadres Sodi Ramal and P Badhru from Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district were killed in a ‘fake encounter’ in Tekulagudem forest area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tight-security-in-agency-mandals/article37182912.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TSIC hackathon winners to attend global meet||Eleven teams declared winners of the Data for Social Good Hackathon-2021, conducted for students by the Telangana State Innovation Cell and Data Analytics and Computational Social Sciences programme of the University of Massachusetts (Umass), will get to present their innovative proposals at the Annual UMass Homecoming Research Symposium on November 4. More than 700 students were allowed to work on the datasets and develop interpretations/insights on the progress of Telangana in various SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) during the 3-day virtual hackathon that was held from September 28. Of the 266 teams, 121 teams successfully submitted the visual interpretations and 11 teams made it to the winning list, a release on the hackathon from IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao’s office on Tuesday said. Some of the notable institutions beyond Telangana that participated in the hackathon included IIT Bombay, IIT Gandhinagar, IIT BHU Varanasi, Vellore Institute of Technology, Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute. Submissions were spread out across the SDGs — Zero Hunger (SDG 2), Good Health and Well Being (SDG 3), Clean Water and Sanitation (SDG 6), and Climate Action (SDG 13). Program Director at DACSS, University of Massachusetts, Meredith Rolfe said the team found unique ways to use data to study SDGs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tsic-hackathon-winners-to-attend-global-meet/article37183403.ece
27 October 2021||Hyderabad/Sangareddy,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siddipet Collector’s warning to seed sellers triggers row||A political storm is brewing over Siddipet Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy’s warning to officials and seed sellers that they would be suspended, and shops closed if even 1 kg of paddy seed was sold in the district. In a video being shared widely on social media, the Collector was seen delivering a warning that he would not care even if they get an order from the courts, hinting at the seed dealers. “Your shops will be closed and as long as I am the Collector here they would remain closed,” he warned. He further made some controversial statements saying there will not be any G.O. issued and this was his oral order. He also warned the agriculture extension officers (AEO) that they would be suspended even if one acre of paddy cultivation was noticed in their areas. These warnings come in the wake of the government’s repeated appeals to the farmers not to go for paddy cultivation. The Collector’s remarks evoked strong criticism from the Congress party with Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy tweeting the video and asking the Chief Minister to immediately take action against the Collector. Referring to the comments in the video, the Congress chief asked whether the Collector was Supreme than the Supreme Court? Mr. Reddy also alleged that this shows the government was trying to escape its responsibility from buying paddy from the farmers. “What is the use of spending thousands of crores on irrigation projects when the government is not willing to support the farmers,” he asked. Seeks apology Sangareddy MLA and TPCC working president T. Jayaprakash Reddy demanded an apology from the Collector asking who has given him the authority to warn the farmers not to cultivate paddy. “Don’t farmers have a right to cultivate what they wish,” he asked. He warned that if the Collector fails to apologise to the farmers, Congress won’t hesitate to lay siege to the Collectorate. He is behaving like a real estate dealer and not a Collector, the MLA alleged. TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud wanted the Chief Minister to reveal whether the Collector’s utterances were the government policy. Then what is the use of irrigation projects that the TRS boasts of, he asked. Dismissal demanded Bharatiya Janata Party State senior leader Gudur Narayana Reddy alleged that Siddipet Collector has been acting as an extra-constitutional power and demanded his dismissal from the services as he has made comments which amount to contempt of court openly. He reminded that the Collector was bound by the Constitution, but his warnings clearly reflect his disrespect for the Constitution. He said the Supreme Court should take notice of these comments and take up suo motu prosecution of the Collector and added that his comments reflected the dictatorial attitude of the government. Collector clarifies Meanwhile, Siddipet Collector said in a statement that his comments were misquoted with half truths on the social media. “Farmers were asked not to go for paddy in their own interest. Alternative crops can get good remuneration in the open market. Half truths are being circulated on social media which is not right,” Mr. Venkatarami Reddy said. The Collector in his meeting said that the Food Corporation of India (FCI) has deviated from procuring paddy and the government decided not to encourage paddy in the interests of farmers. Directing the officials to create awareness among farmers by going to the villages, the Collector said that Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao would be conducting a meeting with public representatives on the issue next month. The Collector suggested that seed sellers to make available adequate quantity of groundnut, black-gram, green-gram, sesame, pulses, vegetables and oil seeds so that farmers need not go elsewhere for seeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/siddipet-collectors-warning-to-seed-sellers-triggers-row/article37182902.ece
27 October 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fix water level at 137 ft, says Kerala||At a meeting of the high-power committee appointed by the Supreme Court on the Mullaperiyar dam held online on Tuesday, Kerala sought to fix the water level in the dam at 137 ft and Tamil Nadu take maximum water from the dam. But the representative of Tamil Nadu wanted to set the water level at 142 ft. The Kerala representative said that in 2018, the Supreme Court had directed to fix the water level in the reservoir at 139.99 ft. The State is facing a serious problem now when compared with 2018. If water is released from the dam, the Idukki reservoir, which is almost in full reservoir level now, cannot store more water. In the present situation, Tamil Nadu should draw more water from Mullaperiyar and store it in the Vaigai and Madurai dams, the Kerala representative said. The meeting also came to a consensus on opening the shutters of the dam when the water level crosses 138 feet, as per the rule curve approved by Tamil Nadu. Kerala Additional Chief Secretary T.K. Jose, Tamil Nadu member and Additional Chief Secretary Sandeep Saxena, and Central Water Commission member and Mullaperiyar high-power committee chairman Gulshan Raj attended the meeting. The meeting was held in the wake of the Supreme Court asking the committee to decide on fixing the water level. The apex court will deliver the judgment on Wednesday. District Collector Sheeba George said all steps had been taken and various departments were put on alert over the increase in the water level in the dam. Talking to mediapersons after a review meeting, she said 3,220 persons in Peerumade, Udumbanchola, and Idukki taluks would be shifted temporarily. Control rooms would be opened by the Water Resources Department and Fire and Rescue Services. The Forest Department has opened two control rooms at Vallakadavu and Vandiperiar. She also ordered the removal of the debris of a bridge which had collapsed in the 2018 floods at Nooradi. This was causing hindrance to the smooth flow of water in the dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fix-water-level-at-137-ft-says-kerala/article37182903.ece
27 October 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water level stagnant in Mullaperiyar||The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam remained stagnant at 137.60 ft on Tuesday. It was the same at 9 a.m. and 7 p.m.Tamil Nadu was releasing hourly data on the dam to Kerala. Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 2,200 cubic feet per second, while the inflow was the same at 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-level-stagnant-in-mullaperiyar/article37182904.ece
27 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Voting for YSRCP is ‘supporting anarchy’, says Purandeswari||Making an appeal to the voters of the poll-bound Badvel Assembly constituency not to give their mandate to the YSRCP, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) senior leader Daggubati Purandeswari on Tuesday said that ‘voting for the ruling party was akin to voting for anarchy’. “The people of Badvel must not encourage lawlessness by voting for the YSRCP. Support the BJP to ensure development,” said Ms. Purandeswari while canvassing for the party’s nominee P. Suresh. Ms. Purandeswari hit the campaign trail after offering prayers at the Rama temple at Kammavaripalle village. She accused the YSRCP of resorting to intimidation, coercion and even physical attack to ensure victory in the bypoll. “The situation is not conducive for a free and fair election in Badvel. Deployment of Central security forces is the only option to ensure peaceful conduct of the bypoll. Attempts are being made by the ruling party to frighten the BJP cadre. But, we are not scared of such feeble attempts,” she said. Drawing a parallel between Badvel and the YSR bastion Pulivendula constituency, both in Kadpa district, Ms. Purandeswari wondered how Badvel could remain backward for decades even as the ‘VVIP constituency’ witnessed ‘glorious’ development. She referred to the acute drinking water shortage in Badvel and sought to know what steps had the YSRCP government taken to mitigate the woes of people. BJP State president Somu Veerraju accused Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy of coercing BJP Kalasapadu mandal president Ramakrishna Reddy and ‘forcibly’ taking him into their party fold. “The ruling party leaders had threatened him (Ramakrishna Reddy) that the payment of bills for his contract works would be stalled if he did not join the YSRCP. We have complained to the Election Commission on this issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/voting-for-ysrcp-is-supporting-anarchy-says-purandeswari/article37183410.ece
27 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Volunteer in trouble for ‘campaigning’ for YSRCP||Trouble seems to be brewing for M. Narendra Kumar, who works as a volunteer at Sandrapalli village of Gopavaram mandal, for allegedly canvassing for the YSR Congress Party ahead of the bypoll to Badvel (SC) Assembly constituency. He was reportedly caught on camera participating in the campaign run by Nagari MLA R.K. Roja, Chandragiri MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy and other leaders. Mr. Narendra Kumar was said to be seen wearing a YSRCP scarf during the campaign. BJP candidate Panathala Suresh filed a complaint with the Collector and District Election Officer V. Vijayarama Raju on Tuesday, stating that the act violated the model code of conduct. Mr. Suresh demanded removal of the volunteer from service. “This is just an example. There are many instances of violation of the poll code by the YSRCP in the form of misuse of official machinery and engaging volunteers for campaign. The ruling party leaders are making a mockery of the Election Commission,” he said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/volunteer-in-trouble-for-campaigning-for-ysrcp/article37183412.ece
27 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Preliminary chargesheet filed in Viveka murder case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials filed the preliminary chargesheet in the murder case of former Member of Parliament Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy. Mr. Vivekananda Reddy was found murdered in his ancestral house in Pulivendula just a month before the general elections of 2019, creating enough fodder for the political parties to resort to blame game. The CBI took over the case from the State agencies in July last year. The CBI officials filed the preliminary charge sheet at the Pulivendula court on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/preliminary-chargesheet-filed-in-viveka-murder-case/article37183411.ece
27 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||13.81 lakh tonnes of paddy yield expected in East Godavari||A staggering 13.81 lakh metric tonnes of paddy yield is expected in the Godavari district in kharif 2021-22. The total extent of land under the paddy is above 2.21 lakh hectares in the district, where harvesting activity has commenced in some pockets in the Deltaic areas in the Godavari region. According to the statistics of the Agriculture Department, an estimated 2.76 lakh metric tonnes of paddy yield is required for local consumption. A majority of the yield would be traded and exported to various domestic and international destinations. Bumper yield Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha told The Hindu that the district had witnessed a bumper paddy yield in the present kharif. “The paddy harvesting has just commenced. Procurement will begin by next week. This kharif season, the procurement is done completely through the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBK),” he said. State Rice Millers’ Association president Dwarampudi Veerabhadra Reddy, Civil Supplies Corporation District Manager E. Lakshmi Reddy, Agriculture Joint Director N. Vijaya Kumar on Tuesday reviewed the preparedness measures for the paddy procurement at the Collectorate. In the review meeting, Mr. Lakshmisha directed the officials concerned to create awareness among the farmers on the paddy procurement system and the role of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1381-lakh-tonnes-of-paddy-yield-expected-in-east-godavari/article37183438.ece
27 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rythu Bharosa Kendra system stands exemplary: Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Tuesday claimed that Rythu Bharosa Kendra system would be exemplary in the country as many States were keen to adopt it. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna accompanied by Kakinada MP Vanga Geetha and East Godavari Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha participated in a virtual meeting on disbursement of aid to farmers under the three schemes — Rythu Barosa, Zero Interest YSR Crop Loan Scheme and YSR Yantra Seva Scheme — at the Collectorate. Above 4.2 lakh farmers had received Rs. 93.77 crore under the Rythu Bharosa scheme in the East Godavari district. Under the YSR Yantra Seva Scheme, 204 Joint Liability Groups comprising 1,025 farmers received Rs. 3.79 crore of subsidy. As many as 60,811 farmers received Rs. 7.88 crore of crop loans with zero percent interest in the East Godavari district. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna and Zilla Parishad Chairman Vipparthi Venu Gopal handed over the cheques to the beneficiaries of the three schemes at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rythu-bharosa-kendra-system-stands-exemplary-minister/article37183437.ece
27 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman attacks police with chilli powder||A Public Distribution System (PDS) ration depot dealer allegedly attacked the police with red chilli powder while the latter attempted to enter the depot to recover commodities and an electronic device at Nadurubada village of Rayavaram mandal in East Godavari district, Andhra Pradesh, on Tuesday. The incident occurred in the presence of Ramachandrapuram Revenue Divisional Officer Sindhu Subramanyam and Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Bala Chandra Reddy. The woman has been identified as Mirthipati Jyothi, who reportedly did not surrender the commodities and the electronic device to the officials. A local court had recently cancelled her dealership and a local self-help group had been entitled to run the PDS depot. Ms. Sindhu had ordered the police officers to break the entrance gate of the PDS depot when Ms. Jyothi prevented them from entering the depot by locking up the entrance. When the police officers attempted to enter the depot, Ms. Jyothi allegedly threw red chilli powder into the eyes of the women police. The police registered a case. The revenue and police officials are chalking out a plan to recover the materials from the depot. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-attacks-police-with-red-chilli-powder/article37182907.ece
27 October 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cannot allow violation of SC verdict in Church case: HC||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday observed that the Supreme Court judgment in the Malankara Church dispute case cannot be allowed to be violated with impunity. Justice Devan Ramachandran, while hearing petitions filed by the Orthodox faction seeking police protection for the churches under it, observed orally that the Jacobite faction had deliberately chosen to misinterpret the court’s intention to find peace with both the factions and was casting aspersions on it. He pointed out that letters were dashed off to the Chief Justice against him but he did not take the insinuations against him seriously. The court orally observed that one of the factions in the Malankara Church kept on flouting the Supreme Court judgment as if faith got precedence over the Constitution. If the vicars or priests appointed by Catholics were obstructed from discharging their duties, the court would be obliged to intervene. In fact, the court was trying to resolve the disputes that had been pending for decades. In spite of the best efforts by the court, the Jacobite faction deliberately tried to misunderstand the court’s intentions. In fact, pressure was being brought upon the court by bombarding the Chief Justice with letters, thereby denigrating one of the pillars of the constitution, the judge added. Parallel administration In fact, one of factions wanted to continue the status quo. It thought that it could run a parallel administration as long as it was able to avoid court orders. In fact, there had to be some meeting point to resolve the issue. They were free to have faith in their religion. But they should equally have faith in the constitutional principles. The court adjourned the hearing in the case to November 10 in view of an appeal filed against the court’s interim order directing to take steps for resolving the disputes through mediation.  Court is trying to resolve the disputes that have been pending for decades||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cannot-allow-violation-of-sc-verdict-in-church-case-hc/article37182905.ece
27 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Big screen comes alive in Kerala today||The relief is palpable in A.R. Vinod’s voice. “Yes, finally things are looking up for us, after a most harrowing time,” he says. His sentiment is shared by hundreds of theatre owners across the State. They are all relieved as they can screen films from Wednesday, for the first time in six months. Mr. Vinod, proprietor of Crown Theatre in Kozhikode, is confident that film fans will be back in front of the big screen in large numbers once again. The COVID-19 pandemic may have seen the OTT platforms such as Amazon Prime and Netflix grow exponentially in popularity, but for most people, the experience of watching James Bond’s latest adventure in a theatre will not be as enjoyable on a television set. Missing the experience Pradeep Nair, a national award-winning director, is planning to watch the new Bond film No Time To Die in a theatre on Wednesday. He has been badly missing the experience of going to the movies. He watches all the latest releases in theatres, mostly in his home town Kottayam. “I have watched a lot of films online during the lockdown, but there is nothing quite like watching a film in a theatre,” Mr. Pradeep says. “As a filmmaker and as a viewer of cinema, I am happy that our theatres are finally reopening.” But the theatres are allowed to have only half the capacity. “I hope the Government will let us sell tickets for all the available seats before long,” Mr. Vinod says. “Only then will we be able to cover at least some of the huge losses made over the last one-and-a-half years.” The theatre owners have been among the hardest hit by the pandemic. “Even when there was no show, I had to spend something like Rs. 1.25 lakh every month as maintenance cost,” he says. “Most of us had to depend on bank loans.” He hopes several big films that are lined up for release over the next few months will bring the smile back on an industry that has taken a severe beating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/big-screen-comes-alive-in-kerala-today/article37182900.ece
27 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schoolboy held for attacking 21-year-old woman||The police on Tuesday arrested a 15-year-old boy in connection with an attack on a 21-year-old woman at Kottukkara, near Kondotty, in the district on Monday. The police said the local boy had admitted to the attack and rape attempt. The incident The attack took place on Monday afternoon when the woman was returning home from her computer class at Kondotty. The boy had reportedly stalked the woman as she walked towards her house about a kilometre away from the highway. As she reached a deserted farmland, the boy grabbed her and pulled her into a banana plantation. He slapped her, hit her on the head and face with a stone and tried to strangulate her with her shawl as she resisted the rape attempt. After a scuffle with him, the woman ran for life and sought help at a nearby house. The people at the house helped her change her torn dress and called the police. The woman was admitted to hospital. She had suffered contusions and abrasions on her neck, face and head. “Luckily, the injuries are not serious. It could have been worse; but she escaped from strangulation as she fought back,” said Superintendent of Police Sujith Das S. Swift arrest The police intensified the hunt for the attacker with the help of a dog squad and fingerprint experts. Surveillance cameras in the region were examined and the police zeroed in on the boy within a day after the attack. The boy had also suffered minor injuries during the scuffle. There were scrape marks on his hands and lips reportedly caused from the woman’s nails. The police questioned him in the presence of his father. He was found to have been trained in judo. He will be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board at Tavanur. Mr. Sujith Das said the boy had no previous crime history and said it was yet to be ascertained if the boy had planned the attack. Stress among children However, Mr. Sujith Das indicated that the attack was a reflection of the frustration that the schoolchildren were undergoing during COVID-19 time. “Our children have had a negative psychological impact during the 19 months they stayed away from schools. They may have attended their online classes. But they have missed many crucial things needed for a sound growth during this period,” he said.  She has suffered contusions and abrasions on her neck, face and head. The injuries are not serious, say the police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schoolboy-held-for-attacking-21-year-old-woman/article37182908.ece
27 October 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police hold ‘Open House’ in Nellore||Students got a up-close look at the functioning of the police department at an ‘Open House’ organised by the Nellore district police at the Police Parade Grounds here on Tuesday. The event was held as part of the Police Martyrs Commemoration Week. Superintendent of Police Ch. Vijaya Rao led a team of police officers and personnel in explaining the efforts taken by the police to ensure the safety and security of citizens at all times in the face of threats due to terrorism and left-wing extremism. More than 3,000 students visited the weapons expo and were enlightened about the functioning of the CLUES team and the dog squad.The SP exhorted girl students to download the Disha App which would come in handy at times of distress. Some of the students who got an opportunity to handle the firearms were thrilled at the experience. Several students also got an opportunity to communicate over the VHF set. Police personnel also explained to the visitors about the various criminal investigation methods. The visitors were also briefed about the police station limits through a map and about the various station records, VHF communication sets, SHO's room, writer's room, lock-up room, and women’s help desk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-hold-open-house-in-nellore/article37183399.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu seeks Centre’s help to counter Jagan||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader N. Chandrababu Naidu is actively seeking help and protection for his partymen from the Union Government, and the invocation of President’s Rule in Andhra Pradesh, after his party headquarters was attacked by miscreants, who, he claims, are being shielded by the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) Government and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. For Mr. Naidu, the two-day trip to Delhi where he called on President Ram Nath Kovind with a delegation, asking for the imposition of Article 356 on Andhra Pradesh, but missed out on a meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah because of a delay in the latter’s return from Jammu and Kashmir, was a bittersweet one. “Our party headquarters in Vijayawada is just half a kilometre away from the A.P. Director-General of Police’s [DGP] office and very close to the Fifth Battalion. But we got no help. We got help when we appealed to the Union Government,” Mr. Naidu told The Hindu . “My partymen and I are being targeted because we have raised the issues of a drug mafia that enjoys Government protection,” he said, adding that TDP workers needed protection. The parting of ways between Mr. Naidu and the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) on the question of according special status to Andhra Pradesh following the formation of Telangana was not a happy one. The TDP-Congress alliance after the split and the personal attacks during the campaign for the 2019 general election made the parting even more bitter. Mr. Naidu, however, said his departure from the NDA was “only to keep the State’s interests in mind” and did not pertain to any major ideological breach between the TDP and the BJP. While not explicitly expressing any regrets on his break with the NDA, his response to questions on a rethink was that he had done the split for the sake of the State. But it was “also true” that “people did not support us [TDP] in two elections” following the split, he added. The TDP has, in the past, been at the helm of several efforts to forge “third front” formations. But Mr. Naidu did not express much enthusiasm about the current efforts to forge a regional parties-powered front against the BJP, adding that the time was not right for such moves. On whether he was open to exploring a return to the NDA, he said: “We must explore it, otherwise others will exploit us.” While Mr. Naidu had to return home without a meeting with Mr. Shah, he told his aides that he would persist with his efforts at securing the Union Government’s help for his party workers, who feel “under siege” at the moment. “Amit Shah ji  returned late from Jammu and Kashmir, and has meetings of the Union Council of Ministers to attend this evening,” said a source, adding that Mr. Naidu told his aides that he would be back in Delhi once an appointment was firmed up. The politics in Andhra Pradesh seems to be coming full circle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-seeks-centres-help-to-check-ysrcp/article37182896.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC ticks off Arumughaswamy Commission||The Supreme Court on Tuesday wondered whether the trajectory followed by the Justice (retired) A. Arumughaswamy Commission of Inquiry (CoI) into the death of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa is redolent of “virtually becoming a judge of his own cause” or an “umpire playing the game himself”. The oral remarks made by a Bench of Justices Abdul S. Nazeer and Krishna Murari were in reaction to submissions made by Apollo Hospitals, represented by senior advocate Aryama Sundaram, accusing the Commission of Inquiry of bias, violation of the principles of natural justice and conducting the fact-finding exercise outside its jurisdiction. Mr. Sundaram said the reputation of the premier Chennai hospital, where Jayalalithaa breathed her last in 2016, was “blighted overnight” by the CoI who took a tangent which was “unbelievable”. The senior lawyer said the path followed by the CoI was straight out of the fairy tale Alice in Wonderland . Mr. Sundaram submitted that the CoI had even got about to ask for the medical records concerning the hospitalisation of another former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran, 37 years ago, and his shifting to the Brooklyn hospital in the U.S. The CoI had written to Apollo chairperson Prathap C. Reddy for the information. “How will one centre get the medical records from another centre where the patient was referred to?” Justice Murari asked. “How will Dr. Reddy gets the documents of a U.S. hospital? What they did was out of a Robert Ludlum novel,” Mr. Sundaram said. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, for Tamil Nadu which wants the Commission to finish its work and submit its report, retorted sarcastically that John Grisham would be a better choice of author. “Grisham is more straight-forward. Ludlum is better, considering the intricacies involved,” Mr. Sundaram shot back. Mr. Sundaram clarified that he was not seeking to arrest the inquiry into the circumstances leading to the former Chief Minister’s death. The proceedings before the CoI were stayed by the Supreme Court in April 2019 on the basis of a plea by the Apollo Hospitals that the inquiry panel’s functioning was “replete with bias”. “Parties who had criticised her while she was living, now express sadness after her death,” Mr. Sundaram said. Legal question Justice Nazeer then asked a legal question about the hospital approaching the court at this stage. The judge said the CoI reports are usually placed before the Legislative Assembly. “Bias is a ground for me to come to court at any time of the inquiry. If my reputation is affected, anytime. There are three grounds on which I can come. They are bias, natural justice and jurisdiction… Can I have a reasonable feeling of non-bias here?” Mr. Sundaram replied. Apollo Hospitals had submitted that the Commission, instead of conducting an impartial probe, had filed a pleading alleging “criminal intent” on the part of the hospital and its doctors. Justice Nazeer asked whether the process of the CoI was adversarial or not. “Can the Commission participate as a litigant?” Justice Nazeer asked. Mr. Sundaram replied that the process was not supposed to be adversarial. “The CoI has to only extract the facts… This Commission goes about saying how this or the other treatment could have prolonged the CM’s life — now is this a medical fact-finding body? The CoI may be proficient in law but how does the CoI give expert views on medical terms which can be hardly pronounced… I have no faith in the Commission and everything it has done has to be called off,” Mr. Sundaram submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jayalalithaas-death-apex-court-ticks-off-commission-of-inquiry/article37182991.ece
27 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers seek justice for kin of slain ryots, scribes||Farmers under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate here on Tuesday demanding justice for the families of eight persons, including four farmers and a journalist, who were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh. The protesters, led by SKM Prakasam district convener Ch. Ranga Rao, raised slogans demanding the removal of Ajay Mishra from the Union Cabinet, as well as his arrest for his alleged links to the violence that led to the deaths of farmers who were staging a peaceful protest. The ongoing protest would be intensified till the withdrawal of the farm laws or the ouster of the BJP government at the Centre, asserted All India Kisan Sabha’s Prakasam district secretary Vadde Hanuma Reddy. ‘Demands ignored’ “It is unfortunate that the BJP-led government has turned a deaf ear to the farmers’ demand for statutory backing to the Minimum Support Price regime,” AIKMS State general secretary Chittipati Venkateswarlu said. Instead of providing MSP for all farm produce as per the formula evolved by noted agriculture scientist M.S. Swaminathan, the Centre had left the farmers to fend for themselves at a time when big corporate agri-marketing firms ruled the roost, said Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangam secretary P. Venkata Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-seek-justice-for-kin-of-slain-ryots-scribes/article37183397.ece
27 October 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to take help of NCB, Odisha, TS to check ganja trade in Naxal-hit region||Director General Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has sought the help of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Odisha, and Telangana governments to check the ganja trade in the Maoist-affected areas in the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) region. On Tuesday, Mr. Sawang reviewed various aspects of the illicit trade including ganja cultivation, trading destinations, elements associated with the trade and transportation of the contraband with the SPs of the districts in north Andhra region at a meeting here. “A coordinated strategy is being prepared with the NCB, Odisha, and Telangana governments to check the illicit trade,” Mr. Sawang told the media after the meeting. The DGP said that he had held talks with his counterparts in Odisha and Telangana, seeking help of the respective governments on lines of the cooperation being extended by them to tackle the Left Wing Extremism. “The area under ganja cultivation is much more on the Odisha side on the AOB region. It is thriving in the Naxal-hit region along the tri-State borders of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Odisha. The support from the Central and State stakeholders is need of the hour to check it,” said Mr. Sawang. “The Naxal-hit region has been the hotbed of ganja cultivation. However, our approach to tackle it will be unique this time. Assistance from the Greyhounds and Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) will be taken. This year, 2.9 lakh kg of ganja has been seized so far. A target has been set to destroy the crop in more than 4,500 acres in the AOB region,” he said. The DGP further said that the officials from the forest, revenue, and tribal welfare departments would also be roped as part of the new strategy. The SPs of East Godavari, West Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, and Srikakulam districts have shared their inputs on the illicit trade, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-to-take-help-of-ncb-odisha-ts-to-check-ganja-trade-in-naxal-hit-region/article37183408.ece
27 October 2021||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water auditing needed to minimise wastage in industries, says expert||Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT)-Srikakulam Director P. Jagadiswara Rao said that water conservation was the only option to overcome water crisis in urban areas and other places. He said that significant quantity of water was being wasted in industries, apartments and agriculture activity, leading to many problems particularly in summer season. The United Nations University Institute for the Advanced Study of Sustainability (UNU-IAS), Andhra University, and RGUKT-Srikakulam jointly organised a two-day international webinar on ‘Sustainable Water Resources Management in Asian Cities: Challenges and Opportunities.’ Mr. Jagadiswara Rao said that he had done a detailed study on water wastage and remedies in Visakhapatnam and other cities of North Andhra region. “There should be proper water auditing to minimise the wastage in industries. Leakages and excessive usage of water were another concern in residential dwellings. Excessive water use is another challenge in agriculture activity,” he added. Chancellor and Chairman of RGUKT K.C. Reddy, Joint Director of Water Resources Department K.S. Sastry, Academic Director of UNU-IAS Kensuke Fukushi explained the benefits of effective water management. They felt that proper utilisation of water resources would avert water crisis which posed a challenge for future generations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-auditing-needed-to-minimise-wastage-in-industries-says-expert/article37183443.ece
27 October 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tech plays key role in agri sector’||Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural College Associate Dean M. Suresh Kumar on Tuesday said that agriculture sector would turn lucrative if farmers were given the ability to integrate information and communication technology in their farming activity. Speaking at an international conference titled ‘Role of Information and Communication Technology in Agriculture’, Mr. Suresh Kumar said that farmers should understand the importance of climatic condition and crop patterns to get more yield. Several agriculture scientists, including Renukala Vallarapu and G. Muralikrishna, explained their opinions through video conference. The organisers said that discussions on various subjects would continue on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tech-plays-key-role-in-agri-sector/article37183442.ece
27 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||UDF accuses council of abetting illegal adoption||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition walked out of the Assembly on Tuesday accusing the Child Welfare Council of putting up a baby forcibly removed from its mother for adoption illegally. Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) legislator K.K. Rema, who sought leave of the House for an adjournment motion on the issue, said the CPI(M) and the council had abetted the crime. Powerful triad The party, law enforcement, and Government had acted as an extralegal moral police force. Seemingly moved by a tribal misogyny more suited for medieval times, the powerful triad aided the woman’s father, a CPI(M) leader, “banish” his grandchild, born out of wedlock to his daughter, to “protect the family’s twisted sense of honour.” Ms. Rema said the police refused to take cognisance of the mother’s complaint for six months under CPI(M) pressure and pushed her from pillar to post, searching for her “missing child.” CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat had termed the “honour crime” wrong of “immense moral and human rights proportion,” Ms. Rema said. Her intervention at the Chief Minister’s level to reunite the mother and child had failed due to CPI(M) interference. Yet, Ms. Rema said, the Women and Child Welfare Minister Veena George justified the council brazenly. Cries of “shame” erupted from the Opposition benches. They protested in front of the Speaker’s dais, seeking more speech time for Ms. Rema. Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the Government had committed a capital crime against society. The council falsified the infant’s gender to erase its identity before putting up the child for adoption., Mr. Satheesan said: “The Left is anything but progressive. The CPI(M) leadership’s thinly veiled conservatism, patriarchal ethos and pronounced anti-woman bias put far-right conservative parties to shame.” ‘With the mother’ Ms. George said the case had no parallel. The Government has stayed the adoption process in court and it was with the mother. The police have registered a case against the woman’s family accused of surrendering the child to the council without the mother’s consent. The Government has instituted an inquiry, she said. Speaker M. B. Rajesh rejected the notice for the adjournment motion.  The CPI(M), law enforcement, and Government had acted as an extralegal moral police force. K.K. Rema RMP legislator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/udf-accuses-council-of-abetting-illegal-adoption/article37182909.ece
27 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Satheesan raises dam safety with Stalin||The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam remained stagnant at 137.60 ft on Tuesday. The water level was the same at 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. The Tamil Nadu Public Works Department was releasing hourly data on the Mullaperiyar dam to Kerala. Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 2,200 cusecs, while the inflow was the same at 7 p.m. The water level in the Idukki reservoir declined to 2,398.6 ft by afternoon. It was at the orange alert level for the past two days. The red alert level is 2,398.31 ft as per the new rule curve fixed by the Central Water Commission.  The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put most of the districts, including Idukki, on yellow alert for heavy rainfall till October 30. On Wednesday, all districts except Alappuzha, Kannur, and Kasaragod are on yellow alert. The IMD announced the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon and commencement of northeast monsoon over the southern peninsula on Monday. It had also pointed out that a low pressure area is likely to form over the south Bay of Bengal this week. Satheesan’s letter Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has raised the issue of the long-term safety of the Mullaperiyar dam with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. In a letter to Mr. Stalin, Mr. Satheesan said as sibling States, Kerala and Tamil Nadu should jointly find a permanent and scientific solution to assuage public concern about the dam’s safety. The unprecedented rain during October had filled up the dam to the brim. The safety of Mullaperiyar weighed heavily on the mind of each Keralite. Mr. Satheesan sought Mr. Stalin’s support to build a safe and strong new reservoir at Mullaperiyar. Safety for Kerala and water for Tamil Nadu should be the central theme of the project. “We in Kerala look up to you to find an amicable and speedy solution to this problem which is threatening the safety and future of millions of people,” he said. Mr. Satheesan requested Mr. Stalin to consider the safety of the dam a matter of utmost importance and treat it as a priority matter. He appreciated Mr. Stalin’s empathetic and resourceful leadership of Tamil Nadu during the COVID-19 pandemic. ( With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram bureau )  The IMD has put most of the districts, including Idukki, in Kerala on yellow alert for heavy rainfall till October 30||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/satheesan-raises-dam-safety-with-stalin/article37182910.ece
27 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five college students arrested on charges of smuggling ganja||Chandragiri police arrested five persons for allegedly smuggling narcotic substances including ganja in the district on Tuesday. Tharun (25), Dileep Kumar (25), Gunasagar (21), Akhil Reddy (21) and Harsha (23), all of them college students, were caught while allegedly smuggling the contraband. Police told reporters that the youths had become addicted to ganja consumption during the lockdown and later got into the trade by contacting drug peddlers. According to Chandragiri police, the youths used to procure 1 kg of ganja at Rs. 5,000 from West Godavari district which in turn was sold to college students in packets of 50 grams at the rate of Rs. 500 per pouch. Four more absconding Four more accomplices are learnt to be absconding. Police said they have formed a team to nab them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-students-held-for-smuggling-ganja/article37183401.ece
27 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman’s suspicious death: man, relatives arrested||Satyavedu police achieved a breakthrough in the case of a woman’s suspicious death, by arresting the deceased woman’s husband and his relatives on Tuesday. The woman, identified as Shanti (32), was found dead under suspicious circumstances with stab wounds at her home in Nagalapuram town on October 23. DSP (Satyavedu) T.D. Yaswanth arrested the deceased woman’s husband Suresh (37), his mother Lakshmi and two relatives Sukumar and Rajasekhar. A dagger used to commit the crime was seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-relatives-arrested-for-wifes-murder/article37183400.ece
27 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Getting a feel of police work at ‘Open House’||Additional Director General of Police (ADGP-Law and Order) Ravishankar Ayyanar inaugurated the police open house at the Armed Reserve Grounds here on Tuesday. The Vijayawada City Police displayed different types of weapons, water canons, Vajra, Sodhana and other vehicles and the equipment used during routine and emergency duties. Mr. Ravishankar and other officers interacted with the students on the occasion. Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs), Additional DCPs, ADCPs and other officers participated. In Machilipatnam, Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal inaugurated the police open house to mark the Police Martyrs Commemoration observance at the police parade grounds. Students of various schools and colleges attended the programme. Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs), Station House Officers (SHOs) and other officers explained the police duties to the public. Mr. Kaushal, while paying homage to the police martyrs, said that several programmes including calling on the bereaved family members of the police personnel, handing over financial benefits to the COVID victims families and enquiring their welfare and other activities were being taken up during the Police Martyrs Commemoration observation days. At Eluru, SP Rahul Dev Sharma launched the open house at the parade grounds. The sniffer and tracker dogs welcomed the guests. The SP said the equipment being used by Cyber Crime, Intelligence, Anti-Naxal Squads, Law and Order and other wings were exhibited in the open house. Police officers displayed arms, vehicles and conducted mock drills at some places. Open houses were conducted in many police stations in Krishna, West Godavari and other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/getting-a-feel-of-police-work-at-open-house/article37183476.ece
27 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six more succumb to COVID-19 infection in State in 24 hours||The State reported six more deaths due to COVID-19 and 415 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative tally and toll reached 20,64,287 and 14,356 respectively. The death rate increased to 0.70%, and the recovery rate stands at 99.08% with a total of 20,45,276 recoveries, including the 584 patients recovered in the past day. Positivity rate The daily test positivity rate of the 33,944 samples tested was 1.22% and the overall positivity rate o the 2.932 crore was 7.04%. Guntur, Krishna and West Godavari reported two deaths each in the past day while 10 districts reported no death. Chittoor reported 93 infections in the past day. It was followed by Krishna (76), West Godavari (53), Guntur (50), Visakhapatnam (36), East Godavari (25), Srikakulam (24), Nellore (20), Prakasam (18), Anantapur (6), Kadapa (6), Kurnool (5) and Vizianagaram (3). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,93,326), Chittoor (2,46,552), West Godavari (1,78,899), Guntur (1,77,877), Anantapur (1,57,811), Visakhapatnam (1,57,558), Nellore (1,46,269), Prakasam (1,38,416), Kurnool (1,24,123), Srikakulam (1,23,014), Krishna (1,19,070), Kadapa (1,15,560) and Vizianagaram (82,917).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-more-succumb-to-covid-19-infection-in-state-in-24-hours/article37182960.ece
27 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mahila Police’: High Court asks govt. to file counter||A division bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court comprising Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and Justice A.V. Sesha Sai directed the State government to file a counter explaining that on what grounds it proposed to designate ward and village women protection secretaries (Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarsis) as ‘Mahila Police’, and entrust them certain responsibilities supposed to be discharged by the Police Department, within four weeks. The court issued notices to the Chief Secretary , Principal Secretary (Home) and chairpersons of Andhra Pradesh Police Recruitment Board and Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC). Hearing the PIL filed by A. Umamaheswara Rao of Visakhapatnam against the A.P. (Grama Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarsi / Ward Mahila Samrakshna Karyadarsi) Subordinate Service Rules, 2019 on Tuesday, the court made various observations and directed the respondents to make clear their stand on the matter in the given time. The petitioner’s counsel Y. Balaji argued that the impugned G.O. No.129 was illegal and violative of Sections1, 6, 11, 21 of the A.P. District Police Act, 1859. He insisted that only those appointed under the said Act were to be called as police and that there was a separate board for the recruitment of the police. The home guards who are appointed on the basis of the A.P. Home Guards Act 1948 are not called police, Mr. Balaji argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mahila-police-high-court-asks-govt-to-file-counter/article37183416.ece
27 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police hold ‘Open House’||The Vijayawada City Police displayed different types of weapons, water canons, Vajra, Sodhana and other vehicles and the equipment used during routine and emergency duties, as part of the ‘Open House’ at the Armed Reserve Grounds here on Tuesday. Additional Director General of Police (ADGP - Law and Order) Ravishankar Ayyanar inaugurated the event. Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu and other officers were present. In Machilipatnam, Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal inaugurated the event at the police parade grounds. Students of various schools and colleges who attended the programme were explained about the police duties. At Eluru, SP Rahul Dev Sharma launched the open house at the parade grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-hold-open-house/article37182963.ece
27 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||KCR’s comments exposed failures of Jagan: TDP leader||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) former MP Konakalla Narayana on Tuesday said that Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was making sarcastic comments on Andhra Pradesh because of the ‘inefficiency’ of the YSRCP government. Mr. Narayana was referring to Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao’s remarks that thousands of representations were being received from Andhra Pradesh that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) should be launched in the State. “Comments made by the Telangana Chief Minister have exposed the failures of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The neighbouring State is making progress, while Andhra Pradesh is lagging behind and the and the anti-people policies of the YSRCP government is to blame for it. Many industries are going away from Andhra Pradesh while Telangana has emerged as a favourite destination for investment,” Mr. Narayana told the media. He further said that the previous government (TDP) was successful in making the power deficit State (Andhra Pradesh) into a power surplus one soon after the bifurcation in 2014. “The YSRCP government has pushed the State back into crisis in the power sector,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kcrs-comments-exposed-failures-of-jagan-tdp-leader/article37183484.ece
27 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospital claims 50 bone marrow transplants||The Manipal Hospital in the city has reached a milestone of performing 50 successful bone marrow transplants saving the lives of children and adults, the hospital’s consultant medical oncologist and BMT physician Dr. G. Krishna Reddy has said. Addressing the media on Tuesday, Dr. Krishna Reddy said the hospital performed the first autologous stem cell transplant in 2009 and then went on to perform 50 transplants. Consultant bone marrow transplant physician Dr. Madhav Danthala said both autologous and allogeneic stem cell transplants were performed on patients for a wide range of diseases including multiple myeloma, lymphomas, acute lymphoblastic leukaemias, APML, aplastic anaemia, neuroblastoma, Wilm’s tumour and Ewing sarcoma. “Our transplant-related mortality is amongst the lowest in the country. It is a testimony to the safety and quality of care provided at Manipal which is the only hospital in the State with access to unrelated stem cell donor registries. We have catered to patients of all ages. Our youngest patient is a two-year-old girl and the oldest is a 63-year-old,” he said. Hospital director Dr. Sudhakar Kantipudi said almost 90% of bone marrow transplant patients had been treated under the Dr.Y.S.R. Arogyasri health scheme. Consultant medical oncologist Dr. B. Sravan Kumar, chief of clinical services Dr. Ch. Manoj Kumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospital-claims-50-bone-marrow-transplants/article37183477.ece
27 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fight stigma associated with mental illness: Ajeya Kallam||Discussion on issues of mental illness has been a taboo in our society and it is important to reach out to the wandering mentally ill people we come across on roads and streets, and provide them access to mental care facilities with the help of State functionaries, said Ajeya Kallam, Principal Advisor to the Chief Minister. Speaking after launching ‘Mano Bandhu’, a campaign to rehabilitate the wandering mentally ill, Mr. Kallam said there was a need to increase the number of facilities to cater to the needs of the mentally ill people. He also complimented the organisers for taking up the cause of people who are voiceless, neglected and discriminated against. Additional DGP A. Ravi Shankar Ayyanar said it was important to recognise that mental illness could be cured and people suffering from it could be brought to the mainstream by providing the right mental health facilities and medication. “We should strive to reach out to all the wandering mentally ill people across the State, give them medical treatment and enable them to lead a dignified life,” he said, informing that the Department of Police had taken similar initiatives in the past for the homeless and destitute kids to ensure their re-union with their family members. Vijayawada city Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu raised concern over increasing substance use by teenagers and said that if left unchecked in the early stage, it could lead to mental illness and addiction. He said parents should be vigilant and ensure proper treatment to their children at early stages. More facilities needed Psychiatrist Indla Ramasubba Reddy said the State was in need of more facilities for treatment of mental illness as there was only one mental hospital in Visakhapatnam. “A similar facility is coming up at Kadapa but we need more such hospitals in other parts of the State,” he said. Informing that the Mental Health Care Act 2017 deals extensively with issues of wandering mentally ill people, he said its provisions should be publicised extensively among the police and the common public. Founder convener of ‘Mano Bandhu’ Bhupatiraju Rama Krishna Raju said awareness activities would be organised to sensitise the public and invoke a sense of social responsibility towards the mentally ill people. Recipients of Ramon Magsaysay Award Sandeep Pandey, Raja Singh and Bharat Wadwani and social activist Medha Patkar sent their solidarity messages. Activists from across the State, representatives of Shradda Foundation in Maharashtra and Annam Foundation in Telangana participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fight-stigma-associated-with-mental-illness-ajeya-kallam/article37182970.ece
27 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank loans to be disbursed tomorrow||A credit outreach programme will be conducted at A Convention Centre here on Thursday (October 28). Following the directions of the Department of Financial Services, the programme is being conducted by the Indian Bank (lead bank) in Krishna district. At a press conference here on Tuesday, Indian Bank Deputy General Manager K.V. Rajasekhara Rao said that various public sector banks and private banks would take part in the programme where credit (cheques and assets) to the tune of Rs. 970.85 crore would be disbursed to 46,870 people. Of this, Rs. 559.50 crore would be towards agriculture and Rs. 125.04 crore for the MSME sector. The retail sector would get Rs. 115.50 crore and the rest would be other loans, he said. The aim of the programme is to meet the credit requirement of the public and create awareness regarding the Central government schemes like Stand-Up India and MUDRA. Twenty-four stalls would be set up wherein the banks would display their schemes. A few stalls would be allotted to Self-Help Groups (SHGs). Lead bank district manager K. Rammohan Rao, deputy zonal manager M. Selvaraj and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bank-loans-to-be-disbursed-tomorrow/article37182965.ece
27 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fair price shop dealers stage protest||Fair price shop dealers on Tuesday staged a protest in front of Civil Supplies godown demanding that the State government address their problems and demands immediately. Addressing the gathering, Dealers’ Association president Mandadi Venkat Rao said that the ration shop dealers were allowed to sell the gunny bags since the tenure of combined Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. The State government, however, under the pretext of shortage of gunny bags, was not allowing the dealers to sell them. Instead, they were offered Rs. 20 per bag, said Mr. Venkat Rao. The officials, however, assert that it was not possible to pay such a huge amount to the dealers. Consequently, the dealers were suffering losses. The dealers have landed in trouble due to the decision of the officials, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fair-price-shop-dealers-stage-protest/article37182967.ece
27 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on improving occupancy in hotels, says Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday directed the officials to focus on 100% occupancy in hotels belonging to the Tourism Department. At a review meeting with officials of the tourism and sports wings, the Minister said in the prevailing tourism season, the officials should make the best of the next four months and host at least four tourism festivals in every region to attract tourists from other States. Sponsors for these festivals should be identified, he added. He said officials should visit at least two districts every day to monitor the facilities and conditions in tourism hotels and resorts in the State. They should interact with private operators to ensure that the boating facility was made available to the tourists, he said. Tourism app The tourism app that was being designed should be ready to operate by New Year, he said. Reviewing the sports activities, he asked the officials to start the proposed district-level CM cup tournaments at Vizianagaram on November 6 and asked them to replicate in East and West Godavari districts. He wanted the Sports Development Centres at Tenali and Bapatla to be made ready for inauguration by November 1. Special Chief Secretary, Tourism and Sports, Rajat Bhargava, Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation CEO S. Satyanarayana, CEO of the Department of Culture Mallikarjun, Managing Director of Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh S. Prabhakar Reddy, Administrative Officer Ramakrishna, Technical Assistant Director Ramana and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-improving-occupancy-in-hotels-says-minister/article37182968.ece
27 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. Police conduct raids in Gujarat||Sleuths of Counter Intelligence of the A.P. conducted raids in Panchamahal district in Gujarat, and reportedly picked up five persons, including a woman, for allegedly having links with Pakistani terrorist groups. A team of Counter Intelligence officials, along with the Gujarat Police, conducted raids in connection with the the 2019 espionage racket, in which 12 persons were arrested. The A.P. Intelligence Department had busted an espionage racket in the Indian Navy and arrested seven sailors after they allegedly passed on sensitive information like locations of naval ships and submarines to a Pakistani handler. The operation, led by A.P. Counter Intelligence with Navy and Central Intelligence agencies, was code-named ‘Dolphin’s Nose’. The police arrested three sailors from Visakhapatnam, two from Karwar naval base, and two from Mumbai naval base, all recruited in 2017. The accused were ‘honey trapped’ by four women, who continued chats with them on social media platforms. Later, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the case and arrested a Pakistani ISI operative, Imran Yakub Gileti alias Gileti Imran, native of Godhra in Gujarat. DGP D. Gautam Sawang said the raids were conducted on Monday as part of a special operation. More ISI agents, who had links with Pakistan-based terrorist groups, were arrested, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-police-conduct-raids-in-gujarat/article37183406.ece
27 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Cancelling aid to educational institutions a thoughtless move: Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has accused the YSRCP government of ‘thoughtlessly’ cancelling aid to the educational institutions in the State, thereby delivering a ‘death blow’ on the future of students from poor financial background. In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Naidu said that the YSRCP government had adopted an ‘anti-education’ policy that had ‘dragged the students out of their schools and forced them to take to the streets’. “At the same time, the government is harassing the institutions which are not handing over their assets and properties,” he alleged. The TDP president demanded that the government must withdraw the G.O. 42 without creating any further crisis. “The ruling party has no right to destroy the age-old aided institutions and the future of the students studying there. The merger of aided institutions with the government schools and colleges is unnecessary and condemnable,” he said. Mr. Naidu pointed out that the academic year had already been delayed by over two months due to the coronavirus pandemic. “At this crucial juncture, the government should ensure smooth continuation of the studies without hindrance. The merger of institutions is causing unbearable stress to the students and their parents,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cancelling-aid-to-educational-institutions-a-thoughtless-move-naidu/article37183414.ece
27 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR Vigilance Awareness Week begins||The Vijayawada Division of the South Central Railway is observing a Vigilance Awareness Week from October 26, said DRM Shivendra Mohan. Speaking after administering an integrity pledge to the officers and staff virtually, he said the programme was being observed following the directions of the Central Vigilance Commission (CWC), to coincide with the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on October 31. The objective of the programme was to promote integrity and probity in public life, generate public awareness and publicise the adverse impact of corruption and bring down corruption to zero, Mr. Mohan said. The officers and employees should follow the rule of law, be honest in discharging their duties, maintain transparency and help passengers and visitors in the offices, he said. The theme for this year’s Vigilance Awareness Week is “Independent India @ 75: Self Reliance with Integrity”. A special drive against corruption would be held through posters and personal counselling by vigilance wing officials at important public and staff contact areas in the field. Seminars, workshops, and sensitisation programmes would be held for railway employees, the DRM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-vigilance-awareness-week-begins/article37182957.ece
27 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. NDRF wins inter-battalion yoga contest||National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) 10th Battalion emerged winners in the Inter Battalion Yoga Competitions held at Adivinekkalam village on Tuesday. Four teams from Mundli (Odisha), Ranipet (Tamil Nadu), Pune (Maharashtra) and 10th Battalion (Andhra Pradesh) participated in the competitions. The winners team will participate in the zonal level NDRF Yoga Competitions to be held in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ndrf-inter-battalion-yoga-contest/article37182958.ece
27 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Hygiene kits’ for 8,000 resource persons||The Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) in association with UNICEF has taken up the distribution of “Hygiene Kits” to 8,649 resource persons, health resource persons and MECCs in the State. MEPMA Mission Director V. Vijaya Lakshmi, in a release on Tuesday, said the resource persons were striving to deliver the socio-economic welfare schemes to the beneficiaries despite the COVID pandemic. She said MEPMA, in association with the UNICEF, trained the 8,000 resource persons on COVID response, vaccination, menstrual hygiene and Clean Andhra Pradesh (CLAP) as they reach out to 23 lakh Self-Help Groups and families of the members. To safeguard the resource persons, MEPMA was providing the hygiene kit consisting of masks, hand wash bottles, hand sanitisers and nail cutters, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hygiene-kits-for-8000-resource-persons/article37182961.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAHAPTNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal woman dies after giving birth at home||A tribal woman died, after giving birth to a baby girl, as she could not be shifted to a hospital due to lack of road connectivity to her village at Chintapalli mandal in the Agency area of the district on Monday night. Divya (27) of Yedurumilli village of Annavaram panchayat, had developed labour pains at around 9 p.m. on Monday. Her family members called the 108 ambulance service but the ambulance staff reportedly ruled out the possibility of coming to the village as there was no road. The woman gave birth to a healthy baby at her home late in the night. She, however, continued to bleed heavily. The family members decided to admit her to a hospital on Tuesday morning as it was difficult to carry her in a ‘dholi’ to the road point during the night. The woman died subsequently leaving the family members in grief. The young woman had already given birth to two sons and a daughter in the past and this was her fourth issue. “Though we advise the pregnant women to get admitted to the hospital, a few days ahead of the probable delivery date, instead of waiting for labour pains, they generally refuse to heed our advice,” say ASHA workers in the tribal areas. There are 800 to 1,000 habitations of the 3,678 notified villages in the 11 mandals in the Agency area of the district, which do not have road connectivity. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has recently directed the officials to accord top priority to laying roads in the tribal habitations, based on the population. He said that the various grants, including Central grants, could be pooled for construction of the roads. ITDA Project Officer R. Gopalakrishna has prepared a profile of the habitations, which do not have road connectivity, based on their population. The final report has been sent to the government, for its approval, MLA K. Bhagyalakshmi told The Hindu , when contacted on Tuesday evening. When her attention was drawn to the complaints of refusal of tribal women to get admitted early, Ms. Bhagyalakshmi said that a pregnant woman hostel was already available at Araku and one more would be opened at Chintapalli on November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-woman-dies-after-giving-birth-at-home/article37183481.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP, TDP harming State’s interests: CPI(M)||The ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and the Opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) are indulging in mudslinging against one another, instead of questioning the BJP government on the non-implementation of the assurances given to the State in the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu has alleged. Both the parties are looking up to the Union government for meditation, to outwit one another, sacrificing the interests of the State. This attitude of the two major parties in the State was giving a long rope to the BJP to have its way to the disadvantage of Andhra Pradesh, he said. The Left parties would organise a State-wide agitation on October 28 against the ‘anti-people’ policies of the BJP government, Mr. Madhu told a media conference here on Tuesday. While the Opposition leader N. Chandrababu Naidu had sought the BJP government’s mediation in taming the YSRCP, the latter wanted its mediation on the river water dispute with neighbouring Telangana State. The CPI(M) State secretary said that both the parties were neglecting the problems of the common people due to the steep hike in the prices of petrol and diesel by the Union government. He alleged that the BJP government instead of reducing the price of essential commodities at a time when people were already under financial stress due to the pandemic situation and loss of jobs, has hiked the price of petroleum. He predicted that the price of petrol would go up to Rs. 130 a litre in a few months. Polavaram project On the Polavaram project, the Centre has declined to sanction Rs. 47,000 crore as per the revised estimates, and agreed to pay only Rs. 20,390 crore in accordance with the previous estimates. He recalled that the BJP government had declared Polavaram as a national project in Parliament and had offered to bear the entire cost of the project. It was now planning to cut down on the project cost drastically, he said. The CPI(M) State secretary alleged that the BJP government was snatching the powers of the States and trying to hand over over PSUs to the corporate groups like Adanis.  Party State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao and city secretary B. Ganga Rao were present. Replying to a query, Mr. Madhu deplored the move of the State government to take over aided educational institutions and said it would be detrimental to the interests of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-tdp-fighting-each-other-by-sacrificing-states-interests-cpim/article37183480.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traders hope for a cracker of Deepavali||With the Deepavali festival around the corner, firecracker traders have started their preparations to set up stalls here. Though the State government has not yet released guidelines regarding the festival, the traders are hopeful that permissions will be given and are expecting good sales post COVID-19 relaxations and vaccination drive being on course. Star Fire Merchants Welfare Society Secretary Siraj Sayyed said that most of the traders have started their preparations to set up and green crackers will be sold following the Supreme Court guidelines. “Last year, we had set up around 90 shops at Andhra University grounds and we are expecting the same number again,” he said. Mr. Siraj said that they were expecting better sales compared to the previous year. “The stalls were set up following the COVID and Fire Department norms and the traders ensured social distancing at the premises. We would continue the same, if permission is accorded, this year also,” he said. According to Regional Fire Officer (RFO), GVMC, Niranjan Reddy, the traders initially need to take No Objection Certificate (NOCs) from the Fire Department, APEPDCL and a few other departments and also apply for permission with the Police Department. The Police Commissioner is the authority to give permissions for setting up the stalls in the city limits, while in the rural and Agency area, the District Collector gives permission, he said. “The guidelines from the government are expected soon. In the meantime, the application process goes on. We have also started to receive applications for NOCs. Since a discussion needs to be held with the Collector, police and other authorities, we have not scrutinised them yet,” he said. According to a few firecracker traders, the number of stalls has been declining in the city over the last few years. The traders say that while many of them are not venturing into this business to avoid losses and in the recent times due COVID-19 pandemic. “Earlier, stalls were allowed at many places, including at prime locations within the city, such as near the RTC bus stop, LIC Building Road and beside the Central Park. But now we are given space only at a few places like AU Grounds. The city does not have many grounds. Before COVID-19, about 150 stalls could be accommodated at a ground and now due to the restrictions, they are limited to 70 to 90,” a trader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/traders-hope-for-a-cracker-of-deepavali/article37183497.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP seeks reversal of decision on aided institutions||Floor leader of Jana Sena Party (JSP) in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Peethala Murthy Yadav on Tuesday submitted a petition to District Collector A. Mallikarjuna, opposing the decision of the State government to close aided educational institutions. He said thousands of poor students were receiving free education in the aided schools and colleges in the district. The withdrawal of aid by the State government to those institutions, which refused to hand over their assets, made the managements to hastily transfer their faculty and close their institutions. This has forced the students to come out on to the roads along with their parents. He said that though the Chief Minister has ruled out the prospect of forcible merger, the ground-level situation was different. He alleged that the education officials were intimidating the managements of aided institutions into submission. Mr. Yadav sought that the ground-level situation should be taken to the notice of the government and the future of poor students be safeguarded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-seeks-reversal-of-decision-on-aided-institutions/article37183486.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Open House leaves students spellbound||An Open House programme was organised by the city and the district police, as part of the ongoing Police Commemoration Week in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday. A large number of students from various schools attended the programme at AR Grounds (city police) and at Police Parade Grounds, Kailsagiri (district police). Speaking during the programme, Additional SP (Crimes) B. Lakshmi Narayana, who inaugurated the exhibition at Kailasagiri, said that the main motto of the programme is to create awareness over the ammunition, machinery, tools and crime detection methods of the police to the students. He said that the district police have been conducting various programmes as part of the Police Commemoration Week. Students from several colleges were enthralled looking at the various weapons and ammunitions, especially learning about the functioning of dog squad. They were thrilled to see police canines ‘goldy’ and ‘rocky’ detecting explosives and drugs. Similarly, bodyworn cameras, drone cameras and communication equipment were also displayed. Deputy Superintendent of Police, A.R, R.P.L. Santhi Kumar, explained about the bomb disposal team, communication equipment, dog squad teams, weapons like AK-47, pistols, gas gun, grenades, landmine proof vehicles, Vajra vehicles and a few others. Students learnt about deep search metal detectors (DSMD), telescopic manipulators, remote wire cutters which are used by bomb disposal teams. Similarly, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone I) S Gauthami interacted with students at the Open House exhibition at the AR Grounds by the city police. Outreach programme As part of the outreach programme by the city police and the Vigilance Awareness Week, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha interacted with the staff and doctors at the Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital And Research Centre here. Mr. Manish Kumar Sinha spoke on leading a honest life, maintaining transparency and accountability in the work, particularly with reference to the health sector. He suggested ways and means to handle corruption in the organisations such as strengthening the internal vigilance, relying on IT platforms, supporting legislations such as RTI and putting up individual efforts to strengthen the fight against graft. Director Umesh Mahantshetty and other officers from the cancer hospital were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/open-house-leaves-students-spellbound/article37183500.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on building a corruption-free society, AU Registrar tells youth||A large number of students from about 22 colleges in Andhra University and its affiliates took part in the integrity pledge, as part of the inaugural function of Vigilance Week organised by HPCL-Visakh Refinery in association with the university, here on Tuesday. The pledge was read out by AU Registrar V. Krishnamohan, HPCL GM (HR) K. Nagesh and DGM (Vigilance Department) Saket Kalikar. Speaking on the occasion, Prof. Krishnamohan said that the youth should focus on building a corruption-free society and stated that honesty and integrity alone can help people lead a dignified life, leading to better governance. Mr. Nagesh urged the students to lead a life filled with values and ethics and maintain transparency in their daily life. At Dredging Corporation of India, G.Y.V. Victor, MD and CEO, administered the integrity pledge to all the employees at the head office in the city and at different projects across the country. Speaking on the occasion, he emphasised for corrupt-free practices by adopting transparent technological-based initiatives in the organisation like e-governance, e-office and technology-based procurement and automation processes. He has assured that the DCI management will act swiftly to take strict and stringent action against anyone at any level found involved in corrupt practices. Chief guest of the occasion, S. Sumitra, Principal of Law College, Andhra University, said that the development of the nation is hindered because of corruption and corruption has a negative effect even on the good works done. A.K. Dasgupta, Joint General Manager (Legal) DCIL, also spoke. The Indian Institute of Management Visakhapatnam also observed the Vigilance Awareness week on this year’s theme ‘Independent India @75: Self-Reliance with Integrity.’ Speaking on occasion, M. Chandrasekhar, Director of IIMV, said, “The most basic step one has to follow to alienate corruption is by doing the work righteously even when one isn’t under the eyes of supervision.” Deepika Gupta, CVO, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-building-a-corruption-free-society-au-registrar-tells-youth/article37183501.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP, VPT observe Vigilance Awareness Week in city||Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL)- Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) is observing the Vigilance Awareness Week from October 26 to November 1. K. Venkata Nagi Reddy, IDES, CVO, RINL, senior officers and employees took the integrity pledge. Heads of various departments of VSP and employees at various locations in the plant, mines, liaison and marketing offices outside Vizag also took the integrity pledge duly following COVID guidelines. The Corporate Communications Department arranged for live streaming on social media platform. Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) Chairman K. Rama Mohana Rao administered the integrity pledge to the officers and employees at the Administrative Office Building (AOB) on Tuesday. VPT is conducting various activities to create awareness among the stakeholders, employees and citizens, especially youth, to promote and uphold ethical values as corruption is a major obstacle to the development of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-vpt-observe-vigilance-awareness-week-in-city/article37183485.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-day conference begins||The three-day 27th International Conference of International Academy of Physical Sciences (CONIAPS 2021) on ‘Advances in Information Science and Technology’ which was organised by Vignan’s Institute of Information Technology (Autonomous) began here on Tuesday. Director, IIIT-Allahabad, P Nagabhushan, who attended the programme as the chief guest, stressed on the significance of the advances in information science and technology in a modern scenario. He explained the useful data and waste data, how this can be converted into information. Fundamental research Chairman, Vignan Group, L. Rataiah, appreciated the role of the western countries on fundamental research and documentation of the research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-day-conference-begins/article37183489.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 36 new cases, 33 recoveries||The Visakhapatnam district reported 36 new COVID infections and 33 persons recovered from the coronavirus in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. This takes the cumulative tally to 1,58,067 and the number of recoveries to 1,56,232. The recovery rate is hovering around 98.8 %. The death toll remains at 1,096 as no COVID-19 death occurred in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-36-new-cases-33-recoveries/article37183498.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Renovated satellite depot inaugurated||General Manager of East Coast Railway (E Co R) Vidya Bhushan came on a visit to the city on Tuesday. He inspected the Track Machine office, Visakhapatnam, and inaugurated the renovated satellite depot there. He also flagged off the UNIMAT Machine which is used in track maintenance. Divisional Railway Manager, Waltair, Anup Satpathy accompanied the General Manager. Later, Mr. Vidya Bhushan interacted with the branch officers of Waltair Division and discussed various developmental activities over the division. He participated in the 9th Biannual General Body meeting of the East Coast Railway Shramik Congress held in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/renovated-satellite-depot-inaugurated/article37183494.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSEC seeks payment of wage revision arrears before Deepavali||The Visakha Steel Employee’s Congress (VSEC) has appealed to the CMD of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) to make the first phase of instalment wage revision arrears of VSP employees, from April 1, 2020, before Deepavali, as was decided by SAIL steel plants in the case of employees under SAIL. In a letter to the CMD on Tuesday, VSEC general secretary Mantri Rajasekhar referred to the M o U made by the NJCS on October 22, 2021 in New Delhi, regarding wage revision of Steel employees of SAIL and RINL plants, which was effective from January 1, 2017. He sought that payment of first instalment arrears in RINL/VSP also before Deepavali as it would boost the morale of the employees. The VSP employees were contributing a lot for increasing production and productivity. The company has made a profit of over Rs. 800 crore in the first half of the present financial year. The employees had also contributed to the growth of the company even during the pandemic, putting their lives at risk. He also sought hike in the stipend being paid to Junior Trainees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsec-seeks-payment-of-wage-revision-arrears-before-deepavali/article37183487.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paddy to be procured from 155 centres||The AP Civil Supplies Corporation has decided to procure paddy from the farmers in the district for kharif season in 2021-22. A total of 155 paddy procurement centres in the district have been identified for this purpose, Joint Collector M. Venugopala Reddy has said. He held a review meeting with the officials on Monday. As many as 48 procurement centres were identified through Velugu, 43 in tribal areas and 64 through Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS). He said that the farmers have to register their crops on e-crop at the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) with the assistance of Agriculture Assistants. The procurement agencies have to be prepared with the equipment like moisture meters, tarpaulins and electronic balance. The District Rice Millers Association has been directed to supply empty gunny bags for filling up of the procured rice. District Manager of Civil Supplies, Joint Director of Agriculture, Anakapalle RDO, Project Director of DRDA, Marketing AD, District Cooperative Bank CEO, Paderu ITDA Deputy Project Manager, Divisional Manager of FCI and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paddy-to-be-procured-from-155-centres/article37183488.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three missing children handed over to parents||Three children who had gone missing from a home were successfully handed over to parents by the city police at Bheemili in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday. Police patrolling team from Disha Police Station noticed three children Manoj, Manohar and Visranth aged around three to four years, walking along the National Highway near Tagarapuvalasa at around 3.30 p.m. on Tuesday. Home Guard driver M. Satish stopped the children and enquired about their whereabouts. The children replied that they had gone missing from their home. Social media Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said Mr. Satish effectively used social media to trace their parents. The Police Commissioner appreciated Mr. Satish for his prompt action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-missing-children-rescued/article37183482.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NCN Centre inaugurated||Naval Communication Network (NCN) Centre, Visakhapatnam, was inaugurated by Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command, on Monday. Apart from senior officials from the Indian Navy, the event was attended by representatives from the Sterlite, BSNL and TCIL. The inauguration of the centre will ensure a modern, secure and robust network for the Indian Navy, on the Eastern Seaboard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ncn-centre-inaugurated-at-visakhapatnam/article37183483.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth booked on charge of raping a minor girl||The district police registered a rape case against a 21-year-old youth for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl at Nathavaram in the Visakhapatnam district. According to Sub-Inspector of Nathavaram police station, Sekharam, the youth, who resides in the same area, is studying B.Tech. According to the police, the accused was allegedly involved in a physical relationship with the victim, which led to pregnancy and subsequent delivery of a baby boy. When the issue of pregnancy had come to light a few months ago, the youth had allegedly promised to marry the girl. But later he allegedly started ignoring her, the SI said. The family members of the girl lodged a complaint with the police on Monday night. Based on the complaint, the Nathavaram police have registered cases under various sections and also the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-booked-on-charge-of-raping-a-minor-girl/article37183444.ece
27 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure quality food, AU V-C tells wardens||Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy said that wardens and mess staff should not compromise on the quality of food. He held a meeting with the staff and said that disciplinary action would be initiated if any one is found neglecting his or her duty. Speaking during the meeting, the V-C said that no complaint should come from the students over the food quality and the staff should also behave courteously with them. He said that from now, there would be strict monitoring on university messes and soon officials would take up sudden inspections. He said that special officers will be appointed for every mess. Chief Warden P. Premanandam instructed the officials to prepare a report over the repairs to be carried out to the hostel mess and submit to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-quality-food-au-v-c-tells-wardens/article37183495.ece
27 October 2021||VISKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Join hands with railways to fight graft, says ECoR GM||The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R) is observing Vigilance Awareness Week from October 26 to November 1. E Co R General Manger Vidya Bhushan administered the integrity pledge to the officers and staff at the Divisional Railway Manager’s Office here on Tuesday. DRM, Waltair, Anup Satpathy, officials from the headquarters and branch officers took the oath. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Vidya Bhushan said that the purpose of Vigilance Awareness Week is to create awareness among the public at large about the ill-effects of corruption and to develop integrity among the public to work with conscience. He appealed to everyone to join hands with the railways in the fight against corruption, social evils and to make India ‘Satark Bharat’. Mr. Satpathy said that the motto behind the observance of the Vigilance Week was to propagate the message of integrity and vigilance among rail users, stakeholders and railway employees so as to achieve the goal of self-reliance with integrity. Vigilance awareness banners and posters were displayed at stations and at various units. Pamphlets were distributed to the passengers at stations, and audio jingles on vigilance awareness were played at stations. Seminars, essay writing, debate and drawing competition would be organised during the period. Skits would also be presented to create awareness among the employees. The Vigilance Awareness Week coincides with the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, known as a man of high integrity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/join-hands-with-railways-to-fight-graft-says-ecor-gm/article37183493.ece
27 October 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||RMPs seek revival of training programme, certification course||Andhra Pradesh Community Rural Medical Practitioners Association zonal president Jangam Joshi on Tuesday urged the State government to revive RMPs’ training programme and certification course to enable them to know latest developments in the field of medicine. Speaking to the media here, he said that the training programme was launched during the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy government but it was stopped in 2012. “The then Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy government had issued GO no. 419 for theoretical training which enabled hundreds of youngsters to get training under the supervision of medical experts. Currently, there is no mechanism to recognise RMPs whose role is important in providing quick medical aid for patients in remote areas,” said Mr. Joshi. The association zonal secretary I. Gopala Rao and Vizinagaram unit district president G. Chiranjeevi said that nearly 35 RMPs died of COVID-19 as many patients approached them for treatment when hospitals rejected admissions due to lack of beds. “The government has to provide some financial assistance for kin of those deceased RMPs. We also request the government to streamline the entire system so that RMPs would help the government in achieving health for all goal,” said Mr. Chiranjeevi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rmps-seek-revival-of-training-programme-certification-course/article37183441.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s playtime!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-playtime/article37183479.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Achievers all!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/achievers-all/article37182972.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rock ‘n’ roll||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rock-n-roll/article37183418.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lighting up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lighting-up/article37183491.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cleanliness drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cleanliness-drive/article37182915.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Shaikpet flyover nearing completion||The western part of the city will soon don one more infrastructural feather in its cap, with near completion of the flyover at Shaikpet. Being built as part of the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) with an expenditure of Rs. 335 crore, the two-way flyover was intended to bring down traffic congestion on the stretch between Rethi Bowli and Gachibowli, which is an intermediate ring road between Inner Ring Road and Outer Ring Road. With six-lane road width, the 2.8-kilometre-long structure will fly over four junctions, namely Golconda Junction, Filmnagar Junction, OU Colony Junction and Whisper Valley Junction, thereby circumventing the signals en route and cutting down the commute time. The road witnesses heavy through traffic as well as traffic from core city to the IT hub housing the Hitech City and Financial District, the project specification for the flyover says. Officials elaborate that the stretch sees three to four lakh passenger car units per day, and at least 16,000 PCUs per an hour during peak hours causing loss of time and fuel for commuters. Infrastructural interventions are required when the traffic crosses 9,000 PCUs per hour. Widening of the existing road is ruled out due to lack of continuous right of way. Several religious structures obstruct the efforts to widen the 150-foot road to 200 feet up to Malkam Cheruvu, which necessitated the flyover. In order to avoid collision with the religious structures, the span size between pillars has been increased, engineers informed. Construction of the flyover which began in April, 2018 has continued over three years’ time, with December 30 this year being the latest probable date of completion. About 93 per cent of the works have been completed so far, with all 74 pillars finished, along with 72 pier caps, 440 girders, 144 composite girders and 73 slabs, statement from GHMC informed.  SMOOTHER COMMUTING * The two-way flyover is intended to bring down traffic congestion between Rethi Bowli and Gachibowli *The 2.8-kilometre-long structure will fly over four junctions — Golconda Junction, Filmnagar Junction, OU Colony Junction and Whisper Valley Junction *Several religious structures obstruct the efforts to widen the 150-foot road to 200 feet up to Malkam Cheruvu, which necessitated the flyover *Construction of the flyover which began in April, 2018 has continued over three years’ time and December 30 this year is probable date of completion||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shaikpet-flyover-nearing-completion/article37183234.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Dismiss Siddipet Collector’||Senior State BJP leader Gudur Narayana Reddy on Tuesday alleged that Siddipet Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy has been acting as an extra constitutional power. He demanded the government to immediately dismiss him from the services as he has made comments that amount to contempt of court openly. He said that the District Collector ‘on the record’ declared that he would not care orders of the High Court and even Supreme Court. In a media statement, Mr. Narayana Reddy said that in a meeting with seed dealers, the Collector was seen making comments, which were nothing but contempt of court. He said that the Collector was bound to the Constitution and should respect the courts at any cost. “He is not any extra judicial and extra constitutional authority and cannot defy the orders of the court,” he added. The BJP leader also said that the Supreme Court should take notice of these comments and take up suo motu prosecution of the Collector. He said that Mr. Venkatarami Reddy was unfit to continue in the post of Collector. Citing a video clip of the Collector’s meeting with the dealers, Mr. Narayana Reddy said that the Collector has transgressed all limitations, defied courts and openly stated that he would not care the orders of the High Court and Supreme Court. He said that the Collector’s comments have been reminding all of the dictatorial attitude of the government. Like the Chief Minister, who has been behaving like a tyrant, the Collector has been considering himself as a monarch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dismiss-siddipet-collector/article37183250.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR using plenary speech to reiterate ‘lies’: Congress||Congress has accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of using his plenary speech to reiterate the ‘lies’ he has been speaking for the last seven years and promoting himself in the wake of growing opposition to his rule. At separate press conferences on Tuesday, former PCC chief Ponnala Lakshmaiah and TPCC Campaign Committee chairman Madhu Yaskhi Goud alleged that all the development that the CM has claimed was ‘half baked’, particularly in the irrigation sector. Mr. Lakshmaiah said that KCR claimed all the projects were completed, which was totally false and the Kaleshwaram project has not contributed to any additional acreage. He claimed that the IT industry growth was due to the foundation laid by the Congress governments and Google and Amazon facilities in Hyderabad took off in the Congress governments but finally set up now. Mission Kakatiya and Mission Bhagiratha were known more for corruption. Mr. Lakshmaiah also ridiculed KCR for stating that there were no farmer suicides and said that thousands of farmers committed suicide but the government deliberately ignored them. Tenant farmers are totally neglected in this regime. Accusing the Chief Minister’s family of indulging in corruption, Mr. Yaskhi said that the plenary did not even remember the Telangana martyrs and the entire programme was aimed at praising KCR and his family. He alleged that KCR’s family acquired hundreds of acres after the formation of Telangana while their businesses have also spread abroad. “Why is the BJP government and BJP leaders sparing his family,” he asked. Mr. Yaskhi claimed that suicides of youngsters and farmers have increased and Telangana is in the third place in suicides in the country. While promising irrigation facilities to one crore acres, the government is threatening farmers not to cultivate paddy. Mr. Yaskhi also said that KCR has only created more debts for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-using-plenary-speech-to-reiterate-lies-congress/article37183254.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State: Omit 7 NS Left Canal components from KRMB Sch-2||Telangana government has sought more changes in the purview of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB), which is yet to be implemented although the appointed day was October 14, this time seeking omission of seven components of Nagarjunasagar (NS) Left Canal from Schedule-2 of the gazette notification till the finalisation of KWDT-II award. In a letter addressed to Chairman of the river board M.P. Singh, Engineer-in-Chief of Telangana C. Muralidhar has also urged the board to restrict water utilisation up to Kattaleru river as per Joint Project Report 1954 and to irrigate the areas covered by the seven components through alternate sources such as Chintalapudi lift irrigation scheme. The seven components whose omission has been sought by Telangana from Schedule-2 of the gazette notification are off-takes of 16 and 17th branch canals, Managapuram major, Bonakal branch canal, Madhira branch canal and 21st main branch canal from NS Left Canal and Tiruvuru major and Kakarla major from 21st main branch canal. The Telangana ENC brought to the KRMB Chairman’s notice that NS Left Canal has been modified by the erstwhile AP government from time to time disregarding the Lower Krishna (Nandikonda) Project Report 1952 of the previous Hyderabad State and joint report of Hyderabad and Andhra States 1954 to the disadvantage of Telangana region. The reports of 1952 and 1954 proposed extending some distributaries in the tail-end reaches of the Left Canal for conditional inclusion of 1.3 lakh acres in the areas situation between Hyderabad State boundary and Kattaleru stream in Nandigama Taluq of Madras State (later Andhra) for utilisation from the share allotted to Andhra. After reorganisation of States in 1956, the canal was extended to include 1.3 lakh acres of Andhra area without any agreement on cost or water cess. In addition, the Left Canal was extended further from time to time by the successive AP governments beyond Kattaleru from 1.3 lakh acres to 3.78 lakh acres in utter disregard to the joint report of 1954. At the same time, the area in Telangana was reduced from 6.6 lakh acres to 6.02 lakh acres and about 1 lakh acres of it was brought under lift irrigation. Further, protection of 53,000 acres of ayacut under existing small tanks in Telangana with water from Left Canal was also not taken up. Not only that but the erstwhile AP government had also modified the alignment of NS Left Canal by lowering the sill level at Paleru reservoir resulting in total loss of 13 ft of head, causing considerable reduction in the planned ayacut in Telangana region, Mr. Muralidhar pointed out. The consumptive use of NS was restricted by erstwhile AP to only 264 tmc ft was Karnataka and Maharashtra strongly opposed diversion of Krishna water to outside basin areas before KWDT-I.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-omit-7-ns-left-canal-components-from-krmb-sch-2/article37183248.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wife among three arrested for murder of lorry driver||Three people allegedly involved in the murder of a 46-year-old man Mohammed Musthaq Patel, a lorry driver, on September 22 were caught by Hayathnagar police on Monday. The accused include the deceased man’s wife, a distant relative, and an assistant of the wife. The accused are Firzdous Begum (35), Mohammed Hameed Patel (37), and Syed Nayab (23). The victim Musthaq got married to Firzdous Begum 17 years ago. The couple have five children. While he drives a lorry, Firzdous is a vegetable vendor. Nayab assists her in the business. Musthaq and Hameed are distant relatives. Rachakonda police said that Firzdous and Hameed were classmates up to seventh class at their native village in Gulbarga, Karnataka, and again established contact. Musthaq suspected that his wife had illicit relationship with Hameed and used to beat and ill-treat her. Therefore, she and Hameed decided to eliminate him. On October 22, Hameed and Musthaq consumed alcohol at Firzdous’s shop at Akbarbagh. Hameed made Musthaq to consume alcohol till the latter became unconscious. They travelled between places in the lorry driver’s car. “Meanwhile, Hameed and Firzdous sent Nayab to Madannapet market to purchase chilli powder and knife for committing the offence,” said the press note. They took him to an isolated place in the car to Batasingaram road. Firzdous caught hold of Musthaq’s legs. While Nayab hit on Musthaq’s head with a rod, Hameed slit the lorry driver’s throat with the knife and killed him in the car. Later, they brought the dead body along with the car and left the vehicle on the road. The three accused were caught based on technical and human intelligence, including CCTV footage. Cyber stalker held A 33-year-old man who allegedly harassed a woman by seconding obscene messages and videos through social media platforms was arrested by Cyber Crimes wing of Rachakonda police. The police said that the accused K Rajesh wanted to chat with girls through Whatsapp. He called random mobile numbers to identify women and indulge in obscene chatswith them. As part of this, the accused called a number belonging to a woman — the complainant — and started to send abusive Whatsapp text messages, videos to her. Cyber Crimes police inspector K V Vijay Kumar launched an investigation and arrested the accused on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-arrested-for-murder-of-lorry-driver/article37183225.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CBI arrests Customs officials in a bribery case||A superintendent and an inspector in Prevention section of Customs department were arrested by the Anti-Corruption unit of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday in an alleged bribery case. They have registered a case against superintendent G. Ch. S. Suresh Kumar, inspector Krishan Pal, and havildar Sundar, who work at the Customs Commissionerate, Hyderabad. A complaint was lodged against accusing the three with having demanded a bribe of Rs. 20,000 from the complainant for not cancelling his bail order and for not arresting him. The bribe amount was later reduced to Rs. 10,000. A complaint was received by the CBI office in which it was alleged that the complainant who arrived from Dubai on April 29 was arrested by Hyderabad Customs Officials on suspicion of gold smuggling. The complainant was sent to jail. He got bail on May 31 on a few conditions, including that he would appear at Customs office on every second and fourth Monday, shall not leave the country without prior permission of the Court. Later, the three accused have demanded the bribe. “CBI laid a trap and caught the accused while demanding and accepting the bribe of Rs. 10,000 from the complainant. Searches were conducted at four places which led to recovery of certain documents,” said a press note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cbi-arrests-customs-officials-in-bribery-case/article37183226.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||P.V. Sindhu signs up a partnership with Spinny||World champion and double Olympics medallist P.V. Sindhu signed up a partnership with Spinny, a full-stack online-to-offline retail platform for buying and selling used cars. “Spinny is a great brand to be associated with and I am pleased to be on board as one of the captains of Squad Spinny. I appreciate how their transparency establishes a relationship of trust with customers,” Sindhu said “If my family chose SellRight by Spinny on their own to sell my car — I know they wouldn’t just give the car without having complete trust in the selling process and the people behind it. That made my decision to be associated with the brand, much simpler,” she explained. “Most of my journeys have been in the car, be it going for practice sessions, road trips or long drives with my family. Since a personal car is a safe and convenient mode of transport, I believe trust is an indispensable element for customers while buying or selling cars. The brand’s focus on transparency and quality fosters that trust, which is crucial for any customer,” Sindhu said. “We believe P.V. Sindhu is a great inspiration for new-age Indians. Given the kind of hard work and tenacity that she has displayed while fulfilling her ambitions and goals, she is an inspiration for the country,” founder and CEO of Spinny Niraj Singh said. Proceeds from the sale of her vehicle will be donated to Suchitra Badminton Academy to support younger badminton talent in Hyderabad, an institute where she’s been training for years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pv-sindhu-signs-up-partnership-with-spinny/article37183236.ece
27 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Walled enclosure found at Qutb Shahi Tombs||Conservation architects at the Qutb Shahi Tombs complex have uncovered an old battlement wall that enclosed the tombs of Hayat Bakshi Begum and her husband Sultan Qutb Shah. “It was covered with a layer of concrete but when we chipped away, we discovered the wall which is shaped like a battlement,” informed Ratish Nanda, CEO of Aga Khan Trust for Culture, which is carrying out work for Department of Archaeology and Museums, Telangana. “We will strengthen it so that it lasts for a long time and people get to see the architectural style of the Qutb Shahis,” said Mr. Nanda. This is the second time when a walled enclosure has been discovered at the Qutb Shahi Tombs complex. A few years earlier, architects working on the site discovered that the tomb of the founder of the dynasty Sultan Quli was in the centre of a square garden enclosure. The discovery of an enclosing wall is not a surprise as walled gardens are the definition of paradise in Old Persian. The discovery of the wall was among several findings that the State government and AKTC shared on Monday during a press event. Full of surprises “This site has been full of surprises. The amazing stucco work on Sultan Quli’s tomb was covered with a layer of concrete. The coloured tiles of Sultan Qutb Shah’s were covered with limestone. We restored graves which were covered under layers of soil,” said Mr. Nanda, describing some of the work that is being carried out at the site. The QS tombs complex have been subjected to a series of conservation/restoration efforts over the past so many years. The Qutb Shahi tombs complex has been on the tentative list of World Heritage Sites since 2010 and the State government is now trying to push the case to get the nomination. However, one of the sticking points has been the stalled interpretation centre that the State government is constructing in the land where the Deccan Park was built in the early 21st century.  We will strengthen it so that it lasts for a long time and people get to see the architectural style of the Qutb Shahis. Ratish Nanda, CEO., Aga Khan Trust for Culture||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/walled-enclosure-found-at-qutb-shahi-tombs/article37183447.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Break your silence on KCR: Bandi Sanjay urges intellectuals||Telangana State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Bandi Sanjay has called upon intellectuals to speak up as their silence had led to an autocratic rule in Telangana. Speaking at a meeting of intellectuals of Huzurabad town on Tuesday, Mr. Sanjay said that the arrogance of the governance reflected in Siddipet Collector’s ‘unconstitutional warnings’ to officials and seed dealers. “It is time the intellectuals break their silence and start questioning as people are suffering due to the arrogant rule of the Chief Minister,” he said. Support for Eatala Seeking support to BJP candidate Eatala Rajender, he said that BJP’s win in Huzurabad was a necessity and good for democracy in Telangana. The meeting was attended by former Governor Ch. Vidyasagar Rao, BJP Telangana in-charge Tarun Chug, former MP A.P. Jithender Reddy, and former Minister Chandrashekhar, among others. He said that the Central government has maximum share in the State’s developmental programmes while the TRS government had full share in the excise income. He said Eatala Rajender though comes from a Leftist background, was inducted into the BJP as there was a collective need to fight against KCR and his autocratic rule. ‘Traitor’ Mr. Sanjay alleged that the Chief Minister was the first traitor of Telangana as he had compromised with the AP Chief Minister on the Telangana share of water. Due to his inefficiency, Telangana was awarded just 299 tmc though it had the rightful claim of 575 tmc. Instead of providing jobs, the TRS government has removed 22,000 scavengers while employees of 104 and 108 services had not received salaries for the last six months. Paying salaries on the first of every month is a challenge for this government, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/break-your-silence-on-kcr-bandi-sanjay-urges-intellectuals/article37183255.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Competitions, lectures, awareness activities lined up for VAW-2021||Mining major NMDC Ltd., Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd., Southern Region-I, and Bharat Dynamics Ltd. are among the public sector entities that have lined up various programmes for Vigilance Awareness Week – 2021 (VAW-2021), which began on Tuesday with ‘Independent India @75: Self Reliance with Integrity’ as its theme. The inaugural function of VAW-2021 at NMDC began with CMD Sumit Deb administering integrity pledge to employees in the head office here, at a programme organised by the Vigilance department of the company. Senior officials, including directors Amitava Mukherjee, Somnath Nandi and DK Mohanty and Executive Director B.Sahoo participated. Various activities on integrity, including slogan writing, elocution and essay writing competitions, are to be conducted during the Week. The events began with a quiz competition for employees on Tuesday. Additional Secretary to the Central Vigilance Commission Praveen Kumari Singh will deliver the keynote address at a session on Corporate Governance – Leveraging Technology and Whistle Blower Mechanism on October 28. Prizes are to be presented on November 1, the concluding day of the Week, the NMDC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/competitions-lectures-awareness-activities-lined-up-for-vaw-2021/article37183231.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC starts accepting UPI/QR payments at JBS||TSRTC has started accepting UPI/QR payments at bus pass counters, ticket booking counters and parcel and cargo centre at Jubilee Bus Station also. The corporation has started a pilot project to accept payments via UPI/QR code recently at Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station — ticket reservation counter and parcel and cargo centre — and Rathifile bus station — bus pass counter only. Now, another pilot project has been started at Jubilee Bus Station for accepting UPI/QR code payments at bus pass counters, ticket booking counter and parcel and cargo centre, according to a release here on Tuesday. The officials requested all citizens to utilise this service and make it a huge success and also provide feedback and suggestions, if any, on twitter @tsrtcmdoffice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-starts-accepting-upiqr-payments-at-jbs/article37183251.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Expedite final designs of medical infra projects’||Roads and Buildings Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy has directed architects and senior officials engaged in the preparation of design for multi super speciality hospitals and other health infra projects, to prepare the final designs of these institutions at the earliest. The Minister reviewed the preliminary designs of the hospitals, nursing colleges and other medical infrastructure projects, announced by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao as part of the health infrastructure augmentation, on Tuesday. The architects made power point presentation of the designs to the Minister, who was accompanied by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other senior officials. The development follows the Chief Minister’s decision to upgrade Warangal hospital into a multi super speciality hospital and develop four multi super speciality institutions on the four sides of the GHMC. This is in addition to eight medical colleges proposed in Sangareddy, Mahabubabad, and Bhadradri - Kothagudem. The Minister reviewed the designs for 14 nursing colleges planned at Nagarkurnool, Wanaparthy, and Suryapet. He suggested certain changes in the designs and asked architects to be ready with the final designs before the next review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expedite-final-designs-of-medical-infra-projects/article37183238.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Effective coordination must for 100% vaccine coverage, says CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has underscored the need for utmost coordination between different departments for achieving the target of 100% vaccination against the coronavirus pandemic in the State. He said that the Telangana government achieved the target of vaccinating over three crore people across the State so far. But there was a spate in COVID infections in several countries, including Britain, Russia, Ukraine, Brazil, Germany and The Netherlands. In view of this development, there was a need to further intensify the vaccination drive in all villages and wards across the State, he said while participating in a video conference with District Collectors on Tuesday. He directed them to constitute special teams at village/ward levels to expedite vaccine coverage for the entire population. The special teams should comprise Aasha worker, Anganwadi worker, panchayat secretary and a village revenue assistant as members and nodal officers should be appointed at village and mandal levels to supervise the progress of vaccination. The Chief Secretary asserted that adequate doses of vaccine were available with the government and asked the officials to create awareness among people about getting two doses of vaccine, which was the only way to ensure people were not affected by COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/effective-coordination-must-for-100-vaccine-coverage-says-cs/article37183240.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OGH junior doctors protest wearing helmets||Junior doctors at Osmania General Hospital, Hyderabad, wore helmets while attending to patients on Tuesday as a sign of protest against the accident where a fan crashed to ground and grazed by the head of a post-graduate student. They have staged silent protest outside the Out-Patient (OP) block too. The accident occurred in Dermatology department’s room located in the Out Patient block on Monday. Patients were not present when it occurred. Though she did not get injured, it has sent shivers down the spines of junior and senior doctors who are worried if similar accidents might occur in other parts of the building again. Their fears are not exaggerated as such accidents have occurred earlier: fans, plaster of Paris from ceiling, crashed to ground. Earlier too, the junior doctors wore helmets as a form of protest. However, Telangana Junior Doctors Association (JUDA) expressed fear that people might get injured in the incidents. Representation given President of the JUDA-OGH unit Dr P Rahul said that they have submitted a representation to the hospital’s superintendent Dr B Nagender. They have requested the superintendent to look into the issue as working with life at risk is bound to hamper patient care and delivery of duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ogh-junior-doctors-protest-wearing-helmets/article37183224.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Latest tally of COVID cases at 190 in State||Telangana has recorded 190 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday taking the total to 6,70,643.While 41,388 samples were examined, results of 1,114 were awaited. One more COVID patient has died. The new 190 infections include 68 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 14 from Karimnagar, 13 from Rangareddy. No infection was detected in Vikarabad, Nirmal, and Jogulamba Gadwal. From March 2, 2020 to October 26, 2021, about 2.73 crore samples were tested and 6,70,643 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 4,101 were active cases, 6,62,592 have recovered, and 3,950 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/latest-tally-of-covid-cases-at-190-in-state/article37183227.ece
27 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Holiday, leisure travel sees big boom post COVID||Holiday, leisure travel and family vacations are seeing a big boom as COVID-19 lockdowns have eased, borders have reopened and vaccines have gained acceptance, according to a survey done by a travel firm. The uptick is a massive 290% for domestic travel, 60% for international travel. “We had a sample size of 6,200 and the favourite outbound destinations for Hyderabad customers were Maldives, Dubai, Switzerland, France, Turkey, Egypt and Russia,” said Santosh Kanna of Thomas Cook (India). Travel and hospitality industry were one of the worst affected sectors across the world due to the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns that had led to shuttering of many businesses. “We have rolling data that shows the difference between September 2019 when business was normal and September 2021. While Hyderabad showed 65% return to normal business, it reached 55% of the pre-pandemic level nationally,” said Mr. Kanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/holiday-leisure-travel-sees-big-boom-post-covid/article37183241.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cyber stalker arrested for harassing woman||A 33-year-old man who allegedly harassed a woman by seconding obscene messages and videos through social media platforms was arrested by Cyber Crimes wing of Rachakonda police. The police said that the accused K Rajesh wanted to chat with girls through Whatsapp. He called random mobile numbers to identify women and indulge in obscene chatswith them. As part of this, the accused called a number belonging to a woman — the complainant — and started to send abusive Whatsapp text messages, videos to her. Cyber Crimes police launched probe and arrested the accused on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cyber-stalker-arrested-for-harassing-woman/article37183228.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Stop hydel projects on diverted Krishna water’||Telangana has requested KRMB to restrain AP from going ahead with several pumped hydro-electric projects being taken up based on water diverted from Srisailam reservoir in the outside basin areas. Engineer-in-Chief of Telangana C. Muralidhar pointed out to KRMB Chairman, through a letter, that in spite of its two letters to stop a pumped hydel project being executed by AP at Pinnapuram in Kurnool district no action was initiated by the River Board and that work on the project was still going on. Now, they have come up with a plan to take up another four pumped hydel projects at Chitravati (Anantapur), Gandikota (Kadapa), Somasila (Nellore) and Owk (Kurnool), all falling in Penna Basin but being taken up with water diverted from Srisailam reservoir through Handri-Neeva, Galeru-Nagari and Telugu Ganga projects, Mr. Muralidhar explained. He also stated that the diversion of water from a deficit basin (Krishna) to another basin was highly objectionable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stop-hydel-projects-on-diverted-krishna-water/article37183249.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bigger role for Vamshichand in AICC||AICC secretary and former MLA Ch. Vamshichand Reddy has been entrusted with key responsibilities at the national level with he being appointed as the AICC secretary attached to K.C. Venugopal, party general secretary, in-charge, organisation. Loyal Congressman Mr. Vamshichand is now relieved of his responsibilities as AICC secretary, in-charge of Maharashtra and his new position is being seen as an elevation in the party. Mr. Vamshichand, who was Kalwakurthy MLA from 2014 to 2018, is a loyal Congressman, and worked as president of the NSUI and Youth Congress in combined Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bigger-role-for-vamshichand-in-aicc/article37183252.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Did not link vaccination to pension, ration: DPH||Telangana’s Director of Public Health Dr G Srinivasa Rao denied making any statement linking COVID-19 vaccination with issue of ration and pension by the government. He has issued the statement after rumours started to spread in Whatsapp on Tuesday citing the senior health official that ration and pension would be stopped to people who do not take the vaccine, and that it would be implemented from November 1. Denying it, Dr Srinivasa said “The government did not take any such decision”. From January 16 to October 21, over 2.13 crore people in the State took first dose of the vaccine, and 86.81 lakhs took the second dose. There are over 2.77 crore people above 18 years who are eligible for COVID vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/did-not-talk-of-linking-vaccination-to-pension-ration-says-dph/article37183223.ece
27 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS youngster clears Arunachal Pradesh PSC||City lad Bhonagiri Vamshi Krishna has cleared the Arunachal Pradesh Public Service Commission combined examination and has qualified as District Land Revenue and Settlement Officer. A resident of Balanagar in the city, he stood 16th in the examination after qualifying among 30,000 aspirants at the preliminary level. In this examination, 80% of the vacancies are reserved for locals and non-locals like Vamshi Krishna can compete along with the locals in the balance of 20%. Vamshi Krishna, who belongs to Nalgonda district, did his graduation in B.Com from Osmania University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-youngster-clears-arunachal-pradesh-psc/article37183449.ece
27 October 2021||Khammam,TELANGANA||2 well-equipped ambulances allotted to 108 service||Two well-equipped ambulances with advanced life support systems, earlier donated by Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao to Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in Wyra and Madhira during COVID-19 pandemic early this year, have been allotted to the 108-emergency ambulance service. Mr. Rao donated a total of six new ambulances to various government hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-well-equipped-ambulances-allotted-to-108-service/article37183256.ece
27 October 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||‘Cancel their licences if dealers sell paddy seed’||District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy instructed officials on Tuesday to strictly ensure that farmers do not grow paddy in the oncoming Rabi season. Instead, officials should educate farmers about alternate crops, such as the 11 crops suggested by the government, which besides having a market demand would also yield profits to farmers, he said. Groundnut, green gram, chickpea, black gram, sesame, sunflower, safflower, castor, horse gram, cow peas and mustard is the suggestive list of alternate crops. Addressing officials from agriculture and allied departments and seed dealers at the Collectorate on Tuesday, Mr. Reddy said that dealers must comply with the government’s instructions by immediately furnishing a latest stock position on the types of seeds available with them. “Dealers or their sub-dealers who continue to sell paddy seed to farmers will face action. Their licences will be cancelled. Agriculture department officials should also go on regular field trips to monitor the situation in these four months,” he said. Also, to curb transfer and distribution of paddy seed in the district, all check posts will be alerted for action. The district administration has planned cluster-wise campaigns with farmers to ensure crop diversion. Starting Wednesday, awareness sessions will be held in 82 identified Rythu Vedikas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cancel-their-licences-if-dealers-sell-paddy-seed/article37183246.ece
27 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Hindu groups seek immediate ban on namaz at public places||The Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, a conglomeration of 22 local units of right-wing organisations, on Tuesday demanded an immediate ban on offering of namaz at public places across the Millennium City, threatening to launch a mass agitation across the State. Reminder letter A five-member delegation of the Samiti, led by its president Mahavir Bhardwaj, submitted a “reminder letter” to the office of Deputy Commissioner, demanding a ban on namaz at public places to maintain communal harmony and peace in the area. The letter said the Samiti members had called upon Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg on October 4 and submitted a memorandum, seeking a ban on namaz in public places, but no action was initiated even after three weeks. “It is requested that it was unanimously decided by the groups of two religious communities and the top political leaders in a meeting with the district administration in 2018 that people belonging to any religion or community would not use the public spaces. The Chief Minister had also endorsed the decision,” the letter said. “We want to politely submit that the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti and the common man will not be able to tolerate it,” the letter further said. The meeting of the Samiti leaders comes in the wake of growing protests against offering of jumma namaz (Friday prayers) across the city over the past few weeks. Mr. Bhardwaj said the administration had designated 30-odd places during Ramzan for offering of namaz in 2018, but presently, there were only 18 such private places where the prayers could be held. Mr. Garg said the district administration was analysing the situation and keeping a strict vigil. “The duty magistrates and the police have been accordingly briefed. We will ensure that communal harmony is not disturbed,” Mr. Garg said. Muslim leader Altaf Ahmad said that Article 25 of the Constitution guaranteed freedom of religion to all people in India and made an appeal to the State Government to allocate land to the community for building mosques for offering namaz. “Since the Muslim community has not been given enough land to build mosques in Gurugram, we are forced to offer jumma namaz in the open. The community shall pay for the land and build mosques. Till that time, we should be allowed to pray our obligatory namaz in the open,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hindu-groups-seek-immediate-ban-on-namaz-at-public-places/article37183092.ece
27 October 2021||Guwahati,||Probe ordered into animals’ electrocution at Kaziranga||The authorities of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve have ordered a probe into the electrocution of a domesticated elephant, a swamp deer and two wild boars in the Burapahar Range of the rhino habitat. Park officials said Oiravat, the departmental elephant had accidentally brought down an electric pole and died after touching the livewire on October 25. A swamp deer and two boars in the vicinity were also electrocuted. “The Assam Power Distribution Corporation Limited (APDCL) had assured us of shifting this power line. The shifting work started in 2019 but was stopped in 2020,” P. Sivakumar, the park’s director said. Wildlife officials said the work on shifting the line from the forest area was stopped as the contractor could only complete 30% of the project. The inquiry at the level of a divisional forest officer is expected to be over in three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/probe-ordered-into-animals-electrocution-at-kaziranga/article37183128.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||4 of family killed in fire in Old Seemapuri||Four members of a family died of suspected smoke inhalation after a fire broke out at their residence in Shahdara’s Old Seemapuri in the early hours of Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said the deceased have been identified as Hori Lal (59), his wife Reena (55), their son Ashu (24), and daughter Rohini (18). The deceased couple’s younger son Akshay has survived the incident. Mr. Sathiyasundaram said a call was received at 4 a.m. after which police and Delhi Fire Services (DFS) personnel reached the spot with four fire tenders and doused the blaze. “The fire was very small and only domestic articles were damaged. The four are suspected to have died of smoke inhalation,” DFS chief Atul Garg said. A senior fire official said that the cause of the fire was not short circuit as the switch board in the house was intact. “The family used to light a diya every day. A mosquito repellant coil was also found close to the curtain, which is suspected to have caused the blaze, but investigation is under way,” the official said. While waiting for the bodies at Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital’s mortuary, Mr. Akshay said he returned home around midnight after work and brought eggs for dinner. “I am employed with a company as one of their house keeping staff and my shift gets over at 11 p.m.. My brother and I had dinner after which Ashu went upstairs to sleep while I stayed on the second floor,” he said. The family lived in a three-storey building of which they owned the second and third floors. While Hori Lal worked as a peon in Shastri Bhawan, Reena worked as a sanitation worker with the municipal corporation. Ashu had started a contractual work at North Block a few months ago and Rohini was a Class XII student in a government school nearby. Sunny Kumar (20), who stays opposite the building, said he and his family woke up after hearing the glass windows break. “We ran to our balcony and saw fire on the third floor. There was a lot of smoke. We started shouting but no one heard us. A few minutes later, Akshay came out of his room,” he said. Mr. Akshay immediately went to the third floor but he couldn’t open the door. He then came to the ground floor and opened the door for Mr. Kumar and a few others. “We all went to the third floor and managed to open the door. They were all lying lifeless. Rohini and Ashu were closer to the door. They were probably trying to reach the door but couldn’t,” Mr. Kumar said. Mr. Akshay said that his father was due to retire in March 2022 and his brother Ashu was engaged to be married soon. Ashu’s fiancé — a 19-year-old girl who had passed Class XII a few months ago — mourned his death outside the house. “I stay in Mahipalpur and we got engaged in August. The wedding date was not finalised but families were talking about fixing it sometime after Diwali. However, I told them that I wanted to study further and we should wait for at least a year,” she said. The police said a case under Sections 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house ) and 304A (causing death by negligence) under the Indian Penal Code has been registered and investigation is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/4-of-family-killed-in-fire-in-old-seemapuri/article37183083.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Govt.’s technical panel ‘rejects’ drainage master plan||A technical expert committee (TEC) has told the Delhi Government not to accept the Drainage Master Plan, which was commissioned 10 years ago by the Government, according to documents seen by The Hindu . Despite this, on August 24, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal reviewed the progress of the master plan and said that “Delhi will soon get freedom from waterlogging” as work was being “expedited on Delhi’s Drainage Master Plan”. “The TEC feels that the final report submitted by the consultant (IIT Delhi) is not worth considerable for recommendation and the mentioned report may not be accepted. The State Govt. or Nodal Department may take a call in this matter accordingly [sic],” a Central Water Commission (CWC) document dated August 9 read. The TEC raised multiple problems, including “discrepancies in data” used for the master plan, which was given to IIT Delhi by the Government departments. The master plan prepared by IIT-D was seen as a solution to waterlogging issues, which the Capital faces every year, as the city’s current drainage master plan was made in 1976. Has not made public The Delhi Government has not yet made public the TEC telling the Government to not accept the report. When contacted, a spokesperson said, “The Government has suggested changes and issued directions to resolve issues with the master plan. A committee headed by the PWD is working on it.” But when asked whether the Government has rejected the master plan, the spokesperson did not comment. Three teams headed by PWD officials are working to fix the issues related to waterlogging in the city, an official said, but did not give a deadline by when they will come up with solutions. Problems and backlogs The master plan submitted in 2018 had also warned of such a possible irregularity of data. “It is possible that many of the data elements that have not been independently validated by the respective departments may be different on ground than the digital reality captured and used in the model,” the master plan read. The TEC headed by member (river water) of the CWC with members from different departments of the Delhi Government was formed by the Chief Secretary in December 2011 to coordinate with IIT Delhi“on a regular basis” to decide design parameters among other functions related to the master plan. But the TEC held its first meeting in almost eight years in May 2019, months after IIT Delhi submitted its final report. During this meeting, the chairman of the TEC had expressed displeasure that the data provided by various departments to IIT Delhi was not verified, as per documents. The TEC also decided that 10%-20% of the data given by the departments to IIT Delhi to make the master plan should be verified by the departments within 15 days. But it took almost two years for this to be done and a decision taken on it. “As per 10%-20% data verification exercise by stakeholders, there is still large discrepancies between field data and data used in the model [software] to prepare the final report,” the CWC document of August 9 said. A main part of the master plan is a software created by IIT Delhi which can be used to generate different solutions for waterlogging. For instance, the Public WorksDepartment, which controls over 2,000 km of drains in the city, told the TEC that during ground verification of 10%-20% data used in the master plan, there was a “100% variation”, CWCdocument showed.“IIT Delhi stated that it has trained 150 officers of different departments but every department in the meeting has expressed that they are not able to run the model,” read another reason cited in the CWC document for not accepting the report. IIT-D was selected on “nomination basis” without an open tender and the contract for the master plan was signed in September 2011 for about Rs. 80 lakh. Meanwhile, the waterlogging in the city is getting worse, as per experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govts-technical-panel-rejects-drainage-master-plan/article37183094.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Sextortionist’ gang busted, 5 arrested||A gang of ‘sextortionists’ has been busted and five people have been arrested in Dwarka’s Dabri, the police said on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary said the accused have been identified as Revti Devi (33) and her husband Vaibhav (37), both residents of Jeewan Park; Sonu Suri (42), a resident of Rajouri Garden; Sheetal Arora alias Pooja (40), a resident of Burari; and Harbinder Singh (60), a resident of Tagore Garden. According to the police, on Saturday, a businessman lodged a complaint that he received a call from one Pooja for the purchase of a plyboard. When he reached Mata Chanan Devi Hospital in Janakpuri on Thursday, he received a WhatsApp call from her and five minutes later, she came on an e-rickshaw and took him to a house. There, she gave him water and after drinking it, he became unconscious. When he gained consciousness, he found himself naked on a bed. Five-six women and three men, who were in the room, then started beating him. They snatched his purse with Rs. 15,700 in cash in it, a wristwatch and golden ring and demanded Rs. 7 lakh more and threatened to kill him, the police said. The police arrested them. The modus operandi was one accused Shivani would collect mobile numbers of targetted persons from an online dating application and pass them on to Ms. Arora. She would invite the person to the residence of Ms. Devi. One of the gang members would then have sex with the target. Subsequently, other gang members would enter the room. Mr. Singh would play the role of a judge or legal consultant, while Ms. Suri would play the role of an NGO member.They would extort money from the victim with a threat to book him in a false rape case, the police said. The police said Ms. Suri, who was lodged in jail for 19 months, was the mastermind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sextortionist-gang-busted-5-arrested/article37183084.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||BJP against opening of new liquor stores||No new liquor shops will be allowed to open in Delhi, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said at a protest against one such store, which was led by women residents, in an east Delhi locality on Tuesday. The women of Nathu Colony in Rohtas Nagar demonstrated against the opening of a new liquor store, questioning why the Delhi Government was not able to provide drinking water to the residents instead. “Under the new liquor policy, the Delhi Government wants to flood the Capital with alcohol. The Government is not concerned about how this will affect the younger generation, how the safety of women will be endangered, or how many people will become addicted to alcohol,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. “This Government is only concerned about its treasury. For this, the Kejriwal Government is ready to stoop to any extent; more than 1,000 liquor shops are now being opened and the entire business of liquor has been awarded to private players,” he alleged. The women of the locality had, the leader said, sounded the bugle against the new liquor policy and this movement would soon spread across the city. No new liquor outlet, he added, would be allowed to open in Delhi and the Government should withdraw the new liquor policy, failing which the people would force it to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-against-opening-of-new-liquor-stores/article37183091.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||HC denies bail to man in cryptocurrency duping case||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday rejected the bail application of a man, who launched his own cryptocurrency, for duping over 47 people to the tune of Rs. 2.5 crore by inducing them to invest in the cryptocurrency on the assurance of high returns up to 20%-30% per month. Justice Anu Malhotra said that the allegation levelled against Umesh Verma relates to commission of an economic offence which “corrodes the fabric of democracy and is committed with total disregard to the rights and interest of the nation”. The High Court said that Mr. Verma allegedly duped a large number of innocent investors of their hard-earned money, and hence, was not appropriate to be granted bail. As per the complaint filed at the Economic Offences Wing (EOW), Crime Branch, Delhi Police, Mr. Verma along with his accomplice ran a cryptocurrency chit fund company in the name of Pluto Exchange at Connaught Place. One of the investors, who got duped by the firm, claimed that he had invested around Rs. 5 lakh but did not receive returns on his investments as assured by the accused. Later, he and other investors got to know that the accused shut their office and fled to Dubai. After an FIR was lodged, the EOW investigation revealed that over 47 investors had given similar complaints against Mr. Verma and his cryptocurrency firm and a total of Rs. 2.5 crore was allegedly involved. The investors used to send their money through bank transfer, and in many case, by cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-denies-bail-to-man-in-cryptocurrency-duping-case/article37183081.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||South body to procure 4 electronic sweepers||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday passed a proposal for the procurement of four electronic sweeping machines that will be used for cleaning bylanes. Standing committee chairman B.K. Oberoi said that the civic body plans to procure the four e-sweepers at an estimated cost of Rs. 10 crore. “This is a first in the SDMC. We have 24 mechanical sweepers which are used for the cleaning of roads. The difference is that the electronic sweepers will be used to clean narrow lanes since the machines are small in size. Each sweeper will be able to collect up to five cubic metres of dust,” said Mr. Oberoi, adding that the e-sweepers will be purchased from the Central Government’s fund. The e-sweepers will be deployed in all SDMC zones — Central, South, West and Najafgarh — and will use compressed natural gas as fuel, therefore cutting down emissions. Mr. Oberoi said that the estimated maintenance cost of the machines for a period of five years is close to Rs. 17 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/south-body-to-procure-4-electronic-sweepers/article37183097.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||SDMC hikes minimum pay for daily wagers||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday passed a proposal to revise the minimum pay for daily wagers, as per the Delhi Government’s instructions. According to the revised rates, unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled workers will now get Rs. 612 per day (previously Rs. 416), Rs. 675 per day (previously Rs. 468), and Rs. 742 per day (previously Rs. 494) respectively. The SDMC has 12,271 employees working on daily wages. Furthermore, SDMC standing committee chairman B.K. Oberoi said that 209 cleaners (nala beldars) have been regularised by the civic body. Fund shortage “The initial number stood at 221 but we found that 12 cleaners had expired and their names had been excluded. Previously, we had regularised 98 nala beldars and we plan to regularise an additional 300 cleaners by December,” he said, adding that the delay in regularising all cleaners was due to the civic body facing a shortage of funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-hikes-minimum-pay-for-daily-wagers/article37183098.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Two held, six detained for electrician’s murder||Two men have been arrested and six others have been detained in connection with a robbery-cum-murder of an electrician in central Delhi’s Patel Nagar, the police said on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Shweta Chauhan said the two have been identified as Vivek (20) and Sikander (21), both residents of Anand Parbat. A mobile phone, one blood-stained knife, and Aadhaar card of the deceased were seized from their possession. The police had on October 22 received information about stabbing of a man by some unknown people. The victim, Manoj, was taken to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital where he was declared brought dead. His family told the police that Manoj, who worked as an electrician at Sharvan Electrical, Baljeet Nagar, was returning home when he was attacked and his belongings were missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-held-six-detained-for-electricians-murder/article37183085.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Two arms suppliers held||The Delhi Police special cell has arrested two Mewat-based arms suppliers and seized 15 semi-automatic pistols and 30 live cartridges from them, DCP (special cell) Jasmeet Singh said. The police said the duo, Shakir (28) and Zunaid Khan (21), have supplied more than 400 firearms in Delhi-NCR in the last three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-arms-suppliers-held/article37183086.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||AAP to begin fogging drive against dengue||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that the BJP’s “reckless” governance failure has led to the current dengue situation, and therefore, it will start its own fogging campaign on Wednesday. The malaria control unit of the municipal corporation is tasked with the prevention and control of mosquito-borne diseases. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said that the corporation-appointed malaria inspectors have not yet conducted a single visit, when they should have conducted around 10 visits by now. “Neither have they sprayed medicines, nor checked for breeding. I assume not even 5%-7% of Delhi has been fogged properly,” he said. Speaking about the campaign, the AAP leader said all the 62 party MLAs and councillors will collectively ensure that fogging, checking for breeding spaces and all other required measures are enacted across the city from October 27. “We request and invite all the RWAs, NGOs, market associations, and other such organisations to support the AAP and the people of Delhi in this drive. Starting on October 27, we will commence this mega fogging campaign,” he said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that the AAP was playing politics on a sensitive issue, only to politically malign the BJP-ruled civic bodies. “The AAP is denying credit to municipal health, sanitation and domestic breeding checkers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-to-begin-fogging-drive-against-dengue/article37183095.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||No new COVID death||The Capital reported no new COVID-19 deaths over 24 hours for the fifth day and the death toll stood at 25,091, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Tuesday. Forty-one new cases were reported, taking the caseload to 14,39,671. So far, 14,14,257 people have recovered and there are 323 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-new-covid-death/article37183096.ece
27 October 2021||Hong Kong,||China’s Foreign Minister meets Taliban in Doha, offers support||China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi has pledged support and assistance to the Taliban in a meeting in Doha. Coming three months after Mr. Wang hosted the Taliban in Tianjin, near Beijing, in late July, the Chinese Foreign Minister on Monday met Acting Deputy Prime Minister Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, who assured Beijing that “a friendly policy towards China” was “a firm choice” by the Taliban. Mr. Wang “expressed China’s willingness to continue to provide humanitarian aid to Afghanistan within its capacity and work with the international community to help Afghanistan alleviate temporary difficulties and realise economic reconstruction as well as independent development”, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said. Mr. Wang last month announced China would “urgently provide 200 million yuan ($30.96 million) worth of grains, winter supplies, vaccines, and medicines to Afghanistan” as well as 3 million vaccines. In their second meeting, Mr. Wang repeated to the Taliban leader China’s expectations that the Taliban “will make a clean break with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement [ETIM] and other terrorist organisations and take effective measures to resolutely crack down on them”. Security threat The ETIM, which China has blamed for several attacks in its western Xinjiang region, “not only poses a real threat to China’s national security and territorial integrity, but also jeopardises the domestic stability and long-term stability in Afghanistan”, he said. He also called on the Taliban to “further demonstrate openness and tolerance, unite all ethnic groups and factions in Afghanistan to work together for peaceful reconstruction, and effectively protect the rights and interests of women and children”. In a veiled dig at the U.S., which China has criticised for its “hasty” withdrawal as well as its legacy in Afghanistan, Mr. Wang said China “has never interfered in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and never sought selfish gains or a sphere of influence”. He called on the U.S. and the West to lift sanctions, and said the country faced “a historic opportunity” to “master its own destiny” and was “at a critical stage of transforming from chaos to governance”. The Chinese Foreign Minister identified “quadruple challenges”, including “the humanitarian crisis, economic chaos, terrorist threats and governance difficulties”, and added China “always respects Afghanistan’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, and supports the Afghan people to independently determine their own destiny and choose the development path”. The Taliban leader said that “pursuing a friendly policy toward China is the firm choice” and committed to attaching “great importance to China’s security concerns” and “to never allow anyone or any force to use the Afghan territory to harm China. The Taliban have already expressed interest in Chinese investments and in the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), including extending the China Pakistan Economic Corridor to Afghanistan. Reports in the Chinese media have said Chinese companies are, however, still following a wait and watch approach and for the situation to stabilise before committing new investments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-foreign-minister-meets-taliban-in-doha-offers-support/article37182728.ece
27 October 2021||KHARTOUM,||Sudan General defends power grab||Sudan’s top General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan defended the Army’s seizure of power on Tuesday, saying he had ousted the government of Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok to avoid civil war. Speaking at his first news conference since he announced the takeover on Monday, Gen. Burhan accused politicians of incitement against the armed forces. He said Mr. Hamdok was confined in his own home and had not been harmed. Soldiers arrested the Prime Minister and other members of his Cabinet on Monday, hours before Gen. Burhan appeared on TV to announce the dissolution of the Sovereign Council, a body set up to share power between the military and civilians. “The whole country was deadlocked due to political rivalries,” Gen. Burhan said on Tuesday. “The experience during the past two years has proven that the participation of political forces in the transitional period is flawed and stirs up strife.” Monday’s military takeover brought a halt to Sudan’s transition to democracy two years after a popular uprising toppled long-serving autocrat Omar al-Bashir. Seven killed An official at the Health Ministry said seven people were killed in clashes between protesters and the security forces on Monday. On Tuesday, life was halted in Khartoum and its twin city Omdurman across the Nile, with shops shut and plumes of smoke rising from where protesters were burning tyres. Gen. Burhan said the military’s action did not amount to a coup, as the Army was trying to rectify the path of the political transition.  Shortly after Gen. Burhan spoke, Mr. Hamdok’s office issued a statement, voicing concerns about the safety of the premier and other detained officials. It did not say where the politician was being held. The statement accused the military leaders of acting in concert with Islamists, who have argued for a military government, and other politicians linked to al-Bashir’s National Congress Party, which was dissolved in 2019. Western governments and the UN have condemned the coup and called for the release of Mr. Hamdok and other senior officials. U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration announced the suspension of $700 million in emergency assistance to Sudan. Mariam al-Mahdi, the Foreign Minister in the government that the military dissolved, was defiant on Tuesday, declaring that she and other members of Mr. Hamdok’s administration remained the legitimate authority in Sudan. “We are still in our positions. We reject such coup and such unconstitutional measures,” she said. “We will continue our peaceful disobedience and resistance.”  The country and the world are now braced to see if more violence will unfold in the nation, which saw a bloody crackdown on pro-democracy protests in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sudan-general-defends-power-grab/article37182727.ece
27 October 2021||Washington,||Foreign nationals flying to U.S. need to be vaccinated||Most adults who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents and want to fly into the country on or after November 8 will have to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, in addition to showing a negative test, as per a new Presidential Proclamation signed by Joe Biden on Monday. The rules have been expected for weeks and will harmonise disparate, country-specific rules. For some jurisdictions and countries, including India, Brazil, Ireland, the Schengen Area, South Africa and the U.K., where entry into the U.S. has been the exception to the rule, it will mean a significant easing of restrictions. “For purposes of entry into the United States, vaccines will be accepted that include the FDA approved or authorized and WHO Emergency Use Listed (EUL) vaccines,” a senior administration official told reporters on a briefing call on Monday. Covishield — a version of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured in India — is on the WHO list, while the world health body is nearing a decision on whether Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, another Indian vaccine, will be granted EUL status. Children under 18 are exempt from the vaccine entry requirement as many countries have not permitted children to get vaccines on the CDC list. Unvaccinated U.S. citizens and permanent residents (‘green card’ holders) will be required to show a negative test within a day of departure of their flights to the U.S. Those who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents will be exempt from showing proof of vaccination only in a limited set of circumstances (these exempt individuals will also have to show a negative test taken one day prior to travel). Those applying for immigrant visas are already required to get vaccinated against COVID-19, as per a separate set of rules that became effective on October 1, so Monday’s announcement applies only to those who are not U.S. citizens and permanent citizens as well as non-immigrants . Exemptions for foreign nationals include people travelling from countries where there is limited vaccine availability (defined as less having vaccine rates of less than 10%) - unless they’re on a B1 or B2 visa - and for those for whom taking a vaccine is contraindicated, including due to severe anaphylactic reactions to a previous COVID-19 vaccine. Those who are vaccinated will still need to provide a negative COVID-19 test in addition to vaccination proof, but have a larger window of three days (rather than one day) days before their flight to get the test done. The administration also issued operational guidance for airlines and testing and contacting tracing via the CDC on Monday, as per a senior administration official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/foreign-nationals-flying-to-us-need-to-be-vaccinated/article37182730.ece
27 October 2021||Washington,||Biden denounces coup and violence in Myanmar||U.S. President Joe Biden on Tuesday denounced the military coup and “horrific violence” in Myanmar at a summit with ASEAN leaders, the White House said. Addressing the virtual summit, Mr. Biden “expressed grave concerns about the military coup and horrific violence in Burma and called on the country’s military regime to immediately end the violence, release those unjustly detained, and restore Burma’s path to democracy”, a statement said, using Myanmar’s previous name. Myanmar’s military government boycotted the ASEAN summit, which was hosted by Brunei, after its chief, Min Aung Hlaing, was banned in response to the February power grab and subsequent deadly crackdown on dissent. The strongly worded White House statement came after Mr. Biden made public opening remarks to the ASEAN meeting in which he made a veiled reference to countering China, but did not mention Myanmar. Speaking by video link from the White House, Mr. Biden called the Association of Southeast Asian Nations “essential” and said the U.S. is “committed to ASEAN’s centrality”. The U.S. is not a member of the 10-nation body but sees ASEAN as an important component in its strategy to push back against an increasingly assertive Chinese diplomatic, commercial and military presence across Asia.  Suu Kyi testifies In a related development, ousted Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi testified for the first time in a junta court, four months after being put on trial by the military, a source with knowledge of the case said.  On Tuesday, she “gave her statement at the court by herself” in response to charges of incitement related to two February statements criticising the coup, the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-denounces-coup-and-violence-in-myanmar/article37182721.ece
27 October 2021||tehran,||Cyberattack closes petrol stations across Iran||A cyberattack in Iran interrupted petrol distribution at the country’s service stations on Tuesday, state television said, citing the Islamic republic’s top security body. “The Supreme National Security Council confirmed that there has been a cyberattack against the petrol distribution computer system,” the television said. It had earlier reported that the interruption was due to “disruptions to the computer system”. “Details of the attack and its source are under investigation,” it added, without giving further details. The conservative Fars news agency linked the breakdown to the upcoming second anniversary of deadly November protests sparked by a hike in petrol prices. State television said the system disruption had blocked petrol pumps across the country. Networks broadcast images of long lines at shut services stations. An urgent meeting was being held at Iran’s national society for the distribution of petrol products in order to resolve the problem, the body’s spokesman Fatemeh Kahi said, quoted by state television. In Tehran, technicians from the Ministry of Petrol took IT systems offline in a number of petrol stations to distribute fuel manually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/cyberattack-closes-petrol-stations-across-iran/article37182722.ece
27 October 2021||Berlin,||Germany’s Parliament elects new Speaker||Germany’s newly elected Parliament held its first meeting on Tuesday and elected a lawmaker from the centre-left Social Democratic Party as speaker of the 736-member Lower House, or Bundestag. German Chancellor Angela Merkel attended the session although she is no longer a lawmaker. She sat in the visitor stands of Parliament. Ms. Merkel’s Union bloc finished behind the Social Democrats in Germany’s federal election last month. “The citizens are looking to us, and their expectations of Parliament are rightly high,” Wolfgang Schaeuble, the previous Speaker, said. “We all should continue to do everything we can to meet their expectations.” Mr. Schaeuble, 79, a conservative veteran and former Finance and Interior Minister, is the longest-serving member of Parliament. He has been a lawmaker since 1972. The new Speaker, Baerbel, Bas, has been a member of the Bundestag since 2009. Women’s representation She told fellow lawmakers on Tuesday that she would work for fairer representation of women in Parliament. Ms. Bas is only the third woman to head the Bundestag since its creation in 1949. “The responsibility has by far not been spread fairly on all shoulders,” she said. While the Bundestag has more women members following last month’s election, women are still a long way from reaching parity in the national legislature. More than a third, or 34.7%, of the new lawmakers are women compared with the 31.4% in the previous parliament, according to German news agency dpa. Ms. Bas emphasised that even though Parliament does not yet reflect the full diversity of German society, the new Bundestag has become more diverse, with more immigrant lawmakers and younger members, too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/germanys-parliament-elects-new-speaker/article37182723.ece
27 October 2021||Tokyo,||Japan princess Mako marries commoner||Japanese Princess Mako quietly married a commoner without traditional wedding celebrations on Tuesday and said their marriage — delayed three years and opposed by some — “was a necessary choice to live while cherishing our hearts”. The marriage to Kei Komuro cost Ms. Mako her royal status. She received her husband’s surname — the first time she has had a family name. Most Japanese women must abandon their own family names upon marriage due to a law requiring only one surname per married couple. There was no wedding banquet or other marriage rituals for the couple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/japan-princess-mako-marries-commoner/article37182725.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||The vaccination milestone and a distant goal||Our frontline health-care workers deserve our fulsome congratulations for crossing the milestone of 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses. They, along with our scientists, researchers, medical professionals, and vaccine manufacturers, have heroically overcome multiple obstacles in the quest to protect our citizens from COVID-19. Thanks to their efforts, our vaccination drive has picked up pace after the initial months of delay, indecision, and confusion. This milestone also marks the triumph of science and of India’s research and manufacturing infrastructure built and nurtured over decades. It is opportune to recollect that it is the Patents Act, 1970, that contributed hugely to the development of our drugs and pharmaceutical industry, which has enabled India to become a globally respected manufacturer of vaccines. The shock of the second wave This jubilant mood though must not give way to complacency. It is still fresh in our memory how the Prime Minister told the Chief Ministers early in April that “we defeated COVID-19 without vaccines”. Just months earlier, before the disastrous second wave triggered by premature claims of success and unregulated large gatherings, punctured these claims, he had boasted at the World Economic Forum how well prepared India was to cope with the pandemic, defying the dire predictions of several international experts. With complacency firmly in command, vaccine procurement was not prioritised and crucial efforts, including ensuring supply of oxygen in case of a surge of infections, were neglected. The public also dropped its guard believing the Government’s reassurance. As we all know, disastrous consequences followed, and lakhs of Indians paid with their lives. Even as the Prime Minister has heralded in his usual self-promotional style the 100-crore vaccination mark — even though there are only two countries in the world that are called upon to reach this level of coverage and we were not the first to do so — the harsh truth is that the second wave was a colossal tragedy that could have been averted had the Government not let down the people of India. During that horrific, difficult time, the Prime Minister and the Home Minister were nowhere to be seen or heard but reappeared only when the situation improved. This was a repeat of their performance during the first wave, when, after the sudden announcement of the lockdown, lakhs of migrant workers were abandoned, left to themselves to trudge thousands of kilometres home to their villages. Untold numbers perished along the way. The nation has not forgotten the heart-rending images of people gasping for breath and of families desperately trying to obtain oxygen and hospital beds. Their enormous suffering is seared in our memory through pictures of bodies scattered in riverbanks and floating on rivers. The Government is yet to give an accurate count of the number of people who died as a result of its negligence. Callously, the Government has yet to provide compensation to bereaved families. Instead, the powers that be have stubbornly doubled down on efforts to divert attention and pass on the blame to others. The Government clearly hopes that denial will cause people to absolve it of responsibility for their miseries. Vaccine orders We applaud science, but we know that our vaccination drive would have rolled out faster if the Government had respected scientific breakthroughs in other countries and placed adequate orders for their vaccines. Indeed, the situation would have been mitigated had the Government had the foresight to place orders with India’s own leading vaccine manufacturer. The Government’s initial “smart” vaccination strategy asserted that “there would be no requirement for vaccination of the whole population of the country”. Thus, India, the biggest manufacturer of vaccines in the world — a status achieved long before May 2014 — only fully vaccinated 0.5% of its population ahead of the second wave. Another misstep The intensity of the second wave demonstrated how wrong the Government’s vaccination strategy was. But the blunders were compounded as the Government rolled out a procurement policy that had cash-strapped States competing with each other over vaccine supply. Sustained pressure from State governments, the Supreme Court of India, Opposition parties, the scientific community, and civil society helped tide over some missteps. Unfortunately, the Government continues to treat the fight against COVID-19 as an event management exercise. The Prime Minister’s birthday saw a record two crore inoculations, partly achieved by hoarding vaccines in the run-up to the day to shore up numbers for the ‘event’. Such vanity is inexcusable. It demonstrates that India has the capacity to vaccinate at a faster rate, but for some inexplicable reason the Government has chosen not to. The Government should answer a simple question: if two crore can be vaccinated on one chosen day, why not every day? The gaps in vaccination In the nine months since we started the vaccination drive, we have only been able to fully vaccinate less than a third of our adult population. Countries with comparable COVID-19 figures and even those with smaller or poorer economies have performed much better. Even if manufacturers ramp up production rapidly, our vaccination rate will fail to catch up. In the first three weeks of October it was 50 lakh doses a day. This rate will have to be tripled to inoculate all eligible adults by year-end. Not only that, the gap between the proportion of the population that has got at least one dose and two doses is widest in India. This gap is likely a result of domestic supply falling short of the demand. The Government refuses to explore diverse methods, including compulsory licensing, to raise our domestic production of vaccines. Moreover, the Government is yet to roll out a plan to inoculate our children who could be particularly vulnerable to future waves. We must protect our children urgently so they can go back to school. India has had one of the longest school shutdowns worldwide and the damage to their education and growth has been incalculable. We are also concerned about people’s immunity waning over time in spite of having been vaccinated or infected. But the Government has dealt with queries about booster shoots with complete opaqueness. It must work out a plan, based on scientific advice, for booster shots, like other countries have done. Most importantly, scientific procedures need to be adhered to during approval and procurement of vaccines. Truth and transparency should be the hallmark of government actions and communication with the public to avoid any vaccine hesitancy. A shift in policy The Prime Minister likes to emphasise that vaccines are free, while conveniently forgetting that they have always been free. It is the Bharatiya Janata Party government that moved away from India’s universal free vaccination policy. A significant section of the population was forced to pay for vaccines as government centres ran out of them. Many better-off citizens pooled in money to ensure the poor could get vaccinated. While commendable, this is an indictment of the Government, which shifted its responsibility to citizens and the private sector. Not even 10% of our population can afford to pay for vaccines, yet the Government continues to allocate 25% of vaccines to the private sector. This is unacceptable — resulting in less, not more vaccination. In May 2021, the Government announced that all eligible Indians would be doubly vaccinated by the end of 2021. This hollow announcement has not been accompanied by either appropriate planning or execution. Experts assert that we will miss this target by at least five to six months. The Government must realise that vaccinating all Indians as quickly as possible is linked to not only the health of our citizens but also the wealth of our nation. The floundering economy can be turned around if we can drive away the dark clouds of COVID-19. That requires us to ramp up the pace of the roll out of vaccines to all, completely free, including to our children. That is our best hope to protect our citizens, put our children back in school, revive our markets and have a cascading positive impact across sectors, thus ushering in the festive season and the new year with genuine optimism. Sonia Gandhi is the President of the Indian National Congress||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-vaccination-milestone-and-a-distant-goal/article37182711.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Why India shouldn’t sign on to net zero||Despite the net zero campaign by a number of countries and non-state actors, the timing of the world’s carbon dioxide emissions reaching net zero is not the critical parameter for the safety of humanity. As the recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change made it clear, limiting the increase in the world’s average temperature from pre-industrial levels to those agreed in the Paris Agreement requires global cumulative emissions of carbon dioxide to be capped at the global carbon budget. It is a truism that such a cap means that eventually emissions must go to zero, or more precisely, net zero. But reaching net zero by itself is irrelevant to forestalling dangerous warming. This is no more rocket science than saying that the promise of when you will turn off the tap does not guarantee that you will draw only a specified quantity of water. What promises of net zero do What do we know about projected cumulative emissions? The top three emitters of the world — China, the U.S. and the European Union — even after taking account of their net zero commitments and their enhanced emission reduction commitments for 2030, will emit more than 500 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide before net zero. These three alone will exceed the limit of about 500 billion tonnes from 2020 onwards, for even odds of keeping global temperature increase below 1.5°C. With these committed emissions, there is no hope of “keeping 1.5°C alive.” The target is dead-on-arrival. For two-to-one odds for the same target, the limit is 400 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide, a limit that is even more certain to be breached. Neither the Paris Agreement nor climate science requires that net zero be reached individually by countries by 2050, the former requiring only global achievement of this goal “in the second half of the century”. Claims that the world “must” reach specific goals by 2030 or 2050 are the product of specific economic models for climate action. These are designed to achieve the Paris goals by the “lowest cost” methods, foregoing equity and climate justice. They front-load emission reduction requirements on developing countries, despite their already low emissions, to allow the developed world to backload its own, buying time for its own transition. These stringent limits on future cumulative emissions post 2020, amounting to less than a fifth of the total global carbon budget, is the result of its considerable over-appropriation in the past by the global North. Less than a fifth of the world has been responsible for three-fifths of all past cumulative emissions, the U.S. and the EU alone having contributed a whopping 45%. Promises of net zero in their current form perpetuate this hugely disproportionate appropriation of a global commons, while continuing to place humanity in harm’s way. What India must do India’s emissions story cannot be bracketed with the top three. India is responsible for no more than 4.37% cumulative emissions of carbon dioxide since the pre-industrial era, even though it is home to more than a sixth of humanity. India’s per capita emissions are less than half the world average, less than one-eighth of the U.S.’s, and have shown no dramatic increase like China’s post 2000. For India to declare net zero now is to accede to the further over-appropriation of the global carbon budget by a few. India’s contribution to global emissions, in both stock and flow, is so disproportionately low that any sacrifice on its part can do nothing to save the world. Nor can it proceed with the expectation that the developed world and China would limit their emissions further in the future. If such expectations were belied, it would endanger the future of its own population, subjecting it to unprecedented hardship. The failure of the developed world to meet its pre-2020 obligations along with its refusal to acknowledge this provides little confidence for the future. The allocation of property rights, without grandfathering, is essential to ensure equitable access to any global commons. The global carbon budget has been subject to no such restriction allowing the developed countries to exploit it fully, in the past and the present. Only China, from among the rest, has managed to surmount this barrier to access. India, in enlightened self-interest, must now stake its claim to a fair share of the global carbon budget. Technology transfer and financial support, together with “negative emissions”, if the latter succeeds, can compensate for the loss of the past. In the absence of such a claim, India’s considerable current efforts at mitigation are a wasted effort, only easing the way for the continued over-exploitation of the global commons by a few. Such a claim by India provides it greater, and much-needed long-term options. It enables the responsible use of coal, its major fossil fuel resource, and oil and gas, to bootstrap itself out of lower middle-income economy status and eradicate poverty, hunger and malnutrition for good. India’s resource-strapped small industries sector, which provides employment and livelihoods to the majority of the population outside agriculture, needs expansion and modernisation. The agriculture sector, the second largest source of greenhouse gas emissions for India after energy, needs to double its productivity and farmers’ incomes and build resilience. Infrastructure for climate resilience in general is critical to future adaptation to climate change. All of these will require at least the limited fossil fuel resources made available through a fair share of the carbon budget. Developed countries and China, on the other hand, if they are serious about the Paris Agreement targets, must reach net zero well before 2050. For a target of 2°C, there is more room for the rest of the world, since the cumulative emission limit for it, with the same even odds, is 1,350 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide. However, without restriction of their future cumulative emissions by the big emitters, to their fair share of the global carbon budget, and the corresponding temperature target that they correspond to made clear, India cannot sign on to net zero. Even if India were to enhance its short-term Nationally Determined Contributions under the Paris Agreement in some fashion, unnecessary as of now, it should do so while staking a claim to its share of the global commons. This will ensure that its efforts will not further enable the free-riding of the developed world and protect its access to this strategic resource, vital to India’s industrial and developmental future. T. Jayaraman is Senior Fellow, Climate Change, at the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/why-india-shouldnt-sign-on-to-net-zero/article37182720.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Re-evaluating the neo-Buddhist movement||Till October 14, 1956, the followers of Buddhism in India were an insignificant mass. And as a religion, it was one that was on the verge of extinction. On this date, Babasaheb Ambedkar embraced Buddhism in a grand ceremony at Nagpur, Maharashtra, and offered it to millions of his followers. Significant sections among the erstwhile untouchable castes divorced the degraded untouchable caste identity to find solace in the teachings of the Buddha. Ambedkar’s impact A few days ago, on October 20, 2021, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated Kushinagar International Airport in Uttar Pradesh, which will help connect important Buddhist pilgrimage sites. Kushinagar is an important Buddhist pilgrim destination. The Prime Minister heralded the Buddhist sites and the Buddha’s teachings as the marker of India’s ancient civilisational heritage. However, he never acknowledged Ambedkar’s contribution in revitalising the Buddhist faith. Buddhism’s affiliation with the Dalit emancipatory movement is largely neglected, and often, its ornamental spiritual side is what is presented instead. According to the last national population census, the Buddhists are one of the smallest minorities (0.7% of the total population) in India. Interestingly a majority of them are converted Dalits from Maharashtra. Within the conventional Hindu social order, the untouchables were reduced to a sub-human category and treated with hatred and subject to prejudices. Though there were impactful social reforms to correct historic wrongs, the general social psyche of the dominant caste Hindus towards the lowest rung remained pervasive. It is with the arrival of Ambedkar on the national political stage that Dalits realised their self-potential and launched a struggle, claiming an equitable share in the modern institutions of power. Embracing Buddhism is heralded as the intellectual choice of Dalits that connects them to a robust historic past while also making them ready to enjoy constitutional rights as secular citizens. A force in Maharashtra Important cities in Maharashtra such as Mumbai, Aurangabad and Nagpur have witnessed the rise of powerful Dalit movements, social events and modern monuments. Deeksha Bhoomi in Nagpur, the place where Ambedkar embraced Buddhism, has emerged as a monumental heritage site, attracting millions of visitors every year. Here, Buddhism was resurrected not only as a part of India’s cultural and civilisational heritage but also as a tool to escape the caste hierarchical cultural hegemony and social hostility. In the post-Ambedkar period, it is urban Buddhists — because of their educational achievements and newly gained middle class status — who have offered vital leadership to Dalit politics and organised various social and cultural struggles. Importantly, it is the creative application of the neo-Buddhist identity and ideology that has structured the Dalit movement as an autonomous political force in Maharashtra. A serious debate between neo-Buddhists and Marxist-Socialists erupted during the heightened period of activism by the Dalit Panthers’ in Bombay. Namdeo Dhasal, a maverick revolutionary poet, offered a militant political alternative, suggesting that ‘Dalit’ is a revolutionary collective of all oppressed communities and that they shall contest caste atrocities and state violence by radical violent means. Dhasal was influenced by the Maoist-Naxalbari movements and wanted that Dalits should build close solidarities with the Communist working-class movement. Raja Dhale, another founding member of the Dalit Panthers’ movement, criticised such a ‘Leftist turn’ of the Dalit movement. As an alternative to Dhasal’s ‘Marxist Manifesto’, he offered a Buddhist perspective, suggesting that the social justice movement must be based upon a primacy to Ambedkarite liberal principles and making a break from the ideas of a violent class struggle. Conversion to Buddhism helped the community appreciate the constitutional values of secularism and social justice substantively and develop a critical distance from the ideologies that legitimise any brutal usage of violence. Dhale visualised the neo-Buddhist movement not as a sectarian project for the emancipation of untouchables only but visualised it as a revolutionary project that would enlighten the wider Bahujan mass. Second, conversion to Buddhism also helped Dalits to find a robust meaning about their cultural past. They reinvented the Buddhist cultural symbols (by building monuments, viharas and religious sites), rituals and practices (by celebrating Buddhist festivals) as the proud markers of their new social identity. Buddhist cultural assertions and claims over public spaces became the symbols of their rejection against Hindu cultural hegemony and its social tentacles. Such assertiveness often put them in opposition with right-wing ideologies. Niche ideological space In Mumbai, under Bal Thackeray’s leadership, the Shiv Sena responded to the neo-Buddhist social activism with street violence and riots. In the early 1990s, the neo-Buddhists launched a mass movement to liberate the Bodhgaya temple from the control of Brahmin priests and also raised legal claim over the controversial site of the Babri Masjid, thus putting Hindutva politics into conundrum — on how to deal with the neo-Buddhists’ demands. Though the Bharatiya Janata Party regime at the centre appears more accommodative to Dalit cultural and religious symbols and avoided much skirmish on this front, it is difficult for the right wing to attract neo-Buddhists under the Hindutva project. As an ideological force, neo-Buddhists offer an alternative reading of history and imagine Buddhism as the chief challenger to Brahmanical Hindu traditions, caste order and orthodox ritualism. Buddhists thus stand distinct from the militant Hindutva hegemony and wish to retain their own autonomy in sociocultural spaces. Non-allegiance with the Left militancy and later its opposition to Hindutva politics have created a niche ideological space for Dalits especially amongst neo-Buddhists. However, as a political force, they have failed to provide any significant challenge to the dominant caste and class elites and failed to mobilise other marginalised communities under their social or political programmes. In recent times, neo-Buddhism has generated a passive communitarian exclusivity that often engages with ritualistic and spiritual endeavours rather than building impressive struggles for social justice or to gain political power. A democratic dialogue The revolutionary promises made during Ambedkar’s historic Buddhist conversion would be fulfilled only if the polity is sensitive towards secularism and social justice. The current advancement of Hindutva is coercive and hegemonic as it offers residual space to Buddhist symbols and keeps a distance from its revolutionary anti-caste struggles. Though it is vital to protect the autonomous cultural space that the neo-Buddhist intellectual class has developed, it is equally important to build a unified people’s movement to protect the merits of India’s constitutional democracy. It is only by initiating democratic dialogue with other marginalised and struggling communities that neo-Buddhists can revitalise Ambedkar’s transformative project. Harish S. Wankhede is Assistant Professor, Centre for Political Studies, School of Social Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/re-evaluating-the-neo-buddhist-movement/article37182713.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Clearing the air on water||The prosperity of the Pollachi region of Tamil Nadu is attributed to the Parambikulam Aliyar Project (PAP). The project paved the way for surplus waters from eight west-flowing rivers to irrigate eastern Tamil Nadu. Of the eight rivers, six — Anamalaiyar, Thunacadavu, Sholayar, Nirar, Peruvaripallam and Parambikulam — are in the Anamalai hills. Two — Aliyar and Palar — are in the plains. The project is an exemplar of co-operative federalism, in this case between Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Using inter-basin diversion, the project irrigates drought-prone areas in the Coimbatore and Erode districts of Tamil Nadu. It also stabilises the existing irrigation system in the Chittoorpuzha valley in Kerala. The PAP agreement was signed between Kerala and Tamil Nadu on May 29, 1970, with retrospective effect from November 1958. It provides for the diversion of 30.5 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) annually from Kerala to Tamil Nadu. It also provides for Kerala 7.25 tmc ft through the Manacadavu weir and 12.3 tmc ft at its Sholayar dam annually (19.5 tmc in all). This major project with an outlay of Rs. 138 crore was completed in 1972. The agreement ensures Kerala’s riparian share in the Sholayar and Chittoorpuzha sub-basins as a guaranteed annual entitlement without applying the distress-sharing formula. It also ensures four months’ flow (from the Northeast monsoons) from the Upper Nirar weir for Kerala’s exclusive use in the Periyar basin. Except for the Kerala Sholayar dam, the Parambikulam, Peruvaripallam and Tunacadavu dams are situated inside Kerala territory but are controlled and operated by Tamil Nadu. Reservations The agreement provides for review every 30 years since November 9, 1958. This, however, remains inconclusive. Kerala has reservations on the non-realisation of its share of 2.5 tmc of water from the Parambikulam group of rivers for the exclusive use of Chittoorpuzha valley; the failure of Tamil Nadu to give Kerala what it is entitled to at the Manacadvu weir and Sholayar dam in low-yield years from the reservoirs under its control; and construction of some structures in the project area without Kerala’s concurrence. Tamil Nadu regrets the non-realisation of the anticipated yield of 2.5 tmc from the proposed Anamalayar project and the expected yield of four months of flow from the Upper Nirar. It also proposes new constructions to augment its share — the Nirar-Nallar Project and Balancing Reservoir above Manacadavu — which have not got Kerala’s consent. Tamil Nadu expanded its envisaged ayacut from 2.5 lakh to more than 4.25 lakh acres, in the four zones irrigating on a rotation basis. The deliberations are so far inconclusive because both States have focused on the total average yield and are not exploring furthering the utilisable yield from the available yield. Five decades-long joint gauging data (1970-2020) on yield and utilisation, approved by the Joint Water Regulation Board created inter-governmentally, shows that the actual combined yield of the entire project is more or less equal to the anticipated yield. But if we consider the yield on a sub-basin level, there is huge variation between the actual yield, the anticipated yield, and also the yield available for utilisation. Trapping the spill A closer look at the project hydrology reveals that of the last 20 years, the Chalakudy basin experienced overflow from PAP in 12 years. Similarly, a sizeable portion of the water is lost through Manacadavu as unutilisable flows. These are due to the constraints in the present live storage capacity and the skewed inflow pattern. Kerala had consented to the diversion in the 1960s, anticipating enough storage spaces in both the Periyar and Chalakudy basins to meet its needs, but most of those storage reservoirs were subsequently denied environmental approval. The way forward lies in trapping the existing spill at Chalakudy and Bharathappuzha through new reservoirs, which will substantially alter the present flow regime of PAP. Experts of both States could analyse and create working tables based on the observed flow regime to see how much additional water can be made available in the system through new reservoir systems and how that can be shared. Sharing becomes imperative as Kerala has largely transferred its storing options in favour of Tamil Nadu in PAP. As new systems considerably alter the flow regime it is imperative that proper checks and balances be agreed upon to ensure the guaranteed entitlements at Sholayar and Manacadavu. Once the benefits are established by the technical officers, the political leadership can deliberate on the principles of sharing to review the agreement. The leaders of both States have clear mandates and a reputation for being decisive. They can overcome hurdles for a mutually acceptable renewal. James Wilson is Member, Expert Advisory Group, KSEBL, and B. Ashok is the Chairman & Managing Director, KSEBL. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/clearing-the-air-on-water/article37182716.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Preparing for outbreaks||COVID-19 overburdened the country’s health system and services. The early months of the outbreak were particularly taxing for the States with weaker health systems. The inability of the private sector to share the burden drove the point home that healthcare services cannot be left to independent forces. Aims of ABHIM The Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission (ABHIM) is another addition to the arsenal we have to prepare for such oubreaks in the future. This was launched with an outlay of Rs. 64,180 crore over a period of five years. In addition to the National Health Mission, this scheme will work towards strengthening public health institutions and governance capacities for wide-ranging diagnostics and treatment, including critical care services. The latter goal would be met with the establishment of critical care hospital blocks in 12 central institutions such as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, and in government medical colleges and district hospitals in 602 districts. The importance of laboratories and their lack of readiness during an outbreak in terms of having a robust surveillance system and diagnostic interface has never been more pronounced than in recent times. The government will be establishing integrated district public health labs in 730 districts to provide comprehensive laboratory services. The current labs for different programmes shall be integrated to deliver clinical, public health surveillance and diagnostic services for predicting outbreaks, epidemics, and more. ABHIM will focus on supporting research on COVID-19 and other infectious diseases, including biomedical research to generate evidence to inform short-term and medium-term responses to such pandemics. The government also aims to develop a core capacity to deliver the ‘one health’ approach to prevent, detect, and respond to infectious disease outbreaks in humans and animals. The plan to achieve that bio-security preparedness and pandemic research strengthening would be realised via four regional National Institutes for Virology, the regional research platform for the World Health Organization Southeast Asia Region, and nine Biosafety Level III laboratories. Boosting surveillance In India’s endeavour to keep ahead of the infectious organisms that bring our life to a halt, expanding and building an IT-enabled disease surveillance system is on the cards too. A network of surveillance labs will be developed at the block, district, regional and national levels for detecting, investigating, preventing, and combating health emergencies and outbreaks. Surveillance will get a huge boost with 20 metropolitan surveillance units, five regional National Centre for Disease Control branches, and an integrated health promotion platform in all the States. The points of entry will be reinforced with 17 new points of entry health units upgrading 33 existing units. The upgraded and intensified system of surveillance will be in addition to a state-of-the-art national digital health ecosystem for IT-enabled healthcare service delivery, for managing the core digital health data and for ensuring national portability in the provision of health services through a secure system of electronic health records. This will be based on international standards and easily accessible to citizens. A major highlight of the current pandemic has been the requirement of local capacities in urban areas. The services from the existing urban primary health centres will be expanded to smaller units – Ayushman Bharat Urban Health and Wellness Centres and polyclinics or specialist clinics. The urban primary health centres will be established closer to the community to meet the needs of the urban population and polyclinics willguarantee care through improved access to expanded high-quality services and establish referral linkages. Bharati Pravin Pawar is the Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/preparing-for-outbreaks/article37182718.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Safety first||The Supreme Court’s direction on Monday to the supervisory committee for the Mullaperiyar dam on the issue of the maximum water level has revived the controversy surrounding the dam. Located in Kerala, the water body is operated and maintained by Tamil Nadu to meet the water requirements of five of its southern districts. The order was issued while hearing a petition raising apprehensions about the supervision of water levels of the reservoir, especially during the rainy season; Kerala has also been experiencing unusually heavy spells of rain. During October 18-25, the dam too received a substantial inflow. Despite the Court’s nod in 2014 to store water up to 142 ft, Tamil Nadu has been careful in drawing as much water as possible so that the level does not reach the permissible level ordinarily. A few days ago, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to his Tamil Nadu counterpart, M.K. Stalin, referring to the heavy rainfall in the catchment and emphasising the “urgent need for the gradual release of water”. His letter should be viewed more as a note of caution than anything else. During a debate in the Assembly on Monday, Mr. Vijayan categorically stated that there was no threat to the dam and was also appreciative of the Tamil Nadu authorities, who, he noted, were “highly empathetic” to Kerala’s demands. With camaraderie prevailing between the two States, Mr. Stalin and Mr. Vijayan would do well to send out a strong message that there is no room for passion and chauvinism on a technical and complex subject such as the operation and maintenance of Mullaperiyar. As the issue of dam safety is a recurrent one, it would be in the interests of all stakeholders that the remaining works to strengthen the dam are done at the earliest, for which the approval of the Kerala and Central governments is required. Some sections in Kerala may argue that the completion of the works will only make the case of Tamil Nadu stronger in the context of its long-standing demand of raising the water level to the original 152 ft. But, what needs to be kept in mind is that the works are meant to strengthen the dam. It has been suggested that Kerala give its permission — a pre-requisite for Tamil Nadu to get the Centre’s clearances — while stating that this will not be prejudicial to its position on the issue. Tamil Nadu too should ensure that all the instruments for monitoring the safety and health of the dam are installed and are functioning properly. As there are sufficient scientific and technological tools to respond effectively to any legitimate and genuine concern, every player should adopt a rational approach while deciding on the storage levels and safety aspects of the dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/safety-first/article37182705.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Coup in Sudan||The move by Sudan’s military to dissolve the Sovereignty Council where it shared power with civilian leaders has thrown the African country’s fragile transition from dictatorship to democracy into chaos. Almost three years ago, tens of thousands of Sudanese rose against the regime of Omar al-Bashir in what they call a “revolution” that eventually led to the dictator’s fall in April 2019. Ever since, the military and leaders of the civilian movement came together to form a transitional government. In their agreement, the acting Prime Minister would run the day-to-day affairs while the military chief would remain the leader of the Sovereignty Council for two years. Lt. Gen. Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, the military chief, was scheduled to hand over the leadership of the transitional government to the civilian leadership in a few weeks. Instead, he disbanded the government, proclaimed himself the new leader, declared a state of emergency and imprisoned the civilian leaders, including Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok. Tensions were brewing in recent weeks. Pro-military mobs had been carrying out protests demanding the government’s removal amid soaring prices of essentials. Port Sudan, the country’s largest port, on the Red Sea, had been blockaded by a tribal group, with help from the military, which worsened the economic situation, including acute shortages of food, currency and fuel. The civilian leadership had accused the military of exploiting the economic crisis. The overthrow of the Bashir regime and the promised democratic transition were the best hopes for Sudan to end its international isolation, heal the wounds of decades of oppression and state violence, and build a stable economic and political order in an otherwise violence-ridden Horn of Africa. Sudan had taken the steps in that direction. Last year, the U.S. removed the country, which hosted Osama bin Laden in the 1990s, from the list of state sponsors of terrorism and announced financial aid. Earlier this year, the IMF had reached a $50 billion debt-relief agreement with the transitional government. The civilian leaders had promised that they would send Bashir to The Hague to prosecute him over allegations of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. The country was also gearing up to organise its first free and fair elections in decades. But the power-hungry generals appear to be more concerned about protecting their interests, which they feared would be at risk had a democratic government taken full control of the country. After all, Sudan’s military cannot absolve itself from whatever allegations Bashir is facing. But this time, it faces a stiff challenge from the public. The protesters who brought down Bashir are back on the streets fighting the security personnel. A violent showdown is most likely. Gen. Burhan should desist from more violence. The military should release all the arrested leaders, restore the transition government and let free elections decide the future of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/coup-in-sudan/article37182706.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||First country to be expelled||United Nations, October 26: The Taiwan regime which occupied China’s seat in the United Nations for 22 years after its ouster from the Chinese mainland, is the first country ever to be expelled from the world body. Commenting on the U.N. decision to seat the Peking regime and expel Taiwan Mr. Chow Chu-kai, Foreign Minister of Taiwan, said by this decision the U.N. had dug its own grave, DPA reported. Mr. Chow said his country would continue to fight to “liberate the mainland”. There was no question of seeking a return to the UN under the name of “Formosa” or “Taiwan”, he added. Taiwan, bowing to the inevitable, formally quit the world body just before the final vote on the China seat and thus technically avoided the humiliation of actual expulsion. Decision conveyed to Peking: The U.N. Secretary General, U Thant, cabled to Peking early to-day the text of last night’s General Assembly resolution restoring to the People’s Republic of China the Chinese seat in the United Nations. A spokesperson said the cable was addressed to the Chinese Foreign Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/first-country-to-be-expelled/article37182717.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Chip scarcity to cap growth of passenger vehicles at 11-13%’||Hit by the global shortage of semiconductors, sales growth for India’s passenger vehicle (PV) segment will be limited to 11-13% this fiscal, according to Crisil Ratings. But for the supply issue, growth forecasts could have been 400-600 basis points (bps) higher, it said. Conclusions are from Crisil’s analysis of India’s top three PV makers with combined market share of about 71%. “Since the pandemic began, preference for personal mobility has increased, leading to more-than-expected demand for PVs... The upshot of the chip shortage has been PV production cuts, which will [reflect in] the ongoing festive season, when sales are typically higher.... we foresee tempered overall growth for PVs this fiscal,” senior director Anuj Sethi said. Semiconductors, or chips, are crucial for features such as navigation, infotainment and traction control. For customers, the waiting period for some models has risen from 2-3 months to 6-9 months, Crisil noted. Pandemic-induced uncertainties had led to sharp swings in orders by OEMs, which account for 10-12% of global chip demand. “Poor inventory planning by OEMs, chip hoarding by Chinese firms, and natural disasters affecting major chip factories further exacerbated the problem,” it added. Shortages are expected to continue into the first quarter of next fiscal with capacity addition not keeping pace with demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chip-scarcity-to-cap-growth-of-passenger-vehicles-at-11-13/article37182698.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India needs to bolster its health infrastructure: Jin||India should strike a balance between ramping up physical infrastructure and the social infrastructure such as healthcare systems, Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) president Jin Liqun said on Tuesday. Stressing that the country faces a ‘huge need’ to strengthen its healthcare infrastructure, the AIIB president said that the multilateral lender would look to fund both social as well as climate-resilient infrastructure in India in the coming years. The AIIB will align its operations with the goals of the Paris Agreement to cope with climate change by July 2023, and expects to finance infrastructure projects to mitigate and adapt to climate change worth $50 billion by 2030, Mr. Jin said at a press conference ahead of the governors’ board meet. ‘Supplementing efforts’ Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in her interventions, emphasised the importance of multilateral banks in supplementing countries’ efforts to cope with the COVID-19 crisis and the looming climate crisis. “She highlighted some of the expectations from the Bank, including the need to explore investment opportunities in the creation and development of assets in social infrastructure sectors; to further intensify private sector capital mobilisation for inclusive and green development; and to set up a Resident Board and Regional Offices to ensure accountability, transparency and quality of operations and investments,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement. Mr. Jin said that India needed to develop modern infrastructure and when the Bank screened proposals, it worked with the government to ensure that priority was given to infrastructure projects which could deal with climate change. ‘Making key progress’ “I can assure you that we are making very much important progress in this regard. Second, we financed the projects to deal with the pandemic in India and, at this moment, I can see the projects we financed are already working. I am very glad to see the Indian government is quickly containing the pandemic,” the AIIB president said. “What we are looking forward to is when we can quickly go back to normal infrastructure investment operations... which can also help the healthcare systems and social infrastructure.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-needs-to-bolster-its-health-infrastructure-jin/article37182696.ece
27 October 2021||COLOMBO,||Adani eyes infrastructure ventures in Sri Lanka||The Adani Group will explore infrastructure partnerships in Sri Lanka, apart from developing a Colombo Port terminal, chairman Gautam Adani said following meetings with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and PM Mahinda Rajapaksa. “Privileged to meet President @GotabayaR and PM @PresRajapaksa. In addition to developing Colombo Port’s Western Container Terminal, the Adani Group will explore other infrastructure partnerships. India’s strong bonds with Sri Lanka are anchored to centuries’ old historic ties,” Mr. Adani tweeted on Tuesday, referring to the eponymous group’s $700 million port-terminal deal, with a local partner and the Sri Lanka Ports Authority. Mr. Adani, who had a private meeting with President Gotabaya on Monday, called on PM Mahinda on Tuesday, sources in Colombo said. A team from the Indian group visited the northern Mannar district to inspect a wind-power farm, officials of the Ceylon Electricity Board were quoted as saying in local media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adani-eyes-infrastructure-ventures-in-sri-lanka/article37182690.ece
27 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Canara Bank Q2 net jumps to Rs. 1,333 crore||Canara Bank on Tuesday reported a threefold jump in Q2 net profit to Rs. 1,333 crore on the back of treasury and non-interest income besides higher cash recovery. Net interest income was a tad lower at Rs. 6,273 crore (Rs. 6,305 crore) while total income rose 2.6% to Rs. 21,331 crore. Addressing a virtual media conference, MD and CEO L. V. Prabhakar said operating profit grew 22% to Rs. 5,604 crore as against Rs 4,597 crore in the year-earlier period. Treasury income surged 95% to Rs. 1,754 crore while non-interest income rose 37.5% to Rs. 4,268 crore. NPA provision declined by 24% to Rs. 2,678 crore with an improvement in recovery of loans , Mr. Prabhakar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/canara-bank-q2-net-jumps-to-rs-1333-crore/article37182691.ece
27 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Axis Bank Q2 net jumps 86% to Rs. 3,133 crore||Axis Bank Ltd. reported second quarter standalone net profit jumped 86% to Rs. 3,133 crore. Net Interest Income (NII) grew 8% yoy to Rs. 7,900 crore. Specific loan-loss provisions stood at Rs. 927 crore (Rs. 2,865 crore). As on September 30, the bank’s reported gross NPA and net NPA levels stood at 3.53% and 1.08% respectively as against 3.85% and 1.20% as on June 30. MD & CEO Amitabh Chaudhry said, “We continue to focus on SMEs and mid corporates and on retail, we see better disbursements and growth driven by secured products.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/axis-bank-q2-net-jumps-86-to-rs-3133-crore/article37182692.ece
27 October 2021||new delhi,||Apex body for cybersecurity missing: Pant||There are cybersecurity organisations in the country but no central body responsible for safety in the online space, a top cybersecurity official said. National Cyber Security Coordinator (NCSC) Rajesh Pant also said the proposed national cybersecurity strategy will address this gap in the security framework. He said India has excellent organisations and there has been ‘fantastic’ transformation in the cybersecurity space in the country in the last one year. “By and large, a framework is in place but there is no central apex organisation today in terms of allocation of business rules,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/apex-body-for-cybersecurity-missing-pant/article37182700.ece
27 October 2021||new delhi,||Credit push: banks approve Rs. 11,168 cr. loans||Banks have sanctioned loans of Rs. 11,168 crore to about 2 lakh borrowers under the credit outreach programme, FM Nirmala Sitharaman said. Under this, banks have been holding special camps to sanction loans to eligible borrowers. “During her review of PSBs in Aug, Smt @nsitharaman had exhorted banks to conduct credit Outreach Programme in Oct to sup port revival of economic growth. In line with this, banks have been holding district-wise & sector-wise loan outreach programmes,” a tweet by the FM’s office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/credit-push-banks-approve-rs-11168-cr-loans/article37182701.ece
27 October 2021||Mumbai,||Central Bank Q2 net profit rises to Rs. 250 crore||Central Bank of India has registered a 55.3% growth in Q2 net profit to Rs. 250 crore. Operating profit improved 1.08% y-o-y to Rs. 1,401 crore. Net NPAs dropped from 5.6% to 4.51%, an improvement of 109 bps, the bank said in a filing. Provision coverage ratio improved from 82.24% to 85.86%, registering an improvement of 362 bps. Net interest income rose almost 6% to Rs. 2,495 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/central-bank-q2-net-profit-rises-to-rs-250-crore/article37182693.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Govt invites applications for chief economic adviser post||The Centre has invited applications for the post of chief economic adviser (CEA) to replace K.V. Subramanian, who will complete his three-year tenure next month. Mr. Subramanian was named CEA on December 7, 2018. As per the notice issued by Department of Economic Affairs, officers of central and State governments, the RBI and PSBs, holding analogous post on regular basis are eligible to apply.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-invites-applications-for-chief-economic-adviser-post/article37182699.ece
27 October 2021||Mumbai,||Fino announces Rs 1,200 crore initial share sale; first payments bank to go public||Fino Payments Bank on Tuesday announced a Rs. 1,200-crore initial public offering, which will include fresh issue of shares worth Rs. 300 crore. The firm, which will emerge as the first payments bank to list on the bourses, has set a price band of Rs. 560-Rs. 577 per share for the issue which will be open for subscription between October 29 and November 2. It will raise up to Rs. 300 crore from the fresh issue.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fino-announces-rs-1200-crore-initial-share-sale-first-payments-bank-to-go-public/article37182702.ece
27 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Kushagra and Srihari rewrite National records||Kushagra Rawat and Srihari Nataraj opened their campaigns at the 74th senior National aquatic championships in style, rewriting the National records in 400m freestyle and 100m backstroke events respectively, at the Basavanagudi Aquatic Centre on Tuesday. Delhi’s Kushagra beat his nearest rival, Aneesh Gowda of Karnataka, by nearly six seconds, touching the pad in 3:53.68, and in the process shaved 1.25 off Sajan Prakash’s previous record mark. Olympian and Karnataka’s lead swimmer Srihari lowered his own previous best from the 2019 Nationals by just over half a second, coming home in 55.10. One more mark Srihari later joined his teammates R. Sambhavv, Aneesh and Tanish George Mathew to erase the 4x200m freestyle record set in 2016 by Railways, as Karnataka emerged victorious with a timing of 7:37.65, nearly eight seconds faster than Railways’ time. In the day’s much-anticipated race, the women’s 100m backstroke, Karnataka’s Ridhima Veerendra Kumar, all of 14, beat Olympian Maana Patel by nearly one second, taking the gold in 1:04:40. At the 2019 Nationals, Ridhima was handed the 100m backstroke gold after winner Maana was disqualified for a false start. But to take the gold after beating the current National record holder and a swimmer six years her senior, would feel special. “I was not scared as such and took it as a challenge,” said Ridhima after the win. “I just swam my race and thought only of bettering my own time. “I am a sprinter, so my first 50m is always faster. I have seen her (Maana) races and she is experienced and is a lot faster in the second 50m. So, I knew that I had to push myself more.”  Elsewhere, the seasoned Sajan Prakash, who is coming back from a shoulder injury, took the gold in men’s 50m butterfly with a timing of 24.90.  The results:   Men: 400m freestyle: Kushagra Rawat (Del), 3:53.68 (NMR; OR: 3:54.93, Sajan Prakash, 2018); 100m backstroke: Srihari Nataraj (Kar), 55:10 (NMR; OR: 55.63, Srihari Nataraj, 2019).   200m breaststroke: M. Lohit (RSPB), 2:19.00; 50m butterfly: Sajan Prakash (Police), 24:90; 4x200m freestyle: Karnataka, 7:37.65 (NMR; OR: 7:45.24, RSPB, 2016).   Women: 400m freestyle: Shivangi Sarma (Asm), 4:31.86; 100m backstroke: Ridhima Veerendra Kumar (Kar), 1:04.40. 200m breaststroke: Apeksha Fernandes (Mah), 2:45.97; 50m butterfly: Rujuta Khade (Mah), 28.38; 4x200m freestyle: Karnataka, 9:08.02.   Water polo: Men: Punjab 18 bt Assam 0; Kerala 14 bt Manipur 2; Maharashtra 24 bt Karnataka 9; RSPB 22 bt Police 5; Bengal 17 bt Haryana 1; Women: Karnataka 19 bt Manipur 1; Police 9 bt Kerala 7; Maharashtra 15 bt Manipur 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kushagra-and-srihari-rewrite-national-records/article37183114.ece
27 October 2021||DUBAI,||South Africa proves too strong for WI||Defending champion West Indies suffered its second successive defeat at the ICC Twenty20 World Cup as its bowlers failed to defend 143 in a Super 12 match against South Africa here on Tuesday. South Africa won with eight wickets and 10 balls to spare. South Africa lost captain Temba Bavuma to a run-out in the first over of the run chase. Reeza Hendricks — opening in Quinton de Kock’s absence — and Rassie van der Dussen then added 57 for the second wicket before Shimron Hetmyer’s diving catch at deep square removed Hendricks. But that didn’t deter Aiden Markram, who hit an unbeaten 51 off just 26 balls with two boundaries and four sixes, to not only deny West Indies a whiff of a comeback but also become his team’s highest run-scorer in men’s T20Is in 2021. Van der Dussen finished unbeaten on 43. Earlier, South Africa chose to field. Off-spinner Markram and Kagiso Rabada shared the new ball and kept the West Indies openers quiet before Evin Lewis finally broke the shackles in the fourth over. Big hits He clubbed Rabada for a four and a six before hammering two more sixes and a four off Markram in the next over. Markram, who had gone for only four in his first two, conceded 18 in his third over. At the other end, Lendl Simmons, struggling to get going, was dropped on four by stand-in wicketkeeper Heinrich Klaasen off Anrich Nortje. Meanwhile, Lewis didn’t let the tempo drop, slog sweeping Tabraiz Shamsi over deep-square to bring up his 50 off 32 balls as West Indies got to 65 without loss at the halfway mark. Pressure But with Simmons unable to find gaps or go aerial, the pressure to keep up the scoring rate got to Lewis, who holed out to Rabada on the deep midwicket rope for a 35-ball 56. Nicholas Pooran, sent in at No. 3, was caught at long-off cheaply. Simmons followed suit when he was put out of his misery by a slower ball from Rabada that crashed into his stumps. Gayle falls West Indies was 95 for three in 15 overs when Chris Gayle — batting at No. 4 for the first time in T20Is — and Kieron Pollard took 16 off Shamsi’s third over; both hitting a six each. But Gayle was caught behind before he could inflict more damage. Pollard fell for a 20-ball 26, picking up van der Dussen at a very straight mid-off. Nortje and Pretorius then mixed up their pace to finish with four wickets for 12 runs in the last two overs. In the end, West Indies was left to rue the handy runs it left behind on the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-proves-too-strong-for-wi/article37182925.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Diplomatic coup gives England chance to square series||There is something ridiculous (and pointless) about playing the fifth Test of a series nearly 300 days after the end of the fourth Test. There is, of course, the small matter of losing some £30 million otherwise. The call of television is strong. Authorities seldom care about the organic growth of a series; a match is a match is a match is about as subtle as they can get. However, the intriguing issue is how the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) managed to put one over on the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). The BCCI started off keen that the series be left as is, decided 2-1 in India’s favour with the ‘fifth’ Test to be treated as a one-off. In September when India pulled out, ECB chief executive Tom Harrison had said he expected any rearranged fixture to be a “standalone situation”. Losing the plot It had been a tough, hard-fought series fiercely competitive and with moments of great heroism and exceptional comebacks. Both teams threw everything they had into it, and at the end of the fourth Test, one team had emerged clearly superior. That is what a Test series is about. It is not a collection of loosely-bound matches, but an opera which evolves while feeding on its own emotions and finding new ways of expression. A one-off is just that; without context, without any narrative build-up. The outcome off-field can be read in two ways: as a success for ECB diplomacy (or arm-twisting, which is the same thing) encouraged by the fact that India were on shaky ground legally, having been the team to pull out owing to a “ fear of Covid” which, as any first year law student will tell you is not the Covid itself. Or it can be seen as a failure of the BCCI to throw its weight around and get its way in international cricket in the manner it has been accustomed to in recent years. The kindest way to look at it would be to see it as a favour which England might have to return sometime soon when India need it. Unless this was a way of the BCCI saying ‘Thank You’ for England returning to India to play Test matches following the Mumbai terrorist attacks of 2008. That was a wonderful gesture from the Englishmen; perhaps this can be seen as one even if not quite as wonderful, by the Indians. Money, television and diplomacy apart, this is, in real terms no fifth Test. Imagine an athletics meet where something happens off field and the 100m run is called off halfway. It will be no one’s argument that when everything resumes after a week or a year that only the last 50m be run to decide the fastest man of the meet. As I wrote in this column when the issue first arose, don’t artificially tag on a Test to the series. The tension of a developing series is lost, the build-up dissipated, teams change. Playing the final Test next year is as ridiculous as deciding to play the washed out fifth day’s play of the first Test later. Advantage England From this distance, England hold the advantage on the field too. India will have to start their preparations, both physical and mental, all over again. Both teams will struggle to rediscover the intensity that marked the first four-fifths of the series. India could have returned to play a white-ball series (which wasn’t in the original itinerary), but to mix it with a single red-ball match in a bid for continuity is strange. For a series that was abandoned in September 2021 after four of five Tests, to be resumed in July 2022 indicates that the team leading at the break go into it with everything to lose and nothing to gain. England have given themselves the best chance to level the series following their diplomatic coup. It has meant there is no need for arbitration or for the International Cricket Council to come into it. India might have felt they were not standing on firm enough legal ground, and were thus susceptible to a compromise that didn’t give them much. Worst-case scenario What was the worst-case scenario? England being declared winners without a ball being bowled? In that case the series score of 2-2 would always appear in the record books with an asterisk to indicate that one of the Tests hadn’t actually been played on the field. The only ‘positive’ to take from this (as losing captains say at the end-of-match interview) is that the BCCI can lose the odd argument now and then. Perhaps it is good for cricket. We will have to await payback time…||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/diplomatic-coup-gives-england-chance-to-square-series/article37183116.ece
27 October 2021||SHARJAH,||Rauf, Malik and Asif star in Pakistan’s win over New Zealand||Pakistan produced another disciplined bowling display to limit New Zealand to 134 for eight in their ICC T20 World Cup clash on Tuesday. Seamer Haris Rauf (four for 22) was the wrecker-in-chief for Pakistan before Shoaib Malik and Asif Ali steered the team home. In reply, Babar Azam’s men were tottering at 87 for five when Malik and Asif joined forces. The latter was the first to break the shackles, smashing Tim Southee for two consecutive to swing the momentum Pakistan’s way. Malik got into the act in the next over, hitting a four and six off left-arm spinner Mitchell Santner. Opener Mohd. Rizwan (33, 34b, 5x4) shone yet again though Babar (9), Fakhar Zaman (11), Mohd. Hafeez and Imad Wasim (11) fell cheaply. Earlier, during the New Zealind innings, Devon Conway and Daryl Mitchell were joint top-scorers with 27 while skipper Kane Williamson made a laborious 26-ball 25. Pakistan applied pressure right from the first over as left-arm pacer Shaheen Afridi started with a maiden. The Kiwis had reached 36 without loss when Rauf bowled Martin Guptill for 17. He also accounted for Conway and Glenn Phillips (13) in one over at the death as New Zealand failed to lift the tempo at any stage. Rauf also dismissed Mitchell Santner with the last ball of the final over. Shaheen finished with 1-21 while spinners Mohammad Hafeez and Imad Wasim also took a wicket each. Ferguson ruled out New Zealand, playing its first game, lost speedster Lockie Ferguson who was ruled out of the tournament with a calf injury. The 30-year-old had played the IPL and also bowled three overs in the warm-up match against Australia on October 20. Stead indicated Ferguson would be replaced in the 15-player tournament squad by Milne subject to approval by the ICC Technical Committee. Milne is already in the UAE with the team having been selected in the squad as travelling injury cover, but won't be available to play until ICC approval has been received. This was the reason he couldn’t take the field for the Pakistan match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rauf-malik-and-asif-star-in-pakistans-win-over-new-zealand/article37182923.ece
27 October 2021||Dubai,||‘We respect Quinton’s decision’||South African skipper Temba Bavuma was measured in his response when asked about Quinton de Kock's withdrawal from the match against the West Indies. “Quinton is an adult. We respect his decision. We respect his convictions,” said Bavuma. “I don't know how far it’s going to develop. I mean, the decision that he (de Kock) has taken is only today, so I can only speak about what has happened today.” Asked if de Kock had explained the reason behind not taking the knee to him or anyone in the management, Bavuma said, “I think you've got to appreciate the fact that the instruction came this morning from the board, and there wasn't a great deal of time for us to thoroughly discuss the matter.” West Indies skipper Kieron Pollard said he was unaware of any South African player refusing to take a knee. “For me, personally, I don’t know of any player who didn't want to take it. I’m not aware of that. So this is news to me,” said Pollard. When told that the player who refused to take the knee was his Mumbai Indians teammate de Kock, Pollard said, “I can’t speak about something I don’t know. I don’t want to speculate. I have a lot on my plate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-respect-quintons-decision/article37182918.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dravid applies for coach’s post||Rahul Dravid is all but certain to to be the Indian cricket team’s next head coach after he formally applied for the position on Tuesday. With Dravid applying, the job for the Cricket Advisory Committee becomes easier as there aren’t any big names in fray who can match the batting great’s stature. It is reliably learnt that he is the choice of BCCI president Sourav Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah. “Yes, Rahul has formally applied today as it’s the last day of the deadline. His team at the NCA, bowling coach Paras (Mhambrey) and fielding coach Abhay (Sharma) have already applied. His application was just a formality,” a senior BCCI official told PTI on Tuesday. V.V.S. Laxman could again be back in the fray to head the National Cricket Academy when the post falls vacant. If selected, it is learnt from sources, that Laxman would not be able to continue as the mentor of Sunrisers Hyderbad and also has to leave his media commitments. As the National coach and the NCA head are expected to work in close coordination, Dravid and Laxman, who have had a close bond since the time they played for South Zone and subsequently for India for close to a decade and half, it could be a perfect choice. Laxman, it is learnt, was reluctant to take up NCA offer but BCCI would once again approach him. In case he again turns down the offer, Anil Kumble is an option but it remains to be seen whether the BCCI would approach the former India captain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dravid-applies-for-coachs-post/article37182922.ece
27 October 2021||DUBAI,||Should India play Shardul for Bhuvneshwar?||Hardik Pandya’s inclusion solely as the finisher may have emerged the biggest talking point during India’s opening loss to Pakistan in its opening T20 World Cup game. But given Hardik’s inability to bowl, India’s decision to utilise Bhuvneshwar Kumar as the third pacer ahead of Shardul Thakur was a surprise. As the Indian contingent opted against training for the second day in succession, it has more to ponder over the Bhuvneshwar conundrum. Notwithstanding the fact that the move didn’t work — he was hit for a four and a six in the first over of Pakistan’s chase — preferring Bhuvneshwar over Shardul appeared to be based on reputation than current form or conditions. Extremely useful Historically, Bhuvneshwar has been extremely useful in the PowerPlay, be it in the IPL or T20Is. His economy rate of 5.72 in his T20I career is a testament to his utility at the start of the innings. However, over the last decade, Bhuvneshwar hasn’t been as effective at the death. More than lack of pace, the main reason for Bhuvneshwar going for plenty in the final overs is the absence of swing in the latter half of the innings. His ability to move the ball has made him a potent weapon, especially at the start. But in the United Arab Emirates, where a seamer seldom gets assistance either in the air or off the surface, it’s the use of a bowler’s wrist combined with his pace that becomes crucial. Take Shaheen Afridi, for example. Not only did he bowl at 140-plus kmph consistently but also managed to move the ball appreciably — quite exceptional given the conditions — that helped him trouble the Indian batters. Bhuvneshwar, on the other hand, hasn’t been a consistent wicket-taker in PowerPlays even in the IPL over the last couple of years. Add to it the fact that Bhuvneshwar isn’t of great use in the middle and at the death in T20Is, and India surely needs to deliberate on giving Shardul a go in these conditions. Shardul’s uncanny ability to strike against the odds in the middle overs, thanks to his cross-seam bowling and change of pace, has come in handy for his IPL franchise. Add to that his utility of bowling his four overs at any stage of the innings — and having emerged as an effective hitter lower down the order — and Shardul becomes a better option. Virat Kohli had backed Bhuvneshwar ahead of the tournament, citing the last over he bowled to AB de Villiers in the IPL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/should-india-play-shardul-for-bhuvneshwar/article37182929.ece
27 October 2021||HISAR,||Jaismine stuns Simranjit; Renu bests Jamuna||Young Asian championships bronze medallist Jaismine Lamboria shocked World championships medallist Simranjit Kaur in one of the biggest upsets of the National women’s boxing championships at the St. Joseph’s International School here on Tuesday. The Bhiwani girl recorded a 3-2 win over her Olympian opponent in a 60kg semifinal bout to set up a title clash with seasoned Railways boxer Meena Rani. The lanky Jaismine used her long reach to deliver punches and stay out of Simranjit’s grasp. She moved nicely to minimize the damage from her experienced rival’s precise combinations. Simranjit’s protest over the result was not accepted. “I did not get overawed by Simranjit’s stature. I just focused on giving my 100 percent,” said Jaismine, who had recovered from a bout of COVID-19 to reach the final in her first competition in 60kg. Rookie boxer Renu stunned Worlds medallist Jamuna Boro 5-0 in a 54kg contest. Renu boxed from a distance and relied on her counter-attacks to keep Jamuna at bay and reach the final on her debut.  The results (semifinals): 48kg: Manju Rani (RSPB) bt S.Kalaivani (TN) 5-0, Nitu (Har) bt Laxmi (Del) 5-0.   50kg: Komal (Pun) bt Neha Bai (Jha) 3-2, Anamika (RSPB) bt Puja Bishnoi (Raj) RSC-R2.   52kg: Nikhat Zareen (Tel) bt Rashi Sharma (UP) 5-0, Minakshi (RSPB) bt Jyoti Gulia (RSPB) 3-2.   54kg: Renu (Har) bt Jamuna Boro (Asm) 5-0, Shiksha (RSPB) bt Monika (Chd) 5-0.   57kg: Manisha Moun (AIP) bt Samim Banu (Man) 5-0, Sonia Lather (RSPB) bt Poonam (Har) 5-0.   60kg: Jaismine Lamboria (Har) bt Simranjit Kaur (Pun) 3-2, Meena Rani (RSPB) bt Kroshmangaihsangi (Miz) 4-1.   63kg: Monika (RSPB) bt Neema (Chd) 5-0, Parveen (Har) bt Deepika Raipalto (HP) 5-0.   66kg: Anjali Tushir (Del) bt Ankushita Boro (Asm) 5-0, Jyoti (RSPB) bt Niharika Gonella (Tel) 4-1.   70kg: Arundhati Choudhary (Raj) bt Shrisha Jampula (Goa) RSC-R1, Pooja (RSPB) bt Suman (AIP) 5-0.   75kg: Saweety Boora (Har) bt Sanamacha Chanu (Man) 5-0, Bhagyabati Kachari (RSPB) bt Shalakha Singh (Del) 5-0.   81kg: Pooja Rani (Har) bt Lalfakmawii Ralte (Miz) 5-0, Nupur (RSPB) bt Jigyasa Rajput (MP) 5-0.   81+kg: Nandini (RSPB) bt Kanwaljit Kaur (Pun) 5-0, Neha (Har) bt Kavita Goyat (AIP) 4-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jaismine-stuns-simranjit-renu-bests-jamuna/article37183107.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Paras Dahiya rallies well to get past Karan Singh||Paras Dahiya overcame an energetic Karan Singh, scripting a 6-2, 7-5 victory in the men’s first round of the Fenesta National tennis championship at the DLTA Complex here on Tuesday. A trainee of the Altevol Academy in Ahmedabad, fourth seeded Dahiya had spent the last few weeks in Germany to develop his game. He was sharp to bounce back in both the sets, after Karan had taken the initiative with early breaks. Dahiya recovered his touch to win the first set after being down 2-0, even as Singh lost his focus to a string of questionable line calls, most of which went against him. In the second set, Singh, the national junior champion, looked to have regained his rhythm, but lost his grip after being up 4-0. Quite remarkably, Dahiya won three games without dropping a point to reach 3-4, and dropped only five points in winning the last four games of the match. A wiry left-hander who whips his shots and serves with a relish, former national champion Siddharth Vishwakarma broke little sweat in knocking out second seed Ishaque Eqbal for the loss of four games. Another former national champion, Vishnu Vardhan got past Adil Kalyanpur, who had been out of the circuit in recent weeks. Vishnu will face third seed Nitin Kumar Sinha in the second round. In the women’s event, Vanshita Pathania rallied with her forceful game to beat four-time National champion Prerna Bhambri in three sets. Smriti Bhasin was equally resilient in prevailing over sixth seed Mihika Yadav in three sets.  The results (first round): Men: Niki Poonacha bt Sai Karteek Reddy 6-4, 6-3; Faisal Qamar bt Vivek Gautam 6-2, 6-3; Jatin Dahiya bt Parikshit Somani 6-1, 6-2; Paras Dahiya bt Karan Singh 6-2, 7-5; Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam bt Chandril Sood 6-1, 6-3; Vishnu Vardhan bt Adil Kalyanpur 6-4, 6-3; Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Neeraj Yashpaul 6-1, 6-1; Kaza Vinayak Sharma bt Boopathy Sakthivel 6-4, 6-1; Siddharth Vishwakarma bt Ishaque Eqbal 6-1, 6-3.   Women: Sudipta Senthil Kumar bt Priyanshi Bhandari 6-3, 7-6(1); Vanshita Pathania bt Prerna Bhambri 2-6, 7-5, 6-1; Shruti Ahlawat bt Pooja Ingale 6-0, 6-2; Sharmada Balu bt Rishika Sunkara 6-1, 1-0 (retired); Sravya Shivani bt S Srinidhi 6-3, 7-5; Smriti Bhasin bt Mihika Yadav 7-6(10, 5-7, 6-4; Farhat Aleen Qamar bt Shefali Arora 6-2, 6-0; Vaidehi Chaudhari bt Niyati Kukreti 6-3, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/paras-dahiya-rallies-well-to-get-past-karan-singh/article37183120.ece
27 October 2021||Dubai,||de Kock refuses to play WI match||Quinton de Kock made himself unavailable for South Africa's ICC Twenty20 World Cup match against the West Indies in Dubai on Tuesday in the wake of Cricket South Africa's directive that all players should take a knee before matches. The team had said last year that the players could kneel, raise a fist, or stand to attention to show their support in the fight for social justice. de Kock has refrained from engaging in any expression of support. Cricket South Africa on Tuesday issued a statement on de Kock's withdrawal: "Cricket South Africa (CSA) has noted the personal decision by South African wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock not to ‘take the knee’ ahead of Tuesday's game against the West Indies. All players had been required, in line with a directive of the CSA Board on Monday evening, to ‘take the knee’ in a united and consistent stance against racism. "After considering all relevant issues, including the freedom of choice of players, the Board had made it clear it was imperative for the team to be seen taking a stand against racism, especially given SA's history. The Board's view was that while diversity can and should find expression in many facets of daily lives, this did not apply when it came to taking a stand against racism. The Board will await a report from the team management before deciding on the next step."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-kock-refuses-to-play-wi-match/article37182920.ece
27 October 2021||Belgrade,||Indian pugilists notch up facile wins at the Worlds||Shiva Thapa (63.5kg) entered the second round, while debutant Deepak Bohria (51kg) advanced to the pre-quarterfinals of the AIBA World boxing championships after dominating victories in their opening bouts on Tuesday. Five-time Asian medallist Thapa produced a fine tactical performance to prevail 5-0 against Kenya’s Victor Nyadera, while Asian silver-medallist Bohria was equally dominant against Kyrgyzstan’s Azat Usenaliev, notching up a 5-0 win. Thapa, who won a bronze at the showpiece event in 2015, will face Sierra Leone’s John Brown on October 30 in the round of 32. Bohria has a tougher task at hand on November 1 as he will be up against Kazakhstan’s Saken Bibossinov, an Olympic and World championships bronze-medallist. Easy beginning Meanwhile on Monday night, debutant Akash Sangwan (67kg) sailed into the second round with a comprehensive 5-0 victory over Turkey’s Furkan Adem to set up a bout with Germany’s Deniel Krotter. Another debutant Rohit Mor (57kg) gave India a winning start by out-punching Ecuador’s Jean Caicedo 5-0 in a confident opening-round performance. Next up for him is Bosnia and Herzegovina’s Alen Rahimic Asian champion Sanjeet (92kg), along with Sachin Kumar (80kg), received a first-round bye.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-pugilists-notch-up-facile-wins-at-the-worlds/article37183105.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna, Harika lead Indian challenge||P. Harikrishna leads a 10-man Indian squad in the year’s richest Swiss League event — the $425,000 FIDE Chess.com Grand Swiss — beginning at Riga, Latvia on Wednesday. In the women’s section, which offers $125,000 in prize money. D. Harika spearheads the five-member Indian team. The creamy layer of the event is formed by World No. 2 Fabiano Caruana (USA), Levon Aronian (Armenia), Alireza Firouzja and Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (both France). Besides the seventh seed Harikrishna, other members of the Indian squad are, B. Adhiban, Nihal Sarin, D. Gukesh, K. Sasikiran, Arjun Erigaisi, S.P. Sethuraman, R. Praggnanandhaa, Surya Shekhar Ganguly and Raunak Sadhwani. Among the women, apart from fourth seed Harika, the other Indians are R. Vaishali, Padmini Rout, Vantika Agarwal and Divya Deshmukh. From this elite competition, the top two finishers qualify for the 2022 Candidates tournament while the rest from the top-eight will get to play in the 2022 FIDE Grand Prix. The winner receives $70,000 while even those finishing between the 31st and 40th places will get $2,000. In the women’s section, the winner gets $20,000 and those occupying between 16th and 20th places receive $2,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harikrishna-harika-lead-indian-challenge/article37183117.ece
27 October 2021||Abu Dhabi,||England faces Bangladesh in testing conditions||Buoyed by the emphatic win over defending champion West Indies, England will look to keep the momentum against Bangladesh here on Wednesday. Against an opposition familiar with the sluggish conditions, Eoin Morgan’s men will be tested in the oppressive heat of Abu Dhabi. But, the Abu Dhabi strip is known to aid pacers and Morgan may think of bringing in Mark Wood into the mix. For Bangladesh the key would be to exploit the conditions. Fairytale run Debutant Namibia will look to continue its fairytale run when it takes on a bruised Scotland, which lost by 130 runs to Afghanistan. Gerhard Erasmus and his bunch of unknown cricketers stunned the cricketing world when they beat the Netherlands by six wickets and then notched up a shocking eight-wicket victory over Ireland in the group stage. Having earned the right to rub shoulders with the elites, the Namibians will be keen to showcase their skills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-faces-bangladesh-in-tricky-conditions/article37182917.ece
27 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Princepal picked by Stockton Kings||Basketball player Princepal Singh has been selected by the Stockton Kings in the 2021 G League draft. He was the fifth pick in the third round of the draft. Stockton Kings is the G League affiliate of NBA team Sacramento Kings. Princepal, a graduate of the NBA Academy India, was part of the Sacramento Kings Summer League roster this year. Sacramento Kings is owned by Indian-American businessman Vivek Ranadive. The G League is the NBA’s official minor league.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/princepal-picked-by-stockton-kings/article37183104.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Asiad: Four Indians qualify for show jumping||Four Indians qualified for show jumping equestrian event of next year’s Asian Games after winning the first selection trials here on Tuesday. Pranay Khare, Kaevaan Setalvad, Zahan Setalvad and Yashaan Khambatta are the four and they will be accompanied by five horses — Vanilla Sky, Alasdair, Quintus Z, Lorenzo and El Capitan — in the 2022 Games. The Setalvad brothers — Kaevaan and Zahan — had represented India in the 2018 Asian Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asiad-four-indians-qualify-for-show-jumping/article37183108.ece
27 October 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Jr. hockey WC to be held behind closed doors||The FIH men’s junior hockey World Cup, beginning here on November 24, will be held behind closed doors as the organisers feel it will be difficult to enforce COVID-19 protocols if spectators turn up in large numbers. The tournament will be played at the Kalinga Stadium from Nov. 24 to Dec. 5 and host India is the defending champion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jr-hockey-wc-to-be-held-behind-closed-doors/article37183110.ece
27 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Peter emerges champion||Peter Anand and Nimmy A. George did India proud at the World amateur chess championship at Rhodes Island, Greece. Peter emerged the champion in the under-2000 (FIDE rating) category, while Nimmy finished runner-up among women in the under-2300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/peter-emerges-champion/article37183111.ece
27 October 2021||PARIS,||Sameer third time lucky against Keun||India's Sameer Verma progressed to the second round of the French Open Super 750 badminton tournament with a straight game win over Lee Dong Keun here on Tuesday. The 25-year-old from Madhya Pradesh, who had won three titles to qualify for the 2018 World Tour finals, defeated the Korean 21-14, 21-12 in 54 minutes in the men's singles opening round. This was Sameer’s first win over the Korean, having lost to him twice in the past. In mixed doubles, Dhruv Kapil and Sikki Reddy put up a gallant fight before losing 19-21, 19-21 to the fifth-seeded Malaysian combination of Chan Peng Soon and Goh Liu Ying in their opening match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sameer-third-time-lucky-against-keun/article37182916.ece
27 October 2021||KOLKATA:,||CRPF posts win||Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) defeated Sashatra Seema Bal (SSB) 2-1 in a closely-contested Pool B match of the National women’s inter-department hockey championships here on Tuesday.  The results:   Pool A: SAI bt Steel Plants Sports Board 2-0, UCO Bank Women’s Hockey Academy bt Defence Accounts Sports Control Board 5-1.   Pool B: CRPF bt SSB 2-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/crpf-posts-win/article37183392.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||The immortal soul||The Mahabharata is the greatest exponent of dharma in practice. It is not easy to give a synonym for the term dharma, for in it is subsumed a highly complex subject. The way of dharma is subtle and hence difficult to understand. The Itihasa takes care to drive home the point that dharma has to be upheld for dharma’s sake alone and not for the sake of enjoyment of desires, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. In the Yaksha Prasna section that is placed in the Aranya Kanda of Vana Parva, interpreters go beyond the questions and answers to grasp their deeper significance. The first sloka in the Yaksha Prasna has four questions and is followed by Yudhishtira’s succinct reply to all these. To the first question, “Who is it who makes Aditya or the sun to rise?”, the answer given is that the Vedas help Aditya to rise. Neelakanta in his commentary says that Yudhishtira thinks of the atma or the soul of man when sun is mentioned. So it means the soul which through the five senses, mind and intellect gains knowledge of the world. Accordingly, his answer that the Vedas make the sun to rise means that the atma is able to realise itself with the help of the Vedas. The esoteric awareness leads the atma to differentiate between nitya and anithya aspects in life. The watchword in spiritual practice is that all jivas are bound by karma and are redeemed with jnana. The emphasis on gaining true jnana about the immortal nature of the soul as distinct from the body has to be internalised. The Gita echoes this truth about the ultimate value of jnana in freeing the jiva from the shackles of samsara. The Lord assures that just as fire that is kindled turns all fuel to ashes, jnana can turn to ashes all the effects of karma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/the-immortal-soul/article37182773.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 07:28 IST,||Sudoku — October 27, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-27-2021/article37183519.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Resilient together||Augmented or virtual reality projects, co-productions, tours, exhibitions, art residencies, films, installations... the list is long and possibilities are endless. The British Council’s latest open call looks to spot creative and artistic projects that are born out of collaborations between India and the UK, rooted in arts. On offer are four grants worth a total amount of Rs. 25 million. The programme titled India-UK Together 2022, through these grants, hopes to address common challenges that the arts sector is facing, in a pandemic world, seeped in uncertainty. The inception of it was a way to mark 75 years of India’s independence from colonial rule. Through enabling collaborations, Jonathan Kennedy, director of arts, British Council, India, believes that “we can build programmes in arts, culture and heritage”. The programme also invites those in the arts sector to build networks and create a greater sense of community. Which is why it is called India-UK Together, Kennedy adds, “the key word here is ‘together’.” The open call comes at a pertinent time as COVID-19’s effect on the arts sector has been brutal. “Covid has transformed how we experience our day-to-day lives, how we experience art and to some extent, how we make art. We know that in the past 18 months, the impact of Covid on the creative economy of India and the UK has been challenging. So, there is a sense of togetherness. And innovating digitally and having a global consciousness of not only the pandemic but climate change too, are all part of our shared futures,” says Kennedy. The next season will capture and address these collective challenges. Considering how the arts have pivoted in the past couple of years to adapt and remain resilient, more hybrid and digital projects are expected in the coming season, says Kennedy. “In terms of curation and current grants, our colleagues at British Council in India and the UK, and prominent names in the arts sectors of India and the UK will be reviewing the projects. It is a mix of internal and external evaluation,” he adds. The programme factors in the geopolitical diversity of India and expects to receive proposals from beyond just metropolitan cities. Work across theatre and dance, visual arts, new media, music, film, architecture, design and fashion, literature, and interdisciplinary arts are what they are looking for. Three winning projects will receive grants up to five million rupees each and the fourth project will receive a grant up to one million rupees. Projects will need to be delivered in India between January 2022 and March 2023, with digital or hybrid display for public taking place between September 2022 and March 2023. The winning teams will tour across India and the UK, tentatively in 2022-2023. Arts organisations and their networks, and not individuals, fit the eligibility criteria. “There are already 150 arts organisations that have attended our webinars,” adds Kennedy. On the tour in 2022, he says, “When the season opens, we will start in September which is when the culture season starts in the UK and in August is India’s Independence Day. The public-facing aspect will be held then.”  The last day for submission of proposals is on October 31. For details, visitwww.britishcouncil.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/resilient-together/article37183300.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Martinis, brie and samosas||A lick of creamy camembert, followed by a nibble of spicy papdi . Then, dip toasted garlic naan into warm brie. As get-togethers get homier and hosts work on relaxed appetisers, grazing boards are getting increasingly creative, featuring thoughtfully sourced local produce as well as traditional snacks. Though people started experimenting with these in a pre-COVID world, lockdowns and the subsequent surge in home-cooking has breathed new life into this food trend. So when Vedika Ramraj in Bengaluru — tired of whipping up dalgona coffee for guests — wanted to serve a blend of experimental and familiar flavours, she turned to grazing boards. She planned ahead, sourcing Italian cheeses from Vallombrosa Cheese (a cheese-making shop at Gualbert Bhavan in Bengaluru run by monks), picking up savoury bites from her neighbourhood mom-and-pop store, and making her own chutneys. She looked to Instagram and Pinterest for arrangement ideas, and lo and behold, she was a pro. Vedika is not the only one dipping into grazing boards. The trend has made its way into many homes across India, with countless permutations and combinations, as entertaining at home picks up. Always tempted by the satisfying fix of a grazing board, chef Karishma Sakhrani, in Mumbai, explains, “Cheeseboards can be relaxing to put together; and when people come over, they can enjoy it at their own pace, unlike a hot dish.” As the alternative name ‘nibble boards’ suggests, it is key to have smaller elements instead of multi-bite components; you want guests to dip into everything over the course of the get-together. Blogger Kiran A, ofMirchi Tales, says she used to set up cheeseboards for her friends at home in Melbourne, Australia, but found that guests felt too out-of-water to dig in. She explains, “I started by replacing the crackers with pieces of naan, hot chips, papdi and bhel puri work. I’ve also used mango and other chutneys to switch up flavours.” The basic four principles of salt, fat, acid and heat apply to a desi cheeseboard, so permutations and combinations for these spreads are endless. Desi grazing boards shown across social media include methi puri , makhana , chickpeas, kebabs, jeera puffs, khakhra , pickled onions, vadiyalu , chekkalu and mixture. Chef Karishma admits it does seem intimidating at the start — which is why the trend is picking up at a slower pace — but says once you get going, it is simple. And with the wider availability of speciality cheeses and cured meats across India, thanks to platforms such as Meatigo, Gourmaison, The Gourmet Box, Eleftheria Cheese, Living Food Co, Cleaver & Block, Framroze Deli and Black Vanilla Gourmet, you can cherry-pick whatever strikes your fancy. Of these, The Gourmet Box, Gourmaison, Eleftheria Cheese and Black Vanilla Gourmet do custom and set grazing boards. The art of the board Putting together a cheeseboard is also an art experience of sorts, where you juxtapose textures and colours. Start with a neutral and solid board as base, suggests Kiran. Do not feel pressured to choose a very big one because you have to work with all the space. For a more nested and festive look, like that of Graze With Love founded by Delhi-based Ayushi Jain, opt for a tray with higher raised edges in hexagonal or rhombus shapes or, like Hyderabad-based Sonal Goyal’s Grazias Platters, number shapes for milestone birthdays or anniversaries. Pay attention to dimensions. Kiran proposes, “Use a few small bowls of different sizes for things like fruit, loose cheeses and crunchy bites.” Bowls also provide different heights as well as size contrasts; smaller nibbles look good next to a single large block of cheese. For mithai , pick favourites such as barfi , black halwa and kala jamun . By choosing sweet items, the acid will cut through the fatty flavours of cheeses, so diners will feel less full after a few bites. For textural variety, one can also consider dipping sauces; chef Karishma recently launched a range of sauces with Wonder Foods and Farms, including a creamy toum, a fresh garden pesto and a smoked chilli oil that work well with cheeses and Indian crunchy snacks. “Colour variation is also super fun visually, because cheeses and crunchy bites tend to be in beige palettes. So things like green or red grapes and apples and plums are ideal,” says Kiran. Additionally, feel free to brighten up the layout with sprinklings of parsley, dill or edible flowers such as papaya flowers, violas,moringa, lotus or even banana blossoms. ... or just get one delivered If all this feels like a lot of effort, fear not. Inspired by the grazing potential of local spice mixes, more home-run business have popped up, such as Graze With Love in Delhi, Naashitha Nasser’s Platter Mi Amor in Chennai and Grazias Platters in Hyderabad. Most grazing board-makers stick to local orders so that elements retain freshness and stay physically intact. An answer to Delhi’s bustling social scene, Graze With Love averages at 70 to 80 orders per festive month and 40 to 50 orders per regular month. Founder Ayushi says, “For festivals, Graze With Love adapts flavours to suit the occasion; for example, during Holi, we prepped thandai mousse cups.” They have also introduced grazing tables, a rather nascent trend in the country; she recently arranged one for an art show of 150 guests and as per COVID-19 food safety protocol, she arranged two servers on be on hand to eliminate cross-contamination. A younger business, Sonal kicked off Grazias Platters during the lockdowns of 2021, when Hyderabad was slowly waking back up. She sees around 15 local orders a week from clients aged 25 to 40 but as of late, she has seen more clients aged 50-plus wanting to entertain small get-togethers at home. With Deepavali coming up, she is already getting eight to 10 orders of grazing boards a day across the multi-day festival. She is optimistic for other festivals such as Sankranti. You ultimately want maximum impact with minimal effort when making or ordering a desi grazing board. Of course, what you drink with it matters too. Make the most of happy hour with a martini or two, or a palate-cleansing iced tea or lemonade to cut fatty flavours. Bon appetit!  The cheese factor Chef Karishma advises three to five cheeses because it helps to pick each for reason. For something soft and creamy, she suggests goat’s cheese, bocconcini or a burrata ball. For something sharp, try a mature cheddar. Orange cheddar and Gouda are good neutralisers. Making your own flavoured cheese saves money; for example, you can dice up feta and toss it all in olive oil and chilli flakes. Put together a unique cheeseboard, by curating a range of Indian products that boast unique terroir. Chennai’s The Farm offers a Tomme de Semancheri (made from raw cow milk), Himachal’s Himalayan Cheese has a great Garlic Nettle Gouda, Hyderabad’s Sage Farm makes creamy bocconcini and indulgent burrata, Ooty’s Acres Wild makes a great Monterey Jack, Bengaluru’s Begam Victoria has a decent cheddar, Mumbai’s The Spotted Cow Fromagerie makes a luxurious Black Truffle Brie while Chennai’s Käse offers turmeric and pepper crusted feta, as well as a cheddar coated with milagai podi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/martinis-brie-and-samosas/article37183302.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||BV Doshi’s need to dream||BV Doshi is in his ninth decade, but you will never catch the architect whiling away his time. Over the last year and a half, the Pritzker Prize winner has been keeping busy working on his art. “I’m experimenting with different mediums without any baggage. So I am constantly discovering the unexpected,” he says. Earlier this year, he participated in a group show at New Delhi’s Bikaner House. The exhibited works included two sculptures, canvas paintings, drawings, and even a teak wood door — all varied, but, as he explains, each has been built, experimented on and reworked over stretches of time. “Each time has something else to say, if you’re sensitive. And so I’m trying to connect to that particular moment.” His paintings were recently on display at Frieze London.  Finding his real self  His recent immersion in art is thanks to the pandemic. So, I ask him about its impact. “The pandemic has been a scary time. You don’t know what the next moment holds. Vulnerability in such situations often makes you think of yourself and your bearings. Imagine you are on a flight and the gasoline is over — what will happen? You will leave it to chance. That is when your real self comes out,” says Doshi. “So, good architecture is where you lose yourself; it is almost fluid in its manifestation and experience without any preconceived notions.” During our chat, he keeps coming back to the ideas of ‘losing oneself, total relaxation and understanding how different elements — even if it’s just a pen and paper — have unique interactions’. “Everything you know creates an impact. If you have one line, even the paper on which it is drawn influences the line, as there is a dialogue,” he explains, adding that each of his projects is a challenge and an experiment. “So the joy is to discover something you had never seen before and that’s what I try to do.”  Of ants, flies and design  Doshi’s designs are varied, but are rooted in Hindu spiritualism. Major works include the grotto-like Amdavad Ni Gudfa, the courtyard-focussed public buildings of Bengaluru’s Indian Institute of Management, in addition to his barrel-vaulted series of buildings for Sangath, his architectural practice. Describing the process for creating each, he says, “I enjoy the act of putting paper and pen together and allowing them to float and converse. In doing so I often wonder how the ants move on a paper and create an impression. Or how a fly goes from one place to the other.” When I press him for details, he laughs. “You know you are asking so many questions in one.” But then he attempts to give me a better understanding of his process: “I ask myself the question, what is it that I like to interpret or explain or create. Then I start [looking at] the location, the context and the things around it.” It’s clear that over the years, Doshi has worked to integrate his practice with his firmly-held beliefs. Whatever the medium, it’s his holistic approach that guides his creative life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bv-doshis-need-to-dream/article37183301.ece
27 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Shadow of farmers’ stir over Ellenabad||The stage is all set for the second round of the electoral battle in Haryana in less than 12 months after the Baroda bypoll last year with just four days to go for the Ellenabad by-election in Sirsa district. Being held under the shadow of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the by-election to the predominantly rural constituency — 178 of the total 211 booths in the Assembly segment are rural — could be an indicator of the mood of the agrarian population in the State. INLD’s relevance Besides hinting the long-term political implications of the farmers’ movement for various political outfits, especially the ruling coalition, in the State, the election will also be a battle of political relevance for the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD). Necessitated due to the resignation of INLD’s lone MLA Abhay Singh Chautala in support of the farmers’ agitation in January this year, the by-election is scheduled for October 30 with 19 candidates, including 12 Independents, in the fray. However, the contest is largely believed to be triangular with Abhay Chautala having an edge over Congress’ Pawan Beniwal and Bharatiya Janata Party’s Gobind Kanda. “Mr. Chautala had resigned in support of the farmers’ demand for withdrawal of the three laws and agreed to recontest the election at the insistence of his supporters. His victory will be the victory for the farmers and their movement,” said INLD spokesperson Rakesh Sihag. The party also banks on the charisma of its patriarch Om Prakash Chautala, released from the jail in July this year on completion of his sentence in a teachers’ recruitment scam. The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party (BJP-JJP) coalition have preferred turncoats over their own cadres for the bypoll. Congress’ nominee Pawan Beniwal, who jumped the ship from the BJP recently, has been the runner-up from Ellenabad segment on the previous two occasions. His nomination has not gone down well with the party’s old guards Bharat Singh Beniwal and Ramesh Bhadu, who joined the BJP a few days after the announcement. Division of Jat votes Hoping for a division of Jat votes — the constituency has around 35% Jat voters — the BJP has fielded Gobind Kanda, the elder brother of Sirsa MLA and Haryana Lokhit Party founder Gopal Kanda, as the alliance candidate. While the Congress seeks votes accusing the ruling coalition of misrule and its failure to find solution to the farmers’ agitation, the BJP-JJP talks about overall development of the State under the leadership of Manohar Lal. However, both parties blame Abhay Singh Chautala of imposing the by-election by first resigning and then seeking re-election from the same constituency. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders will also hold two public meetings in Ellenabad on Wednesday to oppose the BJP-JJP candidate, who is also facing the ire of the farming community in many villages. Waterlogging on agricultural land in a dozen villages, lack of cotton industry and scarcity of drinking water are some of the major issues of the constituency. “Ellenabad has been the fortress of the Chautalas for long. It should be a smooth sailing for Abhay Chautala considering that the support base for the JJP has drifted towards the INLD after the farmers’ agitation. The farmers’ anger too will reflect in the results and they would support Abhay for resigning on farm laws’ issues. With Chautala, a Jat, enjoying huge popularity among his community, it might prevent considerable split of Jat votes between him and the Congress nominee, also a Jat. In that scenario, the prospects of the BJP-JJP candidate, a non-Jat, will be harmed,” said Rajendra Sharma, Professor, Political Science, MDU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shadow-of-farmers-stir-over-bypoll/article37183133.ece
27 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT-D announces M.Tech in MINDS||IIT-Delhi on Tuesday announced the launch of an M.Tech in Machine Intelligence & Data Science (MINDS) to be offered by The School of Artificial Intelligence (ScAI), which is slated to be a flagship educational programme for the school and is expected to begin in July 2022. M.Tech in MINDS is planned as an industry-sponsored programme. The students will be expected to work on industry-relevant AI problems, since they will be co-advised by an IIT-Delhi professor and a researcher from the sponsoring company. All students with an undergraduate degree in science or engineering will be eligible for the MINDS programme, IIT-Delhi said. ScAI currently lists around 40 faculty members, including adjunct faculty members from industry research centres like Microsoft Research, Google AI and IBM Research. V. Ramgopal Rao, Director, IIT-Delhi, speaking about the programme said academic institutions today cannot remain in silos and they must work closely with all stakeholders, including industry, non-profit and governmental organisations. He added that the new programme will energise academia-industry collaboration in AI. The MINDS curriculum will include graduate-level courses in core AI technologies like deep learning and data mining, application-oriented courses like computer vision, natural language processing, and AI for healthcare, and also fundamental courses on mathematics underlying modern AI technologies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iit-d-announces-mtech-in-minds/article37183087.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Maharashtra Minister in Delhi to understand education model||Maharashtra Minister Sanjay Bansode on Tuesday visited two Delhi government schools to understand the model of education in the national capital, according to officials. The two schools visited were Kautilya Government Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya, Chirag Enclave, Greater Kailash, and School of Excellence, Kalkaji. ‘Delhi model’ “Sanjay Bansode said leader Sharad Pawar (NCP chief) told him to visit Delhi government schools, learn from the education model of Delhi and build government schools in Maharashtra on the same model as in Delhi,” an official statement issued by the Delhi government said. Mr. Bansode is a Minister in the Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP alliance government in Maharashtra. ‘Deshbhakti curriculum’ “The Minister was also introduced to the Deshbhakti curriculum recently started by the Delhi government. He also understood the design of the Business Blasters programme started in the Delhi government schools under the Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum,” the statement said. He discussed with children about the enterprises they have started with the seed money given by the government, it added. ‘Ready to help’ Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who accompanied Mr. Bansode during the visit, said the Delhi government is ready to help the Maharashtra government to improve its public education system. “By working together in this manner, a radical change can be brought in the education system of the country. By learning from each other, we can bring a change in the education system of the country,” he was quoted as saying in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-minister-in-delhi-to-understand-education-model/article37183314.ece
27 October 2021||MOHALI,||Channi vows to create conducive environment for investment||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday assured businessmen of creating conducive ecosystem for investment in the State, reiterating his Government’s commitment to act as a facilitator showing ‘zero tolerance’ for political or bureaucratic corruption, negative attitude, delays and inertia. In his keynote address at the plenary session of 4th Progressive Punjab Investors Summit 2021, the CM said that Punjab would live up to their expectations as it is the best place to do business in India. Expressing his gratitude to virtual participants on the first day of the two-day summit based on the theme of ‘Progressive Punjab - A story of Partnership, Delivery and Growth: Investors Reassured’, he said their suggestions and input would help the State Government to fine-tune the existing industrial policy by incorporating requisite amendments to make it more investor-friendly. First-hand awareness Mr. Channi said he came from a humble background and had gone through day-to-day challenges faced by a common man and has first-hand knowledge of their problems. “I have also seen that aspiring young generation of Punjab wants to do something big and I am committed to fulfil their dreams. It is unable to do this without you....without your support,” he said. He termed the industrialist as wealth creators in the society and a source of opportunities to cherish the aspirations of State’s youth. Exhorting the industry tycoons, Mr. Channi said: “You have the capital, you have the risk taking capacity and you have business ideas. I have the will, I have the intent and I have the commitment. I give my commitment to you that our Government will work with you at every step to see that nothing from the Government hinders your speed or create hurdles in your business plans.” Mr. Channi said he aspired to improve State’s ranking from top 10 to top 5 in terms of attracting Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs). He said the State has developed a land bank of 6,000 acres with plug and play facilities and created an efficient skill development ecosystem with active participation of industry. Punjab Skill Development Mission has also been revamped to cater to futuristic skills for industry. Industrial collaboration The Chief Minister briefly enumerated the contribution of several companies including International Tractors Limited with Japanese collaboration Yanmar India at Hoshiarpur, India’s largest petroleum refinery in private sector — HMEL at Bathinda, ITC’s biggest food processing unit of North India at Kapurthala, Aarti Steel — a part of global value chain of EV giant Tesla — at Ludhiana, Sun Pharmaceutical facilities at Mohali in Tonsa, Trident Unit at Barnala and Hero Cycles in the industrial development of State. Mr. Channi said that all this would not have been possible without the great Punjabi spirit and congenial atmosphere in the State. Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal lauded the contribution of industry stalwarts in scripting a new chapter of industrialisation in the State, as Punjab has already reached a point of saturation in agriculture and boosting industry is the need of the hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/channi-vows-to-create-good-environment-for-investment/article37183138.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||IT raids detect Rs. 150-cr. undisclosed income||The Income Tax Department detected undisclosed income of about Rs. 150 crore after it recently raided two Punjab-based businesses, one engaged in cycle trade and the other in providing immigration and visa services to students, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on Tuesday. Searches on the entity engaged in cycle trade were carried out on October 21. Cash, gold seized “The action led to detection of unaccounted income of about Rs. 150 crore,” the CBDT, which frames policy for the tax department, said in a statement. Unaccounted cash of Rs. 2.25 crore and gold worth Rs. 2 crore were also seized during these raids, it said. “The group has been found to be involved in suppression of income by showing bogus intra-group transactions within group concerns,” the CBDT said, adding that “the group was also found to have been involved in receiving a substantial part of sale consideration in cash and thereby, suppressing the turnover.” The “seized documents” reveal suppression of turnover of around Rs. 90 crore per annum by a group concern of the cycle business, and “incriminating” documents related to undisclosed sale of scrap were also seized. The second group is based in Jalandhar and is engaged in providing immigration and study visa related services to students. Raids on this group were carried out on October 18. “The searches found that the group used to charge a package, ranging between Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 15 lakh per student, depending on the country where the student wished to pursue education,” the CBDT said. ‘Receipts in cash’ “Almost the entire receipts of the group, aggregating to more than Rs. 200 crore in the last five years are in cash,” it said. It was also found that the bank accounts of the employees were used to receive money, which was subsequently withdrawn in cash, the CBDT added. The statement said, “Profit earned from such receipts were never disclosed in the income tax returns filed. Only the commission received from foreign universities has been shown as receipts in the ITRs by the members of the group.” Unaccounted income of about Rs. 40 crore has been detected and Rs. 20 lakh cash and jewellery of Rs. 33 lakh has been seized, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/it-raids-detect-rs-150-cr-undisclosed-income/article37183315.ece
27 October 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal’s decision to reopen schools hailed||West Bengal’s decision to reopen colleges and schools from November 15 has been widely welcomed by teachers, students and doctors alike, with many saying the move should have come earlier and that these institutions should have a mechanism for early detection of COVID-19 cases. “In the U.S. and Europe, the effect of closure of educational institutions has been extensively studied and they are of the opinion that [the long closure] has decreased students’ life expectancy and caused economic damage that will take about 70 years to set right. We have to remember the closure has been much longer in India and therefore the effect is going to be huge,” Dr. Arjun Dasgupta, one of Kolkata’s leading ENT specialists, told The Hindu . Cardiologist Dr. Koushik Chaki, a founding member of West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, said: “It’s a welcome move that could have come earlier. Studies had shifted to the online mode for nearly two years now and this was corroding the basis of education. While we had opened up everything else, including places for fun and frolic, we should have also opened schools and colleges, where it is easier to implement COVID-appropriate behaviour.” Optimal trade-off Dr. Chaki said: “These institutions should have early-detection facilities in place, in case students show symptoms. Also, the psychological assessment of children returning to the offline mode after two years should be taken into consideration.” Talking about the challenges that educational institutions would face upon reopening, University of Calcutta Vice-Chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said the idea now was to “reconcile the imperatives of public health with the needs of public education”. “The State Disaster Management Authority is mandated to find the optimal trade-off in such cases of divergent imperatives, and as a State-aided public university, we shall go by the trade-off decision evolved by the mandated authority,” Prof. Chakravarti Banerjee said. Anupama Maitra, assistant professor of English at Gour Mohan Sachin Mondal Mahavidyalaya, located on the outskirts of Kolkata, said: “There is no denying that we need to go back to in-person classes and that there is no substitute for it, but I also feel that it can’t be done at the cost of the lives of our children. There is no clear answer actually, and I am hoping that just as the Government is opening schools and colleges, it will also respond appropriately if the situation turns critical.” Somasree Samanta, a first-year M.Sc. student of environmental science at the University of Calcutta, who spent much of the lockdown period in native Durgapur helping COVID-19 patients find beds and oxygen, said: “Students who did not have technology at their disposal — poor students or those in rural areas — had suffered the most during the lockdown. They will now be able to return to their classrooms.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/decision-to-open-schools-colleges-in-west-bengal-welcomed/article37183127.ece
27 October 2021||Aizawl,||‘Over 1,900 children from Myanmar enrolled in Mizoram govt. schools’||More than 1,900 Myanmarese children, who fled the trouble-hit country with their families and took refuge in Mizoram, have been enrolled in various schools of the State, where they receive free education, a senior official said on Tuesday. Education Department director James Lalrinchhana said the State government has been enrolling names of children of Myanmar nationals in schools since August. The initiative has been taken “purely on humanitarian grounds”, he said. Mizoram shares a 510-km-long border with Myanmar’s Chin state. “We can’t ignore the request of migrant Myanmar leaders. We may also face backlash from the international community if education is not provided to the refugees,” he told PTI. According to Mr. Lalrinchhana, a total of 1,972 Myanmarese children — 1,010 boys and 962 girls — are attending classes in government schools across the State. The number keeps changing with the influx of new refugees, he added. No separate medium of instruction or teachers have been arranged for the children as most of them understand Mizo and English, Mr. Lalrinchhana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-1900-children-from-myanmar-enrolled-in-mizoram-govt-schools/article37183317.ece
27 October 2021||Mumbai,||NIA opposes Vaze’s house arrest plea in HC||The National Investigation Agency has opposed dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze’s plea seeking temporary transfer from the Taloja prison to house arrest in the Bombay High Court, saying Mr. Vaze, being a “highly influential person”, may abscond and “tamper with prosecution witnesses”, if let out of the prison. In an affidavit filed before the High Court on Tuesday, the NIA said Mr. Vaze was accused of “serious offences”, including being part of the conspiracy to kill businessman Mansukh Hiran and planting an explosives-laden vehicle near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in south Mumbai. “If any house arrest is granted to the petitioner, there is every likelihood that he will abscond and tamper with the prosecution witnesses, including the protected witnesses who allegedly were his associates,” the affidavit reads. “And it is not difficult for the petitioner accused to figure out who they are, even though the fact is that their identity and addresses are protected since the petitioner accused is a highly influential person in the area of Mumbai,” it reads. The affidavit was submitted in response to a plea filed by Mr. Vaze earlier this month seeking that he be shifted from judicial custody to house arrest for his post-operative care following bypass surgery. The NIA said in the affidavit that Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai had the required facilities for Mr. Vaze’s post-operative care and if required, he could be taken to the State-run JJ Hospital in Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/very-likely-vaze-will-abscond-nia-tells-hc/article37183131.ece
27 October 2021||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao need not surrender till Nov. 18: HC||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said poet Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case who is on interim bail, need not surrender before the Taloja prison authorities until November 18. The court adjourned the hearing on a plea filed by him to next month. Rao, 82, had been granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds by the HC on February 22 this year. He was scheduled to surrender and return to judicial custody on September 5. However, Mr. Rao filed an application last month through his lawyer R. Sathyanarayanan and senior counsel Anand Grover, seeking extension of the bail period. He also sought HC permission to stay in his hometown of Hyderabad while out on bail. However, the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the case, opposed Mr. Rao’s plea for extension of medical bail and shifting to Hyderabad, saying the octogenarian poet-activist’s medical reports do not indicate that he suffers from any serious ailment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/varavara-rao-need-not-surrender-till-nov-18-hc/article37183125.ece
27 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan to host global investors’ meet in Jan.||Investment opportunities in Rajasthan will be showcased in a big way at a global investors’ summit to be organised here in January 2022 with the theme “committed and delivered”. The State Government is seeking investments for accelerating the economy affected by the pandemic and increasing the employment opportunities for the youths. The “Invest Rajasthan-2022” summit will highlight agricultural processing, automobiles and electric vehicles, petrochemicals, information technology, medical and health, minerals and ceramics, renewable energy, textiles and tourism as the thrust sectors in the State. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has asked the officials to contact Indian Embassies and High Commissions in different countries for inviting potential investors and ensure successful conduct of the summit. Mr. Gehlot referred to the “ease of doing business” policy, which had created a positive environment for investing in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-to-host-global-investors-meet-in-jan/article37183130.ece
27 October 2021||Raipur,||2 web portal journalists arrested||Two journalists working for a web portal here in Chhattisgarh were arrested on the charge of extortion on the complaint of two Congress MLAs who alleged that the accused duo had published a “misleading and baseless” report targetting them, the police said on Tuesday. In their complaint to the police, Brihaspat Singh and Kuldeep Juneja alleged the accused duo, identified as Madhukar Dubey and his assistant Avinash Palliwar, had published a “misleading and baseless” report on their news portal on October 24 in a bid to extort from them, an officer said. The journalists were arrested on Monday, said Civil Lines SHO Satyaprakash Tiwari. The police have registered a case under various IPC sections, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2-web-portal-journalists-arrested/article37183319.ece
27 October 2021||October 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Youth power||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/youth-power/article37183321.ece
27 October 2021||New Delhi,||Bulandshahr case: Maliwal writes to Yogi||Delhi Commission for Women Chief Swati Maliwal on Tuesday wrote to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, asking to direct police to add sections of rape in the case of a minor girl, who was allegedly sexually assaulted by her neighbour in Bulandshahr. Noting that the minor girl is currently admitted at a hospital in Delhi, Ms. Maliwal urged Mr. Adityanath to provide compensation to the victim’s family and ensure that the trial of the case takes place in a fast track court. The girl is being treated at a hospital in Delhi. Maliwal said the girl was brutally raped by a man in Bulandshahar, who inflicted several injuries on her and tried to strangulate her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bulandshahr-case-maliwal-writes-to-yogi/article37183123.ece
27 October 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Civic official, JCB operator booked over man’s death||Navi Mumbai Police has booked a Municipal Corporation official from Encroachment Department and the operator of a JCB machine after a slum dweller was killed during a demolition drive on Monday. The incident happened near Gavdevi Temple in Sector 10 of Nerul at around 12.30 p.m. Radha Shankar Sonar, 32, neighbour of the deceased, registered a case with Nerul police alleging that the civic staffer did not check whether there was any occupant inside the hutment before mowing it down. “We are awaiting the autopsy report to find if the cause of death was natural or due to an external injury,” senior police inspector Shyam Shinde said. He added that if the death was found due to natural reasons, there will be no arrest and a B summary report would be filed. The duo has been booked under Sections 304 A (causing death by negligence) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/civic-official-jcb-operator-booked-over-mans-death/article37183322.ece
27 October 2021||Barpeta (Assam),||Heroin seized, drug peddler nabbed in Barpeta||Police seized 28.94 gm of heroin and arrested one drug peddler in lower Assam’s Barpeta district, an officer said on Tuesday. The heroin and narcotic tablets concealed in three soap cases were seized at Salekura village from the drug peddler on Monday night, the officer said. A case was registered at Barpeta police station under the NDPS Act in this connection.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/heroin-seized-drug-peddler-nabbed-in-barpeta/article37183312.ece
27 October 2021||Ramgarh (Jharkhand),||Elephant herd blocks highway to Rajrappa temple, devotees camp on road||A herd of elephants blocked the highway to the famous Rajrappa temple in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district on Tuesday, triggering panic among the devotees who camped on the road for hours, officials said. A quick response team was sent to the area and it drove away the herd of nine elephants, clearing the road for traffic, Divisional Forest Officer Ved Prakash Kamboj told PTI. Forest personnel are maintaining a vigil in the area as the herd is roaming in the nearby forest, he said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/elephant-herd-blocks-highway-to-rajrappa-temple-devotees-camp-on-road/article37183316.ece
