28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC sets up committee to examine Pegasus allegations||Stressing that the power of the state to snoop in the name of national security into the “sacred private space” of individuals is not absolute, the Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed an expert technical committee overseen by former Supreme Court judge R.V. Raveendran to examine allegations that the Centre used Israeli software Pegasus to spy on citizens. A three-judge Bench, led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, said it decided to refuse the Centre’s offer to appoint an expert committee to investigate the allegations because “such a course of action would violate the settled judicial principle against bias, i.e., that ‘justice must not only be done, but also be seen to be done’.” JusticeRaveendran would be assisted by Alok Joshi, former IPS officer (1976 batch), and Sundeep Oberoi, Chairman, Sub-Committee, International Organisation of Standardisation/International Electro-Technical Commission/Joint Technical Committee. The three members of the committee are Naveen Kumar Chaudhary, Professor (Cyber Security and Digital Forensics) and Dean, National Forensic Sciences University, Gandhinagar, Gujarat; Prabaharan P., Professor (School of Engineering), Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Amritapuri, Kerala; and Ashwin Anil Gumaste, Institute Chair-Associate Professor (Computer Science and Engineering), Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, Maharashtra. The court said it was “extremely difficult” to shortlist the members. Many had “politely declined” while others cited personal reasons. It formed the committee to ensure “absolute transparency and efficiency”. The court said it consciously avoided “political thickets” but could not cower when allegations involved a “grave” threat to the privacy and free speech of the entire citizenry and raised the possibility of involvement of the Government, or even a foreign power, behind the surveillance. The court said the petitions filed before it, including ones by veteran journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, Editors Guild of India and victims of alleged snooping, had raised “Orwellian concerns” about an all-pervasive technology like Pegasus. The court said India could not remain mute in the face of Pegasus allegations when other countries across the globe had taken them seriously. C||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-sets-up-committee-to-examine-pegasus-allegations/article37203899.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cabinet increases Plus One seats||The State Cabinet on Wednesday decided to increase the seats for Plus One course in higher secondary schools. A decision was also taken to shift batches and allow temporary batches. The Cabinet decision follows assurances given by Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty in the Assembly on overcoming the shortage of Plus One seats. It was decided that in case of a seat crunch in the seven districts where a 20% marginal seat increase had been effected, a 10% seat increase would be allowed in government schools. Aided and unaided schools in these district that had basic infrastructure facilities and submitted applications for a seat hike would be allowed a 10% increase in seats. Marginal increase In the seven districts where a marginal increase had not been announced, an increase in seats up to 20% would be sanctioned as per requirement. Aided and unaided schools with adequate infrastructure in these districts that applied would be sanctioned a seat increase of 20% of the marginal increase. If batches with fewer number of students were identified in government schools, these could be shifted to districts where the demand was more. If the Plus One admission crisis was not resolved with a hike in seats, temporary batches would be allowed in government schools as per requirement in districts that faced a shortage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-increases-plus-one-seats/article37204292.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Don’t use new law to justify LAC moves, India tells China||China must not use its new “Land Boundary Law” to justify any actions that alter the situation at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), said India, in a strongly worded statement that expressed “concern” over the law. The Government called the law a “unilateral move”, and said it could have no bearing on existing arrangements between both sides, as India and China have not resolved their boundary issues thus far. It also reaffirmed India’s rejection of the China-Pakistan 1963 agreement, in which Pakistan handed over the Shaksgam Valley of Aksai Chin to China. India claims all of Jammu and Kashmir, which includes Aksai Chin, and has maintained that the agreement is “illegal and invalid”. In addition, New Delhi’s latest statement indicates some apprehension that Beijing could use its new law, which authorises the state to combat any attempts on its land boundaries and to strengthen border defences and infrastructure, as a “pretext” to formalise the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) incursions into the LAC and building infrastructure along Indian territory since April 2020. ‘Unilateral decision’ “China’s unilateral decision to bring about legislation, which can have implication on our existing bilateral arrangements on border management as well as on the boundary question, is of concern to us. Such unilateral move will have no bearing on the arrangements that both sides have already reached earlier, whether it is on the boundary question or for maintaining peace along the LAC in India-China border areas,” said a statement by the Ministry of External Affairs on Wednesday. “We also expect that China will avoid undertaking action under the pretext of this law, which could unilaterally alter the situation in the India-China border areas,” said the statement released by the MEA, four days after the law was first reported in Chinese state media. India and Bhutan are China’s only land neighbours that don’t have a resolved boundary, making them more of a target for the law, experts have argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-use-new-law-to-justify-lac-moves-india-tells-china/article37203901.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Syllabi of six undergraduate subjects yet to be prepared||Vice-Chancellor of Mangalore University P. Subrahmanya Yadapadithaya said on Wednesday that the university is yet to prepare the syllabi of six of the 61 undergraduate subjects as per the new National Education Policy-2020 which will be introduced in the academic year 2021-22. Speaking at an Academic Council meeting here, the Vice-Chancellor said that the syllabi of French, Data Processing, Tulu, Computer Application, Arabic and Visual Arts are yet to be ready. Mr. Yadapadithaya said that the syllabi of History, Economics, Kodava and Hindi subjects are ready but they are yet to be finalised. In case of some pending subjects, the State-level subject sub-committees are yet to finalise the model syllabi. Hence, there is a delay on the part of the university in finalising the syllabi of those subjects. The Vice-Chancellor asked the deans of the respective faculties to finalise and give approval to the syllabi of pending subjects by November 6 based on the model syllabi given by the government. If the syllabi of some pending subjects are not ready by then and if the State models are also not available by then, then the university itself will constitute expert committees to prepare and finalise the syllabi of such subjects. Physical classes of the first semester will begin on November 8, he said. The council approved the “Regulations Governing the Choice Based Credit System Semester Scheme with Multiple Entry and Exit Options in the Undergraduate and Post-graduate Degree Programmes in the Faculties of Arts, Science and Commerce”. The regulations have been prepared to offer undergraduate courses as per the new National Education Policy-2020. It agreed to introduce Consumer Affairs subject as one of the electives in undergraduate studies. The council approved certain amendments made to the statute governing the grant of autonomy to colleges, institutions and units and functioning of autonomous colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/syllabi-of-six-undergraduate-subjects-yet-to-be-prepared/article37204461.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Rape accused sentenced to 15 years rigorous imprisonment||Additional District and Sessions Judge, Fast Track Sessions Court-1 (PoCSO), Savithri V. Bhat on Wednesday sentenced a 45-year-old man to 15 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) on finding him guilty of raping a 17-year-old girl. According to the charge-sheet, P.J. Jacob alias Chakocha, a truck driver, stopped the girl when she was passing in front of his house in February 2015 in Belthangady taluk. He forcibly took her into his house and raped her. He threatened her against revealing the incident to the world. A few days later, Chakocha again raped her in a rubber plantation area. The sexual assault came to light when the girl was examined in hospital and found pregnant. The Belthangady Police arrested Jacob and subsequently, filed the chargesheet. The judge on Wednesday sentenced Jacob to 15 years rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 1 lakh for an offence punishable under Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (PoCSO) Act 2012. He was also sentenced to nine years and fined Rs. 1 lakh for an offence punishable under Section 376 of Indian Penal Code. He was sentenced to two years of imprisonment and fined Rs. 50,000 for an offence punishable under Section 3(1)(xi) of Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Jacob was sentenced to six months imprisonment for an offence punishable under Section 506 of IPC and fined Rs. 500 for an offence punishable under Section 341 of IPC. All these sentences will run concurrently. Of the total fine amount of Rs. 2.55 lakh, the judge said, the accused should pay Rs. 2 lakh as compensation to the victim. In addition, the victim is entitled to a compensation of Rs. 1 lakh under Rule 9 of the PoCSO Rules. The judge directed the State Government to deposit Rs. 1 lakh compensation amount within a month in the girl’s account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rape-accused-sentenced-to-15-years-rigorous-imprisonment/article37204463.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. seeks Rs. 950 crore for 19 new headquarters hospitals||Tamil Nadu has sought approval for establishing 19 district government headquarters hospitals and an allocation of Rs. 950 crore — Rs. 50 crore for each hospital — from the Union Health Ministry, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Wednesday. The Minister, who attended a national review meeting on the COVID-19 vaccination in New Delhi, earlier met Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and submitted a petition comprising 11 demands of the State. At the meeting, the need to complete the administration of the first dose of vaccines across the country by November-end was discussed. A list of persons due for the second dose was also discussed. Mr. Subramanian told reporters that he pointed out that 12 lakh persons were waiting for the second dose of Covaxin in the State and urged the Union Minister to provide at least 10 lakh doses at the earliest. As for the admission to the 11 new government medical colleges, he said the admission of 850 students had already been approved, while the State urged the Union Health Ministry to grant approval for the remaining 800 seats. He was confident of getting the approval for all seats and starting the admissions this year. Expediting the construction work for the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Madurai, a new AIIMS in Coimbatore and the establishment of 25 new primary health centres were among the demands. The Minister added that the government’s stand on vaccinating persons aged below 18 was sought. A demand to exempt Tamil Nadu from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test was also put forward. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine T.S. Selvavinayagam and Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-seeks-rs-950-crore-for-19-new-headquarters-hospitals/article37204028.ece
28 October 2021||IDUKKI,||Chances of opening dam shutters rise||The chances of opening the spillway shutters of Mullaperiyar dam have increased with the water level reaching close to the upper rule curve level fixed by the Central Water Commission (CWC). The water level reached 137.75 ft by 7 p.m. on Wednesday after remaining steady at 136.60 ft from Tuesday morning. Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine said the dam would be opened on Friday. The water from the Mullaperiyar dam will reach the Idukki reservoir which at present is on orange alert level. Mr. Augustine said that Tamil Nadu officials had informed that if the water level did not decline, the dam would be opened on Friday. As per the rule curve till October 31, the upper rule curve level is 138 ft. The new upper rule curve level will come into effect from November 1 which is 139.50 ft. According to the officials, the dam will be opened at 7 a.m. The district administration has made arrangements to open the dam, said the Minister. On Tuesday, the high power committee had decided to follow the rule curve of Mullaperiyar dam. A detailed report of the rule curve was submitted before the Supreme Court last week. The maximum storage level is 142 ft. As per the decision, water will be released when it reaches 138 ft. Kerala had earlier demanded Tamil Nadu to inform the State at least 24 hours prior to the opening of the dam. IMD forecast Earlier in the day, Revenue Minister K. Rajan, citing India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasts, said the State was likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall till October 31 under the influence of a westward-moving low pressure area formed in the Bay of Bengal. Yellow alerts have been issued in several districts, including Idukki till October 31. Given the possibility of northeast monsoon rainfall strengthening, arrangements have been made to open 20 relief camps within 27 km of the Mullaperiyar dam. The Idukki district administration has collected the details, including mobile phone numbers, of more than 3,000 people belonging to 884 families so that prompt communication was possible in the event of an emergency, Mr. Rajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chances-of-opening-dam-shutters-rise/article37204255.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Floods: Rs. 5 lakh for next of kin of dead||The Cabinet has decided to indemnify the next of kin of those who lost their lives in the recent floods. The Government would extend them ex-gratia financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh. Those who have lost their homes and property to flood and mud slip will get Rs. 10 lakh each. The aid also covered living on public land without a title deed. The Cabinet tasked the State Disaster Management Authority to notify worst-hit localities as disaster zones to channel the relief funds. The Government would follow the 2019 template in extending financial aid to damaged houses. It would re-issue certificates and revenue documents lost to mud slips and surging storm waters.  The Government will re-issue certificates and revenue documents lost in the floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/floods-rs-5-lakh-for-next-of-kin-of-dead/article37204291.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Centre wants to keep birth, death database||The Centre has proposed amendments to a 1969 law that will enable it to “maintain the database of registered birth and deaths at the national level”. The database may be used to update the Population Register and the electoral register, and Aadhaar, ration card, passport and driving licence databases, says the proposed amendment to the Registration of Births and Deaths Act (RBD), 1969. Presently, the registration of births and deaths is done by the registrar of the local area, appointed by the State governments. It is proposed that the Chief Registrar (appointed by the State governments) would maintain a unified database at the State level and integrate it with the data at the “national level,” maintained by the Registrar General of India (RGI). The amendments, if implemented, will imply that the Central government will be a parallel repository of birth and death data. States send annual statistical reports to the RGI. The amendments have been proposed by the RGI, which works under the Union Home Ministry. A new Section 3 A is proposed to be inserted in the Act, which says, “The Registrar General, India shall maintain the database of registered births and deaths at the national level, that may be used, with the approval of the Central government, to update the Population Register prepared under the Citizenship Act, 1955; electoral registers or electoral rolls prepared under the Representation of the People Act, 1951; Aadhaar database prepared under the Aadhaar Act, 2016; ration card database prepared under the National Food Security Act, 2013; passport database prepared under the Passport Act; and the driving licence database under the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, and other databases at the national level subject to proviso of Section 17 (1) of the RBD Act, 1969.” If the amendments are implemented, the Centre could use the data to update the National Population Register (NPR), first prepared in 2010 and revised through door-to-door enumeration in 2015. The NPR already has a database of 119 crore residents and under the Citizenship Rules, 2003, it is the first step towards the creation of the National Register of Citizens (NRC). Rule 4(1) of the Citizenship Rules, 2003, says that the Central government shall, “for the purpose of the NRC, cause to carry throughout the country a house-to-house enumeration for collection of specified particulars relating to each family and individual, residing in a local area, including the citizenship status.” The NPR is to be updated with fresh questions such as mother tongue, place of birth of father and mother, and the last place of residence along with the first phase of Census 2021, postponed indefinitely due to COVID-19. Another proposed change is the appointment of “Special Sub-Registrars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-wants-to-keep-birth-death-database/article37203925.ece
28 October 2021||MYSURU,||Railway recruitment racket unearthed in Mysuru||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) unearthed a railway recruitment racket with the arrest of two persons, including a retired railway employee, here. The accused were identified as Chandra Gowda S. Patil of Mysuru and Shivasawamy, a retired railway employee from Gadag. A preliminary assessment indicated that the duo, at a conservative estimate, cheated nearly 400 people to the tune of Rs. 22 crore and it was being ascertained if more persons were involved with the duo. Manjunath Kanamadi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, said the RPF received a complaint from the Chief Medical Superintendent, Mysuru, about the movement of suspicious-looking persons taking photographs at the Railway Hospital here. The RFP, led by Thomas John, Divisional Security Commissioner, Mysuru, and A. Sridhar, Assistant Security Commissioner, RPF, and others constituted a team and began monitoring the activities of these persons. A close surveillance of the activities of this gang confirmed that they were running a railway recruitment racket luring young job aspirants. The gang’s operational centre was in and around a house opposite Shiva Shakti Kalyana Mantapa, near Highway circle, Mysuru, according to Mr. Kanamadi. The target was mainly poor and gullible men from villages and they used to collect original educational certificates of the candidates and issuing fake call letters, fake medical memos, and fake appointment orders. The gang allegedly extracted large sums of money from aspirants giving false assurances and cheated at least 400 people, said Mr. Kanamadi. Investigations revealed that many had given money by selling their land and taking hand loans at high interest rates. The RPF seized 221 blank signed cheque leaves, Rs. 4.15 lakh in cash, original documents of aspiring candidates, chequebooks, about 100 fake railway appointment orders, 70 fake nameplates of TTEs, a laptop, a computer etc., from the gang. The accused and the seized material have been handed over to the Mandi police for initiating the legal process, according to railway authorities. A case has ben registered at Mandi police station under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru, has appealed to aspiring candidates preparing to appear for railway recruitment tests, to visit the official websites of Railway Recruitment Boards only. He said any information/notices being circulated in the social media on offers being made by individuals should be brought to the notice of the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/railway-recruitment-racket-unearthed-in-mysuru/article37204360.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Varsity to introduce five-year integrated law course||Mangalore University will offer a five-year integrated law course (LL.M) in the post-graduate centre in Chikka Aluvara of Kodagu district in the academic year 2021-22, according to Vice-Chancellor P. Subrahmanya Yadapadithaya. He told the Academic Council meeting at the university on Wednesday that Kodagu district does not have any educational institution offering LL.B or LL.M degrees. Hence, the university will offer the integrated programme which students can join after completing their pre-university course. The university will launch the programme in January 2022. The Vice-Chancellor said that the university will open an entrepreneurship development cell on its campus to create an eco-system for students to become entrepreneurs. It will provide the required training for students. Mr. Yadapadithaya said that the university will introduce an open book examination system on an experimental basis in the academic year 2022-23 on the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) model. It will be introduced only for select undergraduate courses. Meanwhile, the council, during the meeting, agreed to allow Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc) degree holders to seek admission to post-graduate courses in the university. It agreed that B.Voc degree can be considered to be on par with other Bachelor level degrees for admission to post-graduate courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/varsity-to-introduce-five-year-integrated-law-course/article37204459.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Makes no difference if BJP, TDP join hands’||It makes no difference to the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) if the TDP, the BJP and Pawan Kalyan’s Jana Sena were to come together, the party’s Parliamentary leader, Vijaysai Reddy, asserted on Wednesday. Mr. Reddy’s comments come in the backdrop of indications that the TDP is warming its way back into the NDA. On the question of returning to the NDA, Telugu Desam Party leader N. Chandrababu Naidu, who was in Delhi, said, “We must explore it, otherwise others will exploit us.” Taking a dig at Mr. Naidu, Mr. Reddy said he had always been inconsistent. After abusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Naidu was now ready to embrace the BJP, he said. Mr. Reddy alleged that the TDP had already made an offer to the BJP to contest the 2024 Lok Sabha polls and next Assembly elections together. He said, “It is for the BJP to now answer whether they can really trust the TDP.” In 2019, the YSRCP decided not to join the NDA and extend only issue-based support. The gulf between the two has widened in recent months. The Andhra Pradesh Government has pointed out that the Centre has been indifferent and apathetic towards it. “Certain decisions of the Centre are prejudicial and against the State of Andhra Pradesh. We will continue to agitate on those issues,” he said. Asked whether the YSRCP regretted its 2019 decision to not join the NDA, leaving the door open for Mr. Naidu to return, Mr. Reddy said, “Why should we regret? We got nearly 51% votes in the last election and as per our internal survey it has only increased since.” Earlier, Mr. Naidu had met President Ram Nath Kovind, appealing to him to impose President’s Rule citing the attack on the TDP headquarters. The YSRCP hit back, calling the TDP a terrorist organisation. “I have no hesitation to say that the TDP is a terrorist outfit, and Mr. Naidu is their leader,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/makes-no-difference-if-bjp-tdp-join-hands/article37203840.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,||HC rejects suspended IPS officer’s plea to transfer harassment case||The Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed a criminal revision petition filed by suspended special Director-General of Police (DGP) Rajesh Das, questioning the territorial jurisdiction of a Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) in Villupuram to conduct the trial in a sexual harassment complaint filed against him by a woman IPS officer in February this year. Justice P. Velmurugan refused to entertain the revision petition against the dismissal of a similar petition by the CJM. In his petition, the accused had said the alleged offence was committed during travel from one district to another. Therefore, the case could not be heard by the CJM, he said. According to him, the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) ought to have filed the charge sheet either before a judicial magistrate at Ulundurpet in Kallakurichi district or before a magistrate in Chengalpattu district. The CJM had rejected that argument on the grounds that he was empowered to conduct the trial in all the cases investigated by the Villupuram unit of the CB-CID. At the hearing, the CB-CID contended that the accused was raising such an untenable plea only to delay the trial.  The accused said in his petition that the alleged offence was committed during travel; therefore, the case could not be heard by the CJM, Villupuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-rejects-suspended-ips-officers-plea-to-transfer-harassment-case/article37203987.ece
28 October 2021||HONG KONG,||India seeks vaccine loans from ADB, AIIB||The Government of India has applied for loans from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) to procure as many as 667 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines. Shareholders The Manila-based ADB, in which the U.S. and Japan are the biggest shareholders, and the Beijing-based AIIB, where China and India are the biggest shareholders, are in the process of considering the loans. The ADB is expected to lend $1.5 billion and the AIIB around $500 million for the vaccine purchase by the Government of India, which has been made under the ADB’s Asia Pacific Vaccine Access Facility (APVAX) initiative. Launched in December 2020, APVAX offers “rapid and equitable support to its developing member countries as they procure and deliver effective and safe COVID-19 vaccines”. The 667 million doses will, however, have to be vaccines qualified by the World Health Organization (WHO). Covishield is among those vaccines but Covaxin is still awaiting the green light with a final assessment scheduled for November 3. The Beijing-headquartered AIIB will co-finance the vaccine procurement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-seeks-vaccine-loans-from-adb-aiib/article37203896.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mullaperiyar water level can stay, says panel||The Supervisory Committee recommended in the Supreme Court on Wednesday that there is no need to change the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, for the committee, informed the court that Kerala did not agree with its opinion. Tamil Nadu said the water level in the dam was 137.6 feet on Wednesday. Kerala wants the court to direct Tamil Nadu, which manages the dam, to not allow the water stored to cross 139 feet. It said an increase in water level and its eventual release would risk floods and endanger the lives of lakhs of people in Kerala. Tamil Nadu argued that Kerala was exaggerating. The rain had already stopped. Besides, there were the top court’s judgments that fixed the maximum water level at 142 feet. The Supreme Court orally observed that the situation was not quite as urgent as was made out, with the water level still around 137 feet on Wednesday. The court asked Kerala to respond to the committee report on Thursday. Objecting to the committee’s recommendation, senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, for Kerala, said the State had seen heavy annual rains and floods for three consecutive years from 2017 to 2019. Mr. Gupta said the rising water, which had to be discharged from the dam, would cause flooding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mullaperiyar-water-level-can-stay-panel/article37203897.ece
28 October 2021||Chennai,||Maoist from Jharkhand held in Chennai||The police on Wednesday arrested a 31-year-old Maoist in Ennore. The police identified him as Suhar Kanju, from Hazaribagh district, Jharkhand. He is a member of a Maoist team and was involved in more than a dozen offences. The Hazaribagh district police zeroed in on his whereabouts and tipped off the local police. On the orders of Deputy Commissioner, Madhavaram, E. Sundaravathanam, a special team was deployed in Ennore to trace him. The police said he was staying and working in an under-construction apartment of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board, opposite the Ennore Thermal Power Station, for the past six months. The Jharkhand police have been informed, a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maoist-from-jharkhand-held-in-ennore/article37204016.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM moots Rs. 2,000-crore NRI rehabilitation plan||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the Assembly on Wednesday that the Government had finalised a Rs. 2,000-crore proposal to rehabilitate expatriates forced to return home from jobs overseas due to the COVID-19 impelled global economic downturn. Replying to a calling attention moved by IUML legislator Manjilamkuzhy Ali on the plight of the expatriate workers who had lost their jobs to the pandemic, Mr. Vijayan said the Government would submit the scheme to the Centre for early approval. Mr. Vijayan said 12.5 lakh Keralites had returned home from abroad during the COVID-19 shutdown. The Government had earmarked Rs. 50 crore in its budget for expatriate rehabilitation. The administration was also willing to give them a leg-up to find self-employment or start private ventures. So far, 1.33 lakh returnees had received government aid of Rs. 5,000 each and medical assistance up to Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-moots-rs-2000-crore-nri-rehabilitation-plan/article37204290.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Schools ask parents for vaccination certificates||An increasing number of private schools that are preparing to resume physical classes for lower primary school students after Deepavali are asking parents to furnish vaccination certificates. Other school managements have requested undertakings from parents stating that they are vaccinated. One of the reasons for this is to ensure that when children start attending offline classes, they face the “lowest risk” of contracting COVID-19 infection on campus. “We also hope to ease fears of a cluster breaking out,” said principals and teachers. Statements Dakshayini Kanna, Senior Principal, Harvest International School, said parents of students were asked to submit and sign statements stating that they are vaccinated. “We have ensured that all our teaching and non-teaching staff have completed both doses of vaccination,” she said. She added that while physical classes are yet to resume in full swing, students come to school for practical classes and examinations. Some school managements feel that asking for the vaccination certificates is a confidence-building measure. A teacher working in a private school affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education said, “I am the class teacher for class V students and 77% of the parents had submitted their vaccination certificates.” The teacher said, “I told the remaining 23% of the parents that if they are vaccinated, all the students would be relatively safe as their chances of contracting infection from students’ families would be reduced. Now, many of these parents said that they will get their shot after Deepavali.” However, many school managements said parents are claiming that they have not received the vaccination certificates even though they have completed both doses. Sumanth Narayan, founder of Shanthinikethana School, said that they plan to ask parents to provide proof of their vaccination. “These need to be submitted to the respective class teachers. We will ensure that students who submit these details get extra marks as well,” he said. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools, said that they had asked the government to ensure that parents were given priority and vaccinated at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-ask-parents-for-vaccination-certificates/article37203922.ece
28 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||High Court issues notices to 18 TTD board members||The A.P. High Court on Wednesday issued notices to the Executive Officer of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) and Principal Secretary (Endowments), and 18 newly appointed members of the TTD Trust Board, questioning on what grounds they were inducted into the board. The court was hearing a petition filed by BJP leader G. Bhanu Prakash Reddy against the legality of the nomination of 18 persons as members, alleging that they were involved in criminal cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-notices-to-18-ttd-board-members/article37203892.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,||HC notice on plea for uniform guidelines for ward panels||The High Court of Karnataka recently ordered the issue of notices to the State Government and Commissioners of 11 city corporations, including Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, in a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition seeking uniform and more effective guidelines for constituting ward committees and area sabhas across the State. A Division Bench of the court, before which the petition came up for hearing, posted the case to November 25 for further hearing. While Kathyayini Chamaraj of CIVIC Bangalore is the lead petitioner, the others are Nagarika Shakti, Bengaluru, represented by Narendra Kumar, Mangalore Civic Group represented by Nigel Albuquerque and Ajoy D’Silva, Jagruta Nagarikara Vedike, Mysuru, Janapara Seva Sansthe, Belagavi, and Karnataka Ward Samiti Vedike members from Kalaburagi, Ballari and Hubballi-Dharwad. Stating that the 74th Constitutional Amendment Act and the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) mandated institutionalising citizen participation in urban local bodies, the petitioners said that numerous pleas to the government have been made for uniform and more effective guidelines for selection of ward committee and area sabha members. Each municipal corporation, however, is following its own manner of nominating members arbitrarily, necessitating filing of the petition. Inequality before law is violative of fundamental rights, the petitioners said and pointed out different sets of laws governing BBMP (BBMP Act 2020), city corporations (Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act) and other municipalities (Karnataka Municipalities Act). They said that the municipalities Act is more effective in institutionalising citizen participation in urban local bodies and urged the court for a direction to suitably amend BBMP and the Municipal Corporations Acts. They also demanded people’s participation structures and uniform, transparent, fair, democratic and participatory methodologies in all urban local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-notice-to-govt-on-plea-seeking-uniform-guidelines-for-ward-panels/article37204168.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||No question of alliance: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party will contest all elections in Andhra Pradesh with the Jana Sena, its ally in the State, and there was “no question” of a tie-up with the Telugu Desam Party, BJP national secretary and its co-in-charge for the State Sunil Deodhar said on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters, Mr. Deodhar said “both parties” (referring to the ruling YSRCP and the TDP) were “not good for the health of Andhra Pradesh”. “There is no question of an alliance with the TDP,” he said, in response to a question about that party’s chief N. Chandrababu Naidu’s recent visit to the Capital. Mr. Deodhar also hit out at Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy for trying to appease Christian voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-question-of-alliance-bjp/article37203857.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Action replay||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/action-replay/article37204173.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Big step to get to truth: Cong.||Describing the court’s order as a “big step” to get to the truth, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said Pegasus was an attack on the democratic structure of the nation. “This is not just a political matter, this is an existential matter for the country. That is why you find the Opposition somewhat muted.”page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/big-step-to-get-to-the-truth-says-cong/article37203902.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Statutory safeguards must: SC||“In a democratic country governed by the rule of law, indiscriminate spying cannot be allowed except with sufficient statutory safeguards,” the Supreme Court said on Wednesday. The use of technology for surveillance by the state must be evidence-based, the court said.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/statutory-safeguards-must-sc/article37203903.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Orange alert for coastal districts||A low-pressure area formed over the central parts of the south Bay of Bengal is likely to bring widespread rain over Tamil Nadu from Friday. High intensity rainfall is likely in a number of districts in the coastal and southern region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-seeks-rs-950-cr-for-19-headquarters-hospitals/article37203988.ece
28 October 2021||NAMAKKAL,||Cheating case against ex-AIADMK Minister||The District Crime Branch police in Namakkal on Wednesday registered a case against former AIADMK Minister for Social Welfare and Nutritious Noon Meal Programme V. Saroja for cheating job aspirants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-rail-likely-to-cancel-five-tenders/article37203989.ece
28 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||Kirtan protest against attack on Hindus||A Kirtan protest march condemning the attack on violence against Hindus in Bangladesh was taken out under the aegis of ISKCON in Dharwad. The peaceful protest march culminated at the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kirtan-protest-against-attack-on-hindus/article37204169.ece
28 October 2021||KALABURAGI,||Alert on high TB deaths in Ballari district||A team of health experts that visited Ballari district recently on the directions of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for getting first-hand information from the ground on the prevalence of tuberculosis has alerted the administration on the high rate of tuberculosis deaths in the district. The team visited various hospitals across the undivided Ballari district for three days last week and collected information from hospital authorities, patients and their relatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/alert-on-high-tb-deaths-in-ballari-district/article37204171.ece
28 October 2021||Patna,||Nine convicted in Patna blasts case||The special NIA court on Wednesday convicted nine of the 10 accused in the Patna Gandhi Maidan bomb blasts case in which six people were killed and 80 injured. The punishment will be pronounced on November 1. The blasts took place during the ‘Hunkar’ rally addressed by the then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi on October 27, 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-convicted-in-patna-blasts-case/article37204380.ece
28 October 2021||Mumbai,||Correct grounds of arrest not informed: Aryan’s plea||The hearing of the bail plea of Aryan Khan, who has been arrested in a drugs case, continued in the Bombay High Court on Wednesday. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi argued before a Single Bench that no person should be detained without being informed about the grounds of arrest and the person should have the right to consult a lawyer of his choice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/correct-grounds-of-arrest-not-informed-aryans-plea/article37204381.ece
28 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||High-decibel campaign for byelections ends||The high-decibel campaign for the byelections to Sindgi and Hangal Assembly constituencies concluded on Wednesday, with leaders of all the three major political parties winding up the electioneering with roadshows and public meetings. The polling is scheduled for October 30. On the last day of the campaign too, mudslinging continued with leaders making personal attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-decibel-campaign-for-byelections-ends/article37203920.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Govt. adds Ayodhya to free pilgrimage scheme||The Delhi Cabinet has decided to add Ayodhya to the list of pilgrimage sites under the ‘Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojna’, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Wednesday. The scheme, which facilitates free pilgrimage for senior citizens residing in the Capital, had been halted due to COVID-19. The Delhi Government is also preparing to organise the live telecast of Deepavali celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-adds-ayodhya-to-free-pilgrimage-scheme/article37204060.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Schools in Delhi to reopen from Nov. 1||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Wednesday issued orders permitting schools to reopen, after a gap of 19 months, for students from nursery to Class XII from November 1. Schools will function with a maximum capacity of 50% of students with classes continuing in a blended mode. The Government said attending physical classes will be optional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-in-delhi-to-reopen-from-nov-1/article37204062.ece
28 October 2021||Mysuru,||KRS is now almost full||The water level at the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir across the Cauvery was 124.35 ft. at 9 p.m. on Wednesday and expected to reach the FRL of 124.80 ft. in due course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/krs-is-now-almost-full/article37204361.ece
28 October 2021||Patna,||Nine convicted in Patna blasts case||The special NIA court on Wednesday convicted nine of the 10 accused in the Patna Gandhi Maidan bomb blasts case in which six people were killed and 80 injured. The punishment will be pronounced on November 1. The blasts took place during the ‘Hunkar’ rally addressed by the then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi on October 27, 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-convicted-in-patna-blasts-case/article37204336.ece
28 October 2021||Mumbai,||Correct grounds of arrest not informed: Aryan’s plea||The hearing of the bail plea of Aryan Khan, who has been arrested in a drugs case, continued in the Bombay High Court on Wednesday. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi argued before a Single Bench that no person should be detained without being informed about the grounds of arrest and the person should have the right to consult a lawyer of his choice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/correct-grounds-of-arrest-not-informed-aryans-plea/article37204338.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,||36 vacant sites identified for urban forest||Vacant government land by the Phalguni riverside in Kuloor and a small patch of government land in Kottara Chowki are among the 36 vacant government sites in the city where Mangaluru City Corporation has proposed to develop urban forest, said corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/36-vacant-sites-identified-for-urban-forest/article37204465.ece
28 October 2021||Mumbai,||Memo did not give correct grounds of arrest: Aryan’s plea||The hearing on the bail petition of Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan who has been arrested in a drugs case, continued in the Bombay High Court on Wednesday. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Aryan Khan, argued before a Single Bench of Justice Nitin Sambre that no person should be detained without being informed about the grounds of arrest and the person should have the right to consult a lawyer of his choice. Mr. Rohatgi contended that the arrest memo did not give the correct grounds for the detention, and said Article 22 of the Constitution was more important than Section 50 (person arrested to be informed of grounds of arrest and of right to bail) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Counsel pointed out that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had the phone of Aryan Khan but it was not mentioned in the remand application, and so Aryan Khan did not have access to the chats. He said the NCB chose to mislead about what was recovered from Aryan Khan. Mr. Rohatgi said the remand application was misleading as if large quantities of drugs were recovered from Aryan Khan. He concluded his arguments seeking bail for Aryan Khan. Draconian law Senior advocate Amit Desai, representing co-accused in the case Arbaaz Merchant (also lodged in the Arthur Road Jail), argued that the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was a draconian law and there was a need to apply mind. He also mentioned that on Tuesday, the Special NDPS Court granted bail to two guests who were on the same cruise which was raided on October 1. Manish Rajgaria and Avin Sahu were both charged under relevant Sections of the NDPS Act for consumption, possession and conspiracy. Rajgaria was accused of possessing 2.4 grams of cannabis. The lawyer of another co-accused Munmun Dhamecha (lodged in Byculla Jail) will argue on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/memo-did-not-give-correct-grounds-of-arrest-aryans-plea/article37203803.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Indiscriminate spying can’t be allowed’||Indiscriminate spying on individuals by the state is not allowed in a democracy, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday. The use of technology for surveillance by the state must be evidence-based, the court said. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, in its order in the Pegasus snooping case, said surveillance to flush out terror activities is essential to protect life and liberty. A need may arise to encroach into individual privacy to access information vital to prevent violence and terror. However, the state can violate a person’s privacy only if it is “absolutely necessary” to protect national security and interests. The necessity to trespass on individual privacy should be proportional. “In a democratic country governed by the rule of law, indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed except with sufficient statutory safeguards, by following the procedure established by law under the Constitution,” the Supreme Court noted. “It is undeniable that surveillance and the knowledge that one is under the threat of being spied on can affect the way an individual decides to exercise his or her rights. Such a scenario might result in self-censorship,” the CJI-led Bench observed in the Pegasus order. The order was based on separate petitions filed by senior journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar; Rajya Sabha member John Brittas; Supreme Court lawyer M.L. Sharma; and journalists including Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, S.N.M. Abdi, Prem Shankar Jha, Rupesh Kumar Singh and Ipsa Shataksi, who alleged that they were victims of Pegasus surveillance. They claimed to have been subjected to “deeply intrusive surveillance”. They said a forensic examination done by Amnesty International on mobile phones had revealed traces of interference. The Government had “deliberately avoided” public debate on the issue, they said. The petitioners had sought a “complete overhaul” of the “surveillance architecture” by even challenging the constitutionality of Section 5 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885; Rule 419A of the Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951; Section 69 of the Information Technology Act, 2000; and the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Interception, Monitoring and Decryption) of Information Rules, 2009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indiscriminate-spying-cant-be-allowed/article37203811.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Knock every door’ campaign to boost second-dose vaccination||Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday that there were more than 10.34 crore people in the country who had missed the second dose of COVID-19 that they were due to take. He added that adequate vaccine doses were available in the country, and more than 12 crore unutilised doses were available with the States. According to a release issued by the Health Ministry, the “Har Ghar Dastak” (Knock Every Door) campaign is scheduled to start soon in districts with low vaccination rates to enthuse and motivate people towards getting their jab. “No district should be without full vaccination,” the Health Minister told State governments, adding that the goal is to cover the entire adult population with at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine by the end of November. Dr. Mandaviya on Wednesday held a meeting with Health Ministers of States and Union Territories to discuss issues related to the COVID-19 emergency response package and the scaling up of the vaccination drive. The State Health Ministers were requested to ensure continuous monitoring. Dr. Mandaviya urged the States to make regional and local-level plans with all the stakeholders to reduce the number of people with vaccination overdue. He also called for innovative strategies to encourage stakeholders to achieve their targets. The meeting also saw a discussion on the PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission scheme, the Health Ministry said. Dr. Mandaviya said that the ambitious health infrastructure initiative, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 25, was drafted in consultation with States and would be implemented in coordination with them. “We will work together, with the Centre providing all necessary support to make this happen in the next five years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/knock-every-door-campaign-to-boost-second-dose-vaccination/article37203828.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||National security cannot be the bugbear, says court||The state cannot keep a secret from the court merely on the bogey of “national security” and expect the judiciary to remain a “mute spectator”, the Supreme Court drew the line for the Government on Wednesday. The claim has to be backed by evidence to prove that the disclosure of the information sought by the court would affect national security concerns. Court response A Bench led by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana was responding in its order to submissions made by Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, in the Pegasus snooping case. Mr. Mehta had refused the court’s repeated advice to file a detailed affidavit responding to the snooping allegations, blankly stating that “the disclosure of certain facts might affect the national security and defence of the nation”. Mr. Mehta’s reluctance had seen the Bench ask itself the question whether the Union of India could actually decline information to the Supreme Court. “Of course, the Union of India may decline to provide information when constitutional considerations exist, such as those pertaining to the security of the state. However, this does not mean that the state gets a free pass every time the spectre of ‘national security’ is raised. National security cannot be the bugbear that the judiciary shies away from, by virtue of its mere mentioning,” the court clarified. Limited review The court accepted that judicial review in national security matters was limited. The judiciary has been circumspect while dealing with matters of national security. However, the court’s delicacy does not licence the Government to call for an “omnibus prohibition” against judicial review. “The Union of India must necessarily plead and prove the facts which indicate that the information sought must be kept secret as their divulgence would affect national security concerns. They must justify the stand that they take before a court. The mere invocation of national security by the state does not render the court a mute spectator,” the Supreme Court emphasised. In the Pegasus order, the court reminded the Government that the petitioners do not contend that the state should not resort to surveillance/collection of data in matters of national security. “The complaint of the petitioners is about the misuse or likely misuse of spyware in violation of the right to privacy of citizens,” the court pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-omnibus-prohibition-against-judicial-review-sc/article37203813.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘SC order a big step to finding truth’||Describing the Supreme Court’s order of appointing a three-member panel to probe the allegations of the use of Israeli spyware Pegasus to snoop on certain persons as a “big step” to finding out the truth, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said Pegasus was an attack on the democratic structure of the nation. “This is not just a political matter, this is an existential matter for the country. That is why you find the Opposition somewhat muted,” Mr. Gandhi said during a press conference at the Congress headquarters. The Congress leader said only Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah could have ordered the use of the spyware and it was a “criminal” act. ‘PM not above nation’ “Pegasus is illegal. It is not legal in India to snoop using Pegasus. Hence, we would like to know why the Prime Minister is doing an illegal act. He is not above the nation,” Mr. Gandhi said. The former Congress chief said though the Government did not want to answer the Opposition earlier when it had stalled the monsoon session of Parliament over the issue, they would once again raise the issue in the upcoming winter session. “We were asking three basic questions. Who authorised Pegasus. Which agency or person authorised the spyware because we all know that it cannot be bought by a private individual. It has to be bought by a Government. Second, who was it used against. Finally, did any other country have access to the information of our people,” Mr. Gandhi said. “Pegasus is an attempt to crush the Indian democracy. It is an attempt to make sure that the vibrancy of the democracy and the conversations that take place within a democracy are crushed and that people are controlled. It is a big step that the Supreme Court has said that they are going to look into this matter. I am confident that we will get the truth out of this,” he said. Urging all freedom-loving citizens to welcome the order, former Union Minister P. Chidambaram said, “The primary basis of the order is that the spyware was acquired by an Indian Government agency. The second basis of the order is that Pegasus was used against Indian citizens. I am certain that the inquiry ordered by the Supreme Court will bring out multiple violations of the law by the Government”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-order-a-big-step-to-finding-truth/article37203816.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||AY4.2 ‘infrequent’ in India: INSACOG||The latest mutation of the coronavirus variant, AY4.2, which has been linked to a rise in cases in the United Kingdom, is “very infrequent” in India, according to a weekly report by the India SARS-CoV-2 Genome Consortium (INSACOG), the body that tracks the emergence of new variants, on Wednesday. AY4.2 was responsible for a “slowly increasing” proportion of cases in the U.K., according to Public Health England (PHE) on October 22. It is also present in multiple other countries and is seen in travellers to the U.K. from a large number of countries. It is not clear where AY4.2 originated or when. This lineage of the coronavirus has the mutations of Delta — the dominant global variant — and AY.4, a sub-lineage. The characteristic mutations were S:A222V on the spike protein; and Y145H, which were mutations are in the N terminal domain, or the region of the coronavirus that doesn’t bind to the human cells. Studies commissioned It isn’t yet clear what specific advantage these mutations confer to AY4.2 that aid its spread. However, in terms of its severity, it is still as potent as Delta. The PHE has said it has commissioned studies to establish the increase in severity, if at all, that AY4.2 confers. As of October 21, 2021, there were 15,120 cases in England linked to AY4.2. VUI-21OCT-01 (the variant under investigation classified on October 21, 2021) accounted for 3.8%, 5.2% and 5.9% of Delta cases in England in the weeks beginning September 19, September 21 and October 3, 2021, respectively, according to the PHE. INSACOG, in its latest bulletin made public on Wednesday, said that the recent rise in AY4.2 in genomic surveillance “needs to be interpreted with caution” as there were technical issues with the detection of the Y145H mutation. Most sequences from India that are being classified as AY4.2 by PANGO, one of the global classification systems for coronavirus lineages, have only either Y145H or A222V in the spike, and not both the mutations appearing together. Delta (B.1.617.2) and its related sublineages (AY that numbered till 35) continues to be the main Variant of Concern (VOC) in India. No new VOI (Variant of Interest) or VOC are noted in India, according to the INSACOG. Many cases earlier labelled as AY.4 were now reclassified at AY.33. “It has been noted that due to greater diversity of Delta in India, PANGO classifications may sometimes be inaccurate, especially for new sub-lineages. INSACOG is thus further examining the data on AY.33,” their report noted. So far about 107,000 coronavirus samples have been sequenced in India, of which 88,000 have been “analysed” to establish their lineages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ay42-infrequent-in-india-insacog/article37203834.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC summons Ramdev over remarks on allopathy||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday issued summons to yoga guru Ramdev on a lawsuit filed by several doctors’ associations for allegedly spreading misinformation against allopathy during the COVID-19 pandemic. Justice C. Hari Shankar, while granting four weeks to Ramdev to file his response, said the doctors’ associations’ suit was not frivolous. The court also issued summons to Acharya Balkrishna and Patanjali Ayurveda on the suit. “I have seen the video clips. From the perusal of the video clips, your client [Ramdev] is scorning the allopathic treatment protocol. He has literally gone to scorn at the prescription of steroids, people going to hospitals,” Justice Shankar observed. “From the perusal of the clips, there is definitely a case for the institution of the suit. They may have nothing for an injunction but the case is not frivolous,” the court said, clarifying that it had not expressed any opinion on the merits of the case. Senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, appearing for Ramdev, said he had no objections to the issuance of summons in the suit but was opposed to the allegations made in the case. The associations include three resident doctors’ associations of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Rishikesh, Patna and Bhubaneswar; the Association of Resident Doctors, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh; the Union of Resident Doctors of Punjab (URDP); the Resident Doctors’ Association, Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, Meerut; and the Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association, Hyderabad. Their suit alleged that Ramdev was misleading and misrepresenting to the public at large that allopathy was responsible for the deaths of several people infected by COVID-19, and insinuating that allopathic doctors were causing deaths of the patients. The associations have submitted that the yoga guru was sowing doubts in the minds of the general public with respect to the safety and efficacy of not only allopathic treatment but also COVID-19 vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-summons-ramdev-over-remarks-on-allopathy/article37203821.ece
28 October 2021||Patna,||Nine convicted in Patna blasts case||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Wednesday convicted nine of the 10 accused in Patna Gandhi Maidan serial bomb blasts case in which six people were killed and 80 injured. The punishment will be pronounced by the court on November 1. The blasts took place during the ‘Hunkar’ rally addressed by then Gujarat Chief Minister and prime ministerial candidate, Narendra Modi, on October 27, 2013. Mr. Modi addressed the rally even after the blasts at the venue. One acquitted The NIA filed a chargesheet against 10 persons. One Faqruddin was acquitted by the special NIA court for lack of evidence. All the accused were suspected members of the Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) and the Indian Mujahideen (IM). Those who were convicted are Numan Ansari, Haider Ali, alias ‘black beauty’, Mohammad Mujibullah Ansari, Omar Siddiqui, Azharuddin Qureshi, Ahmad Hussain, Mohammad Iftekhar Alam, Mohammad Firoz Aslam and a minor person whose identity has been protected. One of the accused, Tariq Ansari, died while placing a bomb inside a toilet at the Patna junction. 17 IEDs found As many as 17 improvised explosive devices — seven of them were detonated — were found in and around the Gandhi Maidan on October 27, 2013. Most of the accused were residents of Sithio in Ranchi of Jharkhand. They are currently lodged in the Beur central jail of Patna. The NIA had taken up the case on November 6, 2013. Altogether 250 prosecution witnesses deposed before the trial court for cross-examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nine-convicted-in-patna-blasts-case/article37203791.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India respects UNCLOS rights’||India is committed to respecting the rights of all nations as laid down in the UN Convention on the Law of Seas (UNCLOS), Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday, while reiterating that India is determined to protect its legitimate maritime rights and interests. “We are fully determined to protect the legitimate rights and interests of our country in relation to our territorial waters and Exclusive Economic Zone, while supporting the maintenance of rule-based maritime systems, as mandated under UNCLOS, 1982,” Mr. Singh said while addressing the Indo-Pacific Regional Dialogue being organised by the Navy and National maritime Foundation. Stating that while competition over resources had intensified, Mr. Singh said the rise of serious threats such as terrorism, piracy, drug trafficking and climate change had thrown new challenges for the Indo-Pacific region. “The nature of these challenges in the region has considerable trans-national implications, which require a cooperative response. There is, therefore, a need to find convergence of interests and commonality of purpose on maritime issues,” he stated. There was need to be aware of the evolving nature of competition and contestation in the Indo-Pacific region, said Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh. “There is a day-to-day competition for influence, leverage and geostrategic space that is increasingly being witnessed in the Indo-Pacific.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-respects-unclos-rights/article37203798.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘PM increased value of Indian passport’||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Wednesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had increased the value of the Indian passport and the pride of the country abroad. He was speaking at the inaugural session of the three-day national conference on “Delivering Democracy: Two Decades of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi as Head of Government”, organised by the Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini. “During the 2014 elections, the Congress-United Progressive Alliance [UPA] Government had completed 10 years and members of the Cabinet would not consider the Prime Minister as the Prime Minister, but every person behaved as if he was the Prime Minister himself. There was policy paralysis, there was no guarantee of national security, and the country’s respect abroad was probably at its lowest, due to scams and corruption of Rs. 12 lakh crore,” he said. Mr. Shah said many questions confronted the nation on the internal security front and it seemed as if the democratic system would collapse any time. “At that time our party decided that the Chief Minister of Gujarat would be our party’s prime ministerial candidate in the 2014 elections. This announcement brought about a new type of change in the country,” he said. Mr. Shah added that in 2019 Mr. Modi received the mandate and on August 5, 2019 he took the historic decision to abolish Articles 370 and 35A. He said the decision to build Shri Ram Janmabhoomi was made by taking everyone along and without any violence in the country, and today the work of temple construction was in progress. Praising the 2016 demonetisation, the Home Minister said that despite the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections few months away, the Prime Minister took a tough decision “so that the nation moves towards e-payment and the elimination of black money.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-increased-value-of-indian-passport/article37203804.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Snooping on scribes assault on watchdog role of press’||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said snooping on journalists or creating a fear that the media is being spied on creates a “chilling effect” on journalistic freedom and is an assault on the vital public watchdog role of the press. “It is undeniable that surveillance and the knowledge that one is under the threat of being spied on can affect the way an individual decides to exercise his or her rights. Such a scenario might result in self-censorship. This is of particular concern when it relates to the freedom of the press, which is an important pillar of democracy,” a Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana observed in its order appointing an expert committee to examine allegations of the Government using the Pegasus software to spy on citizens. The court said a democratic society valued the importance of protecting a source. That was part of press freedom. A chilling effect caused by apprehensions of being spied upon would undermine the ability of the press to provide accurate and reliable information, the court said. Several journalists were parties, either as public interest petitioners or victims of the alleged Pegasus snooping, in the court. “Having regard to the importance of the protection of journalistic sources for press freedom in a democratic society and the potential chilling effect that snooping techniques may have, this court’s task in the present matter, where certain grave allegations of infringement of the rights of the citizens of the country have been raised, assumes great significance,” the Supreme Court observed, refusing the Government’s offer to form a committee to examine the allegations. The Bench said the apex court was “compelled to take up the cause to determine the truth and get to the bottom of the allegations”. One of the petitioners, the Editors Guild of India, had sought an independent probe into the Government’s alleged role in the Pegasus controversy. The top editors’ body had said “indiscriminate use” of top-end surveillance technology against journalists “destroys free speech” and “poisons the heart of democracy”. It said freedom of press was a hard-won right essential to democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/snooping-on-scribes-assault-on-watchdog-role-of-press/article37203809.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||One Bengal district still not ODF: Puri||Nearly two years after urban India, apart from West Bengal, was declared open defecation-free (ODF) in December 2019, one district in that State had still not been given the ODF tag, Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri has said. However, he did not specify the name of the district. On Wednesday, Mr. Puri launched the operational guidelines for Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban (SBM-U) 2.0 and AMRUT 2.0. The Ministry said in a statement that the guidelines were “designed after multiple rounds of stakeholder consultations” and “under the overarching guiding principles that include equity and inclusiveness”. The second versions of the two missions were launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 1. While SBM-U 2.0 aims at making all cities “garbage free”, AMRUT 2.0 has the target of providing water tap connections in 4,700 statutory towns in the next five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-bengal-district-still-not-odf-puri/article37203829.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sweden set to launch ‘Time for India’ drive||Sweden does not require vaccination from international travellers including those from India, its Ambassador in India Klas Molin told The Hindu in an exclusive chat on Wednesday. The envoy said Sweden would soon launch a trade promotion event — Time for India — to boost bilateral trade and hinted that the Swedish Government may take a more liberal post-COVID visa policy for India soon. “There is no requirement for vaccination for entry nor is there a quarantine regime in place. But travellers need to take a COVID-19 test on arrival,” said Mr. Molin reiterating his country’s general visa and entry policy. The envoy attended the Business Climate Survey (SCS) conducted by the Swedish Chamber of Commerce in India. Mr. Molin said Stockholm was allowing essential travel from India, which includes certain types of travel by business owners. ”Sweden has had an entry ban in effect during the pandemic. It is being reviewed and I’m hopeful travellers from India will soon be exempt. At the same time, we have issued visas throughout the pandemic for essential travel, for students and for business purposes,” he said. The envoy said there was no “blanket ban” for tourist visas but Sweden was yet to firm up the policy. India has not yet opened tourist visas which, the envoy said, has led to “fewer travellers” from Sweden to India. Seminars planned Mr. Molin will lead a Swedish diplomatic and economic delegation in the second week of November to Sweden and team up with the Indian embassy in Stockholm to launch a promotional campaign for Indian business. The team will hold meetings and seminars in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmo that are expected to be attended by a large number of companies and Swedish investors. Ambassador to Sweden Tanmaya Lal is scheduled to join the events. “We will use these seminars to inform interested companies and people in trading and investing in India,” said Mr. Molin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sweden-set-to-launch-time-for-india-drive/article37203837.ece
28 October 2021||Panaji,||‘In Tejpal case, trial court order retrograde’||The Goa Government said in the High Court of Bombay in Goa on Wednesday that the victim in a 2013 rape case, in which journalist Tarun Tejpal was acquitted, was named and shamed and the trial court’s judgement was “retrograde” and “fit for fifth century”. The Bench, comprising Justices Revati Mohite Dere and M.S. Jawalkar, later adjourned the hearing in the matter till November 16, when it will hear Mr. Tejpal’s application challenging the maintainability of the state Government’s appeal against his acquittal in the case. Responding to arguments by Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, who is representing the Goa Government, Justice Dere said “in not just this case, but in all the cases of rape, we will not allow lawyers to read the evidence, we will read it ourselves”. She said a lawyer can point out the page number while submitting about the evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-tejpal-case-trial-court-order-retrograde/article37204063.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||India seeks vaccine loans from ADB, AIIB||According to the ADB, for a vaccine to be eligible for financing, it must “be procured via COVAX [the global vaccine access initiative], prequalified by WHO, or authorised by a Stringent Regulatory Authority”, which, according to the WHO, does not include India’s health authorities. The AIIB said that this week, a number of loans were being considered for projects in India, including another loan for the next phase of the Chennai Metro rail system. Earlier this month, the AIIB had already approved a $356.7 million loan to the Government of India for the construction of a new corridor as part of Chennai Metro’s phase two. So far, the AIIB has approved loans for 28 projects in India amounting to $6.7 billion, more than for any other member of the multilateral bank, which was launched in Beijing in 2015. India is the second-largest shareholder after China in the bank, which does not count the U.S. and Japan among its members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-seeks-vaccine-loans-from-adb-aiib/article37203805.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Mullaperiyar water level can stay, says committee||Tamil Nadu said the water level in the dam was 137.6 ft on Wednesday. Kerala wants the court to direct Tamil Nadu, which manages the dam, to not allow the water stored to cross 139 ft. It said that an increase in the water level and its eventual release would risk floods, and endanger the lives of lakhs of people in Kerala. Tamil Nadu argued that Kerala was exaggerating. Rain had already stopped. Besides, there were the top court’s judgments that fixed the maximum water level at 142 feet. The court asked Kerala to respond to the committee report on Thursday. Ms. Bhati was given two days’ time on Monday to report back to the court with the decision of the supervisory committee. “The water level is 137.6 ft. Rainfall has abated,” said senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, for Tamil Nadu. “In social media in Kerala there is a continuous campaign going on. The Kerala Chief Minister has made a statement in the Assembly that all these apprehensions are misplaced.” The case concerns a petition filed by Idukki resident Dr. Joe Joseph and office-bearers of the Kothamangalam block panchayat in Kerala, who had expressed their apprehensions about the supervision of water levels in the Mullaperiyar dam located along the Periyar tiger reserve, especially during the rainy season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mullaperiyar-water-level-can-stay-says-committee/article37203794.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Dam storage well within permitted level: Stalin||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday wrote to his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan saying that the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam was being closely monitored and the current storage was well within the level permitted by the Supreme Court. “We are already drawing the maximum quantity of water through the tunnel in the Vaigai dam as requested in your letter. Currently 2,300 cusecs of water is being drawn through the tunnel to the Vaigai basin since 8 a.m. today [Wednesday],” Mr. Stalin said. Recently Mr. Vijayan had written to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister urging the State to ensure that the maximum quantity of water is drawn from Mullaperiyar. The current water level was “well within the storage level permitted” by the Supreme Court in its judgment and was also compliant with the upper rule levels approved by the CWC, Mr. Stalin pointed out. Tamil Nadu was closely monitoring the water level and its officials were in constant touch with the Kerala team. Mr. Stalin said he had directed the officials to continue to closely monitor the water levels and regulate the outflow accordingly. “In addition, I have specifically asked them to share in advance all the necessary information on water position and release, if any, so that your government can initiate such precautionary measures needed before the release of water.” On Wednesday, the water level at 9 a.m. was 137.60 feet with an inflow of 2,300 cusecs. Mr. Stalin added that the Tamil Nadu Government and its people were concerned about the floods and the resultant damage suffered by Kerala and its people in the past 10 days. “I wish to assure you that we will stand with you during these difficult times and would extend any help that is needed for alleviating the sufferings of the people. In this regard, I have already instructed the Collectors of the border districts of our State to extend all help and ensure the supply of all items needed for flood relief,” Mr. Stalin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dam-storage-well-within-permitted-level-stalin/article37203799.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||PDS shops may sell LPG cylinders||Your nearby ration shop may soon sell five-kg cooking-gas cylinders, as the Centre is coordinating with the State Governments and oil companies to implement the plan, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said on Wednesday. This is part of a wider initiative to boost the financial viability of these shops. The 5.32 lakh ration or fair price shops across the country mainly distribute subsidised foodgrains to the 80 crore beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act. The Centre is looking to leverage this network by introducing the retail sale of LPG cylinders. At a virtual inter-ministerial and inter-State meeting, Mr. Pandey stressed the need for proactive measures to enhance the fiscal health of ration shops. Apart from those of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Ministry, representatives of Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum and Hindustan Petroleum were present, a Ministry statement said. A Financial Services Department representative outlined a proposal to offer financial services such as MUDRA loans through the shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pds-shops-may-sell-lpg-cylinders/article37203801.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||SC sets up panel to look into Pegasus allegations||The court asked the committee to submit its report “expeditiously”. It posted the next hearing after eight weeks. It said the gnawing fear of being spied on affected liberty and had a “chilling effect”. Ordinary citizens, and not just activists and journalists, started to drift towards self censorship. “Members of a civilised democratic society have a reasonable expectation of privacy. Privacy is not the singular concern of journalists or social activists. Every citizen of India ought to be protected against violations of privacy. It is this expectation which enables us to exercise our choices, liberties, and freedom. It is undeniable that surveillance and the knowledge that one is under the threat of being spied on can affect the way an individual decides to exercise his or her rights,” the Bench, also comprising Justice Hima Kohli, said in the order. The court highlighted how the Union of India had not specifically denied the allegations. The Government, despite being given several opportunities by the court, chose to respond with an “omnibus and vague denial” in a “limited affidavit”. The Government had refused to take a clear stand in court, citing national security reasons, despite the fact that the Pegasus allegations had first surfaced two years ago. “The mere invocation of national security by the state does not render the court a mute spectator,” Chief Justice Ramana clarified for the Bench. The state did not get “a free pass every time the spectre of national security is raised… National security cannot be the bugbear that the judiciary shies away from, by virtue of its mere mentioning”. The court, however, declined a plea by the petitioners to have the Cabinet Secretary submit an affidavit in court, responding to Pegasus allegations. The court referred to William Pitt, the Earl of Chatham. “The poorest man may in his cottage bid defiance to all the force of the Crown. It may be frail — its roof may shake— the wind may blow through it— the storm may enter, the rain may enter— but the King of England cannot enter!— all his force dares not cross the threshold of the ruined tenement!” the SC quoted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-sets-up-panel-to-look-into-pegasus-allegations/article37203806.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Don’t use new law to justify LAC moves’||While Bhutan and China signed an MoU on October 14 aimed at expediting boundary talks, talks between India and China on the LAC stand-off have run into an impasse during border commander talks this month, and Special Representatives (SRs) tasked with the larger boundary question have not held a formal meeting on the issue since December 2019. The statement by the MEA over the new law follows an equally sharp statement after the 13th round of corps commander talks on October 10, where India accused China of failing to accept any of its proposals to disengage troops at the LAC, and the meeting ended without a resolution on remaining areas of contention. According to the Xinhua news agency, the new law, which was cleared by the Chinese legislative assembly on October 23, will be operational from January 1, 2022, and stipulates that “the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the People’s Republic of China are sacred and inviolable”. It promotes all measures including “opening up” economic activities and supporting people’s “life and work” at the border, indicating that China could attempt at building more border villages of the kind adjoining the boundaries with Bhutan at Doklam and India across the LAC from Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-use-new-law-to-justify-lac-moves/article37203807.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre wants to keep birth, death database||States send annual statistical reports to the RGI. The amendments have been proposed by the RGI, which works under the Union Home Ministry. A new Section 3 A is proposed to be inserted in the Act, which says, “The Registrar General, India shall maintain the database of registered births and deaths at the national level, that may be used, with the approval of the Central government, to update the Population Register prepared under the Citizenship Act, 1955; electoral registers or electoral rolls prepared under the Representation of the People Act, 1951; Aadhaar database prepared under the Aadhaar Act, 2016; ration card database prepared under the National Food Security Act, 2013; passport database prepared under the Passport Act; and the driving licence database under the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, and other databases at the national level subject to proviso of Section 17 (1) of the RBD Act, 1969.” If the amendments are implemented, the Centre could use the data to update the National Population Register. The NPR already has a database of 119 crore residents and under the Citizenship Rules, 2003, it is the first step towards the creation of the National Register of Citizens (NRC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-wants-to-keep-birth-death-database/article37203879.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panel should travel back Pegasus trail to 2019: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday wants the Justice R.V. Raveendran expert committee not to just inquire into recent allegations of the Government using Pegasus to snoop, but travel back the trail to reports of the Israeli spyware being used to hack social media accounts of private citizens in 2019. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana asked the former Supreme Court judge and his panel to dig up the steps taken by the Government “after reports were published in the year 2019 about hacking of WhatsApp accounts of Indian citizens, using the Pegasus suite of spyware”. The court also wanted the committee to use its expertise to test the existing surveillance laws and procedures to see how much they valued and protected citizens’ privacy. The court said the committee should come up with recommendations to prevent state and non-state players from invading the fundamental right of privacy of citizens through illegal surveillance mounted on them. In fact, the court has asked the Justice Raveendran panel in its 46-page order to suggest a “mechanism” for citizens to raise grievances on “suspicion of illegal surveillance of their devices”. The court also pushed for suggestions from the committee for the setting up of a “well-equipped independent premier agency to investigate cybersecurity vulnerabilities”. The Supreme Court’s seven-point “terms of reference” for the expert committee comes across as far-reaching. It not only seems to deal with the recent trigger for the Pegasus controversy, but dives deep into the first public signs of the alleged use of the military grade spyware years ago. The job cut out for the committee in the list of seven is to “enquire, investigate and determine” whether the “Pegasus suite of spyware was used on phones or other devices of the citizens of India to access stored data, eavesdrop on conversations, intercept information and/or for any other purposes”. The other questions for the committee include whether Pegasus was used by the Centre or State against their own citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-should-uncover-pegasus-trail-to-2019-sc/article37203814.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Relief from samsara||The greatest attainment for all beings is to get liberated from the perils of samsara, and human birth affords the opportunity for the jiva to strive for it. But even yogis steeped in meditation find it quite a challenge to fight the pulls of this samsara. So one can imagine the plight of those in Kali Yuga where people spend time and energy to earn money with the desire to enjoy the comforts of life. Unless the jiva is able to understand the value of salvation as far exceeding that of all other attractions, such as the Chintamani stone or the Kalpa Vriksham that are supposed to grant the wishes of people, he will not strive for it, pointed out Sri Dushyanth Sridhar in a discourse. In this context, the jiva owes much to his past good deeds, say the sastras. Even to be led to this path is the result of loving service to the Lord in the past several births. In addition, if the jiva is fortunate to get the grace of an acharya or gets into Sat Sanga, he imbibes the true purpose of his life and is shown the way for salvation. The way Sabhari in the Ramayana attains moksha is extraordinary. She is devoted to Sage Matanga and does service in his ashram for many years. When it is time for him to depart from this world, she wishes to go with him. But he advises her to stay in the ashram and wait for Rama, an incarnation of Vishnu, who would visit the place at some point of time in the future. Sabhari continues to lead the life of simple penance in the ashram and at the appropriate time, she is blessed to have the darshan of Rama. She offers Rama fruits, etc, by way of hospitality. She then wishes to be granted leave by Rama to depart to the heavenly abode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/relief-from-samsara/article37203822.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article37203793.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dual degree for teacher education||The Education Ministry on Wednesday notified a four-year Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP), offering dual-major Bachelor’s degrees which will become a mandatory requirement for recruitment of schoolteachers by 2030, according to the National Education Policy (NEP). As a pilot project in 2022-23, the integrated programme will initially be offered in 50 selected multidisciplinary institutions. Admissions into the programme will be carried out by the National Testing Agency through the National Common Entrance Test (NET). The curriculum, which has been designed by the National Council for Teacher Education, will enable student-teachers to get a degree in education and in a specialised discipline such as history, mathematics, science, arts, economics, or commerce. Students will walk out of the programme with a B.Ed. and a BA, B.Sc. or B.Com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dual-degree-for-teacher-education/article37203800.ece
28 October 2021||Mumbai,||NCB records statement of Wankhede||Sameer Wankhede, controversial zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), who is probing the Aryan Khan drugs case, is being investigated by the agency over the allegations of him demanding bribe and he has recorded his statement, said a senior NCB official on Wednesday. Earlier, Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik released the nikahnama of Mr. Wankhede’s first marriage with Shabana Qureishi. The document mentioned Mr. Wankhede’s father as Dawood Wankhede. The family of the officer accepted that the nikahnama is authentic. “This nikahnama was to fulfill the wish of his Muslim motherl,” said Mr. Wankhede’s father  .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncb-records-statement-of-wankhede/article37203808.ece
28 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Several Cong. members are in touch’||Claiming that several Congress members were in touch with him, former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.) on Wednesday said he would launch his new party as soon as the Election Commission of India (ECI) cleared the name and the symbol. “Our lawyers are working on it and they are in touch with the ECI. As soon as the ECI clears the name and symbol, I’ll share it. Many people from the Congress party are in touch with me and they will come out in the open when the time comes... We will contest all 117 Assembly seats,” he told presspersons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/several-cong-members-are-in-touch/article37203819.ece
28 October 2021||Srinagar,||Army enacts air landing of 1947 in J&K||The Army on Wednesday enacted an air induction exercise at Srinagar’s technical airport to commemorate the 75th year of its arrival in Jammu & Kashmir on October 27, 1947. Paratroopers showcased their skydiving skills. A video clip and a play depicting the events of the invasion by Pakistan in 1947, and the role of National Conference member Maqbool Sherwani and Kashmiri women militia in the defence of Kashmir, marked the occasion. “It was the Pakistan Army disguised as Pashtun tribals that, on reaching Baramulla, created havoc and rampaged the entire town; burnt houses, hospitals and churches,” J&K Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha said. He also laid a floral wreath at the war memorial and honoured the kin of Kashmir’s defenders. “The historic air landing operation conducted by the Indian Army and Air Force in the face of the enemy, and the subsequent eviction of Pakistani forces, was the first landmark military action of Independent India,” L-G Sinha said. It was 75 years ago that the Indian Army’s first Dakota aircraft, with Lieutenant Colonel D.R. Rai and Army personnel on board, had reached the Srinagar airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-enacts-air-landing-of-1947-in-jk/article37203887.ece
28 October 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal imposes ban on crackers||As the spike in COVID-19 cases continues in West Bengal, the State Government on Wednesday ordered a “complete ban” on the sale and bursting of all kinds of crackers, except green crackers. The order, issued by the West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB), said the decision was taken “in compliance with the Hon’ble Supreme Court orders… directions of the Hon’ble Green Tribunal… and also considering the fact that the bursting of fire crackers releases harmful chemicals, having severe impact on the conditions of COVID-19 positive persons and persons staying in home isolation, and considering the latest assessment of the air quality across the State of West Bengal showing that the air quality of the districts and Kolkata is moderate/satisfactory level till third week of October 2021.” The bursting of green crackers would be allowed for two hours between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. during Deepavali; two hours between 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. during Chhath Puja; and for 35 minutes during Christmas and New Year’s Eve (11.55 p.m. – 12.30 a.m.). On Wednesday, the State registered 976 new cases of COVID-19 and 15 deaths in a period of 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-imposes-ban-on-crackers/article37203838.ece
28 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Special Punjab Assembly session to counter Center’s BSF move||The Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday gave its approval to summon a special session of the State Assembly on November 8 to oppose the Centre’s notification extending the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15 km to 50 km along the international border. The Cabinet meeting, which was chaired by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, also approved the Punjab Anti-Red Tape Rules, 2021, framed by the Governance Reforms and Public Grievances Department to carry out the purposes of the Punjab Anti-Red Tape Act, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/special-punjab-assembly-session-to-counter-centers-bsf-move/article37203823.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Decide on plea to evacuate Indians in Afghanistan: HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the authorities to decide on a petition seeking to facilitate the evacuation of over 200 Indian nationals, and Hindu and Sikh Afghan nationals of Indian-origin stranded in Afghanistan. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh also asked the petitioner, Parminder Pal Singh, former spokesperson and media advisor of the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee, how he obtained details of the stranded Indians facing threat at the hands of the Taliban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decide-on-plea-to-evacuate-indians-in-afghanistan-hc/article37203788.ece
28 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Model code: exercise restraint during bypoll campaign, EC tells Assam CM||The Election Commission on Wednesday asked Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to exercise restraint and adhere to the provisions of the model code of conduct while campaigning for the Assembly byelections to be held on Saturday. The byelections in five constituencies were necessitated by the death of two MLAs and the defection of three to the BJP. The complaints to EC by the Congress listed a slew of poll promises the CM had made and sought a ban on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/model-code-exercise-restraint-during-bypoll-campaign-ec-tells-assam-cm/article37203790.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI arrests six in Bank of Baroda fraud case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested six accused persons in connection with a bank fraud involving alleged overseas remittances of foreign exchange to the tune of Rs. 6,000 crore to Hong Kong and Dubai. Based on the CBI case, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also launched a money laundering investigation. It was alleged that the funds were transferred on the pretext of advance payments for imports that never fructified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-arrests-six-in-bank-of-baroda-fraud-case/article37203795.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Agni-V successfully test-fired [Or] Surface-to-surface ballistic missile Agni-V successfully test-fired||India on Wednesday successfully test-fired its longest range surface-to-surface ballistic missile, Agni-V. “A successful launch of the surface-to-surface ballistic missile, Agni-5, was carried out on October 27, 2021 at approximately 1950 hrs from APJ Abdul Kalam Island, Odisha,” the Defence Ministry said. The three-stage solid-fuelled engine missile is capable of striking targets at ranges up to 5,000 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/agni-v-successfully-test-fired-or-surface-to-surface-ballistic-missile-agni-v-successfully-test-fired/article37203796.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||No budgetary constraints for capability development of Army: Rajnath||There are no budgetary constraints for capability development and meeting other requirements of the Army, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday while addressing the four-day 2nd Army Commanders Conference of 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-budgetary-constraints-for-capability-development-of-army-rajnath/article37203880.ece
28 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan police order on temples evokes mixed reactions||An order issued by the Rajasthan police prohibiting the construction of places of worship in police stations and on the police office premises has evoked mixed reaction here, with the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) targeting the Congress government for disturbing a tradition followed since before Independence for creating a “pleasant and spiritual atmosphere” for the law enforcement agencies. While BJP State president Satish Poonia demanded an immediate withdrawal of the “unwarranted” order, civil rights groups here have supported the circular, pointing out that the construction of temples in public offices formed part of the politics of “religious competitiveness” and was against the law in a secular State. Additional Director General of Police (Police Housing) A. Ponnuchami stated in the circular that the Rajasthan Religious Places and Buildings Act, 1954, disallowed the religious use of public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-police-order-on-temples-evokes-mixed-reactions/article37203881.ece
28 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Udaipur teacher held for objectionable post gets bail||A school teacher in Udaipur, arrested after she posted objectionable messages on Pakistan’s victory in a cricket match, was granted bail on Wednesday. She was booked under Section 153-B of the IPC. A court granted bail to Nafisa Atari after she pleaded that she did not intend to hurt sentiments. Despite tendering a public apology, the Neerja Modi School in Udaipur where she taught has terminated her service. Ms. Atari had put out a picture of Pakistani players with a celebratory caption on social media after it won against India in T20 World Cup cricket match three days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/udaipur-teacher-held-for-objectionable-post-gets-bail/article37203882.ece
28 October 2021||Kolkata,||TrBJP MLA joins Trinamool Congress||The defection of elected representatives of the BJP to the Trinamool Congress is continuing unabated in West Bengal. Krishna Kalyani, BJP MLA from the Raiganj Assembly seat, on Wednesday joined the party in the presence of Trinamool leaders Partha Chatterjee and Vivek Gupta here. The development comes three days before the byelections scheduled for four Assembly seats in the State. The MLA said he was never rewarded within the BJP for the work he did for his constituency. “There is no culture of appreciation in the BJP... There is only a culture of conspiracy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mla-joins-trinamool-congress/article37203817.ece
28 October 2021||Patna,||Lalu tears into BJP, Nitish at poll rally||Addressing a public meeting after six years in Tarapur ahead of the upcoming bypolls, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president Lalu Prasad Yadav on Wednesday slammed the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) Government at the Centre and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over unemployment and the lack of development in the country and in Bihar. Ahead of public meetings, Mr. Prasad said in Patna that he had spoken to Congress president Sonia Gandhi to call a meeting of “all like-minded people and parties”. This was later strongly denied by State Congress leaders as “fake and false”. Recuperating from multiple diseases,  Mr. Prasad reached the Idgah Maidan as a large, cheering crowd waited, and said, “I got Lal Krishna Advani arrested and never compromised over communal forces. I don’t fear anyone.” The RJD chief was addressing a public meeting for the first time since the 2015 Assembly election. Bypolls to the Tarapur and Kusheshwarsthan seats are scheduled to take place on October 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lalu-tears-into-bjp-nitish-at-poll-rally/article37203818.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Govt reconstitutes EAC-PM under Bibek Debroy||The government on Wednesday reconstituted the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister (EAC-PM), under current Chairman Bibek Debroy, for a period of two years. While V. Anantha Nageswaran has been dropped, Rakesh Mohan (former Deputy Governor of RBI), Poonam Gupta (Director-General of NCAER) and T.T. Ram Mohan (Professor, IIM-Ahmedabad) have been appointed as part-time members of the reconstituted EAC-PM. The other part-time members of the Council include Sajid Chenoy, Neelkanth Mishra and Nilesh Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-reconstitutes-eac-pm-under-bibek-debroy/article37203885.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||L&T awarded contract for first part of new Central Secretariat||The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) on Wednesday awarded its largest-ever contract at Rs. 3,141.99 crore, handing over the letter of award for construction of three buildings of the new Common Central Secretariat to Larsen and Toubro Ltd. The CPWD opened the financial bids of three bidders — L&T, Tata Projects Ltd. and NCC Ltd. — on October 18. L&T was the only one to submit a bid below the estimate of Rs. 3,254 crore. The project includes construction of the three buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lt-awarded-contract-for-first-part-of-new-central-secretariat/article37203830.ece
28 October 2021||Jaipur,||Gandhian Subba Rao passes away at 92 in Jaipur||Veteran Gandhian leader Salem Nanjundaiah Subba Rao died here on Wednesday after a prolonged illness. He was 92. He was famous for his ‘Shramdan’ (voluntary contribution of labour) activities and camps, with which a large number of youth were associated across the country. Born in Bengaluru, Mr. Rao was arrested at the age of 13 for participating in the Quit India Movement. He had a special attachment to Rajasthan, and he had come to Jaipur for treatment at the Sawai Man Singh Government Hospital at the behest of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gandhian-subba-rao-passes-away-at-92-in-jaipur/article37203832.ece
28 October 2021||Srinagar,||NIA raids premises of JeI members in J&K||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) raided 17 places in seven districts of J&K on Wednesday in a case related to the Jamaat-e-Islami’s (JeI) role in funding terror in the Union Territory. “Searches were conducted today on the premises of office-bearers and members of the JeI. During the searches, various incriminating documents and electronic devices were seized,” an NIA spokesman said. Searches were made at locations in Anantnag, Kulgam, Ganderbal, Bandipora, Budgam, Kishtwar and Jammu districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-raids-premises-of-jei-members-in-jk/article37203835.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CRA surveys flood preparedness, asks officials to expedite work||Work being carried out in various major and minor waterways in the southern parts of the city is set to be accelerated to ensure immediate relief from inundation during the northeast monsoon. K. Phanindra Reddy, Commissioner of Revenue Administration (CRA), inspected the work being done in different areas on Wednesday. He instructed the officials of the Water Resources Department (WRD) and various other government agencies to speed up the projects before the next spell of rain. He inspected various water channels, including Veerangal odai, Madurapakkam odai, Ottiyampakkam surplus course, Thanthikal channel, near Iyyapanthangal, and Pappan channel at Mudichur service road. Mr. Reddy also reviewed the monsoon preparedness works at various points of Adyar river, including near Kishkinta Road, Thirumudivakkam bridge and the confluence point of the Chembarambakkam surplus channel. Besides desilting the vulnerable portions of water channels, he also instructed officials to be prepared with pumping machinery to remove stagnant floodwater in areas such as Semmenchery, Ottiyambakkam and Perumbakkam. Officials of the WRD noted that the 6-km long Chembarambakkam surplus course and confluence point with Adyar river is being cleared of vegetation to allow free flow of water. Desilting was also being carried out in several surplus courses. Mr. Reddy also instructed the officials to create temporary channels to connect waterbodies or rivers wherever there were missing links. Many of the long-term flood mitigation projects in the southern parts of the city are in various stages of implementation and funds tie-up. However, they will be taken up after the monsoon. So, temporary measures are being executed to handle the northeast monsoon, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cra-surveys-flood-preparedness-asks-officials-to-expedite-work/article37204014.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to declare levy of stamp duty on purchase of mutual funds illegal||The Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered notices to the Centre, State governments, National Stock Exchange Clearing Limited, National Stock Exchange of India Limited, Indian Clearing Corporation Limited, Bombay Stock Exchange Limited and Securities and Exchange Board of India on a writ petition to declare as illegal the levy of stamp duty on purchase of mutual funds by investors in Tamil Nadu. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu directed State Government Pleader P. Muthukumar to take notice on behalf of the Chief Secretary and ordered that case papers be served on Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan too. He sought the response of the respondents within a fortnight after the petitioner’s counsel claimed that Rs. 79 lakh crore had been collected across the country. Y.R. Gnanamani, 61, of Alapakkam in Chennai, had filed the writ petition on being aggrieved by fixation of rates of stamp duty on certain instruments. The petitioner pointed out that Parliament had amended the Indian Stamp Act of 1899 and imposed stamp duty on mutual funds, Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) and other instruments on fixed rates as provided under Article 56A of Schedule I to the Indian Stamp Act. The amending Act was enacted on February 21, 2019 and came into force from July 1, 2020. However, the petitioner claimed that it was in violation of the constitutional provisions which empower the Centre to levy stamp duty only on transfer of shares, debentures and so on. It was brought to the notice of the court that only the State government was empowered to fix rate of stamp duty for other securities such as mutual funds. Since the Government of Tamil Nadu was yet to enact a law for levy of such stamp duty, the collection by the central agencies was illegal, the litigant claimed and sought an interim stay on the collection in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-declare-levy-of-stamp-duty-on-purchase-of-mutual-funds-illegal/article37204503.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Orders refusing nod for contempt action against Gurumurthy withdrawn||Advocate General (A-G) R. Shunmugasundaram has recalled an order passed by his predecessor Vijay Narayan on March 31, refusing to give consent for initiating criminal contempt of court proceedings against Tamil magazine Thuglak ’s Editor S. Gurumurthy for his comments on judiciary during the magazine’s annual meet with its readers on January 14. The A-G agreed with Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) leader S. Doraisamy’s counsel V. Elangovan that his plea for consent was dismissed by mistake and hence the order must be withdrawn. He decided to reconsider the plea for grant of consent, along with a similar plea made by advocate S. Kumaradevan on November 12. According to Mr. Elangovan, the previous A-G had on March 26 granted time till March 31 for Mr. Gurumoorthy’s counsel to file an English translation of the Tamil speech since the A-G could not read the Tamil text. The translation was submitted before the A-G’s office on March 31. A copy of the translation was also given to Mr. Doraisamy. However, even before the petitioner could get back, the order rejecting the consent was passed, the counsel said. “The filing of physical copy on March 31 probablises the version of Mr. Elangovan that the translation was asked for as the then A-G was not able to read Tamil,” the incumbent A-G said. His withdrawal order went on to read: “Mr. S. Ravi argued for the respondent (Mr. Gurumurthy). He admitted having filed the rough transcription of the Questions and Answers (between the Editor and the readers) and the English translation. As per the official seal, the copy was received on March 31… Therefore, the submission that the order of dismissal was passed by mistake cannot be brushed aside.” The comments by Mr. Gurumurthy were made while answering a query from one of the readers on judicial delay in deciding corruption cases. He had said even Supreme Court judges got appointed by politicians and that the appointments were obtained only by beseeching one person or the other and by holding on to their feet. However, the next day, he expressed regret for the remark, saying his intent was to say how some candidates for judges for even the highest court beseech politicians for support. “But in the spur and heat of the moment, I mentioned judges instead of candidates,” he clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-g-withdraws-orders-refusing-nod-for-contempt-proceedings-against-gurumurthy/article37204037.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NDRF, Corpn. launch disaster response training sessions||The Greater Chennai Corporation and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have launched disaster preparedness work at vulnerable locations, based on the forecast of very heavy rain by the end of this month. Corporation officials and the NDRF personnel conducted training sessions and drills for the youth in north Chennai areas, such as Tondiarpet, on Wednesday. On Thursday, the NDRF team is expected to impart training to residents and students in central Chennai. The NDRF teams are planning to mobilise new volunteers for each of the streets in vulnerable areas. The civic body is planning to get tele-handlers and evacuate people in multi-storey buildings during calamities and for removal of fallen trees. The civic body will also develop the Nookambalayam drain to mitigate flooding. Last year, the civic body compiled a list of 23 vulnerable locations. Officials said the number is expected to change this year. Residents in areas such as Kotturpuram are expected to get training in disaster response. The Corporation has also made arrangements for evacuation of residents from low-lying areas along the Kosasthalaiyar, Adyar, Cooum and Buckingham Canal. The volunteers, who get training from the NDRF, are expected to assist residents in vulnerable locations during any natural disaster. School buildings and marriage halls have been readied to serve as shelters for residents in flood-prone locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ndrf-corpn-launch-disaster-response-training-sessions/article37204010.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS decries attempts to shift cooperative training institute||AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami has urged the Tamil Nadu Government to retain the proposed State Level Cooperative Training Institute at Yercaud. In a statement on Tuesday, he cautioned the government that if there were attempts to relocate the institute elsewhere, people of the hilly region and the Salem district unit of the AIADMK would launch an agitation. The former Chief Minister said 20% of the work had been completed, and the progress came to a halt after the communication from the Registrar of Cooperative Societies in July. The decision, he said, had caused dissatisfaction among the locals. Petitions submitted He said the MLAs of Yercaud and Attur had given petitions to Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu. His government had decided to set up the institute in Yercaud to benefit people of the neighbouring places like Kollimalai and Kalvarayanmalai. AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam expressed concern over reports of large gatherings of people shopping at many places of Chennai without adhering to the COVID-19 safety protocol. In a statement, he called upon Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to ensure that people were sensitised to the public health measures and such gatherings were not allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-decries-attempts-to-shift-cooperative-training-institute/article37204035.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IMD issues orange alert for coastal districts on Oct. 29, 30||A low-pressure area formed over the central parts of the south Bay of Bengal is likely to bring widespread rain over Tamil Nadu from Friday. High intensity rainfall is likely in a number of districts in the coastal and southern region, as the system moves towards the Tamil Nadu coast. The Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai, has issued an orange alert for the coastal districts, as heavy rainfall is likely over a few places, and the intensity may increase to ‘very heavy’ (11.5 cm-20.4 cm) at one or two places on Friday and Saturday. The orange alert indicates that authorities must be prepared to handle weather-related events. Officials said the low-pressure area was formed under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal. The weather system is likely to move westwards, towards the Tamil Nadu coast, in the next three days and bring heavy to very heavy rainfall between October 29 and October 31 over some parts. While heavy rain is likely at isolated places over Ramanathapuram, Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari, Thoothukudi, Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam and Karaikal on Thursday, the coastal and interior parts may receive light to moderate rain. The Meteorological Department has predicted scattered heavy rain over coastal and south Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on Friday and Saturday, and one or two places in these parts may receive very heavy rain. Nearly eight districts, including Madurai, Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari and Ramanathapuram, are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rain on Sunday. Light rain is likely in some areas in Chennai till Saturday. In the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday, Thoothukudi DRMS, Kayalpattinam, Srivaikuntam in Thoothukudi district; Pattukottai in Thanjavur; and Gobichettipalayam in Erode received 4 cm of rain each. S. Balachandran, deputy director-general of meteorology, Chennai, said the low-pressure area was a slow-moving one, and would cover a large area. As it is in low latitude, rain will be concentrated in south Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/orange-alert-in-tn/article37203953.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two leaders support Panneerselvam’s stand||Senior AIADMK leaders J.C.D. Prabhakar and A. Anwhar Raajhaa on Wednesday supported coordinator O. Panneerselvam’s pitch for a discussion on the issue of re-admission of former interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala into the party. Mr. Prabhakar, a steering committee member and one of the organisation secretaries, said he did not find anything wrong in Mr. Panneerselvam’s demand. “Let there be a discussion. I will abide by the decision of the party,” the two-time Villivakkam MLA said. “Why do you want to avoid the discussion? How can anyone say that the matter should not be discussed at all?” wondered Mr. Raajhaa, former Labour Minister and Member of Parliament from Ramanathapuram. Mr. Prabhakar is the deputy secretary of the AIADMK minorities’ wing, while Mr. Raajha is the secretary. ‘Resolution not binding’ The resolution adopted at a meeting of the AIADMK Legislature Party in June against Ms. Sasikala, Mr. Prabhakar argued, would not be binding on anyone who was not a legislator, like him. Besides, “the legislature party is not the policy-making body. As observed by Mr. Panneerselvam, let all the office-bearers meet, deliberate on the matter and come to a conclusion.” Asked whether the party’s functionaries would meet Ms. Sasikala during her current visit to Thanjavur and a couple of southern districts, the former Villivakkam MLA emphasised that no one from the party would meet her. His information was that she would interact with members of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, led by her nephew and former MLA T.T.V. Dhinakaran. The former MP said the meeting that he demanded should also discuss the circumstances in which certain decisions were taken. They included the alliance with the BJP and a 10.5% special reservation for the Vanniyars within the overall quota of 20% for the Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities. “These decisions were taken unilaterally by Edappadi K. Palaniswami when he was the Chief Minister,” he said. On the party’s interests Would not the re-admission of Ms. Sasikala go against the party electorally? Mr. Raajhaa asked counter-questions: “Why should you assume that such a move would be against the party’s interests before it is made? Didn’t you see the fate of the calculation that the 10.5% quota would yield tremendous gains for the party in the northern districts?” According to him, the AMMK’s presence had cost the AIADMK dear in at least 20 constituencies in the 2021 Assembly election.  The legislature party is not the policy-making body. As observed by Mr. Panneerselvam, let all the office-bearers meet, deliberate on the matter and come to a conclusion J.C.D. Prabhakarsenior leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-leaders-support-panneerselvams-stand/article37203995.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor felicitates members of Vijay Makkal Iyakkam||Actor Vijay, fondly called ‘Thalapathy’ by his fans, met and greeted 129 Vijay Makkal Iyakkam (VMI) members who emerged victorious in the recently held rural local bodies elections. VMI general secretary N. Anand on Wednesday said the 129 representatives were felicitated by Mr. Vijay. The actor urged them to work towards flagging people’s basic problems with the State and Union governments. Mr. Vijay, has in the past, hinted at entering politics. The actor, who has met leaders from multiple parties has also had run-ins with DMK and AIADMK. While his film Kavalan ran into issues during the DMK regime in 2011, his Thalaivaa ran into trouble during the AIADMK regime in 2013. He also faced opposition from the BJP during the release of Mersal .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actor-felicitates-members-of-vijay-makkal-iyakkam/article37204031.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor should immediately forward NEET Exemption Bill for President’s approval: SFI||Members of the Students’ Federation of India (SFI) attempted to gherao Raj Bhavan in the city on Wednesday, urging the Governor to swiftly forward the National Eligibility-cum Entrance Test (NEET) Exemption Bill passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly for the President’s assent. Alleging that Governor R.N. Ravi was deliberately delaying the forwarding of the Bill, the SFI said the delay of more than 45 days since the passing of the Bill was an insult to the people of Tamil Nadu and the elected representatives who passed the Bill. [The Bill was passed when Banwarilal Purohit was the Governor.] Mayukh Biswas, national general secretary, SFI, who led the protest, alleged that Governors in the country were acting as puppets of the BJP-led Union government. He claimed that NEET was introduced to benefit the corporate [coaching] sector, and it went against States’ rights and federal principles. The exam was making medical courses inaccessible to students from poor and marginalised backgrounds. Stating that many NEET aspirants had died by suicide in Tamil Nadu, he said there should be no more loss of lives. The NEET was only the tip of the iceberg, and the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) would destroy the future of the student community, he said. Congratulating the DMK government for its measures against NEET, he said that the SFI was organising protests against the exam across the country. Hailing the Tamil Nadu government for reaching out to other State governments against NEET, V. Mariappan, State secretary, SFI, said that the government should take the struggle to the people and protest on the streets as only that would mount pressure on the Governor and the Union government. He said there was no reason for the Governor to delay the Bill, as it had measures to prevent commercialisation of medical education and produce quality medical professionals, which were the same objectives for which NEET was purportedly brought in. Many of the protestors were detained by the police as they tried to march towards Raj Bhavan.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-should-immediately-forward-neet-exemption-bill-for-presidents-approval-sfi/article37204023.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro Rail may cancel tenders for phase II underground stations||As even the lowest bids for the underground stations under phase II have overshot the estimated cost, Chennai Metro Rail is likely to cancel the tenders and float them afresh. This may delay the project by three-six months, sources said. Last year, Metro Rail floated tenders for building tunnels and stations along the Madhavaram-Taramani stretch. A few months ago, the contracts were awarded to Tata Projects and Larsen and Toubro for constructing the tunnels from Madhavaram to Kellys and Kellys to Taramani respectively. The initial work has also begun in many parts of the city, with barricades erected and the road width occupied at several places. To construct the 29 stations from Madhavaram to Taramani, Metro Rail had called for tenders. Bids were opened a few weeks ago. Metro Rail had divided the work into five packages — Madhavaram-Perambur; Ayanavaram-Kellys; KMC-Royapettah; Radhakrishnan Salai-Adyar; and Adyar Depot-Taramani. Three firms emerged as the lowest bidders for the five packages. While two of them got one tender contract each, from Madhavaram to Perambur and Ayanavaram to Kellys respectively, the third firm got three contracts: KMC-Royapettah; Radhakrishnan Salai-Adyar; and Adyar Depot-Taramani. “All the three firms which emerged as the lowest bidders have quoted 30%-40% higher than the projected estimate. So, we are thinking of cancelling these tenders and float fresh tenders. A final decision will be taken very soon,” a highly placed source said. If the tenders are cancelled, the project may be delayed by three-six months. “We are reviewing the revised deadline and how long it will take [to complete the work] if we go for fresh tenders. We will certainly try to finish the project as soon as possible,” another source said. Metro Rail sources said that since this stretch would receive funding from Japan International Cooperation Agency, discussions would have to be held with the bilateral development organisation. Train services under phase II will begin first on the stretch between Poonamallee and Power House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-rail-may-cancel-tenders-for-phase-ii-underground-stations/article37204029.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court dismisses Kamal Haasan’s plea against Regent Saimira on Marmayogi||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed an application taken out jointly by actor Kamal Haasan and Raajkamal Films International to strike out pleadings made by Regent Saimira Entertainment Limited in response to a civil suit filed by him and his production firm demanding Rs. 11 crore with 10% interest from 2009 for not honouring financial commitments for production of a movie titled Marmayogi . Justice R. Subramanian refused to strike out the pleadings and instead granted 15 days’ time for Regent Saimira and its whole-time director K.S. Srinivasan to file an affidavit of verification, in support of their pleadings, as required under the Commercial Courts Act of 2015. The judge agreed with the defendants’ counsel A. Chidambaram that the defect was curable and therefore the entire written statement need not be rejected. The judge pointed out that though the suit was filed in 2009, the Commercial Division of the High Court took cognisance of it only in September 2020 and granted time to the defendants to file their written statement. Thereafter, the actor and his production firm took out an application to reject the statement on the ground that it was not accompanied by a verifying affidavit as required under the 2015 Act. Disagreeing with the applicants, the judge said the Commercial Courts Act was introduced with the object of fast-tracking resolution of commercial disputes. Various provisions were incorporated to the Code of Civil Procedure (CPC). Many provisions were also amended and made applicable only to commercial cases/disputes. Powers of the courts were enhanced and, under certain circumstances, curbed too by the enactment. Rule15A of Order VI of the CPC was amended by the Commercial Courts Act of 2015. Sub Rules (1) and (2) of Rule 15A require the pleadings filed in a commercial dispute to be verified by an affidavit. Sub Rule (5) empowers the court to strike out the pleadings which are not verified by an affidavit. In contrast to Sub-Rule (4), Sub-Rule (5) introduced an element of discretion to the court in as much as it used the verb ‘may’ and not ‘shall.’ “If we are to examine the language used… we have to necessarily come to the conclusion that the same cannot be held to be mandatory,” the judge said and concluded that the law invests a discretion on the court to either reject the pleading or give a chance to the defendant to cure the defect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-kamal-haasans-plea-against-regent-saimira-on-marmayogi/article37204114.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,075 persons test positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||Fresh COVID-19 cases continued to drop in Tamil Nadu as 1,075 persons tested positive on Wednesday. While Chennai and Coimbatore continued to report cases in three digits, 10 districts recorded fewer than 10 cases each and 31 districts had nil deaths. A total of 139 persons tested positive in Chennai, taking the city’s overall tally to 5,54,188. In Coimbatore, 125 persons tested positive. There were 90 cases in Chengalpattu, while Erode and Tiruppur recorded 71 and 70 cases respectively. Salem recorded 57 cases, while there were 48 cases in Thanjavur, 44 in Tiruchi and 43 in Namakkal. The fresh cases took the State’s overall case count to 26,98,493. The State recorded 12 more deaths, taking the toll to 36,060. As many as 1,315 persons were discharged. The total number of recovered patients went up to 26,50,145. The State’s active caseload dropped to 12,288. A total of 1,21,553 samples were tested. The inoculation of 1,17,907 persons took the overall coverage of government vaccination centres to 5,44,97,321.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1075-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu/article37203992.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Secretary to file report in HC on unauthorised statues||The Madras High Court on Wednesday called for a report from the Chief Secretary on the steps that need to be taken to pull down unauthorised statues erected on government lands and public places in the State. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu called for the report following a public interest litigation petition by advocate M. Loganathan of Coimbatore. He wanted the Supreme Court orders against unauthorised statues to be implemented. The petitioner insisted that all illegal statues, including the two bronze statues of former Chief Ministers M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa, on Avinashi Road and Dr. Balasundaram Road junction in Coimbatore, should be razed. Passing interim orders in the case, the judges wrote: “The Chief Secretary should indicate the steps taken in terms of the Supreme Court’s directions and the manner in which statues that have been put up at public places, in contravention of the directions or in violation of government notifications issued in the State, will be brought down.” The judges made it clear that the Chief Secretary’s affidavit should also indicate how the directions issued by the Supreme Court in such regard had been communicated to local officials of Municipalities, Corporations, panchayats and even revenue officials, including Collectors at the district level, and block development officers. The court directed the registry to list the case on December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-secretary-to-file-report-in-hc-on-unauthorised-statues/article37203999.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor’s actions amount to political interference: VCK||VCK founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Wednesday objected to Governor R.N. Ravi “seeking reports from State Government departments” and said this was an attempt to interfere with the State’s rights. The DMK government must resist this and protect the State’s rights, Mr. Thirumavalavan said. The VCK chief said the Governor’s actions amounted to political interference. “When the Chief Secretary wrote to the secretaries of various departments, asking them to be ready with reports to be shown to the Governor, it became an issue. Immediately, the Chief Secretary said this was routine and had been misunderstood. However, now, the Governor wants to speak to the Vice-Chancellors of various universities on October 30, according to media reports. This shows that the Governor is trying to exert political interference in the governance of Tamil Nadu,” he said. [The Governor is the Chancellor of State universities, and past Governors, too, have had interactions with Vice-Chancellors.] Mr. Thirumavalavan said that according to Article 167 of the Constitution, while the Governor can seek information from the State Government, only the Chief Minister can provide it. “Seeking any information directly from secretaries [of departments] will be considered political interference. There is no provision for this in the Constitution,” he said. The VCK leader contended that Mr. Ravi’s actions, “which appear to be similar to [those of] former Governor Banwarilal Purohit”, who gave up touring the State after facing stiff resistance from the Opposition parties, raised suspicion that he was trying to interfere in the affairs of Tamil Nadu. “The Governor seeking to meet the bureaucrats directly would reduce the confidence that people have in the elected government,” he said. ‘Succumbing to pressure’ Naam Tamilar Katchi chief coordinator Seeman alleged that the State Government was succumbing to pressure from the Governor. In a statement, Mr. Seeman said he was shocked to know that Chief Secretary Irai Anbu had written to various departments, asking them to be ready with their reports on schemes to be submitted to the Governor. “The DMK government is allowing the Governor, who is behaving like the Union Government’s agent, to do this. It will set a bad precedent. It makes me sad to see a bureaucrat like Irai Anbu supporting it,” he said. “The BJP’s politics of interfering in the affairs of the governments of States where it is not in power by meeting officials and looking into the decisions taken by various departments is highly condemnable,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governors-actions-amount-to-political-interference-vck/article37204032.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gang of three from Jamtara arrested in Kolkata for defrauding people||In a major operation, the cyber crime wing of the Central Crime Branch arrested three fraudsters from Jamtara, Jharkhand, for duping many by claiming to be customer care executives of a mobile service provider. City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal said people, without verifying the authenticity, should not respond to any SMS/calls from unknown mobile numbers. The cyber crime wing launched an investigation after a complainant from Kodambakkam lost over Rs. 13 lakh last September. The complainant had received a SMS stating that his SIM card verification was pending, and his services would be disconnected within 24 hours. It told him to contact a phone number. The complainant did so, and the person on the other end instructed the victim to remit Rs. 5 to prevent the deactivation. The complainant downloaded an application called ‘Fast Support’ and made the payment from his account. However, the person said the payment had failed, and asked him to pay from a different mobile phone and bank account. The victim used his wife’s phone and repeated the process. The fraudster said the payment had failed yet again, and asked the complainant to try later before hanging up. A few minutes later, the victim received three SMSes showing that Rs. 13.09 lakh had been deducted. After a long search in Kolkata, the police arrested Bishwanath Prasad, 25, of Narayanpur; Bapi Mandal, 31, of Jamtara, Jharkhand; and Ram Prasad, 30, of Kolkata. As many as 20 mobile phones, 160 SIM cards, 19 debit cards, four swiping machines, Rs. 11.2 lakh, 148 g of gold ornaments and one sedan car were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-of-three-from-jamtara-arrested-in-kolkata-for-defrauding-people/article37204015.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||15 tonnes of artificially ripened bananas seized||The officials of the Food Safety Department on Wednesday seized 15 tonnes of artificially ripened bananas from shops at the Koyambedu fruit market. A team led by P. Satheesh Kumar, designated officer, Food Safety Department, conducted a raid at 4 a.m. to check on the artificial ripening of bananas. The raid continued till 9 a.m. “We found bananas ripened using chemicals, and seized 15 tonnes from 45 shops in the market. Chemicals, such as Ethephon, have been used in liquid form to ripen the fruits. This way, the bananas are ripened in two hours. Consuming fruits, ripened using chemicals, could be harmful to health and can cause digestive problems,” he said. Mr. Kumar said they had issued notices to the 45 shops, and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 each. “We have issued a stern warning to the shopkeepers to stop using such artificial methods to ripen fruits. Such malpractice should be stopped. We also held a discussion with the members of the market committee and have planned to hold a meeting with the traders on Saturday. We want to train and give ideas to ripen fruits the natural way,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-tonnes-of-artificially-ripened-bananas-seized/article37204018.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI:,TAMIL NADU||Hiring doctors, nurses on contract basis opposed||The Tamil Nadu Medical Students Association (TNMSA) has objected to the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department’s move to appoint doctors and nurses on contract basis at medical centres to be established in temples. In a statement, the association welcomed the department’s decision but expressed concern over recruitments on contract basis. The body pointed to a notification issued by the department for recruiting doctors, staff nurses and multi-purpose hospital workers on contract basis to the first-aid centre to be established at the Arulmigu Angalamman temple in Villupuram. It demanded that the department drop contractual hiring and called for recruitment on permanent basis via Medical Services Recruitment Board (MRB).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hiring-doctors-nurses-on-contract-basis-opposed/article37204026.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State told to frame policy for landless, homeless||Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee on Wednesday said Tamil Nadu was one of the leading States in the country on multiple parameters, and the State had been doing very well when it came to the welfare of people from the backward strata. The observations were made during the hearing of a writ petition filed by K. Karumalai, former president of the Thathaiyampatty panchayat in Salem, seeking a direction to the Collector to consider his plea to provide plots to 65 landless poor families in his village. Passing orders in the case, the first Division Bench, comprising the Chief Justice and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu, impressed upon the State government the need to frame a comprehensive policy for providing temporary and permanent accommodations to the landless and homeless in six months. The Bench said land suitable for such scheme could be identified in every district, and a detailed roadmap could be laid for the benefit of the poor. They told State government pleader P. Muthukumar that a welfare State must take care of the needs of the disadvantaged sections of society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-told-to-frame-policy-for-landless-homeless/article37203997.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Surprise visit to school||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday paid a surprise visit to a government school in Kadapakkam, Chengalpattu district, and interacted with students there. Mr. Stalin was on his way to Mudhaliarkuppam in Villupuram district to launch the ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ (education at doorstep) scheme, when he decided to visit the P. Krishna Government Higher Secondary School. He went inside classrooms and interacted with students and teachers. He also inspected the labs and the preparation of food (noon meal) for the students. Minister for Higher Education K. Ponmudi and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surprise-visit-to-school/article37204000.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Proposal mooted to widen the Adyar near Kundrathur||As part of its continued efforts to find a permanent solution to floods in southern parts of the city, the Water Resources Department (WRD) has submitted a proposal to widen Adyar river near Kundrathur to enable free flow of rainwater. The Adyar runs for a distance of 42 km and carries surplus water of several waterbodies in Kancheepuram. However, the river is too narrow at some vulnerable points, leading to spill over during extreme weather events. The WRD has planned to widen the river on the left bank near Kundrathur for a distance of nearly 1.2 km. Once completed, the river’s width will be increased from 42 m to 120 m. “We will have to acquire vacant lands, spread over nearly 12.6 acres, for the project,” an official said. The widened portion will have a carrying capacity of nearly 48,000 cusecs, and this will reduce inundation in the areas upstream, including Old Perungalathur and Mudichur, even during extreme weather events. “This will be one of the permanent solutions to reduce inundation during weather events that occur once in a century,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proposal-mooted-to-widen-the-adyar-near-kundrathur/article37204012.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over Rs. 26 lakh fine collected for improper solid waste dumping||The Greater Chennai Corporation has intensified enforcement of solid waste management (SWM) rules, collecting a fine of Rs. 26.4 lakh from violators so far. After announcing the 15 locations designated for dumping of construction debris, the civic body has started penalising those who continue dumping debris and garbage in public spaces. A total of Rs. 12.75 lakh has been collected in fines from individuals responsible for improper debris dumping. Overall, those who dumped garbage in public were fined Rs. 13.63 lakh. On Tuesday, dumping of construction debris was detected by officials at seven locations in Adyar zone, and 30 locations were identified across the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-rs-26-lakh-fine-collected-for-improper-solid-waste-dumping/article37204021.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Food delivery executive found dead||A food delivery executive was found dead on a Corporation school’s playground in Thiru.Vi.Ka Nagar on Tuesday. The deceased, Mani, 40, is a native of Perambalur. His body bore cut injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-delivery-executive-found-dead/article37204025.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Export panel reconstituted||The government on Wednesday reconstituted the State Export Promotion Committee (SEPC) under the Chief Secretary to review all trade-related issues, including those concerning logistics, agriculture and service exports. The panel has representatives from associations of seven ‘champion sectors’. A. Saktivel, president, Federation of Indian Export Organisations; Raja Shanmugham, president, Tiruppur Exporters’ Association; Shuba Kumar, regional chairperson, Automotive Component Manufacturers’ Association; Satyakam Arya, vice-chairman, CII Tamil Nadu; Mohammed Mohibullah Kottai, managing director, Mohib Shoes; Josh Foulger, country head, Foxconn International Holding India Private Limited, and K.V.V. Mohanan, regional president, Seafood Exporters’ Association of India (SEAI), are the representatives from ‘champion sectors’. Besides the Chief Secretary, who is the chairperson of the panel, the Secretaries of Industries, Finance, Fisheries, Textiles, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Agriculture departments are the ex-officio members of the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/export-panel-reconstituted/article37204034.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panels to appoint temple trustees in 4 weeks: govt.||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department on Wednesday informed the Madras High Court that it had issued advertisements for appointing members to district-level committees, who in turn would appoint trustees for temples now being administered by fit persons as an interim arrangement. Appearing before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu, Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram said the exercise of appointing district-level committee members would be completed in four weeks, since there were numerous complaints of temples being run without trustees. The submission was made during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition filed by T.R. Ramesh, president of the Indic Collective Trust and Temple Worshippers’ Society. He had taken exception to the appointment of HR&CE Department employees as fit persons in temples through the deputation on “foreign service”. He said such deputation was in violation of the provisions of the Tamil Nadu HR&CE Act of 1959 and the Fundamental Rules of the government of Tamil Nadu. The judges ordered notices, returnable by six weeks, to the State and the HR&CE Commissioner on the PIL petition, and recorded A-G’s submission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panels-to-appoint-temple-trustees-in-4-weeks-govt/article37203996.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deadline for water, sewerage tax is Oct. 31||The Metrowater has asked consumers to pay their dues of water, sewerage taxes and charges before October 31. The cash counters at depot offices will function from 8.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., including on Sunday, and those at area offices and the head office, now at Santhome High Road, M.R.C. Nagar, will be open between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. daily. A press release said consumers could also pay their dues at https://chennaimetrowater.tn.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deadline-for-water-sewerage-tax-is-oct-31/article37204011.ece
28 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Student volunteers to assist city police in traffic regulation||Coimbatore City Police will engage student volunteers from city colleges in traffic regulation and road safety awareness in association with people’s initiative ‘Uyir’. Senior police officers said that student volunteers attached to ‘Uyir Clubs’ in city colleges will assist the police personnel in traffic management in crowded areas and main junctions in the city from Thursday. The volunteers will work in two shifts -- from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. and 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. -- in Town Hall areas and Gandhipuram. The initiative was launched in view of the rush in market areas that are also witnessing traffic congestion ahead of Deepavali. Training S.R. Senthilkumar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), chaired a meeting-cum-training for the volunteers on Wednesday. “The volunteers will not be deployed alone. They will be posted in small groups of five or 10 along with police personnel,” he said. According to the officer, the volunteers would also educate the public on road safety and traffic rules through various activities. With the district continuing to report over 100 cases of COVID-19, the volunteers would also educate people on the need to follow safety norms such as physical distancing and use of masks in public places. Sources from Uyir said that the volunteers would wear T-shirts bearing ‘Uyir’ logo for easy identification.  The volunteers will work in two shifts in Town Hall and Gandhipuram along with the police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-volunteers-to-assist-city-police-in-traffic-regulation/article37204056.ece
28 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur Collector warns private schools against withholding TC, marksheet||Tiruppur District Collector S. Vineeth warned private schools of strict action if they did not issue transfer certificate (TC) and marksheet to students, citing pending fees and other issues. In a statement, he said the district administration and Chief Educational Officer had been repeatedly receiving complaints against some schools. Refusal of or delay in issuing these documents by private schools was against the directions of the Madras High Court, which recently directed the management of private schools to issue TC to students within a week of receipt of application, and without insisting on payment of the fees due. Parents of students in Tiruppur district, who had not received the TCs and marksheets a week after applying for these could contact the following authorities of the Department of School Education: Chief Educational Officer: 99653 15628, District Educational Officer - Tiruppur: 94424 26525, District Educational Officer - Dharapuram: 98427 98855, District Educational Officer - Palladam: 94864 11755 and District Educational Officer - Udumalpet: 86678 87400.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-collector-warns-private-schools-against-withholding-tc-marksheet/article37204041.ece
28 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TPDK condemns high fuel price||Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) members staged a protest against fuel price hike in front of a refuelling station on Avinashi Road on Wednesday. Around 20 TPDK members led by general secretary Ku. Ramakrishnan showered petals on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s portrait saying no other leader had achieved as much as he did, as the fuel price was the highest so far in the country. Mr. Ramakrishnan said Mr. Modi had achieved this feat even when the price of fuel in oil producing countries was low. Hunger Index Likewise, the Prime Minister had the distinction of placing the country at the 136th position in Hunger Index, an example of his concern for the poor. City police personnel removed the TPDK cadre, stating there was no permission to hold the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tpdk-condemns-high-fuel-price/article37204047.ece
28 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU exploring tie-up with Israeli institutions||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar said the institution was looking to collaborate with Israeli institutions at various levels, including sending its faculty to the West Asian country. Addressing reporters on Wednesday along with Consul General of Israel to South India Jonathan Zadka and Deputy Chief of Mission Limor Bletter, Mr. Kumar said TNAU had benefitted from Israeli technology in drip irrigation in the last 20 years. The university was now looking at the next level of technology available in Israel, including fertigation. Israel was known for using sensors in drip irrigation and fertigation, which the university was trying to leverage. The second area of cooperation was recycling sewage for agricultural use. Israel had demonstrated its technology by helping install a recycling plant in The Lawrence School at Lovedale in the Nilgiris. The visitors also saw the recycling plant the university had installed on its campus with the technology it had developed. Experts from the university would visit The Lawrence School soon to look at areas where they could learn from their Israeli counterparts, Mr. Kumar said. Use of drones Use of drones for fertilizer and pesticide application was another area the university was interested in. It also looked at sending its research scholars to work in Israeli institutions, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-exploring-tie-up-with-israeli-institutions/article37204040.ece
28 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Grey-headed Fish Eagle released after treatment||A Grey-headed Fish Eagle ( Haliaeetus ichthyaetus ), that was rescued by the volunteers of Animal Rescuers, was released by the Forest Department in its natural habitat on Wednesday after two weeks of care. T. K. Ashok Kumar, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division, released the raptor that primarily feeds on fresh water fishes. The eagle was rescued by volunteers of Animal Rescuers from Singanallur area two weeks ago. It was sheltered at the rehabilitation aviary of the Forest Department on the DFO office premises. “A veterinarian examined the eagle that had a minor injury on one of its wings. Its condition improved after a few days of treatment. It started flying inside the aviary normally some days ago, after which a decision was taken on its release,” said Mr. Ashok Kumar. The raptor was in the ‘Near Threatened’ category of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grey-headed-fish-eagle-released-after-treatment/article37204043.ece
28 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||SW monsoon withdraws after giving surplus rainfall for Coimbatore||The Southwest monsoon that withdrew over the weekend gave surplus rainfall for Coimbatore. The Indian Meteorological Department had said that the monsoon had withdrawn from the entire country. The normal rainfall, for Coimbatore, for the season that begins in June and usually ends by September is 210mm. This year the monsoon season extended till October 24. In the over four-and-a-half-month season, the monsoon gave 236mm in 26 rainy days. A 24-hour period with over 2.5mm precipitation is accounted for as rainy day. Until the end of September, the monsoon in Coimbatore was in deficit – giving only 117.5mm. But the rainfall received in October, which was more than the previous four months combined put Coimbatore on surplus rainfall map, as 119mm rainfall was recorded. Month-wise level The month-wise rainfall for Coimbatore at the end of the season is as follows – June 15mm as against the normal 42.8mm, July 30.5mm as against the normal 68.5mm, August 38.5mm as against the normal 30.7mm and September 33.5 as against the normal 68mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sw-monsoon-withdraws-after-giving-surplus-rainfall-for-coimbatore/article37204045.ece
28 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Paintings of trans artists from T.N., Kerala find place in U.S. exhibition||Abhinaya, a transwoman from Chennai, died of multiple health issues during the peak of the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic in September 2020 at the age of 34. She was passionate about painting and her struggles in life as a transperson often reflected in her works. Though Abhinaya is no more, a painting she did three years ago will soon find place in ‘ Visibility and Remembrance: Standing with the Trans Community’ , an exhibition curated by the Department of Women’s and Gender Studies, University of South Florida. “I am glad that her work is honoured posthumously,” said transwoman, activist and artist Kalki Subramaniam. A total of eight paintings by trans artists from Tamil Nadu and Kerala will be featured in the exhibition from November 20 to April 20, 2022. The selected paintings will also be featured in the website of the university. Of the eight artists, transwomen Abhinaya, Kalki, Silky Prema, Rupakala, Rambha, Sandhya and transman Ramesh are from Tamil Nadu. Transwoman Saji Varrier is the sole artist from Kerala. 25 entries “A total of 25 entries were submitted by transpersons from India. Out of these, all the eight entries sent by us were selected for the exhibition. Our works having chosen for the exhibition is an international honour for the Indian trans community,” Ms. Kalki said. All the works selected for the exhibition are basically celebration of transpersons’ lives. “There is a general misconception that transpersons are only into begging and sex work. We hope that the international acceptance for our artworks will help us break the stereotypes,” Ms. Kalki said. Ms. Prema said that her painting, ‘Cooking Guru’, an acrylic work on canvas, portrays the culinary skills of transpersons. Ms. Kalki said that her team was in the efforts of getting government’s help in setting up a gallery and skill training centre for transpersons at Pollachi. “Our earnest appeal to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister is to allot space and sanction funds for the centre where skill training can be offered to transpersons. Being the coconut capital, Pollachi will have immense scope for offering skill training in the making and marketing of coir products”, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paintings-of-trans-artists-from-tn-kerala-find-place-in-us-exhibition/article37204053.ece
28 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three deaths, 125 new COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district, on Wednesday, reported 125 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 151 persons recovered from the disease on Wednesday and the district had 1,353 active cases. Three more persons died of COVID-19 in the district, taking the toll to 2,407. Coimbatore district’s test positivity rate stood at 1.4 % on Tuesday when it reported 128 new infections. Tiruppur district reported 70 fresh cases on Wednesday, which took the overall tally to 95,130. Three deaths reported on the day took the district’s toll to 977. The district had 724 active cases and 97 persons recovered on Wednesday. Fifteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Wednesday and the overall tally stood at 33,494. One person died of COVID-19 on Wednesday, which took the district’s toll to 210. A total of 235 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-deaths-125-new-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article37204055.ece
28 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation Commissioner conducts grievances redress meet||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara on Wednesday conducted a grievances redress meet for residents in the 20 wards in South Zone. Members of the public submitted 32 petitions regarding issues related to the departments such as engineering, revenue, town planning and health, the civic body said in a release. The Commissioner asked the officials concerned to act on the petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-commissioner-conducts-grievances-redress-meet/article37204048.ece
28 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly ‘Clear pending wildlife crime cases soon’||A meeting of officials from the Forest Department and the Directorate of Prosecution and public prosecutors on Wednesday pushed for speedy clearing of 115 wildlife crime cases pending within the limits of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve. ATR Field Director S. Ramasubramanian, Deputy Directors S.N. Thejasvi (Tiruppur division), M.G. Ganesan ( Pollachi division), Deputy Directors of Prosecution S. Amsaveni (Coimbatore), M. Rajadurai (Erode), Assistant Conservators of Forests, Forest Range Officers and public prosecutors took part in the meeting held at the Forest Department training centre at Attakatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly-clear-pending-wildlife-crime-cases-soon/article37204054.ece
28 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man injured in bear attack near Sirumugai||A 23-year-old man from Kunjappanai near Sirumugai was injured when a sloth bear attacked him on Tuesday afternoon. The Forest Department said that C. Ramaraj of Kunjappanai was attacked by the bear when he took an easy route to his village through a reserve forest. According to the Forest Department, the bear was with its cubs in Kunjappanai beat of Odanthurai section of Sirumugai forest range when Ramaraj took the shorter route to his village owing to rain. He was admitted to the Government Hospital at Mettupalayam with minor injuries. A Forest Department official said his condition was stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-injured-in-bear-attack-near-sirumugai/article37204057.ece
28 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Farm implements given to producer committees||Agricultural implements to the tune of Rs. 12.15 crore have been distributed to farmer producer committees formed in the district. According to the administration, over 243 farmer producer committees have been formed under the Cooperative Farming Scheme in the district. The various subsidy programmes envisioned under the scheme through the departments of Agriculture and horticulture has, as of date, witnessed disbursement of agricultural implements to the tune of Rs. 12.15 crore. Thirteen farmer producer companies have been set up under the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business in the district. The administration said these companies have a membership of 10,309. The membership contribution to the farmers producer companies is Rs. 108.09 crore. Tamarind processing, millet procuring and processing, oil seeds procuring and processing, agriculture input centre, vegetables procurement and marketing, flower procurement and processing, fodder procurement and processing, seed processing and tomato processing are among the various agricultural processing activities taken up by the producer companies. According to the administration, various farm implements are being distributed for better agricultural production. Inputs including power weeders and tractors are being distributed to the farmers. The administration has urged farmers to avail the facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farm-implements-given-to-producer-committees/article37204155.ece
28 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||‘Set up farm ponds under scheme’||The administration has called upon farmers to set up farm ponds for augmenting groundwater table in the district. According to the administration, farmers are called upon to set up individual farm ponds on their lands to both augment groundwater table by collecting water during the rains and also to set up income generating inland fishing operations. Farm ponds may be set up under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) programme, and the farmers may take up inland fish rearing in the ponds to generate income. Farmers seeking MREGS labourers for setting up farm ponds under the scheme may submit their applications along with copy of the ownership deed of the land, which should be in name of the individual farmer and other documents. Besides, the proposed farm pond should be of 360 sq.mt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-up-farm-ponds-under-scheme/article37204156.ece
28 October 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Farmers asked to do seed testing for higher yield||Farmers have been asked to take their uncertified seeds for seed testing before sowing to ensure expected yield. In a statement, Dindigul Seed Testing officer C. Singaraleena said reports would be given at the earliest on priority to farmers who come for testing the seeds at the seed testing laboratory functioning at Uzhavar Maiyam behind Kudaganaru Illam on Natham Road here. Agricultural Officer K. Kannan said seed samples were drawn by seed certification department officials from seed producers, and by seed inspectors from seed sellers, and samples were also directly submitted by farmers for testing. Seed samples of paddy, maize, sorghum, pulses, vegetables like tomato, brinjal, chilli, carrot, beetroot and all type of gourds were tested here. A total of 3,112 seed samples were analysed in this financial year and 284 samples were found to be substandard. “Sub-standard seed lots were seized by officials and recommended for departmental and legal action against seed selling agencies,” Dr. Kannan said. This exercise would help in preventing entry of spurious seeds into market which would adversely affect the livelihood of farmers. “Sub-standard seeds will lead to low rate of germination. If the lots are tested, the officials will recommend for additional sowing through which the required number plants in the given farm area can be grown for the expected yield,” he added.  Farmers and seed sellers were invited to test their seed samples by paying testing fee of Rs. 30 per samples. The test results could be viewed in SPECS software which was specifically developed by Seed Certification Department of Tamil Nadu. The printed result copy was also sent to their mailing address. For further information regarding seed testing, farmers could contact mobile number 9788356517.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-asked-to-do-seed-testing-for-higher-yield/article37204133.ece
28 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Collector asks nationalised banks to expedite loan disbursal process||Collector H. Krishnanunni has asked the nationalised banks to expedite the process of disbursing various loans to eligible persons. The District Level Bankers Committee on Wednesday organised a customer outreach programme that was inaugurated by the Collector in the presence of A. Ganeshamurthi, MP, and E. Thirumahan Everaa, MLA. Distributing various loans to the tune of Rs. 1.03 crore to nine beneficiaries, Mr. Krishnanunni said that nationalised banks were providing loans for housing, vehicle, education, agriculture, business and individual loans and asked the banks to expedite the process of disbursing loans to eligible people. He said that various loans to the tune of Rs. 256 crore were distributed to 3,112 persons during the programme. The Collector along with the MP and MLA visited the exhibition put out by various entrepreneurs, organisations and banks. P. Palanisamy, Chief General Manager, Canara Bank, Chennai Circle, G. Thirumurugan, Manager, District Industries Centre, Anand Kumar, District Lead Manager, Jeyanthi, Manager, Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Housing and Development Corporation Limited, and managers from nationalised banks were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-asks-nationalised-banks-to-expedite-loan-disbursal-process/article37204158.ece
28 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Bannari Amman Institute of Technology wins two international awards||Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam, has won the Global Performance Excellence Award (GPEA) 2021 and International Best Practice Award (AIBP) 2021 – Platinum category from The Asia Pacific Quality Organization (APQO). A release said that GPEA was instituted by APQO, which is the only formal international recognition of performance or business excellence incorporated and headquartered in New Zealand. An international panel of experienced assessors carried out assessment and the panel has awarded the GPEA 2021 Award-Best in Class to the institute. The AIBP award was introduced in 2019 that provides opportunity to GPEA applicants to participate and compete for recognition of best practices. The institute shared its best practices at APQO international conference and submitted a “Summary of Performance '' as part of requirements based on “Special Labs”. The institute's proposal was reviewed and shortlisted by a panel of assessors and based on an eight-minute presentation submitted by BIT explaining the establishment, challenges, benefits and outcomes and achievements of the special labs at the conference, the institute was selected for the award. Both the awards were presented to the institute virtually during the award ceremony held recently, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bannari-amman-institute-of-technology-wins-two-international-awards/article37204159.ece
28 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Camps to make corrections in patta begin in Erode district||Special camps to make corrections in patta, including name, sub-division and other corrections, began at revenue villages in all the 10 taluks in the district here on Wednesday. Revenue villages The State government had announced that camps will be held in all the revenue villages on Wednesdays and Fridays from October 27 to January 12, 2022, to solve patta-related issues and asked the landowners and farmers to approach officials during the camps held in their villages on the dates specified. Each camp was monitored by an officer in the rank of Deputy Collector where a zonal deputy tahsildar, revenue inspector and village administrative officer were present. Farmers and landowners submitted petitions with necessary documents that were verified on the spot. Officials said that corrections in survey number, sub-division, area, name of the patta holder, father’s name, changes in relationships, and exclusion of names of nearby landholders that were made by mistake in the patta were made during the camp. Documents including A-Register Extracts, were verified by the monitoring officer and after passing orders, corrections were made online on the spot. Other petitions related to old-age pension, plea for free house site patta, drinking water and road facility and other petitions were also received and registered and forwarded to the Collectorate. Officials said that villagers were given prior information regarding the date of conduct of camps in their areas using the public address system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/camps-to-make-corrections-in-patta-begin-in-erode-district/article37204165.ece
28 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Protests planned against move to amend Forest Act||Opposing the Central government’s proposal to amend the Forest Conservation Act (FCA), Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association has decided to stage a protest in front of the forest range offices in the district on November 8. The association meeting was held at Sathyamangalam which was chaired by its State secretary Kadambur Ramasamy. District president Balathandautham, member of State committee S. Mohan Kumar and office-bearers from Talavadi, Bargur, Talamalai and T.N. Palayam participated and passed resolutions. A resolution said that the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had on October 2 released a consultation paper on the proposed amendments in FCA, 1980 and asked people to give their opinion within 15 days. The time-frame given is unusual and after stiff opposition, the government extended the time till November 1. The resolution said that a minimum of three months is needed for making representations and urged the government to extend the time. The draft was released in English to keep the tribal people in the dark and wanted it to be released in Tamil. Instead of prioritising on conserving forests and addressing environmental concerns, the proposed amendments facilitates takeover of forest land at a meagre price by the corporate, which is nothing but, privatisation. “The proposed amendments are against the welfare of the tribal people living in the forest areas”, the resolution said and added that it will dilute the Forest Rights Act, 2006. The resolution urged the Centre to drop the move to amend the Act and also wanted the State government to voice its concern against the amendments. The members would hold protests in front of the range offices at Talavadi, Jerahalli, Hasanur, Germalam, Kadambur, T.N. Palayam, Sathyamangalam, Anthiyur and Bargur on November 8, the resolution said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-planned-against-move-to-amend-forest-act/article37204166.ece
28 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||IT searches premises of SKM group in Erode||Officials of the Income-Tax Department began searches on several premises of the SKM group of companies here on Wednesday. As many as 11 teams began the search at the offices located at Kalaimadu Statue and Solar and the manufacturing units located at Nanjai Uthukuli and at other places. Also, searches were conducted at the residence of its executive chairman S.K. Maeilanandhan, its managing director Shree Shivkumar, and at a pregnancy care centre at Periyar Nagar. The group is into egg products export, manufacturing animal feeds, Siddha and Ayurveda medicines and health care. Sources said that over 20 officials, split into various teams, began the search that continued in the evening. The details of the raid are yet to be known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-searches-premises-of-skm-group-in-erode/article37204163.ece
28 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Nani Agro Foods Limited selected for certification||Nani Agro Foods Private Limited, an Erode-based company involved in turmeric processing and manufacture of spices, has been selected by the Green Building Certification Institute for LEED Gold Certification under the LEED v4 for building operations and maintenance. A release said the company has installed renewable energy as a power source for its manufacturing operations and a windmill and 490kw rooftop solar plant. It also segregated solid waste and has a compost system to convert wet waste into manure, it added||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nani-agro-foods-limited-selected-for-certification/article37204164.ece
28 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Bottleneck on Gokhale Road needs viable, urgent solution||Ever since work on the ramp for the take-off point of the 7.3-km-long elevated corridor on New Natham Road in Madurai started a few months back ahead of IOC roundabout on Gokhale Road, it has become an excruciating bottleneck. The work at this place, right opposite the busy Vishaal de Mal, was started just when the travel restrictions were relaxed after the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown. Now, with business picking up and Deepavali splurge on people’s mind, there is heavy traffic everywhere. Gokhale Road, which was made one-way to free clogged Alagarkoil Road, is one of the crucial north-south link of Madurai. So, the bottleneck near the mall leads to heavy traffic congestion. Though the traffic police make all vehicles wait in two files and let them pass through the bottleneck in turns, during peak hours the long lines stretch up to Tallakulam bus stop. In the evenings, the police divert cars through Kamarajar Second Street from the intersection beyond Lakshmi Sundaram Hall. But it serves little purpose - these vehicles, after taking right turns at Hakim Ajmal Khan Road and Kamala Second Street, are back in a file to join the buses and two-wheelers again on Gokhale Road, or at the intersection of Lady Doak College Road. An exasperated traffic police constable says the traffic congestion is severe on peak hours, particularly on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. Though moffusil buses and goods carriers are barred entry, the long line of city buses occupy all space and slow down the traffic. Along with two other policemen, he had just helped move away a city bus which broke down right on the 200-metre bottleneck. Not without solution Among all city buses which use this road, the bulk are those bound for MGR bus terminus at Mattuthavani, particularly 77-B route buses which come from Arapalayam bus stand, with people from outstations, blithely waiting for ages on the bumper-to-bumper traffic. Locals using public transport know better - they take either 77-BA or 77-BS and take the Anna bus stand route to Mattuthavani with ease. TNSTC can operate more buses via Anna Bus stand to avoid congestion on Gokhale Road bottleneck. With some ingenuity on the part of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation and the traffic police, this bottleneck can be sorted out till the elevated corridor take-off point work is completed. But, by the look of things, it will take many more months, as the whole project was brought to a halt after a migrant worker was killed in a worksite accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bottleneck-on-gokhale-road-needs-viable-urgent-solution/article37204458.ece
28 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Arctic Terns arrive at Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park||The annual migration of birds from the Arctic to the Gulf of Mannar Marine Biosphere Reserve, has begun with an enormous flock seen swarming the Manoli Islands inside the park last weekend. Mandapam Forest Range Officer, G. Venkatesh, told The Hindu that during his visit to the protected area on October 23, he saw thousands of terns and gulls, hundreds of sand, crab and grey plovers and the little stints and rudy turnstones that wade through shallow waters. An avid photographer, Mr. Venkatesh caught the shorebirds on his camera. “It was a breathtaking sight,” he said, and added, “The population of the migratory birds that has got to to the Gulf of Mannar till now is far more than seen in previous years.” The seasonal ritual of migration occurs every year over the Central Asian Flyway (CAF), comprising 29 countries including Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar, Kyrgyzstan, Nepal, India, Bhutan, Myanmar and Maldives. “The birds take the long non-stop haul from the Arctic and European regions to winter in South Asia, and usually stopover in the coastal swamps of the Gulf of Mannar between October and December,” Mr. Venkatesh said. The CAF is the shortest flyway in the world. On this route, the migratory birds travelling on the east of CAF also halt at the adjoining sanctuary habitats in Dhanushkodi and other water bodies and inter-tidal shores. The Arctic birds begin their journey through India from the Bhitarkanika National Park, Odisha, and fly over to Kanniyakumari, the southern-most tip of coastal Tamil Nadu. The flocks again return in March on their way back. According to ornithologists, the birds go on these exhausting journeys commuting thousands of miles between their summer breeding grounds and winter habitation spots. Mr. Venkatesh said last year, 2,000 Terns were recorded in Manoli. But this year, at least four times that number have already arrived, signalling the start of the migratory season. “When birds return to the same undisturbed habitats in search of food and rest, it indicates a healthy environment, and we are taking measures for their protection and management by staying at anti-poaching camps round-the-clock, and creating awareness among the local public to keep the area disturbance-free,” he said. Other than the migratory birds, the Manoli Island is also twittering with resident birds like egrets and herons, Mr. Venkatesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arctic-terns-arrive-in-thousands-at-gulf-of-mannar-marine-national-park/article37204124.ece
28 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||New food court proposed on HR&CE land near Teppakulam||A new food court has been proposed on land belonging to the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department near Teppakulam in the city. Principal Secretary for Tourism, Culture and HR and CE B. Chandramohan, who is also the monitoring officer for Madurai district, along with Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar, inspected the site near Anupanadi Road on Wednesday. The building, estimated to cost Rs. 2 crore, will come up on land belonging to Meenakshi temple. The officials, upon inspection, have suggested changes in the ground plus one floor plan to make it more convenient and hygienic for customers. “Since vehicular traffic along the site is high, we have suggested some changes in the design of the proposed building,” said Dr. Chandramohan. A total of 20 shops has been proposed close to Teppakulam, a major tourist attraction in the city, Temple Joint Commissioner K. Chelladurai said. Besides, the officials have also suggested conversion of the now defunct Meenakshi Theatre into a marriage hall and construction of a bridge across the drainage channel to provide a better approach to the venue. The officials also inspected jallikattu venues at Alanganallur and Palamedu. “We have asked for a feasibility study for construction of galleries at both sites. While Alanganallur faces space constraint, Palamedu has a bigger area,” Dr. Chandramohan said. The officials also inspected desilting work in pandulgudi drainage channel and the surplus channel that takes water from Anaiyur tank to Sellur tank. The monitoring officer also inspected a direct purchase centre of paddy at Thanichiyam. Madurai Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan, District Revenue Officer G. Senthilkumari, Public Works Department Executive Engineer (Periyar-Vaigai Basin Division) Sugumaran and Vadipatti Tahsildar R. Navaneethakrishnana were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-court-proposed/article37204121.ece
28 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Restrain construction within coastal regulation zone: plea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to file a response on a public interest litigation petition that sought direction to authorities to forbear the construction of a resort within 500 metres of the High Tide Line of coastal zone in Kannirajapuram, Kadaladi taluk, Ramanathapuram district. A Division Bench of Justices V. Bharathidasan and S. Ananthi sought a report from the Tamil Nadu Coastal Zone Management Authority. The petitioner, P. Suyambu Lingam of Kadaladi in Ramanathapuram district, said that a private company, Kaviyan Constructions, was building a resort within 500 metres of the High Tide Line. He said that Kannirajapuram village panchayat consisted of nine hamlets with a population of 8,524 residents. In Dharmakartha Kudiyiruppu hamlet, there was a coastal road to the extent of two km connecting East Coast Road to the Gulf of Mannar. It was the only access for local residents to the nearby temple, school, college and burial ground. Pathway blocked Under these circumstances, the private company had blocked the pathway used by the local people by constructing a compound. The company encroached upon lands beyond the patta lands that belonged to the company. The resort was within 300 metres of the shore. Therefore, the lands fell within the Coastal Regulation Zone category. No construction was permitted within 500 metres of the High Tide Line without the approval of Coastal Zone Management Authority. The lands were located close to ecologically sensitive area such as the Gulf of Mannar Marine Park. Therefore, the authorities should forbear the company from putting up construction within 500 metres of the High Tide Line, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restrain-construction-within-coastal-regulation-zone-plea/article37204116.ece
28 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Spell out measures to prevent illegal sale of PDS rice, HC tells TNCSC||Taking a serious view of illegal transportation and sale of Public Distribution System (PDS) rice, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation to file a detailed report on measures to prevent the illegalities. Justice B. Pugalendhi observed that the government spent Rs. 33 per kg and distributed the rice to cardholders with the noble object that the needy should get enough/proper food. But the noble object was being defeated by some traders and hulling agents. It is reported that even cardholders sold PDS rice at a lesser price to traders, who transported it to Kerala and other States. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by hulling agents from southern districts seeking anticipatory bail. The allegation against them was that they had illegally stocked and transported PDS rice. The judge directed Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation to file a detailed report to the court with regard to the irregularities and illegalities and possible measures for prevention and regularisation. The case was adjourned till October 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spell-out-steps-to-prevent-illegal-sale-of-pds-rice/article37204117.ece
28 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC grants bail to Sri Lankan woman||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has granted bail to a Sri Lankan woman, Sudha, who illegally landed in India. She was an accused in the case involving 23 Sri Lankan nationals who illegally landed in Madurai. Justice B. Pugalendhi, who was hearing the petition filed by Sudha, took note of the fact that she had a two-year-old child. Considering the fact that she illegally entered India, the judge directed that she be kept in the special camp in Tiruchi till further orders. However, the court denied bail to her husband Kumar. NIA probe on The court took into account the fact that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) was investigating a case that was registered in Bengaluru involving Kumar. He was an Indian citizen. The case of the prosecution was that the 23 Sri Lankan nationals had landed in India illegally. They trusted the words of a Sri Lankan national, Kannan alias Mayuran, who had promised them lucrative jobs in Canada. On April 27, he took the 23 Sri Lankan nationals in fibre boats and dropped them on a launch in mid-sea. They arrived at Thoothukudi on April 28. The Sri Lankans then reached Madurai. They were provided accommodation in a vehicle body building unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-grants-bail-to-sri-lankan-woman/article37204118.ece
28 October 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Cheating case against ex-AIADMK Minister||The District Crime Branch police in Namakkal on Wednesday registered a case against former AIADMK Minister for Social Welfare and Nutritious Noon Meal Programme V. Saroja for cheating job aspirants. She has been booked for receiving Rs. 76.5 lakh from a couple on behalf of 15 aspirants who were promised employment in anganwadis but were not given appointment letters. In their complaint, the couple from Rasipuram said they were close relatives of the former Minister. They said she assured the aspirants of jobs in the department for money. The couple said they collected money from 15 job aspirants and handed over Rs. 50 lakh to the Minister. With this money, she bought a house, they said. Later, the couple handed over Rs. 26.5 lakh, as a second instalment, to her. However, the aspirants did not receive employment offers. Stating that the aspirants were planning to lodge complaints against them, the couple, in their complaint, sought the registering of a cheating case against Ms. Saroja. The complaint was forwarded to the District Crime Branch police, who, after an investigation, registered a case under section 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. Ms. Saroja was a Minister from 2016 to 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cheating-case-against-ex-aiadmk-minister/article37204004.ece
28 October 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Temple idols, made of clay, vandalised||Unidentified persons vandalised 21 idols of various deities and their ‘vahanams,’ made of clay, at Periyasamy temple near Siruvachur. This is the same temple where idols of various deities were damaged earlier this month. Two special teams have been constituted. Among the idols that were damaged were that of Periyasamy and Gengumalaiyan. The Periyasamy temple is a sub shrine of the Sri Mathurakaliamman temple situated at Siruvachur. Periyasamy temple is located in a desolate place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-idols-made-of-clay-vandalised/article37204089.ece
28 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Collective petitions L-G||The Bangaaru Vaickal Neeraadhara Koottamaippu, a farmers and water rights advocacy collective, has petitioned the Lt. Governor seeking an end to the indiscriminate dumping of solid waste by the civic body on agricultural fields and waterbodies in the peri-urban Bahour area. In a memorandum submitted to the Lt. Governor, with copies marked to Chief Minister, Chief Secretary, National Green Tribunal and others, V. Chandrasekhar, president of the collective, said the illegal and irrational dumping of solid waste near agricultural fields and water channels by the Bahour commune panchayat, if unchecked, would jeopardise the water and land resources in various ways. The memorandum pointed out that Bahour, which is the rice bowl of Puducherry, is a prime agricultural area and dumping of solid waste near the rice fields and water channels would lead to leaching of hazardous chemicals from the solid waste into the rice fields and waste channels polluting the entire rice crop as well as the water sources of Bahour. “Especially with monsoon already on, this is a ticking time-bomb and needs to be addressed on a war-footing,” the memorandum said. The National Green Tribunal has already laid down its orders and the Central Pollution Control authorities have already brought out clear guidelines on the upkeep and maintenance of water systems which the DSTE, Puducherry, and the Pollution Control Board, Puducherry, is also completely aware of. Against this backdrop, the action of Bahour commune panchayat of dumping solid waste near rice fields, irrigation tanks is completely illegal and needs to be stopped with immediate effect, the collective said. ‘Shift site’ It is to be noted that the Bahour commune panchayat earlier tried to dump the waste on the Uchimedu tank bunds which the local farmers agitated against and stopped. The memorandum urged the authorities to ensure that the entire waste generated in Bahour is shifted to the Kurumbapet dump yard where there is already a system to process the waste through bio-methanation process as no such systems are present in any of the rural areas as of now. The dumping of solid waste in Bahour, being an agricultural area and criss-crossed with water channels and rice fields, has to be immediately stopped till such time a proper solid waste processing/resource centre is established and in working condition. The burning of solid waste should be stopped as the smoke contains carcinogenic pollutants given the fact that Bahour generates huge volumes of medical waste. Waste from Cuddalore district is also dumped along Mullodai road during night, the memorandum said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collective-petitions-l-g/article37204422.ece
28 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Prioritise road reconstruction, former MP tells government||M. Ramadass, former MP, has urged the government to prioritise road reconstruction given the deterioration of surfaces in several parts of the city and suburbs. In a statement, Mr. Ramadass said poor roads have become a common sight in areas such as the Boulevard, residential suburbs, link roads, connecting Cuddalore and Villuppuram and rural roads. In many places, residents and elected representatives have started agitating urging the government to relay the roads. Mr. Ramadass called upon the government to improve the situation, beginning with an introspection on why and how the roads constructed with crores of investment got damaged within a short span of time. While it is claimed that the average time for a road to begin wear is five years after which it requires repairs, in Puducherry, there are instances where newly laid roads have got damaged within a month or so. For instance, the 500 metre asphalt road founded in Mettu Street at Thengathittu was impaired within a fortnight and deep holes had appeared within three weeks in the newly constructed Nallavadu bridge, he said. Mr. Ramadass said a combination of low quality material used for construction, corruption and heavy traffic on the roads could be attributed to the swift wear and tear of the roads before the average life time. The government should be sensitive to the issue of bad roads as they cause accidents, spinal problems to the travelling public, especially, the elderly, leading to hospitalisation, increase in travel time and quick wear and tear of vehicles. These problems would become acute during monsoon when the roads would be ridden with potholes filled with rain water, the former MP said. He urged the government to prepare a comprehensive and scientific roadmap for road reconstruction and its upkeep. The resource available in the Smart City Scheme and the MLA Area Development Fund may be utilised for urban roads. The funds available under the National Rural Road Development Schemes, Puducherry Budget (2021-22) outlay, earmarked for rural development (including Special component Plan), and MLA Area Development Fund may be garnered for constructing rural roads. A Road Reconstruction Committee, under the chairmanship of the Minister for Public Works, may be formed to comprehensively monitor the expenditure and the work in progress, Mr. Ramadass suggested. “Quality and sustainability should be the guiding principles and there should be absolutely no scope for corruption. The government should realise that the taxpaying citizens of Puducherry have a legal right to well maintained roads and it should be the prime duty of the government to provide good roads to its people,” he said.  Quality and sustainability should be the guiding principles and there should be absolutely no scope for corruption. The government should realise that taxpaying citizens have a legal right to well maintained roads||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prioritise-road-reconstruction-former-mp-tells-government/article37204420.ece
28 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Physical classes to resume from Nov. 8 in Puducherry||The Puducherry government has decided to resume physical classes for students of Standards I to VIII on November 8. Announcing this at a press conference on Wednesday, Education Minister A. Namassivayam said in-person classes with COVID-19 protocols will start from November 8 in the Union Territory. Classes will be held from 9.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. Classes for students of Standards 1,3,5,7 will be held on Monday, Wednesday and Friday while for classes 2, 4, 6 and 8 it will be held on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, Mr. Namassivayam said. As it was not compulsory for students to attend the in-person classes, teachers have been asked not to take attendance. The online classes would continue for those opting to study at home. The heads of institutions have been asked to make vaccination compulsory for all the teachers and other staff, he added. The government has given instruction to all private schools not to collect excess fee. The institutions are allowed to collect 75% of the fee fixed during the previous academic year. The government was keen to establish a separate School Education Board for the Union Territory, he also said. Asked about the government’s response to the recent spate of murders, Mr. Namassivayam, who also holds the Home portfolio, said he has convened a high-level meeting to discuss the issue. All aspects related to policing would be discussed at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/physical-classes-for-students-of-standards-i-to-viii-from-nov-8/article37204140.ece
28 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No deaths, 40 new COVID-19 cases in U.T.||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory as 40 new cases were confirmed on Wednesday. Puducherry logged 18 of the new cases, which were detected from 3,375 tests, followed by Karaikal (8), Yanam (1) and Mahe (13). The test positivity rate was 1.19%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.2%. With 50 patients recovering from Covid in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 443. Of this, 101 patients were in hospital and 432 in home isolation. The cumulative toll remained at 1,857 — Puducherry (1,453), Karaikal (250), Yanam (107) and Mahe (47). The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,27,846 cases against 1,25,546 recovered patients. Of an estimated 19.03 lakh tests conducted so far, over 16.08 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 5,622 persons took the jab against Covid in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered a total of 11,12,237 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-covid-19-death-reported-in-puducherry/article37204141.ece
28 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister launches mobile ATM service||In a bid to cater to the needs of rural customers, the Puducherry State Cooperative Bank on Wednesday launched mobile ATM service. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy in the presence of Speaker R. Selvam and Agriculture Minister C. Djeakoumar flagged off a mobile ATM. The bank has been providing ATM service for the last five years, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-atm-launched/article37204423.ece
28 October 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||8,500 police personnel deployed for Thevar jayanthi||Elaborate security arrangements, with the deployment of 8,500 police personnel, have been made at Pasumpon in Ramanathapuram district, where Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and leaders of various political parties will pay their respects at the memorial of freedom fighter Muthuramalinga Thevar, on the occasion of his jayanthi and guru puja on October 30. In a statement, Ramanathapuram Superintendent of Police, E. Karthik, appealed to all political party leaders and representatives of organisations to stick to the time slots allotted to them and follow COVID-19 precautionary measures. Only those leaders who have got permission from the district Collector, would be allowed to enter the memorial from October 28 to 30. Stating that 186 routes have been banned for vehicles coming to the guru puja, the SP said that vehicles would not be allowed on those routes. Besides, iron barricades would be put up at 148 places identified as sensitive. A total of 8,500 police personnel would be deployed for bandobust duty on those days. Four Deputy Inspector Generals of Police, 19 Superintendents of Police, 28 Additional SPs and 70 Deputy Superintendents of Police,would be deployed under the supervision of Inspector General of Police, South Zone, T.S. Anbu and Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order), P. Thamarai Kannan. As the Ramanathapuram district administration has already promulgated prohibitory order under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, hired vehicles and vehicles without permits would be screened. Checkposts with online facilities for verifying vehicles would be put up by officials from the Regional Transport Offices on eight routes to Passumpon. Besides, the police will put up 39 checkposts for intensified vehicle checks. Closed circuit television cameras would be fixed there. A special control room that is set up at the Special Armed Reserve in Kamuthi would monitor the areas around Pasumpon and Kamuthi with 200 CCTV cameras. Important places would also be brought under the vigil of drone cameras, the SP said. Videographing of vehicles and persons who violate promulgation orders would be done at 80 places. Riot control vehicles, Vajra, would be stationed at 10 places, and water canon vehicles, Varun, would be placed in 8 locations. A total of 71 executive magistrates would be posted in the region. The police have already taken precautionary action against 350 trouble-mongers under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Besides, 16 ambulances and 18 fire tenders would be stationed in and around Pasumpon, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramanathapuram-under-heavy-security-cover-for-thevar-jayanthi/article37204131.ece
28 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man dies in Attur sub-jail||An accused in a case who was about to be released from Attur sub-jail on bail, died of heart attack on Wednesday. B. Karti (34) of Kitchipalayam, an autorickshaw driver, was arrested by the Kitchipalayam police on October 17, in a case related to sale of lottery tickets. On Tuesday, a court granted him bail and he was set to be released on Wednesday. As he was about to leave the prison premises he complained of heart pain and fell down. Police took him to the Attur Gh where doctors declared him dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-in-attur-sub-jail/article37204154.ece
28 October 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Marudhu brothers’ guru puja peaceful||The guru puja of freedom fighters Marudhu brothers held at Kalayarkoil near here on Wednesday passed off peacefully. Leaders of various political parties and organisations paid their respects to the freedom fighters at the memorial. A ‘yaga puja’ was conducted by Coimbatore Kamatchipuri Aadhinam. Pontiff of Madurai Adhinam Sri La Sri Harihara Gnanasambanda Desiga Swamigal, who visited the memorial, recalled the devotion of Marudhu brothers to Lord Siva. The brothers had donated a silver chariot for Tirugnanasambandar, he said.  Former Minister Baskaran, AIADMK MLA Senthilnathan, DMK leaders Pon. Muthuramalingam, Kadar Batcha, Murugesan and former MP Bhavani Rajendran, BJP MLA Nainar Nagendran, BJP leader H. Raja, AMMK leader K.K. Umadevan, former MLA Karunas, All India Moovendar Munnetra Kazhagam leader Sridhar Vandaiyar and All India Moovendar Munnani Kazhagam leader N. Sethuraman were among those who paid their respects at the memorial. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Ramanathapuram range) N.M. Mylvahanan, who camped at Kalayarkoil, said around 2,500 police personnel, supervised by two Superintendents of Police, were deployed in and around the memorial. Only the vehicles with passes were allowed to the memorial. “Cases would be booked against those vehicles that have violated the conditions laid out in the coming days,” he said. In a stray incident, windscreen of a TNSTC bus was smashed when unidentified persons pelted stones at Sivaganga. The driver of the bus, Chandrasekar, who sustained injuries, was rushed to Sivaganga Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guru-puja-of-freedom-fighters-marudhu-brothers-peaceful/article37204091.ece
28 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Rail passengers expect better train services||The impending meeting between the Members of Parliament and the General Manager, Southern Railway, at Tiruchi, next month has triggered hope of rail users for revival of services that were suspended in view of COVID-19 and introduction of new services and projects. Though the pandemic had put the breaks on the operation of highly-patronised passenger train services on the main line section and on the progress of infrastructure development works in delta districts, the rail users associations functioning in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts and as well as the social activists in the newly formed Mayiladuthurai district have kept a close watch on the functioning of the Southern Railway. They had resisted attempts for withdrawal of stoppages and facilities such as the integrated computerised ticket reservation facilities at certain railway stations. They had succeeded in ensuring deployment of ex-servicemen as gate keepers in Tiruvarur-Karaikudi section and introduction of the daily train service between Mayiladuthurai and Tiruchi. However, their pleas for revival of regular services and stoppages at stations such as Papanasam; quickening of the projects for laying new track connecting Thanjavur with Ariyalur; revival of Mayiladuthurai-Tranquebar and extending the same to Karaikal, and a line connecting Needamangalam with Kumbakonam are yet to be addressed. Social activists including former MLA, P.Kalyanam, have been insisting for long that the abandoned track connecting Mayiladuthurai with Tranquebar must be revived and linked with Karaikal which is less than 15 kms from Tranquebar. There have been talks doing the rounds that the Southern Railway prefers to lay a new line connecting Tranquebar with Thirunallar instead of laying a direct line between Karaikal and Tranquebar but the latter project will be more economical in terms of cost of land acquisition, Mr. Kalyanam said. Pleas for passenger services connecting Karaikudi with Chennai and Madurai, new services from Nagapattinam/Vailankanni to destinations in Southern districts through the newly laid Tiruvarur-Karaikudi section are also likely to be discussed at the meeting with the DRM Tiruchi. The rail users associations are hopeful that the MPs will articulate the demands of the rail passengers in right earnest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rail-passengers-expect-better-train-services/article37204085.ece
28 October 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Stolen idols recovered in 24 hours||Special teams of Theni district police have recovered nine idols that were stolen from Dakshinamoorthi Temple in Aranmanaipudur here in the early hours of Wednesday with the arrest of two persons on Thursday. Superintendent of Police Pravin Umesh Dongare said the accused were arrested within 24 hours after the crime was reported. The police intercepted M. Sridhar of Miller Road of Periyakulam Vadakarai at Kumbakarai Road check-post. During interrogation, he reportedly confessed to have stolen the idols along with Karthik of Periyakulam. The police recovered the idols that were hidden amidst bushes in two places. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Dindigul) B. Vijayakumari and the SP appreciated the special teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stolen-idols-recovered-within-24-hours/article37204122.ece
28 October 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life term for murder||Theni Fast Track Court has sentenced a man to life imprisonment for murdering a woman in Bodi taluk due to previous enmity in 2015. Additional District Judge Shanti Chezhian on Wednesday sentenced the man, Mariappan, to life imprisonment for the murder of Meenakshi. Bodi taluk police had registered the murder case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-life-term-for-murder/article37204095.ece
28 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||No permission for devotees for soorasamharam in Tiruchendur||Devotees will not be allowed to participate in ‘soorasamharam’ to be enacted at Subramaniaswami Temple in Tiruchendur and witness the celestial wedding (thirukkalyanam), considering the COVID-19 restrictions in force, Minister for Fisheries Anita R. Radhakrishnan has said. Speaking to reporters after participating in a meeting held here on Wednesday in the presence of Collector K. Senhil Raj to discuss ‘Kanda Sasti’ celebrations to be held at the temple, Mr. Radhakrishnan said the meeting had discussed the facilities to be made for the devotees visiting the shrine during this festival. However, the devotees would not be allowed to participate in ‘soorasamharam’ and ‘thirukkalyanam’ due to the restrictions imposed in the wake of the pandemic. “Since Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department has made arrangements for online dharshan of ‘soorasamharam’ and ‘thirukkalyanam’, the devotees are requested to cooperate with the administration,” the Minister said, adding that 10,000 devotees would be allowed inside the temple between 5 a.m. and 8 p.m. on all other days of Kanda Sasti festival. Mr. Radhakrishnan also informed that the devotees would not be allowed to observe fast on the temple premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-nod-for-devotees/article37204119.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Take steps to hold polls for urban local bodies’||State Election Commissioner V. Palanikumar on Wednesday asked the Collectors and the Superintendents of Police to get prepared for facing the urban local bodies’ polls. Presiding over a consultative meeting held here on holding polls to the urban local bodies with the Collectors and the Superintendents of Police in eighth districts, he said that steps had been taken to conduct the elections. Attention must be paid on involving the officials in poll related works. They must be well versed with the preparation of voters list, identifying polling stations, enforcing the model code of conduct, monitoring activities and security arrangements. Mr. Palanikumar said that the Returning Officers, Assistant Returning Officers and the related employees should be sensitised to the preparation of steps to hold the polls. The Commission would hold the polls in a free and fair manner. The officials should extend all possible steps to ensure free and fair polls. Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi, G. Karthikeyan, Collectors and Superintendents of Police S. Sivarasu, P. Moorthy (Tiruchi), Dinesh Oliver Ponraj, Ravalipriya (Thanjavur), Kavitha Ramu, Nisha Parthiban (Pudukkotai), A. Arun Thamburaj, K. Jawahar ( Nagapattinam), R. Lalitha, K. Suguna Singh (Mayiladuthurai), Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan (Thiruvarur), Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman (Tiruchi) and K. Saravanakumar (Thanjavur) and senior officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-steps-to-hold-polls-for-urban-local-bodies/article37204097.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Harassment of coach Santhi: notice issued to magazine, sports official||The South Regional Representative to the National Council for Transgender Persons (NCTP), a statutory authority under the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Gopi Shankar, based in Madurai, has taken suo moto cognizance of continuous harassment of athlete and coach Santhi Soundarajan on the grounds of her gender identity/ expression by the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDATN) coach Abraham Rajan. Gopi Shankar has issued a notice to the publisher of the Tamil magazine Kumudam in connection with a ‘defamatory’ story recently published in the magazine against Santhi Soundarajan and raising ‘false allegations’ concerning her gender identity. A notice has been issued separately to the Member Secretary, Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu urging the body to take departmental action against coach Abraham Rajan for making ‘false comments and complaints’ against the gender identity of Santhi. In the notice issued to the Tamil magazine, Gopi Shankar sought an apology from the Kumudam publishing house for publishing ‘false allegations’ in the form of an article that had appeared in the magazine without knowing Santhi’s side of the story. The rights of Santhi are protected under the Constitution of India and the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, the notice further said and wanted the magazine to publish an interview of Santhi so that a clear story could be reached to the readers. Gopi Shankar said that formal proceedings would be initiated against the publishing group if it did not take any action concerning the ‘defamatory’ article which was published. Gopi Shankar in the notice to the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu said formal proceedings would be initiated against Abraham Rajan in case the department did not take any action on him. Gopi Shankar said over phone on Wednesday that the notices were issued a few days ago in the wake of continuous harassment of Santhi. The Commission had received an on-record complaint from Santhi recently in this regard. ‘We are not treating this as an isolated case but seeing this as an attack on female athletes with diverse sex characteristics,’ said Gopi Shankar. The Commission would look into workplace inclusive policies in government institutions with respect to LGBT community and how the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 is being implemented in Tamil Nadu. Santhi, who belongs to the Scheduled Caste community and a native of Pudukottai district, had filed separate harassment complaints earlier with the National Commission for the Scheduled Castes, National Human Rights Commission and the National Commission for Women, said Gopi Shankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/harassment-of-coach-santhi-notice-issued-to-magazine-sports-official/article37204100.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bushes hinder morning walk||Walkers taking the path laid around the Anna Stadium for routine exercise complain that the plants and bushes growing around it obstruct their path. With the recent rains, insects and reptiles too could be breeding within the thickets, they apprehended. The walking track on Race Course Road encircling the Anna Stadium - the district sports complex - is a regular venue of exercise for many. Some even travel to the track from various parts of the city early in the morning for a walk. The bushes along the path, although adding to the greenery has also instilled fear. “I live in Woraiyur and come here every day to exercise. While I walk and then exercise in the open gym, my wife continues to walk. Sometimes, on weekends, we bring our children too. However, we’ve been avoiding it recently as we suspect movement of snakes in the bushes,’ S. Saravanan, a regular walker said. Another walker said that the path has also experienced some wear and tear. The concrete blocks have developed cracks and are uneven in some parts, she said. She requested the civic body to install some lights around the path for illumination. ‘Some of us come around 5 a.m. and there are no lights along the path. We need to depend on our phone torch lights,’ she said. The walking track is a great facility otherwise and it is a sad state of affairs that maintenance issues keep walkers away from it, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bushes-hinder-morning-walk/article37204099.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Need to revive artificial gem industry’||The Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries’ Association has made a case for invigorating artificial gem industry before the Expert Committee formed for revival of MSMEs in Tamil Nadu. A delegation led P. Rajappa recently highlighted the niche advantages of artificial gems made in Tiruchi in the export market before the Expert Committee on MSME Revival led by retired IAS officer and former Industries Secretary N. Sundaradevan. The Expert Committee was apprised of the need for resumption of manufacture of raw materials for the artificial gem industry at a production unit in Mettupalayam. Artificial gems made in Tiruchi, known as American diamond, used to have a niche export market as the exterior polish sustained brightness due to use of water from the Cauvery in the manufacturing process. However, the gem-cutting industry in Tiruchi region collapsed due to invasion of export market by Chinese products with their price advantage. There used to be 1.5 lakh cottage units in Tiruchi region including parts of contiguous districts, about two decades back. Despite the hike in customs duty on imported artificial gem stones effected by the Central Government earlier this year, the gem-making industry has not been able to bounce back as the supply of raw material has not been constant. It is another matter that finished products from China are being imported by makers of leathers, garments and footwear at the very cost of the raw material. This explains why the local gem-cutting industry has diminished scope to rise up to the challenge posed by cheap Chinese products, Mr. Rajappa explained, adding that support from the government in the form of subsidies and hassle-free availability of raw materials could pave way for revival of the industry at least to a certain extent. “As such, there has not been any progress in the condition of the artificial gem industries in Tiruchi, as importers continue to rely on finished products from China due to the cost advantage,” G. Raveendan, General Manager, District Industries Centre, Tiruchi, said. On their part, the gem-cutting units being run at the cottage level are understood to be exploring the scope for operating in units of clusters for developing competitiveness. The sector is expected to be benefited by a project being undertaken by the Siemens Centre of Excellence in Manufacturing at National Institute of Technology – Tiruchi (NITT) to fabricate a machine for cutting and polishing rough gem stones at an extent that would pave way for deriving the advantage of economy of scale, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-to-revive-artificial-gem-industry/article37204092.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dog to be trained in detecting drugs||The Narcotic Intelligence Bureau-CID, Tiruchi, has been provided with a detective dog to detect narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. A 45-day-old male puppy belonging to the Labrador Retriever breed bought by the State Police for this purpose is being taken care of at the Detective Dog Squad of the City Police here. Christened Bond, the puppy is being looked after with great care by two handlers in the rank of Head Constables at the Detective Dog Squad premises in K.K. Nagar here. The puppy was bought from Coonoor near Udhagamandalam and would be subjected to basic training once it is three-months old. The basic training would be on obedience and on basics such as ‘sit,’ ‘get up’ ‘roll’ and ‘speak’ by giving the necessary command to the dog, say sources. This is for the first time that the Narcotic Intelligence Bureau -CID, Tiruchi, unit has been provided with a detective dog which is to be exclusively trained in detecting narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. The main function of the Narcotic Intelligence Bureau -CID is to collect intelligence and take action against persons indulging in criminal activities such as manufacturing, consumption and trafficking of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. Once the dog becomes six-months-old, it would be sent for comprehensive training in smelling various types of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances at the Detective Dog Training Centre of the State Police functioning in Coimbatore. The comprehensive training would be conducted for six months. After completion of training, the dog which would be one-year-old by then would be formally inducted into service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dog-to-be-trained-in-detecting-drugs/article37204094.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Integrity pledge administered||Integrity pledge was administered to employees of BHEL, Tiiruchi, on Wednesday, the first day of the Vigilance Awareness Week S V Srinivasan, General Manager-in-Charge, who administered the pledge said the industry had put in place adequate systems, procedures and internal controls covering all aspects of its business to ensure fairness and transparency in its dealings with all stakeholders. Several programmes including panel discussions, essay writing and poster competitions on the theme ‘Independent India at seventy-five, self-reliance with integrity’ aimed at creating awareness on aspects of vigilance, are to be conducted over the week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/integrity-pledge-administered/article37204103.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dip in cases in central districts||The central region reported 170 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. The number of cases witnessed a downward trend prevalent across most districts in the region. Six deaths of the viral infection were registered - three in Ariyalur district and one each in Mayiladuthurai, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur districts. Thanjavur continued to report a decline in the number of cases. On Wednesday, 48 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Tiruchi, meanwhile, registered 44 fresh cases. The other seven districts in central Tamil Nadu reported less than 25 COVID-19 cases each. In Tiruvarur, 21 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Nagapattinam and Karur registered 15 fresh cases each. Pudukottai district registered 11 cases and Ariyalur, eight. In Mayiladuthurai, five patients tested positive while Perambalur continued to retain its spot as the district with the least number of fresh cases with three fresh cases reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dip-in-cases-in-central-districts/article37204087.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CM urged to establish common burial ground||State Minorities Commission Chairman S. Peter Alphonse on Wednesday said that he would appeal to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to establish ‘samathuva’ (common or egalitarian) burial and cremation grounds across Tamil Nadu. Establishment of ‘samathuva’ burial and cremation grounds administered by the State Government through local bodies would enable all, devoid of religious and caste barriers, to bury or cremate the dead persons as per their customs without any hindrance or apprehension being blocked by any one, he said. Such a step was necessary to create a situation wherein none would have the authority or the power to say that there was no space to bury the dead of different communities and religion. Citing an observation by Madras High Court, he said there was no caste or religion for the dead persons, while exuding hope that the Chief Minister would pass necessary orders. He said former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had started ‘samathuvapurams’ (egalitarian housing society) all over the State wherein families of different communities lived together. He said the commission had been reconstituted by the Chief Minister and an IAS officer had been appointed as its member secretary. The Chief Minister had asked the commission to visit various districts to ascertain and discuss issues relating to the livelihood of religious and linguistic minorities residing all over the State. Acting on the Chief Minister’s direction, the commission was visiting different districts in the State and holding meetings with representatives of minority communities to ascertain their problems. According to him, the commission had received information from many members of the minority communities that “right-wing communal forces” were preventing execution of new minor works such as construction of compound walls around their shrines or prayer halls or repairing a path at several places. Mr. Alphonse said some were trying to create “hate politics” among people in the State to advance their political influence but a vast majority of the people desired to live in harmony. Social harmony was essential for Tamil Nadu’s development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-urged-to-establish-common-burial-ground/article37204088.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure basic facilities during north-east monsoon: Minister||Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan has instructed officials to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential services, including power, drinking water and transport, and availability of food to the people during north-east monsoon. Chairing a review meeting here on Wednesday, he said relief camps in sufficient numbers should be kept ready with all facilities for shifting people living in low-lying areas close to the Tamirabharani. Collector V. Vishnu said relief camps would be created near 63 low-lying areas, including 11 vulnerable areas within the Corporation limits, with all facilities as it was done in mid-January when 65,000 cusecs of water was discharged from Papanasam, Manimuthar and Gadana reservoirs. Mr. Rajakannappan said the ongoing development projects, including those under Smart City programme, should be completed within the stipulated time with superior quality. The Minister stressed the need for intensifying COVID-19 vaccination drive in the district as only 21% of the people had received their second dose and 63% the first dose. Speaker Appavu said the Collector had asked the administrators of places of worship across the district to exhort the hitherto uncovered residents to make use of the vaccination camps to be organised every Saturday. Mr. Vishnu said the district had created all medical infrastructure, including oxygen and oxygen-supported beds at hospitals, required for facing the anticipated ‘third wave’ of the viral infection. “Since we’ve also created facilities for generating medical-grade oxygen with private companies and the government hospitals to meet the demands of the district, there is no need for depending on other districts for oxygen,” Mr. Vishnu said. The Speaker appealed to the Collector and the Minister to allocate sufficient funds for creating infrastructure facilities at Kutharapanjan waterfalls and the nearby Kannimarathoppu wild stream to attract tourists. Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran said the urban civic body would be in a position to supply sufficient drinking water to the residents when the Ariyanayagipuram drinking water scheme was commissioned. “Since 92% of this work has been completed, the goal will be achieved shortly,” he said after Palayamkottai MLA M. Abdul Wahab wanted the Corporation to sort out the glitches in drinking water supply. Tirunelveli MP S. Gnana Thiraviam, Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) Suresh Kumar participated in the meeting. Earlier, Mr. Rajakannappan handed over loans to the tune of Rs. 122.16 crore to 1,419 beneficiaries in a ‘loan mela’ organised at VOC Ground, Palayamkottai, in the presence of Mr. Appavu, Mr. Vishu and Mr. Gnanathiraviam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-basic-facilities-during-monsoon-minister/article37204127.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Police thwart Hindu Munnani’s attempt to disrupt lecture||The police thwarted an attempt by the Hindu Munnani to enter the Manonmaniam Sundaranar University (MSU) and disrupt a lecture on ‘Periyar and Islam’ on Wednesday. The Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy and the Department of Sociology at the university had planned to organise the second lecture of the ‘Social justice and Arivoli’ series, on the topic ‘Periyar and Islam’, for which Riyaz Ahmed, joint editor of Puthiya Vidiyal was the guest speaker. When the invitation for the event was sent to the media, the Hindu Munnani took to social media, asking if MSU was a university, a training centre for ISIS or an office of Dravidar Kazhagam. “What is the alliance between Periyar, Samuel Asir Raj (a professor at the Department of Sociology and director of the Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy) and Riyaz Ahmed? Is it an attempt to trigger violence at an educational institution? We, the saffron forces, should gather at MSU on October 27 to raise counter questions on ‘Atheism and the social justice of Islam’,” said K. Kutralanathan, State secretary of the Hindu Munnani. When about 10 cadre of the outfit gathered at the main entrance of MSU on Wednesday, the police, who had already been deployed there on a request from the MSU administration, stopped the group, led by Mr. Kutralanathan, from entering the premises. After they were denied entry, the cadre left the spot, saying they would file a complaint with the Governor and the chancellor of MSU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-thwart-hindu-munnanis-attempt-to-disrupt-lecture/article37204002.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||College teachers lay siege to office of collegiate education official||Seeking action against the managements and the principals of a few colleges which were allegedly functioning in violation of established norms, members of Madurai Kamaraj, Manonmaniam Sundaranar, Mother Teresa and Alagappa University Teachers’ Association (MUTA) laid siege to the office of Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education in Pettai here on Wednesday. The protesting teachers, led by S. Nagarajan, general secretary, MUTA, said the management of St. Xavier’s College, Palayamkottai, being run by the Jesuit priests, was refusing to appoint the senior-most professors as ‘Heads of Departments’ and instead was appointing the junior-most and “unapproved” faculty members as the Department Heads. The college suspended two senior professors of the Department of Botany after fabricating fake charges and was admitting students without following the norms of the University Grants Commission and the Tamil Nadu government, they alleged. Appointing a retired professor as Controller of Examinations, the college management allowed those who had crossed the age of 65 to work as teachers or directors of the special wings. They said the management of Vivekananda College, Agastheeswaram in Kanniyakumari district, had denied the Head of the Department post for a senior faculty member against the established norms of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges Regulation Act. The management of St. Jude’s College, Thoothoor, also in Kanniyakumari district, after placing under suspension its Principal, was refusing to allow him to even enter the college premises even after the affected professor had obtained a stay from court on the college’s order. “Even though all these issues that have seriously affected the smooth functioning of these colleges had been brought to the knowledge of the Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education, Director of Collegiate Education, Secretary for Higher Education, Minister for Higher Education and the UGC, no corrective measure has been initiated,” said Dr. Nagarajan. Around 50 professors of various affiliated colleges of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University participated in the agitation. The protest was withdrawn after a petition was submitted in the Office of Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-teachers-lay-siege-to-office-of-collegiate-education-official/article37204447.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Bus operators warned against fleecing passengers||Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan has warned omni bus owners against collecting inflated bus fares from passengers travelling to their native places for Deepavali. Speaking to reporters in Tirunelveli on Wednesday after chairing a review meeting , Mr. Rajakannappan said, “Fleecing of passengers by private bus operators will attract punitive measures, including imposition of hefty fine and seizure of buses. Regional Transport Officers have been instructed to conduct surprise checks across Tamil Nadu to prevent fleecing.” The State Express Transport Corporation had planned to operate 16,140 buses from Chennai to various destinations. Similarly, 17,700 buses would be operated from various destinations to Chennai after Deepavali. Operation of these buses would commence on November 1 based on the demand from the public. He said Transport Department would soon buy 500 electric buses, which would initially be deployed in Chennai, Madurai and Coimbatore, and operation of long distance air-conditioned buses by Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation between Nagercoil and Tiruchi, Nagercoil and Coimbatore, etc. would be considered based on the demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-fleece-bus-passengers/article37204129.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Special Sub-Inspector found dead||A Special Sub-Inspector of Police, Palani, 53, who had been attached to Palayamkottai High Ground police station, was found dead on Wednesday. In his complaint, the deceased police officer’s son, a Plus One student, said his father, who was under extreme pressure, was denied leave when he submitted the application. Moreover, he was verbally abused by a senior police officer for failing to register a good number of cases as fixed by the officer. “Unable to bear with the humiliation, my father committed suicide,” the boy, who lost his mother only four months ago to COVID-19, said in the complaint filed on Wednesday evening.  The relatives of Palani refused to accept his body and said they would receive the body only if a case was registered against the senior police officer. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssi-found-dead-in-tirunelveli/article37204120.ece
28 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Wednesday stood at 135.75 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 1,104.17 cusecs and a discharge of 1,404.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 79.10 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 85 cusecs and nil discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37204448.ece
28 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Loans sanctioned at outreach programme||The mega customer outreach programme organised by various banks in Tiruppur district sanctioned loans amounting to Rs. 315.83 crore to 5,997 beneficiaries here on Wednesday. A release said that Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan inaugurated the outreach programme that was organised by the District Level Bankers Group at a private hall on Kangeyam Road. Loan target Mr. Saminathan said the loan target for the banks in the district for the financial year 2021-22 was set at Rs. 14,315 crore. Out of this, the target for micro, small and medium enterprises was Rs. 7,733.88 crore and for exports Rs. 562.5. Noting that around 361 banks were operational in Tiruppur district, he commended the banks that exceeded the loan targets, the release said. Mr. Saminathan urged the banks to swiftly process the loan applications from farmers, students, entrepreneurs from Scheduled Castes, and those applied under the Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Housing and Development Corporation and Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors’ Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi). Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan, District Collector S. Vineeth, Lead District Manager T. Alexander, president of Tiruppur Exporters Association president Raja M. Shanmugham and chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council A. Sakthivel participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loans-sanctioned-at-outreach-programme/article37204049.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||NABARD puts credit potential for Tiruppur district at Rs. 15,168 crore||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has assessed the credit potential for Tiruppur district for the financial year 2022-23 at Rs. 15,168.95 crore, which is 10% more than the projections made for the financial year 2021-22. A press release said that the potential-linked credit plan document was released by District Collector S. Vineeth during the District-Level Standing Committee Meeting held at the Collectorate on Monday. Lead District Manager T. Alexander received the first copy in the presence of NABARD’s District Development Manager E. Raju. 52.07 % for MSMEs Mr. Raju said that of the total plan outlay of Rs. 15,168.95 crore, the maximum credit potential for the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) was assessed at Rs. 7,898.22 crore or 52.07% of the total outlay. For agriculture and allied activities Rs. 4,560.16 crore (30.06%), export credit - Rs. 645 crore (4.25%), education - Rs. 328.95 crore (2.17%) and housing - Rs. 357.75 crore (2.36%). Credit potential estimated for other sectors are Rs. 581.64 crore (3.83%) for renewable energy, Rs. 22.23 crore (0.15%) for social infrastructure and Rs. 775 crore (5.11%) for self-help groups, joint liability groups and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nabard-puts-credit-potential-for-tiruppur-district-at-rs-15168-crore/article37204050.ece
28 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Date extended||The last date for submission of online application for All India Sainik Schools entrance examination for the academic year 2022-23 has been extended to November 5. The examination will be held on January 9, 2022 for admission to Classes VI and IX, a release said. For further details, visit:www.nta.ac.inandhttps://aissee.nta.nic.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/date-extended/article37204044.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||4 cooperative bank staff in Arani suspended for swindling Rs. 2.39 cr.||Four staff, including the appraiser of Arani Cooperative Urban Bank Limited, were suspended on Wednesday for allegedly swindling Rs. 2.39 crore. They had pledged fake jewellery with the bank and swindled the amount, it was learnt after a departmental enquiry. Cooperative bank officials said the suspended staff were: S. Lingappa, general manager in-charge; K. Jagadeesan, cashier; B. Saravanan, clerk and V. Mohan, appraiser. Among them, Mohan was a temporary staff. They were working with the bank for more than a decade. A complaint was registered with the Commercial Crime Investigation (CCI) wing of the Tamil Nadu police in Chennai by S. Kamalakannan, deputy registrar, Tamil Nadu State Apex Co-operative Bank (Cheyyar division) on Wednesday.  Action taken Disciplinary action has also been taken against S. Kalyana Kumar, managing director of the Arani bank, by the TNSC Bank under Section 81 of Tamil Nadu Cooperative Societies Act, 1983. “We are also attaching the assets of the suspended staff. They pledged fake jewellery every month for a year, mostly in their relatives and friends' names,” K. Rajkumar, Joint Registrar, TNSC Bank (Tiruvannamalai Region), said. From September 10, 2020, the suspended staff had been pledging small quantities of fake jewellery in 27 bundles and swindled Rs. 2.39 crore. In fact, of the total 4,600 gold loans that were disbursed since September 2020, 77 were given to fake jewellery that were pledged by them. The action by the TNSC Bank was based on a circular issued by the registrar for cooperative societies directing the managing directors of the Tamil Nadu State Apex Cooperative Bank, Tamil Nadu Cooperative State Agriculture and Rural Development Bank, all Central cooperative banks and joint registrars of all zones, to form panel to scrutinise gold jewellery loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-cooperative-bank-staff-in-arani-suspended-for-swindling-rs-239-cr/article37204453.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Temple elephant gets bathing pool in Tiruvannamalai||Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekar Babu on Wednesday inaugurated a bathing pool for the Yoga Ramachandra temple elephant, Lakshmi, in Tiruvannamalai. The 26-year-old jumbo was donated to the temple at the age of six. Spread over 1,000 sq.ft, the pool is located in Vettagiripalayam hamlet, around 4 km from the temple in Padavedu village near Polur taluk. The new facility, which is six feet deep, has a ramp with wooden fencing to allow the elephant to have a safe bath. The structure enables the animal to move easily once it is inside the water and relax under the watchful eyes of the mahout and his assistant who give it a bath. Along with the Chola era Renugambal temple, the Yoga Ramachandra temple is maintained by the HR&CE Department. “As per plan, the elephant will be taken for bathing every morning to the pool. Adequate safety of the animal and passersby will also be ensured,” said District Collector B. Murugesh. Funded by the TVS group, which maintains the temple, the pool is surrounded by a few borewells that are 100-ft deep to provide fresh water regularly. Waste water from the pool will be discharged through a series of drains to the nearby garden every day. In the pool, the jumbo can sit, lie down and move easily while enjoying her bath. Despite the pool area being thickly wooded, district authorities plan to plant saplings of various species to ensure added nourishment to the pachyderm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-elephant-gets-bathing-pool-in-tiruvannamalai/article37204451.ece
28 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore Collector inaugurates bank outreach programme||An all-bank outreach programme, organised by the district lead bank (Indian Bank) under the aegis of the district administration, was inaugurated by Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian here on Wednesday. According to a press release, loans to the tune of Rs. 90.48 crore were disbursed to customers of 10 banks including Punjab National Bank, SBI, Canara Bank and Bank of India. The aim of the programme was to build awareness on the developments in the banking system, including virtual banking, and various deposit and loan products suitable for various segments of the bank customers. At present, bank mitras are available to cater to the needs of the customers who prefer doorstep banking. Life and health cover through subsidised micro insurance plans (PMJBY and PMSBY) and pension plans (APY) were explained to beneficiaries and the public as part of the programme. Information regarding banking products and credit facilities such as farm credit, education loans, housing loans and other miscellaneous credit and digital transaction products were provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-collector-inaugurates-bank-outreach-programme/article37204452.ece
28 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 22 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,805 with 22 new cases reported on Wednesday. While 48,498 people have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 177. The district's death toll is 1,130. In Ranipet district, 8 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,389. In Tirupattur district, 5 new cases were reported on Wednesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,263. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 16, taking the total number of cases to 54,902. Out of this, 54,022 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 213.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-22-new-cases/article37204418.ece
28 October 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||CM launches ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ scheme||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said the DMK government was committed to promoting education at all levels, right from school to university, for all sections of society. Education must be available to all sections, and the government had initiated steps towards achieving this goal, he said. Launching the ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ ‘(education at doorstep) scheme at Mudaliarkuppam in Villupuram district, Mr. Stalin said it would brighten up the future of the younger generation. The foundation stone had been laid for a revolution in education, he added. “Education and employment for all is one of the key ideals of the DMK. The spirit of social justice, self-respect and a humane approach is also promoted by the scheme. All sections of people have had access to education and employment and have risen to positions of power, thanks to the seeds sown by Dravidian leaders Periyar, Anna and Karunanidhi,” he said. Mr. Stalin recalled that the Dravidian movement had launched sustained campaigns for imparting education through Thinnai schools to ensure access to education for all sections. “For those questioning Dravidianism and blabbering without understanding what it is, this is the spirit of Dravidianism ,” he said. The Chief Minister said it was the Justice Party Government that initiated the serving of meals to children studying in schools under the Chennai Corporation. The scheme was subsequently refined and expanded by former Chief Ministers K. Kamaraj, M.G. Ramachandran and M. Karunanidhi. “Illam Thedi Kalvi is a scheme on the same lines,” he said. The scheme was evolved to address the learning gap that had arisen among students due to the closure of schools during the pandemic-induced lockdown. The benefits of in-person classes could never be matched by online classes, and the objective of the scheme was to impart education to children at home, Mr. Stalin said. Volunteers would take classes for up to two hours a day, he added. The scheme would pave the way for a holistic development of children. “We intend to associate teachers, parents, retired teachers and members of voluntary organisations in implementing the scheme, as the objective is to make children fully developed citizens,” he said. “I have been adjudged the numero uno  Chief Minister in the country in polls conducted by a few media outlets. I would be glad if Tamil Nadu is projected as the number one State in the country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-illam-thedi-kalvi-scheme/article37204006.ece
28 October 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Cracker shops warned||Crackers shops in Virudhunagar district have been warned of stringent action if they violate the safety rules. The warning comes in the wake of a fire accident at a cracker shop in Kallakurichi on Tuesday that claimed six lives. In a statement Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said the shops should not stock more quantity of fireworks than the permitted quantity. Similarly, they should have adequate fire fighting equipment and should not sell banned crackers. The shops should not employ children, he said. Any violation found during inspection would lead to cancellation of the no-objection certificate and the shop licence. Besides, criminal action would be taken against the licence holder, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cracker-shops-warned/article37204128.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Toll in Kallakurichi cracker shop fire rises to six||The death toll in thefire accident at a cracker shop in Sankarapuramin Kallakurichi district on Tuesday rose to six with one more person succumbing to injuries. The massive explosion at the cracker shop, belonging to S. Selvaganapathy, 40, on the Kallakurichi Road had claimed the lives of five persons and left nine seriously injured on Tuesday night. The deceased were identified as S. Sha. Aalam, 24, J. Syed Kalith, 22, S. Sheikh Bashir, 60, R. Ayyasamy alias Sembiyan, 75, and A. Nazar, 60. The identity of a woman is yet to be ascertained. As many as nine persons, including the shopowner who sustained injuries, have been admitted to the Kallakurichi Government Hospital. The explosion took place around 6.30 p.m. in the cracker shop. As flames engulfed the shop, the cracker bundles started exploding and the fire started spreading to a tea shop, bakery and a clothing store in the vicinity. Local residents heard a blast and saw smoke and flame engulfing the place. The charred bodies were retrieved and sent to the Kallakurichi Government Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem. On information, fire tenders from Kallakurichi and Sankarapuram rushed to the spot and put out the fire. Collector P.N. Sridhar and Superintendent of Police Ziaul Haque visited the spot and held inquiries. The police said the reason for the fire would be known only after a detailed inspection of the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-in-kallakurichi-cracker-shop-fire-rises-to-six/article37204039.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festive delights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festive-delights/article37204020.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 71 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 71 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 1,04,017. While 71 persons were discharged, 865 continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 57 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 99,647. While 64 persons were discharged, 603 continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 43 cases taking the tally to 52,065. Krishnagiri recorded 23 COVID-19 cases, and 23 cases discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 206 cases as of Wednesday. Dharmapuri recorded 17 fresh cases, and 22 cases discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 233. As of date, a total 28,369 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-71-cases-in-erode/article37204160.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Extending greetings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extending-greetings/article37204009.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Entrepreneurship talk by experts, 10 a.m.  Rotary Club of Coimbatore & ICAR - Krishi Vigyan Kendra: Award function to honour best farmers of Coimbatore District, K. Ramachandran, Minister for Environment, Climate Change and Forest takes part, Chamber Towers, Avanashi Road, 6 p.m.  Dr.RV Arts and Science College: Swachch Bharat pledge taking and Clean India Campaign, 11 a.m.    Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College: National seminar on ‘Best Practices in Research Innovation and Extention’, Pollachi - Palani Road, 930 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37204051.ece
28 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Infantry Day||Infantry Day was celebrated at the Maratha Light Infantry Regiment Centre in Belagavi on Wednesday. Commandant Brigadier Rohit Choudary felicitated COVID-19 warriors and welfare workers. He presented appreciation memento to Sajeed Shaikh, former Vice-President of the Belgaum Cantonment Board. Others, including military hospital nurses, women police constables and Cantonment women karamcharis, were felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/infantry-day/article37204174.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Routes for electric buses mapped out||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), which is likely to introduce non air-conditioned electric-bus services from November 1, has identified several routes such as Kengeri to Banashankari, Bidadi, Yeshwantpur, and Banashankari to Yeshwantpur. To start with, BMTC will run five e-buses with the aim of inducting all 90 vehicles by December. A BMTC official said they hope to introduce the services on Karnataka Rajyotsava. “We are waiting for consent from the Chief Minister’s Office and the Transport Minister. The first batch of buses will be operated from Kengeri to different points using the ring roads. Fares that are applicable for ordinary buses will be charged for e-buses as well,” said the official. The corporation has started the process of transferring ‘excess’ drivers working in two depots, Yeshwantpur and Kengeri, to other depots as they will not be operating the e-bus fleet. Under the Bengaluru Smart City Project, BMTC will run 90 non-AC e-buses. As per the agreement, it will provide only conductors who will collect fares from passengers, while the operator will be in charge of providing drivers and maintenance staff required to run the e-buses. Accordingly, 80 drivers from each of the two depots will be transferred out. Not all BMTC staff are happy with the decision. A section alleged that operating e-buses through a private agency will hit employees hard in the long run. Others see it as an attempt to make inroads into the gradual privatisation of the corporation. However, BMTC officials maintain that drivers who voluntarily come forward seeking transfer will be transferred to other depots. BMTC officials said that the introduction of e-buses will not affect jobs. “We are just transferring drivers from one depot to another,” said an official. Buses under the Smart City initiative will be operated as metro feeder services, with a capacity for 33 passengers in each vehicle. More transfers are likely to be initiated when BMTC starts operating e-buses under the FAME 2 project. Under this initiative, Bengaluru will get 300 non-AC e-buses. AC buses on the rise The BMTC is gradually increasing services of AC buses. The number of buses operated to Kempegowda International Airport has been increased from 45 to 58. However, most of the fleet is still not operational. Of the 860 AC buses in its fleet, BMTC is currently running only 110. On the other hand, around 5,000 regular non-AC buses are back on the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/routes-for-electric-buses-mapped-out/article37203943.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Preparation of delimitation draft for 243 wards picks up pace||Work on the delimitation exercise for the 243 wards has finally picked up pace. According to sources, the Supreme Court is expected to give its judgement on the case pertaining to the elections to the BBMP – whether to the existing 198 wards or 243 wards, as provisioned under the new BBMP Act, 2020 – sometime next month. The Delimitation Committee has prepared a draft for 243 wards. Confirming the development, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the draft was not yet finalised. “We have sought some clarification from the district administration. Once the draft is finalised, it will be submitted to the government. The government will then take a decision and then issue a notification. After the notification is finalised, the State Election Commission (SEC) will then fix the election,” he said. The confusion over holding elections to 198 wards or 243 wards arose after the government challenged the High Court of Karnataka’s order of December 2020 directing the SEC to hold polls to 198 wards within six weeks. The government had by then constituted a joint legislature committee that had batted for 243 wards by including gram panchayats in the 1-km radius outside BBMP limits. The BBMP Act, 2020, that provided for 243 wards was also passed. In October 2020, the government also constituted the Delimitation Committee. According to sources, MLAs of Dasarahalli, Yelahanka, Bengaluru South, Mahadevapura and Yeshwanthpur Assembly segments, whose constituencies extend outside BBMP limits, have batted for some already urbanised gram panchayats from their limits to be included in the BBMP. The committee is yet to decide on the different gram panchayats that have to be included in BBMP limits. Sources said that clarifications have been sought from the Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru (Urban) district, on population and extent of the GPs that have been recommended for inclusion in BBMP limits. For instance, Somashettihalli and Chikkabanavara GPs that come under Dasarahalli Assembly constituency and Doddatoguru, Shikaripalya, Konappana Agrahara, Doddadasanapura and Mylasandra under Bengaluru South constituency are some of the GPs recommended to be included in BBMP limits. Similarly, Chikkanayakanahalli, Mallooru, Kachamaranahalli, Kannamangala under Mahadevapura constituency; Singanayakanahalli, Avalahalli, Ramagondanahalli under Yelahanka constituency; and Soolikere, Kumbalagodu, Ramohalli under Yeshwanthpur constituency have also been recommended. “A decision will have to be taken on whether all villages under the recommended gram panchayats can be included or if some have to be excluded, as in many cases the gram panchayat limits go well beyond the 1-km radius around the BBMP limits,” the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/preparation-of-delimitation-draft-for-243-wards-picks-up-pace/article37203929.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shivananda Circle steel bridge expected to open shortly||Motorists can soon heave a sigh of relief as the much delayed steel bridge at Shivananda Circle is nearing completion and is set to be opened for the public by the end of November. This is provided rains do not play spoilsport. Senior civic officials said that assembling one of the down ramps and asphalting the flyover was remaining and would be completed in 15 days. “It should have been completed by now. But the rains have delayed work. We are waiting for a stretch of rain free days to especially finish the asphalting work,” said Lokesh, Executive Engineer, BBMP, in-charge of the project. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who also holds charge of Bengaluru Development, will likely inaugurate the flyover by November end, senior officials said. The 492.84 metre grade separator at the critical junction was planned as a steel bridge to ensure minimum inconvenience and fast completion. But the project, commissioned in 2017, has been delayed for four years now. It faced opposition from local residents and saw legal hurdles, which were sorted out with design changes in 2018. The construction was supposed to be completed in nine months, but the project missed several deadlines and is now finally nearing completion. A senior official said while the legal hurdles delayed the start of work by nearly two years, bottlenecks in land acquisition and shifting of water and sewage lines under the roadway by Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) delayed it further. “Added to this was the labour crisis during the pandemic since March 2020 and the exodus of migrant labourers from the city to their hometowns once the lockdown lifted. It took several months for them to return to the city, to only leave again during the second wave,” a senior official said. However, criticism about the flyover still remains. “We need to see how the flyover affects traffic patterns in the busy junction. The railway underpass ahead of the flyover towards Seshadripuram is still narrow and may still be a bottleneck, we fear. Despite the flyover, we do not think we can remove the traffic signal at Shivananda Circle below,” said a senior traffic police official, who did not wish to be named.  Bridge overview Connects Racecourse Junction to Seshadripuram Railway underpass Length: 492.84 metres - 16 pillars Width: 16.5 metres Cost: Rs. 39.54 crore Land acquired: 579 sq.m||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivananda-circle-steel-bridge-expected-to-open-shortly/article37203927.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘BBMP did not take action against illegal buildings despite suo motu proceedings’||Observing that the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike has not taken any concrete step, except conducing a partial survey, in the past two years against illegal constructions, the High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the Chief Commissioner to take concrete actions like the demolition of identified structures by December first week. Noticing from the chart submitted by Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, indicating that 4,279 buildings have been identified for construction in deviation from sanctioned plan or against bylaw, the court said that Commissioner’s statement did not indicate survey of buildings constructed sans sanctioned plan. Complete survey It also directed the Chief Commissioner to complete the survey of the remaining buildings constructed since January 2020 for violation of sanctioned plans and to inform the outcome of the survey of buildings built without obtaining approval for the plans. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition initiated in suo motu by the court in 2019 after noticing several instances of illegal constructions across the city. Though the BBMP cited the pendency of petition before apex court on law to regularise certain types of illegal structures and the apex court’s order against demolition during COVID-19 lockdown period as an excuse for delay, the Bench refused to accept the same while expressing serious dissatisfaction and stating that BBMP’s lacked in acting against illegal constructions for the past two years. When Mr. Gupta, who was asked to be present personally, stated that he took charge of the post only in April 2021 and pandemic caused delay in taking action, the Bench said that excuse of pandemic is over and told him to perform the tough duties of the important posts that he holds. Action promised As Mr. Gupta assured the court of concrete action, including steps to demolish illegal structures, the Bench directed him to submit the action taken report by December 9 while making it clear that the BBMP will have to act toughly against buildings constructed without obtaining approval for plans. The Bench orally told him that even photographs of demolished illegal structures will have to be submitted. In his affidavit, Mr. Gupta had stated that survey of buildings, for which approval for plans were given between January 1, 2020, and May 31, 2021, were being taken up at the present, and the survey of all the buildings, for which BBMP accorded approval for plans since January 16, 2007, would be completed by June 4, 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-did-not-take-action-against-illegal-buildings-despite-suo-motu-proceedings/article37203934.ece
28 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||DCTE, Infosys sign MoU to transform method of learning||The Department of Collegiate & Technical Education (DCTE) has entered into an MoU with IT major Infosys for transforming the method of learning by students of higher education and shape their careers. The initiative, taken up under the “Help Educate” programme, is expected to benefit about five lakh students and faculty every year, according to a release by DCTE. The MoU was signed on Wednesday in the presence of Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. The Minister told reporters that this would facilitate blended learning and industry readiness of learners as per the aspirations of New Education Policy. “The MoU includes three components of providing access to Infosys Springboard, which has over 4,900 courses and 1.60 lakh learning resources, providing faculty development programme and supporting the government in setting up digital infrastructure by donating 15,000 computers,” said the Minister. “Infosys Springboard is a digital platform developed at a cost of Rs. 35 crore by the IT major which enables to acquire multiple digital skills along with life skills. The platform comprising virtual labs, gamification and other interesting features also provides access to industry experts and enables to fill the gap between industry requirements and skill sets of students. About 1.6 learning resources incorporated in this include audio, video and animations” Mr. Narayan said. As per this MoU, Infosys will also join hands with the DTCE to train the faculty on a regular basis. To begin with, training of 200 teachers will be conducted at the Mysuru campus of Infosys soon, he said. The donation of 15,000 computers by Infosys will almost end the shortage of computers in Government Diploma, Polytechnic and Engineering colleges of the State. Out of the required 30,000 computers now, 27,000 computers worth Rs. 135 crore have been donated by companies under DTCE’s “Help Educate” initiative, he explained. Infosys has plans of further investing Rs. 750 crore in its Spring Board to update the contents in the next 5-10 years, he stated. Mr. Praveen Rao, Chief Operating Officer, Infosys said, “Infosys always facilitated capacity building, continuous access to world-class learning and Talent building for its employees and now this has been extended to students and faculty as well.” Kiran N.G., Program Manager Springboard, Infosys, expressing happiness about MoU, said, it will help to upgrade the higher education. He added that NEP is a first step in the right direction to empower the youth learners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dcte-infosys-sign-mou-to-transform-method-of-learning/article37203936.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Can’t offer protection for online gaming operators during pendency of petitions’||The State Government on Wednesday told the High Court of Karnataka that it was not possible to give an undertaking that no precipitative action would be initiated on online gaming operators till the court adjudicates the petitions challenging the recently enacted Karnataka Police (Amendment) Act, 2021, which prohibits and criminalises the playing of online games, including games of skill, by risking money or otherwise. Skill and chance The State cannot offer a blanket protection from initiation of criminal proceedings under the new law on online gaming operators as there exist games of chance as well, and there are contentious issues over online version of games of skills compared to their physical format, State Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi told the court. The A-G made these oral submissions when Justice Krishna S. Dixit, who is hearing petitions against the new enactment, said the court could take up the petitions for final adjudication instead of hearing on interim plea for stay of implementation of the new law if the Government was prepared to give an assurance of not to take precipitative action by the police against the petitioners, who are online gaming operators. Following this, the court said that it would resume hearing on Thursday limiting the arguments only on interim plea of the petitioners. Earlier, Senior Advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for the All-India Gaming Federation, contended that the State legislature lacked powers to ban games of skills in the online form when they were permitted to be held legal in physical format by the apex court in interpreting the laws on gambling and betting. Mr. Datar said that skills and talent required by the players were the element that decided whether it was a game of chance or skill. He also said that call from a school of thought that online gaming was affecting youngsters and their education appears to be the reason for new enactment though there was no clarity. ‘Populism and paternalism’ Pointing out that “populism and paternalism” appeared to be the reason behind the new enactment, Senior Advocate Abhishek M. Singivi, appearing for one of the petitioners, argued that the State legislature could not have ventured into the task of terming the games of skill in the online format as illegal when the apex court had decades ago declared that games of skills do not amount to wagering or betting.  There are contentious issues over online version of games of skills compared to their physical format. Prabhuling K. Navadgi State Advocate-General||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cant-offer-blanket-protection-for-online-gaming-operators-during-pendency-of-petitions-govt/article37203845.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Travel guidelines for international passengers to Karnataka revised||The Karnataka government has revised travel guidelines to make RT-PCR reports mandatory for all international passengers coming to the State. The notification, issued on October 25, stated that those coming from abroad must submit a self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha portal and upload a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR report. The test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey. The guidelines state that each passenger must submit a declaration with respect to authenticity of the report and will be liable for criminal prosecution, if found otherwise. Travellers coming from a country excluding those countries at risk, will be allowed to leave the airport and shall self-monitor their health for 14 days. This is applicable to travellers from all countries including those with which reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO approved COVID -19 vaccine also exist. The government also issued a list of ‘countries at-risk’ from where travellers would have to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing. At-risk countries include South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, and countries in Europe, including the United Kingdom, If partially or not vaccinated, the passenger is required to provide samples for COVID-19 test after which they will be allowed to leave the airport. These passengers have to home-quarantine for seven days, and undertake another test on the eighth day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/travel-guidelines-for-international-passengers-to-karnataka-revised/article37203945.ece
28 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||No fertilizer shortage in country, says Khuba||Maintaining that there is no shortage of fertilizer in the country, Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers Bhagwanth Khuba accused Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah of indulging in “false propaganda” on shortage to create panic. At a press conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Khuba alleged that the Congress and Mr. Siddaramaiah were indulging in propaganda to divert public attention out of fear and frustration of losing the Assembly bypolls scheduled for October 30. He said spreading rumours would result in farmers resorting to panic buying and purchasing at once for the next four months. This would not only create shortage, but also pave the way for the role of middlemen, he said. The Minister said officials concerned had informed him that there was a slight shortage of urea in Mysuru region. Following this, he had issued instructions to get 3,000 tonnes of urea from the Centre. He said the Centre was encouraging farmers to opt for complex fertilizer in place of urea and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-fertilizer-shortage-in-country-says-khuba/article37203951.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HDK urges Govt. to initiate action against MES activists||The former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has urged the State Government to initiate action against activists of the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi (MES) for allegedly disrupting peace and insulting Kannada. “The MES, which has faced electoral debacles in the recent years, has been indulging in actions that threaten to disrupt peace in Belagavi in the run-up to Kannada Rajyothsava. It is indulging in actions that are insulting the pride of Kannadigas and Kannada,” the former Chief Minister tweeted. He said, “MES activists have been insulting the Karnataka Government, and instigating Kannadigas in the recent times. While demanding that the government maintain documents in Marathi, they have called the Karnataka Government useless. It is condemnable that they have raised Jai Maharashtra slogans. The MES has been politically isolated in Belagavi but is creating confusion among people,” he said, adding that it was creating trouble in Belagavi, which is known for linguistic tolerance. Mr. Kumaraswamy said that the Government should not ignore these developments and take action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-urges-govt-to-initiate-action-against-mes-activists/article37203975.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nodal officers to be assigned to public offices||The State government on Wednesday announced that nodal officers will be assigned to public offices across Karnataka to ensure that people are following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance. A government order stated that it was essential to ensure the compliance of COVID Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) by officers, staff members and visitors in public offices. Any serious and repeated non-compliance of CAB even after adequate awareness will attract penalties and further action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.  282 cases, 13 deaths  Meanwhile, Karnataka on Wednesday reported 282 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number to 29,86,835. The maximum number of cases, 142, were reported in Bengaluru Urban. Thirteen people succumbed to the virus, six of whom were from Bengaluru district. With this, the death toll across the State rose to 38,037. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 349 people were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 29,40,339. The State now has 8,430 active patients. The positivity rate for the day was 0.24%, but the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) rose to 4.60%. Testing As many as 1,17,351 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 93,617 RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nodal-officers-to-be-assigned-to-public-offices/article37203939.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah alleges involvement of politicians in bitcoin scam||Alleging that some top politicians from Karnataka could be linked to a ‘drugs and bitcoin scam’, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday tweeted claiming that there was an effort to cover it up. Mr. Siddaramaiah, however, did not mention or suggest who the politicians were. “There is information about the involvement of influential politicians of Karnataka in the drugs & Bitcoin scam. It is concerning that the investigating officers are trying to close the case to help those politicians,” he said in a tweet. “The BJP government should not use their power to divert the investigation and they must ensure that the guilty are punished,” he further added. It may be mentioned here that there was some speculation about involvement of politically influential people after CCB sleuths seized Bitcoins worth Rs. 9 crore from a Bengaluru-based hacker earlier this year. The allegations come just ahead of a fiercely fought bypolls in Karnataka to two constituencies in North Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-alleges-involvement-of-politicians-in-bitcoin-scam/article37203950.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC deprecates delay in operationalising gastroenterology institute||Deprecating the conduct of the authorities in delaying operationalising the Institute of Gastroenterology Sciences and Organ Transplant set up at Victoria Hospital campus, the High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday summoned the Secretary of Medical Education Department to explain the delay. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awathi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the direction while hearing a contempt of court petition, which complained about failure of the government to fully operationalise the hospital as per undertaking given to the court in February. Nagesh N.S., director of the Institute, who was asked to be present personally, told the Bench that it required two months to operationalise the hospital as the process of five-level sanitisation will have to be undertaken as per the medical protocol before operationalising any new health facilities. However, the Bench asked why action was not taken to sanitise the new health facility when it was opened for outpatients in July this year. M.N. Umesh, who had filed a PIL petition seeking direction to provide a full-scale gastroenterology and organ transplantation facility, complained that the authorities are delaying the operationalising the new facility. At one stage of hearing, the Bench orally observed that the authorities appeared to be hand-in-glove with private hospitals and are delaying the process of operationalising the new facility, which will benefit poor people. However, the government counsel clarified to the Bench that the new facility was converted to a COVID-19 treatment centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-deprecates-delay-in-operationalising-gastroenterology-institute/article37203941.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 20 lakh worth of drugs seized, one arrested||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police on Wednesday arrested a foreign national for allegedly peddling synthetic drugs in the city. After receiving a tip-off, a team of CCB officials raided a house in Ramamurthy Nagar and arrested the accused, who is from Nigeria. The officials seized MDMA crystals and ecstasy pills worth Rs. 20 lakh from him. Investigations revealed that the accused was sourcing drugs from his contact in Goa who in turn got consignments from Poland. “We are on the lookout for his contact and are trying to see if this is linked to an inter-State drug racket,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-20-lakh-worth-of-drugs-seized-one-arrested/article37203930.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘The way milk evaporates can reveal presence of adulterants’||The adulteration of milk with chemicals and water is ubiquitous among unscrupulous suppliers, a practice that poses a risk to consumers. But the way milk evaporates may help discern its purity. Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, have developed a “low-cost and effective method” to detect the presence of urea and water in milk, by analysing deposition patterns after evaporation. Their findings were published in the peer-reviewed journal, ACS Omega . To determine the presence of adulterants, the researchers studied evaporative deposition patterns, which emerge when a liquid mixture like milk completely evaporates, causing volatile components to dissipate, and solids or non-volatile components to arrange themselves in distinctive patterns. “Milk with and without water or urea showed very different evaporative patterns. In unadulterated milk, the evaporative pattern consisted of a central, irregular blob-like pattern. Water was found to cause distortion or complete loss of this distinctive pattern, depending on how much is added,” stated IISc in a press release. Urea completely erases the central pattern. “As it is a non-volatile component, it does not evaporate but instead crystallises, starting at the interior of the milk drop and extending along the periphery,” it added. With this method, the IISc team was able to detect water concentration as high as 30% and urea concentration in diluted milk as low as 0.4%. According to the researchers, the technique can be a replacement in the absence of equipment. “It can be done in any place. It does not require a laboratory or other specialised processes, and can be easily adapted for use even in remote areas and rural places,” said Virkeshwar Kumar, a postdoctoral researcher. He developed the technique along with Susmita Dash, assistant professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, IISc. The researchers believe that this technique can potentially be extended to test for adulterants in other products too. “The pattern that you get is highly sensitive to what is added to it,” said Susmita Dash. “I think this method can be used to detect impurities in volatile liquids. It will be interesting to take this method forward for products such as honey, which is often adulterated.” Expanding the scope Once the patterns for all adulterants and their combinations are standardised, they can be fed into an image analysis software, for example, which would compare a photo of the sample’s evaporative pattern with other standard patterns to accurately detect the adulterants present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-way-milk-evaporates-can-reveal-presence-of-adulterants/article37203949.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police find bodies of two security guards||A 24-year-old woman security guard was found murdered at her residence on the outskirts of her city, while her male colleague allegedly ended his life a few km away from the crime scene. The police suspect the two deaths are related, and that the male guard killed himself after murdering his colleague. The victim, Usha, hailed from Ankola and lived with her brother in a rented house at Lingadheera Mallasandra in the outskirts of the city. “She was strangled to the death,” said a police officer. Her colleague Gopalakrishna, 30, was found dead at an isolated location a few kilometres away. In a relationship “Preliminary investigations revealed that Gopalakrishna, who was from Tamil Nadu, and Usha were in a relationship. We suspect that he may have killed her after she broke up with him. We are waiting for the post mortem report before we arrive at any conclusions,” said the police. Test results awaited A team from the Forensic Science Laboratory is probing both cases to ascertain the cause of death and the Bengaluru Rural police are awaiting reports for further investigations.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-find-bodies-of-two-security-guards/article37203931.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BoB launches credit outreach programme||Bank of Baroda (BoB) has launched a credit outreach programme in Bengaluru aimed at the general public, farmers, entrepreneurs and business establishments. Sanjiv Chadha, MD and CEO, Bank of Baroda, said the initiative would primarily focus on key customer categories. “By distributing loans, facilitating better access to banking services in Bengaluru, and by implementing digital initiatives, Bank of Baroda is working towards economic growth of the nation,” he added. He distributed sanction letters to customers who availed of retail loans, agri loans and MSME loans. Joydeep Dutta Roy, Executive Director of the bank, Sudhakara D. Nayak, head of Bengaluru zone, B. Sivaram, Deputy Zonal Head, and Muralikrishna A., NDGM were part of the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bob-launches-credit-outreach-programme/article37203935.ece
28 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP to organise OBC convention in Bengaluru on November 21||The BJP OBC Morcha will organise a state-level convention of the backward classes at the Palace Grounds in Bengaluru on November 21. Announcing this at a workers’ meeting of the morcha here on Wednesday, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said over 2,000 delegates were expected to participate in the convention. Former MPs, former legislators and former Ministers from all the 224 Assembly constituencies of the State would also participate in the convention apart from office-bearers of the morcha, he said. Mr. Eshwarappa has been given the responsibility of organising the backward classes on behalf of the BJP. Funds for mutts He said maximum representation had been given in the Union Cabinet to the backward classes and Dalits. The BJP dispensation in Karnataka had earlier given Rs. 100 crore to various mutts of backward classes. This had helped such mutts to develop educational institutions, hostels, and hospitals, he maintained. Arguing that it was not wrong to participate in the community-related programme, Mr. Eshwarappa asked the morcha to work as a link between the government, elected representatives and the backward classes. He also claimed that a large number of OBCs and Dalits now backed the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-to-organise-obc-convention-in-bengaluru-on-november-21/article37203978.ece
28 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Youth held on murder charge||A 20-year-old youth was allegedly stabbed to death by his friend at Govindapura on Tuesday night. The victim has been identified as Siddiqh. According to the police, the victim, Siddiqh, used to sell readymade clothes on Davis Road, Fraser Town, with his friend, Arbaaz, 20. The two were classmates. “On Tuesday night, the two got into a fight, following which Arbaaz stabbed Siddiqh with a knife and crushed his head with a boulder before fleeing the spot,” said the police officer. The police tracked down Arbaaz few hours after the murder the murder, and arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-held-on-murder-charge/article37203932.ece
28 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||High-decibel campaign for byelections ends||The high-decibel campaign for the byelections to Sindgi and Hangal Assembly constituencies concluded on Wednesday, with leaders of all the three major political parties winding up the electioneering with roadshows and public meetings. In fact, vehicular movement on the main roads of Hangal town came to a standstill in the evening as the venues of the BJP’s roadshow and the Congress’s election rally were close by. Hangal in Haveri district, where the constituency of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai also lies, saw a mega roadshow by the BJP with him and the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa leading from the front. The election rally by the Congress was led by Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and former Union Minister and senior leader M. Mallikarjun Kharge. On the last day of the campaign too, mudslinging continued with leaders making personal attacks. Mr. Bommai andMr. Siddaramaiah traded charges and challenged each other for a public debate once again. Mr. Kharge lambasted Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP government on various fronts. “Mr. Modi keeps asking what the Congress had done all these years. But whatever institutions, infrastructure that theCongress had built are now being sold by Mr. Modi,” he said. The allegationsof use of money power was again raised on the last day ofcampaign, with both the Congress and the BJP accusing each other of trying to lure voters. Andthe JD(S) accused both the Congress and the BJP on the same lines. The last day of campaign, Sindgi was comparatively less noisy. BJP Ministers and leaders of the Congress and the JD(S) made appeals, attended group meetings and addressed roadshows. With the public campaign ending, barring candidates, local leaders, all others left both the constituencies. However, door-to-door campaign will continue. The polling is scheduled for October 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-decibel-campaign-for-byelections-ends/article37203973.ece
28 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Kirtan protest condemning attack on Hindus||A Kirtan protest march condemning the attack on violence against Hindus in Bangladesh was taken out under the aegis of ISKCON (International Society for Krishna Consciousness) in Dharwad on Tuesday. The peaceful protest march conducted in association with Matru Bhumi Samsthe covered the thoroughfares of the city, including Azad Park, Vivekanand Circle, Tikare Road, Anjaneya Temple and Court Circle before culminating at the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad. The protesters said that the Hindu community was shocked and saddened by the recent series of violent attacks on the Hindu minorities in Bangladesh by fundamentalist organisations. Several places of worship, including the ISKCON temples, have been vandalised and innocent Hindus have been attacked, they said, demanding immediate steps to check such attacks. The protestors demanded immediate action by the Bangladesh Government and said that strict action should be taken to prevent recurrence of any such violence against the minorities. Addressing the protestors, Satyamurthi Das of ISKCON said that the organisation aimed at nurturing the idea of unity in diversity and supported the safety and security of all faiths and traditions. All along the protest march, kirtans were sung. They later submitted a memorandum addressed to the Union Government seeking its intervention in putting an end to such attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kirtan-protest-condemning-attack-on-hindus/article37204178.ece
28 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Congress leaders campaign for party nominee in Hangal||The former Union Minister and Congress leader M. Mallikarjun Kharge on Wednesday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was selling the assets of the nation created during the Congress rule and what he was doing was “sab ka sarvanash” not “vikas”. Addressing an election rally in Hangal town on the last day of public campaigning, Mr. Kharge said that Mr. Modi kept asking what the Congress has done for the nation in the last several years. “Mr. Modi you became Prime Minister because the Congress preserved democracy in the nation and built the nation by creating assets and institutions. And, what have you given in the last seven years. You are selling road and railway sectors and also, airports. What you are doing is not sab ka sath, sab ka vikas. You are doing sab ka sarvanash,” Mr. Kharge said. He said that Mr. Modi was not only selling the assets of the nation but also doing the shameful act of tapping telephones of Opposition leaders and people who raise their voice against what according to him is the misrule of the Union Government. “The issue of Pegasus is known to the entire nation and now the Supreme Court has also said that it should be inquired into. This is victory of the Congress and the defeat of Modi,” he said. He said that the Congress when it was in power had enacted laws to facilitate easy availability of fertilizers to farmers and now, the BJP Government had amended the law which had now resulted in farmers not getting the required fertilizers. The former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah too lambasted the BJP and its leaders and challenged them to come out with details of what they had done for Hangal. Lauding the good work done by Congress candidate Srinivas Mane, he said that the people considered him as a well-wisher as he was of great help to them to during the pandemic. A host of Congress leaders attended the public rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-leaders-campaign-for-party-nominee-in-hangal/article37204182.ece
28 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Mass rendition today of Kannada songs||As part of Rajyotsava celebrations, the Dharwad district administration has, in association with the Department of Kannada and Culture Department, organised rendition of Kannada songs in sync with the State-level programme. This is part of the State-level programme wherein one lakh people will be singing simultaneously at 11 a.m. on Thursday, a release said. Three popular Kannada songs will be rendered by over 1,000 singers from Hubballi-Dharwad. And those in various taluk headquarters will join in the chorus, according to Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil. The singers will render the songs at Karnatak Vidyavardhak Sangha, Karnatak College, Rangayana in Dharwad and at Kananda Bhavan, NWKRTC Kannada Kriya Samithi premises in Hubballi. The songs that will be rendered simultaneously across the state are: Kannada Dindima composed by Kuvempu, Jogada Siri Belakinalli by K.S. Nissar Ahmed and Huttidhare Kannada Nadinalli by Hamsalekha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mass-rendition-today-of-kannada-songs/article37204177.ece
28 October 2021||Hubballi/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hangal crucial for CM to consolidate his position||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, whose political leadership is yet to be electorally proven, faces his first test in the Hangal bypolls in his home district Haveri. This is evident by the fact that Mr. Bommai has camped in the constituency for over a week and led the campaign from the front. Sources said Mr. Bommai was disturbed by “intra-party intrigue” that wants him to suffer a setback “to ensure that the leadership question is still open” before the 2023 Assembly elections. Shah’s announcement Shortly after Union Home Minister Amit Shah announced that the BJP would face the next Assembly elections under the leadership of Mr. Bommai, a defeat for the party in his home district would raise questions on the “winnability potential”, reasoned sources in the party. “Mr. Bommai seems to believe a faction is working to sabotage the party’s chances in Hangal and he seems to trust no one,” said a senior party leader. The former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Haveri MP Shivakumar Udasi being reportedly upset at the candidature of Shivaraj Sajjanar has only added to the uneasiness. The first troubling sign for Mr. Bommai came when Channabasappa R. Ballari, elder brother of BJP’s Byadgi MLA Virupakshappa Ballari, a Panchamasali Lingayat, filed his nomination from Hangal as an Independent. “Though it was couched as Panchamasali Lingayat community’s message to the BJP that they can damage their prospects if their demands for a better share of the reservation pie was not met with, it was clearly a faction within the BJP behind it,” said a senior party strategist. Mr. Bommai held talks with Mr. Channabasappa Ballari and made him withdraw his nomination. The episode in the beginning of the campaign alerted the Chief Minister to attempts of sabotage, sources said. Extended campaign Mr. Bommai who was scheduled to campaign for only four days in Hangal stayed for over eight days in the constituency. He personally oversaw and micro- managed all poll-related activities. “In many of the campaign meetings, Mr. Bommai made an emotional appeal to not let a person from the district down when he was the Chief Minister of the State. Countering reservations about the candidate, he asked people to consider himself as the candidate and vote,” said a senior BJP worker in Haveri. He added many local workers were not very happy at how the election management had been taken over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hangal-crucial-for-cm-to-consolidate-his-position/article37203971.ece
28 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Central team alerts Ballari dist. admn. on high TB deaths||A team of health experts that visited Ballari district recently on the directions of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for getting first-hand information from the ground on the prevalence of tuberculosis has alerted the administration on the high rate of tuberculosis deaths in the district. The team, which comprised Suresh Shastri, Shazia Wafai, Gulfam Ahmed Hashmi, Nischit and Devigan, was headed by Tarak Shah. It visited various hospitals across the undivided Ballari district for three days last week and collected information from hospital authorities, patients and their relatives. It found that 247 people died of tuberculosis in the last nine months. Ballari taluk was on the top of the list with 93 deaths followed by Siruguppa with 34 and Hosapete with 33. As many as 451 people in 2019 and 372 people in 2020 died of the disease. The fewer number of tuberculosis deaths in 2021 is attributed to COVID-19 lockdowns and precautions such as wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing taken for controlling its spread. The team also found that 3,407 people had contracted the disease, 1,170 of them had been cured after treatment, while 1,789 people are getting treatment in various health facilities across the undivided Ballari district. There are 24 people who are not traced yet. Later, on Monday, the team held discussions with Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer K.R. Nandini, District Health and Family Welfare Officer H.L. Janardhan and other senior officers and gave suggestions for controlling the disease. It told the district officers that the tuberculosis death rate in the district was 7.2%, while the national average is 5%, and asked the administration to take steps to bring down the number of deaths. As per sources, the team stressed on the need for community involvement for early detection of the disease and commencement of treatment. The team is expected to submit its report to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/central-team-alerts-ballari-dist-admn-on-high-tb-deaths/article37204175.ece
28 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Creating awareness against corruption||As part of its Vigilance Awareness Week being observed till November 1, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in Koppal is planning to organise an awareness programme at the conference hall of Koppal Taluk Panchayat at 11 a.m. on Friday. Senior ACB officers will participate in the event, a media release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/creating-awareness-against-corruption/article37204176.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||36 vacant govt. sites identified for developing urban forest||Vacant government land by the Phalguni riverside in Kuloor and a small patch of government land in Kottara Chowki are among the 36 vacant government sites in the city where Mangaluru City Corporation has proposed to develop urban forest, said corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar here on Wednesday. Speaking after the inauguration of a urban forest plantation programme taken up jointly by KIOCL Limited, the Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists and activist Jeeth Milan Roche, Mr. Sridhar said that the land on which plantation was taken up on Wednesday is among the 36 vacant government sites in the city where the corporation proposed to take up plantation exercise. “The corporation has been accused of allowing a lot of concrete structures to come up that create urban heat islands. We cannot stop (building of concrete structures) or reverse it. But we can take up plantation in a big way on vacant land and restore the green balance in the longer run,” Mr. Sridhar said. He said that the corporation has planned to clear construction and other debris dumped on government land, off the road leading to the venue of the River Festival, in Kuloor. That area will be fenced and plantation work will be taken up. Similarly, plantation work will be taken up in other vacant government plots by involving corporate firms, non-government organisations and other bodies, he said. Earlier, more than 100 saplings of flowering, fruit-bearing and medicinal plants were planted on the vacant land opposite the Patrika Bhavan, near Urwa Market. Mr. Roche brought the saplings out of the funds provided by KIOCL Limited. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra and Chairman and Managing Director of KIOCL Limited T. Saminathan inaugurated the plantation programme. Mr. Saminathan later handed over to the union notebooks meant for 196 students of Government Higher Primary Schools in Kombaru of Puttur taluk and in Madappady of Sullia taluk. Of the books sponsored by KIOCL Limited, 134 students of Kombaru school and 62 students of Madappady school will benefit, said president of the union Srinivas Nayak Indaje on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/36-vacant-govt-sites-identified-for-developing-urban-forest/article37204481.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KDEM to host technology summit in city tomorrow||The Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM), Mangaluru cluster, is organising “Mangaluru Technovanza-The emerging tech cluster” on Friday in the city to set the stage for the annual Bengaluru Tech Summit, scheduled from November 17 to 19, to attract global investors. To be conducted in hybrid mode, the event aims at understanding the expectations of global industries in identified emerging sectors and to highlight the initiatives undertaken for the Mangaluru cluster towards this end. KDEM is working towards five focus areas — IT Products & Services, BPM & GCC promotion, Innovations & Start-ups, ESDM, Beyond Bengaluru, and and Talent Accelerator, said a release. The Beyond Bengaluru programme is spearheading the objective of proliferating the growth of digital economy in clusters beyond Bengaluru for select identified clusters in the State by developing and facilitating a product-based ecosystem. Focus is on developing other cities — Mysuru, Huballi and Mangaluru — to develop them into homes for tech start-ups. Friday’s event will be held at The Ocean Pearl, from 10.45 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. While Aarian Capital Co-founder Chairman T.V. Mohandas Pai will deliver the keynote address on “Tech industry under New Normal – Potential for Mangalore”, Chairman of Vision Group on Information Technology Kris Gopalakrishnan, Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmer Welfare Shobha Karandlaje, Karnataka IT & BT Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and others will address the event at different times. The event will host four panel discussions covering various themes across the sector. Those intending in-person may register at https://tinyurl.com/mlrTS and those intending to attend virtually, may register athttps://tinyurl.com/MLRon- line.  The event aims at understanding the expectations of global industries in identified emerging sectors and to highlight the initiatives undertaken for the Mangaluru cluster towards this end||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kdem-to-host-technology-summit-in-city-tomorrow/article37204477.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Physical education teacher arrested for sexual harassment||The Dakshina Kannada Women Police on Tuesday arrested Eliyas Pinto, physical education teacher of a pre-university college in Puttur, on the charge of sexually harassing a 16-year-old student. According to a complaint, the student was undergoing sports training in the college ground in the evening of October 23 when Pinto started discussing with her about National Cadet Corps and called her to his cabin. By offering massage to relieve her from a sprain she had suffered in her waist, Pinto touched the girl inappropriately, the complaint said. The police have registered her complaint against Pinto for offences under Section 354 (A) of Indian Penal Code and under Section 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/physical-education-teacher-arrested-for-sexual-harassment/article37204469.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vigilance Awareness Week at MRPL||Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. began observing Vigilance Awareness Week with the theme, Independent India @ 75: Self Reliance with Integrity, here on Wednesday. MRPL Managing Director M. Venkatesh, Directors Pomila Jaspal (Finance) and Sanjay Verma (Refinery) and Chief Vigilance Officer Rajeev Kushwah inaugurated the programme in the presence of Executive Directors M. Elango (Refinery) and B.H.V. Prasad (Projects) at the Administrative Building. While Mr. Venkatesh administered the Integrity Pledge in Kannada, Ms. Jaspal administered it in English and Mr. Verma in Hindi. Employees from other departments took the pledge from their respective work location, said a release. Public Interest Disclosure and Protection of Informer Resolution awareness handbook was released on the occasion. Mr. Kushwah said that all the common queries and doubts on PIDPI are addressed in the booklet. Under the resolution, the identity of the complainant is kept secret and therefore, the complainant is protected from any victimisation for making the complaint. Stressing upon the importance of honesty and integrity in both personal and professional life, Mr. Venkatesh said that being vigilant helps to keep the company and the nation on the path of progress. He encouraged all employees to contribute to the development of the nation, by being vigilant and through participation. A short film on the theme “Independent India @ 75: Self Reliance with Integrity” was released for creating awareness on PIDPI resolution and integrity. General Manager (Vigilance) Lakshmeesha and other senior officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vigilance-awareness-week-at-mrpl/article37204474.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Punchithaya’s paintings on display till Saturday||The 13th episode of Art of the Week series presented by Art Kanara Trust showcases a collection of acrylic on canvas paintings by veteran artist P.S. Punchithaya of Kala Grama, Kasargod, Kerala. The display was unveiled in the presence of the former Member of Legislative Council Ganesh Karnik, Administrator of Father Muller Medical College Fr. Ajith Menezes, Swami Ekagamyanandaji of Mangaluru Ramakrishna Mutt and visual artist Kuppanna Kandgal. Mr. Punchithaya gave a live demonstration of his work on the occasion. Art of the Week series Art of the Week series is being presented by Art Kanara Trust jointly with S Cube Art Gallery and Mind Craft Studios. The paintings will continue to be on display till Saturday, between 11 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. and 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. at Kodialguthu Center for Art and Culture, G.G. Road, Ballalbagh. Nemiraj Shetty introduced the artist. Convener, INTACH Mangaluru, Subhas Chandra Basu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/punchithayas-paintings-on-display-till-saturday/article37204476.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Manipal Marathon in Feb. next||The Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) will organise the fifth edition of Manipal Marathon, on February 13, 2022. The Manipal Marathon-2022 is being organised in association with Udupi District Amateur Athletic Association. Addressing a press conference in Manipal on Tuesday, Pro Chancellor of MAHE H.S. Ballal said that physical activity helps keep immunity. Running is an excellent approach to improve physical and emotional well-being, he said. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat said that the marathon is being organised to support fitness movement. It is advised to exercise for at least half an hour to keep the body and mind healthy, Mr. Raghupati Bhat added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manipal-marathon-in-feb-next/article37204467.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rape accused arrested||The Surathkal Police on Tuesday arrested a 30-year-old man from Kinnigoli on the charge of raping a 20-year-old woman. The woman complained to the police that the accused, Munna alias Ibrahim, who worked in a mobile shop, obtained her phone number when she girl went to purchase a new mobile phone. He then started interacting with her, albeit without revealing his actual name. In August 2021, he called her to a lodge where he sexually assaulted her, she said. He also threatened her against revealing the incident to the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rape-accused-arrested/article37204468.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Protest against circular one-way rule||Members of Janata Dal (Secular), Mangaluru South Assembly segment, staged a demonstration in protest against the Clock Tower-to-Clock Tower circular one-way here on Wednesday. Addressing the members, party leader Sushil Noronha said that the unilateral decision by the city administration has inconvenienced residents. The rule should immediately be withdrawn, he said. He said that the Union and State Governments have provided Rs. 500 crore each for the Mangaluru Smart City Projects. However, MSCL has undertaken works in a haphazard manner and has failed to complete any work properly. Due to the unplanned execution, vehicular movement in the central parts of the city has been affected inconveniencing residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-circular-one-way-rule/article37204472.ece
28 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Bank gets HR award||Karnataka Bank was conferred with the “Top Organisations with Innovative HR Practices” Award at the 19th edition of Asia Pacific HRM Congress in Bengaluru on Tuesday. Bank General Manager (HR & IR) K. Mahalingeshwara received the award at the event. The award was presented to the bank for effectively implementing innovative HR practices for Human Resource Development and Talent Management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-bank-gets-hr-award/article37204475.ece
28 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Shoddy storm-water drain caused deluge||The flooding of several neighbourhoods in the city following heavy downpour recorded in the last few days has been attributed to the “missing links” in the storm-water drain network. The abrupt ending of drains, following discontinuation of works for various reasons, was said to be one of the key reasons for inundation of localities, especially those beyond the Outer Ring Road. Even as the Mysuru City Corporation has claimed that it has deployed additional men and machinery to address the damage and carry out relief work, the civic agency did not anticipate rains of this magnitude and prepared accordingly, and is now facing the flak. Residents in the affected areas seeking a permanent strategy to overcome such situations in the years ahead. As per the MCC’s assessment, based on inspections, drawings of drains and estimates prepared by the engineers, a sum of Rs. 113 crore was required immediately to interconnect the missing links of storm-water drains for uninterrupted movement of rainwater into the respective waterbodies. MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy told The Hindu that the MCC is writing to the government seeking a sum of Rs. 113 crore. In the absence of a link for water flow, waterlogging occurred wherever the natural path was missing. These works could not be completed under JNNURM. “We never had rains of this magnitude perhaps in the last 25 years. No damage was caused by these missing drain links in the past. But the unprecedented rains over the last few days aggravated the situation. We have checked all the drains and works up to Rs. 25 lakh are being taken up using the MCC funds. Some drain works need funds to the tune of Rs. 10 crore-Rs. 15 crore and the total sum needed is around Rs. 113 crore,” he said. Some drains are old and need to be strengthened and renovated. A few of them need to be widened for uninterrupted water movement. Some of these works require major grants and therefore the MCC is writing to the government, Mr. Reddy said. The estimates were prepared based on the MCC engineers’ ward-wide study of storm-water drains. Flooding of roads and localities can be addressed to a large extent if all the drains are connected, the Commissioner said. As far as the Bogadi lake is concerned, repair works have been taken up and problems are being addressed. The lake reached its brim after a long time and spilled over. The lake breach caused flooding of localities around Bogadi and the ring road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shoddy-storm-water-drain-caused-deluge/article37204369.ece
28 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Orangutans on display at Mysuru zoo||Visitors to the Mysuru zoo can get to see a new attraction – orangutans. Two pairs of orangutans that were brought to the zoo from Singapore and Malaysia can now be seen as the zoo management has put them for public viewing for the first time since their arrival in August this year. Bank Note Paper Mill India, Mysuru (BNPM) contributed a sum of Rs. 70 lakh under its CSR initiative for constructing the enclosure for orangutans. The construction was completed recently. The inauguration of the enclosure and public viewing of the animals was done on Wednesday. Tripti Patra Ghosh, Chairperson, BNPM, and CMD, Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Limited (SPMCIL), formally inaugurated the Orangutan house and the viewing of animals in the presence of Zoo Authority of Karnataka Member Secretary B.P. Ravi, Zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni, Chairperson Mahadevaswamy and directors and senior officials from the Bank Note Paper Mill India. The zoo management has thanked the BNPM for its concern towards conservation of the great apes. Under an animal exchange deal, 17-year-old male, Merlin, and 13-year-old female, Atina, arrived from Singapore zoo while five-year-old male, Afa, and the 7-year-old female, Minnie, were brought from Malaysia. In return, the Mysuru zoo has given two pairs of giraffes. The last time the zoo displayed orangutans, according to records, was in the 70s and the zoo authorities’ best efforts thereafter to get an orangutan pair did not materialise. The zoo also got two male gorillas and they are expected to be put on public display soon as the construction of the enclosure with funds from the Infosys Foundation is almost complete. “We hope to inaugurate the enclosure and public display of gorillas next month. Sudha Murthy has generously contributed from the Foundation for the construction of the gorilla house. The zoo management expresses its gratitude for making it happen,” said the zoo director. The European Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EAZA)-Gorilla European Endangered Species Programme (EEP) spared the gorillas, thanks to the zoo’s persistent correspondence with it. The 14-year-old Thabo and 8-year-old Demba were brought on August 19 from Germany and are currently in quarantine. This comes after the death of Polo, the Western Lowland gorilla, in 2014. Polo was gifted to Mysuru zoo by the Dublin zoo in 1995. It passed away after having lived without a companion for 18 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/orangutans-on-display-at-mysuru-zoo/article37204364.ece
28 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rain havoc: immediate release of compensation sought||Former MLA M.K. Somashekar on Wednesday demanded immediate release of compensation to those who suffered losses following flooding of their homes during the devastation caused by the recent rains. Alleging that the Mysuru City Corporation failed to make proper preparations for tackling rain damage, Congress workers and the supporters of Mr. Somashekar from K.R. constituency staged a demonstration outside the office of MCC. Raising slogans against the MCC and its officials, the protestors demanded that the MCC put in additional men and machinery for ensuring uninterrupted flow of rainwater, clearing the clogged drains and carrying out de-siltation of the storm-water drains for easing inundation. The losses suffered by the residents due to flooding of their neighbourhoods, especially in K.R. constituency, should be borne by the MCC, releasing relief to the affected persons, they demanded. The former MLA sought immediate repairs of roads in K.R. constituency where potholes are posing risks to motorists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-havoc-immediate-release-of-compensation-sought/article37204367.ece
28 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||KRS is now almost full||The water level at the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir across the Cauvery was 124.35 ft. at 9 p.m. on Wednesday and expected to reach the Full Reservoir Level (FRL) of 124.80 ft. in due course. This is for the first time in recent decades that the dam is set to attain the FRL during a monsoon cycle as late as in the last week of October. The water level had reached 123.75 ft. at 6 p.m. on Tuesday inching its way up towards the FRL. The dam authorities said that the backwater span increases with the rise in the reservoir level and hence the process tends to get delayed in case the inflow is not very high. The rate of inflow was around 12,530 cusecs at 6 p.m. on Wednesday, down from 17,972 cusecs on Tuesday, and the area that gets submerged when the dam attains the FRL is nearly 129 sq km. Meanwhile, the outflow from the reservoir was reduced and was at the rate of 3,608 cusecs. The water was being impounded to ensure that the dam attains the FRL following which the outflow will be matched by the corresponding inflow. CM to offer bagina soon Sources said that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is expected to offer the traditional thanksgiving (bagina) at KRS on the dam attaining the FRL, in due course. Though the tentative datehas been fixed as November 2, it is not yet finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krs-is-now-almost-full/article37204365.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Railway recruitment racket unearthed in Mysuru||Investigations revealed that many had given money by selling their land and taking hand loans at high interest rates. The RPF seized 221 blank signed cheque leaves, Rs. 4.15 lakh in cash, original documents of aspiring candidates, chequebooks, about 100 fake railway appointment orders, 70 fake nameplates of TTEs, a laptop, a computer etc., from the gang. The accused and the seized material have been handed over to the Mandi police for initiating the legal process, according to railway authorities. A case has ben registered at Mandi police station under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru, has appealed to aspiring candidates preparing to appear for railway recruitment tests, to visit the official websites of Railway Recruitment Boards only. He said any information/notices being circulated in the social media on offers being made by individuals should be brought to the notice of the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railway-recruitment-racket-unearthed-in-mysuru/article37204372.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A moment’s rest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-moments-rest/article37204180.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Art exhibition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/art-exhibition/article37203938.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||That’s it||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/thats-it/article37204471.ece
28 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Health worker alleges attack||The Cherthala police have registered a case after a female government health staff was knocked down by an unknown vehicle at Nedumbrakkad near Cherthala. The alleged incident happened on October 24. S. Shanthi, 34 of Pallipuram, a nurse at the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, sustained a fracture on her face and leg injuries in the incident. Ms. Shanthi said the incident bore signs of a deliberate attack on her. As per the police complaint, she was returning home after duty on her scooter when a motorcycle hit her vehicle thrice from behind near Nedumbrakkad Government school around 8 p.m. She fell off the bike and was taken to a hospital by locals. Although a couple in a car, which reached the spot around the same time, tried to follow the motorcycle, it sped away. The police said that they had registered a case for a motor accident and were in the process of identifying the vehicle. “We have launched a detailed investigation and are probing all angles. More sections would be added based on the findings of the probe,” said Vinod Kumar, Circle Inspector, Cherthala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-worker-alleges-attack/article37204346.ece
28 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||LDF getting stronger: Pinarayi||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) is going from strength to strength, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was virtually addressing the valedictory function of the week-long observance of the 75th anniversary of the Punnapra-Vayalar uprising on Wednesday. Mr. Vijayan said the previous LDF government had earned the trust of people through good works and transparency. The people had faith in the government, which resulted in the LDF returning to power earlier this year. Committed to welfare “After the election, the LDF is gaining support. More parties and organisations are aligning with the Left front. Among them are top leaders of the Congress party in the State,” Mr. Vijayan said. The Chief Minister said his government was committed to the welfare of the people and development of the State. “The government has initiated a number of projects in education, health, industry, basic infrastructure among other sectors,” Mr. Vijayan said. Anti-people policies Mr. Vijayan said the Centre was implementing anti-people policies. “People who took part in the Punnapra- Vayalar uprising laid down their lives for freedom and democratic rights. But the fascist forces are now trying to undermine the rights and values gained through sacrifices,” he said. The Punnapra- Vayalar revolt led by the undivided CPI is celebrated as a watershed event in the history of the Communist movement in the State. It is named after two of the places involved. The communist parties consider the uprising against the Maharaja of erstwhile Travancore and his Devan (prime minister) C.P. Ramaswamy Iyer a part of the freedom struggle. Brave fight Labourers armed with arecanut staves and choppers put up a brave fight but the government forces with guns overpowered them and several people lost their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-getting-stronger-says-pinarayi/article37204271.ece
28 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Shutter 3 of Cheruthoni dam closed as level dips||Shutter number 3 of the Cheruthoni dam of the Idukki reservoir which remained open to 40 cm was also closed on Wednesday following a decline in water level. A few days back, the shutter number 2 and 4 were closed. The KSEB authorities said that the shutter was closed at 3.15 p.m. The water level at 5 p.m. was 2,397.90.ft which was 94.03% of the full storage level. The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam slowly increased to 137.70 ft by evening after remaining steady for two days. Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 2,300 cfs, while the inflow was the same at 5 p.m. From October 21 onwards the new rule curve was applicable for Idukki dam. Power generation was maximum at the Moolamattom power plant and it was 14.804 mu on Tuesday. District Collector Sheeba George said that some people were spreading panic about Mullaperiyar dam and cases will be registered against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shutter-3-of-cheruthoni-dam-closed/article37204347.ece
28 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Farmers on hunger stir seeking title deeds||A group of farmers under the aegis of Forest Lease Karshaka Samara Samiti began a 24-hour hunger strike at Sulthan Bathery in Wayanad on Wednesday raising a slew of demands, including granting of title deeds for leased land. Samiti convenor Balakrishnan Panappady said over 3,500 families, including tribal families, in the district had been living on leased forestland under the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary for the past several decades. They have no right over the land, as the Forest Department had stopped receiving tax in 2002. They have been denied all basic amenities such as electricity, good roads, education, and health care. Most families had settled on leased land under the Grow More Food programme of the British government during World War II. Besides being denied compensation for crop loss, banks have constantly declined to grant agricultural and housing loans to the families owing to lack of documents, Mr. Panappady said. If the authorities fail to issue title deeds, the Samiti will launch an indefinite stir, he warned. Other demands The protesters also raised demands such as permitting farmers to construct houses on leased land, provision of basic amenities, and withdrawal of cases pertaining to house construction. Hindu Aikya Vedi State secretary P.N. Muraleedharn inaugurated the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-on-hunger-strike-seeking-title-deeds/article37204279.ece
28 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Voice test: Surendran files plea||BJP State president K. Surendran on Wednesday filed a petition in the First Class Judicial Magistrate Court at Sulthan Bathery requesting to conduct his voice matching test in a Central forensic laboratory, instead of the State Forensic Science Laboratory in Thiruvananthapuram. Mr. Surendran said in his petition that the central laboratories had more authenticity than State laboratories and there were chances for fabrication if the test was conducted in State laboratories. The court would consider the petition on Monday. The Crime Branch collected his voice sample to verify the authenticity of an audio clip released by Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party treasurer Praseeta Azhikode in a bribery case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/voice-test-surendran-files-plea/article37204327.ece
28 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||KTDC resort to come up near drive-in-beach||Keeping in view the growing tourism prospects in north Malabar, especially Kannur, the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation is planning to construct a premium (5-star) resort adjoining Asia’s longest drive-in beach at Muzhappilangad. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will lay the foundation stone on October 30. P. Balan, Chief Minister’s constituency representative, told the media that the government had given permission to construct the resort near the beach at a cost of Rs. 39 crore. It will come up on 3.96 acres and will have 40 rooms, including eight suites, swimming pool, spa, and restaurants in the first phase. The work will be completed in 18 months. Tourism Department Deputy Director P.V. Prashanth said that during the 1960s, the KTDC had played a prominent role in developing tourism in places such as Kovalam and Thekkady. He said that the new resort at Muzhappilangad would set the stage for development of tourism in north Malabar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktdc-resort-to-come-up-near-drive-in-beach/article37204281.ece
28 October 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Like forests, open lands too sustain biodiversity: study||In the context of climate change and global warming, all are concerned about conserving forests, planting and raising green islets at the cost of “degraded lands” with the deep-rooted assumption that forests sustain life the most. However, a study carried out by a team of researchers from the Central University of Kerala by taking dung beetles as models, suggests that it does not always hold true. Dung beetles are pivotal to any terrestrial ecosystem for three major reasons - dung and carrion removal, nutrient recycling and mineralisation of soil, and secondary dispersal of seeds from the dung. They have rollers, dwellers, and tunnellers to disperse the ephemeral dung. Both the adults and grubs feed and develop on dung. The team took the two habitats of sacred groves and adjoining home yards to investigate the habitat preference of beetles. Sacred groves are relics of secondary forests and yards are open orchards. To understand the diel preference of the beetles, they sampled beetles using cow dung as a bait during day and night from 11 pairs of two habitats across Kasaragod district. “I thought that forests, because they are cooler and shady, might support a greater activity of the beetles any time of the day,” said Asha, the Ph.D student of the ecology labs of CUK. But, to their great surprise, dung baits placed in open yards attracted over 86% of the beetles collected in the study. Overall, beetles have a marginal preference for day as 60% of the them were collected during the day. The diel pattern of activity was contrasting for open and shaded habitats. In home yards, beetles preferred day over night for their foraging activities. In sacred groves, 70% of the beetles’ activity was during the night. The two dominant species collected in the study, Tiniocellus spinipes and Tibiodrepanus setosus, were exclusively collected from homeyards, and that too during the day. . The paper, published in Scientific Reports , a journal from the Nature group, has K. Manoj and P.P. Megha as two other authors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/like-forests-open-lands-too-sustain-biodiversity-study/article37204283.ece
28 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Police see spurt in attempts to fly abroad on forged documents||The Ernakulam rural police remain puzzled by the sudden spurt in attempts to fly abroad using forged educational and travel documents. As many as 12 cases were registered this month alone for such illegal attempts to fly to the U.K. through the Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL). This has prompted the formation of a special investigation squad led by Aluva DySP to probe these cases. “The accused were charged with different offences, including forgery of educational qualification certificates and travel documents. They were found in possession of fraudulently secured student visas. We are not ruling out the involvement of an inter-State racket behind these incidents,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). He said that this was a latent phenomenon unlike job frauds, which were rampant. The ones nabbed were found to be in possession of the degree and plus two certificates forged in the name of major universities within the State and outside like the Kerala University, Mahatma Gandhi University, Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapith University, Banaras Hindu University, Madurai Kamaraj University, etc. Most of the forgeries were found to be in the name of distant education courses. While most of these universities offer such courses, it requires applicants to follow a proper protocol, including attending classes and appearing for exams at select centres. Four youngsters offloaded by the Emigration wing at CIAL on Sunday had allegedly paid between Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 90,000 for securing the forged certificates. They were on their way to the United Kingdom on student visas. Such frauds could bring disrepute to the genuine students from here in the UK, Mr. Karthik said. An Ernakulam-based lobby is suspected to be behind the racket. A consultancy firm in Aluva was also inspected in this regard. The forged certificates were reportedly secured from different places like Kottayam, Malappuram, and Kozhikode. The investigation team is probing the possibility of more such forgeries and even cases in which people would have managed to skip scrutiny and actually flown abroad. The police are keeping a close eye on fly-by operators who offer various courses without any recognition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-see-spurt-in-attempts-to-fly-abroad-on-forged-documents/article37204301.ece
28 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Residents’ forum peeved at delay in developing diversion routes||Protest is brewing against Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL), the State Government and the district administration, since preparatory works to divert traffic when the Civil Line Road is barricaded as part of the metro’s Kakkanad extension have not been finalised. Most alternative roads through which traffic can be diverted when the metro construction is on are also in a dilapidated condition. Moreover, bottlenecks to smooth movement of vehicles abound on most of the roads, due to encroachments, narrow junctions, and haphazard parking. The Ernakulam District Residents’ Associations Apex Council (EDRAAC) expressed concern over KMRL, the district administration and the State Government not readying a package to develop alternative roads. “They should have been developed by now, on the lines of preparatory works that were carried out before piling commenced for building the metro viaduct in the Aluva-Maharaja’s College-Pettah corridor. The State Government had back then sanctioned over Rs. 200 crore for developing alternative roads to divert vehicles and to build or rebuild overbridges at Ernakulam North, Pachalam and near KSRTC bus stand,” said A. Ajithkumar, former general secretary and current executive committee member of EDRAAC. Such a package must be announced at least now, after taking residents’ associations, merchant bodies and others into confidence. Their help would be crucial in clearing bottlenecks and in evicting encroachers, he said. Most roads that take off from the eastern side of the NH Bypass and join the Seaport-Airport Road through Vennala must be upgraded for vehicle diversion on a priority basis. Bottlenecked junctions like the ones in front of Vennala High School and Alinchuvadu and steep curves too must be widened. A few roads could temporarily be converted as one-way corridors, he added. Mayor M. Anilkumar said that he was aware of concerns over mounting traffic hold-ups and the bad condition of many roads through which traffic could be diverted. “The busy Puthiya Road will shortly be resurfaced, while Industries Minister P. Rajeeve will be apprised of the need to develop the rest of the roads and to clear bottlenecks,” he said. While the EMC Road was recently resurfaced, contractors were shying away from taking up patch works and resurfacing of other roads, citing issues including difficulties in procuring bitumen, said K.B. Harshal, councillor representing Division 46 (Chakkaraparambu) in the Kochi Corporation. “It will be great if the Government announces a package to compensate people whose land or buildings would have to be partially acquired to widen narrow parts of roads. Most traders at Vennala Junction are willing to surrender land if they are compensated for,” he said. Waterlogging is yet another persistent issue due to unscientific laying of pipes across the NH Bypass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-forum-peeved-at-delay-in-developing-diversion-routes/article37204294.ece
28 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Preparations pending, only a few cinemas open||Only a section of the cinemas in the State reopened on Wednesday in view of the pending preparatory works and the possibilities of a low turnout in the initial days. The number of theatres that started screening movies would be less than 10%, said P.V. Basheer Ahamed, president of the Kerala Film Exhibitors’ Federation. “It will take at least three or four days for the situation to turn normal. Many theatres have to complete the cleaning and other works before reopening,” he said. The Government has permitted 50% occupancy in view of the pandemic restrictions. Only those who had received two doses of vaccine will be allowed into theatres. The cinemas resumed operations by screening Daniel Craig’s last James Bond movie No Time to Die.  Other releases Tamil actor Sivakarthikeyan’s Doctor will release on Thursday. Joju George’s Star will be the first Malayalam movie to reach cinemas after the reopening, which would be screened from Friday. Actor Rajinikanth’s Deepavali release Annaatthe will hit theatres on November 4. Dulquer Salmaan’s Kurup will be the first major release in Malayalam on November 12, followed by Suresh Gopi’s Kaaval on November 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/preparations-pending-only-a-few-cinemas-open/article37204330.ece
28 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Writer M.K. Sanoo turns 95||Kochi celebrated the 95th birthday of its literary son M.K. Sanoo on Wednesday albeit in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. Though the writer and critic chose to stay back at home after recovering from COVID-19, Mr. Sanoo was kept busy with phone calls from well-wishers across the world. He also participated in an online event organised by his disciples and friends at Chavara Cultural Centre. Mr. Sanoo was an active presence in public functions till he was tested positive for COVID-19 recently. Usually, visitors throng his house at Karikkamuri during birthdays, which was not the case this time. His well-wishers this time showed their love and care by keeping away from his home considering the pandemic situation. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had also requested Mr. Sanoo to keep away from public functions even though he had tested negative. As Mr. Sanoo chose to honour that request following which the organisers also effected changes in the programme originally organised at the Chavara Cultural Centre. Only a close bunch of friends and relatives, including his wife Ratnamma, children Ranjith, Rekha, and Geetha, were along with him at his home. In the function held at Chavara Cultural Centre, Mayor M. Anilkumar cut the birthday cake with Mr. Sanoo’s children. Mr. Anilkumar said that Mr. Sanoo remained his favourite teacher though he had never been his student. Prof. M. Thomas Mathew, D.B. Binu, Fr. Thomas Puthusserry, CICC Jayachandran were among those present.  He was kept busy with phone calls from well-wishers across the world on the day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mk-sanoo-turns-95/article37204296.ece
28 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Case registered against 15 students after KSU-SFI clash at Choondy||The Edathala police have registered a case against 15 students, reportedly members of the Kerala Students Union (KSU) and the Students Federation of India (SFI) after they clashed on the road at Choondy in Aluva. An argument over erecting a flagpole led to the tension on Tuesday around 10 p.m. The tension continued for almost an hour till the police intervened and removed those involved. Several persons are said to have sustained minor injuries. The police have also booked 25 identifiable persons and launched an investigation to identify the remaining members involved in the clash. Found dead The body of a man who had reportedly gone missing since Sunday night was recovered from a waterbody at Kothad on Wednesday afternoon. The deceased was identified as Jayan Thekkedath, 42, a resident of Mamangalam, Ernakulam. The Palarivattom police had registered a case and launched an investigation since he had reportedly gone missing at around 8.30 p.m. on Sunday. The car belonging to the deceased was found parked along Kothad bridge on Tuesday afternoon. Later, his body was found under the bridge. Prima facie, it appears to be a case of suicide, the police said. The body was handed over to the kin after formalities. Woman drowns A woman drowned after she reportedly jumped into Muttar River from a bridge at Eloor in what is suspected to be a suicide on Wednesday around 10 a.m. The deceased was identified as Lekha M.S, 55, of North Kalamassery. Though firefighters and locals rescued her, she died while being rushed to a hospital. Suicide prevention helpline — 0484-2540530||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-registered-against-15-students-after-ksu-sfi-clash-at-choondy/article37204305.ece
28 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Varuna Vidyalaya could be converted into KV’||The NPOL Civilian Employees’ Union, affiliated to All India Defence Employees’ Federation, has brought up a point that Varuna Vidyalaya, now being operated by a private group of educational institutions on a private-public partnership basis, could be converted into a full-fledged Kendriya Vidyalaya even as there is a search on for a suitable location for a Kendriya Vidyalaya in Kakkanad that has been allotted for the State. While the Kendriya Vidyalaya authorities, who visited the two sites identified by the Thrikkakara municipal authorities early this week for setting up the new Kendriya Vidyalaya, have not reached a decision, the civilian defence employees at the Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory in Kakkanad are of the opinion that the infrastructure built under the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the Varuna Vidyalaya could be utilised to establish the Kendriya Vidyalaya without any difficulty. While the DRDO has built the infrastructure, the day-to-day running of the school, including appointment of teachers and other staff, is managed by the private group on the basis of an agreement with the defence organisation. There are 17 such schools under the DRDO across India but only the Kakkanad school is being run on a PPP model, said M.K. Abhilash, general secretary of the NPOL Civilian Employees’ Association. Leaders of the employees’ association have met District Collector Jafar Malik, who is the nodal officer for finding an ideal location for Kendriya Vidyalaya in Kakkanad, to present their suggestions and seek his opinion on the matter, Mr. Abhilash added. He said that the present Varuna Vidyalaya has sufficient infrastructure available and that the transition to a full-fledged Kendriya Vidyalaya could be in a phased manner as the long-term contract is set to end in 2025.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varuna-vidyalaya-could-be-converted-into-kv/article37204304.ece
28 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Manipulation’ in NEET: HC orders NTA probe||The Kerala High Court has directed the National Testing Agency (NTA) to conduct an investigation into the allegations of manipulation in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) OMR sheet raised by a canndidate. Justice N. Nagaresh passed the order on a writ petition filed by Rithu Sibi from Thrissur. According to her, she wrote NEET 2021 held on September 12. She alleged that when she had gone through the OMR sheet attached to her application number, her signature was seen manipulated. The name of the petitioner’s mother and father written in the sheet were different. The roll number of the petitioner in the numerical did not tally with the bubbled portion. She asserted that she had levelled the allegations with absolute conviction and honesty and was aware of the consequences arising from making such statements. The court said taking into consideration all these aspects an inquiry in the matter was required. The court directed the NTA to conduct a probe into the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/manipulation-in-neet-hc-orders-nta-probe/article37203841.ece
28 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL signs pact for rejuvenation of canals||Kochi Water Metro and SCMS Water Institute have entered into an agreement for technical cooperation and study related to rejuvenation of canals in Kochi. KMRL Managing Director Lokanath Behera was among those present when SCMS Group vice-chairman Pramod P. Thevannoor and Kochi Water Metro general manager Rekha Prakash signed the MoU, said a communication here. SCMS Water Institute director Sunny George and KMRL senior deputy general manager Sumi Natarajan were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-signs-pact-for-rejuvenation-of-canals/article37204303.ece
28 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Healthcare Act: HC seeks views of Govt.||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday sought the view of the State on including security and managerial staff of hospitals under the provisions of the Kerala Healthcare Service Persons and Healthcare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Act. The Bench comprising Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice Kauser Edappagath passed the order when a review petition by the Kerala Private Hospital Association against fixing of charges for COVID treatment in private hospitals came up for hearing. The Bench granted the Government time to address the issue of providing free treatment for post-COVID issues for 30 days after a patient tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/healthcare-act-hc-seeks-views-of-govt/article37204316.ece
28 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Police turn sand dune into a plantain farm||Police officers of Kollam coastal police station have accomplished a ‘fruitful mission’ by converting a barren stretch of sand dune into an orchard. Dumping of dredged sediment from Ashtamudi estuary has formed extended areas of fallow land in the coast and the expanse is considered unfit for agriculture due to the salinity of the soil. The piece of land near the station had become a dump yard for all types of waste over the years and the efforts to transform it was started nearly eight months back. “We started plantain farming in the land that hardly had any vegetation. We opted for indigenous varieties like monthan and the farm produced a bumper yield,” said M.C.Prasanthan, Sub–Inspector. Soil Reclamation Technology was used for conditioning the soil and the land was made cultivable with the help of S.M. Raffi, coastal ecologist and Associate Professor, Department of Aquatic Biology and Fisheries, University of Kerala. While the dead soil was rejuvenated with organic fertilisers and fish waste along with microbial consortium, the cops ensured proper watering and monitoring. Special care was also given in using organic pesticides and natural fertilisers only and the first batch of banana bunches were harvested on Wednesday by Shinu Thomas, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Karunagapally. According to Mr.Raffi, initiatives of this kind can be replicated in similar denuded coastal areas and fringes across estuaries. “An integrated eco-friendly initiative of this kind will certainly pave the way to eradicate the coastal pollution to a greater extent, encourage coastal agro farming, and also ensure as an alternative livelihood option for the fishers,”he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-turn-sand-dune-into-a-plantain-farm/article37204272.ece
28 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Book festival in Kollam||Writer K.R Meera on Wednesday visited the book festival organised by Kollam District Library Development Committee and interacted with the readers. Committee Chairman K. B Muralikrishnan presided over the meeting while convener D. Sukeshan and State Library Council executive member P. K. Gopan were present on the occasion. Ms Meera visited all the stalls at the festival while readers received author signed copies from her. Two noted writers Benyamin and K.R.Mallika will visit the festival on Thursday and attend interactive sessions. The organisers have made all arrangements for the public and libraries to buy books at the fest conducted in complete compliance with COVID-19 protocol. The festival ends on October 29 and the timing is 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/book-festival-in-kollam/article37204350.ece
28 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||790 new COVID cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 790 new cases of COVID-19 and 599 recoveries on Wednesday. While 787 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include three health workers. At present the district has 18,380 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 25,19,332. While 1,325 people completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 4,00,363 primary and 21,598 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 14.3 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/790-new-covid-cases-in-kollam/article37204352.ece
28 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam railway station to get major facelift||A high-level meeting of railway officials convened here on Wednesday decided to complete the ongoing renovation works on the Kottayam railway station by April next year. As per the new plan, the platform number one, which is 546 m long, will be expanded to 760 m. The length of the platform number two will be raised to 627 m from 500 m while the 390 m long platform will be expanded to 647 m. The fourth platform, coming up in the Good Shed area, will be 647 meters long. As part of the track doubling works, a separate platform at 327 m for Ernakulam-bound MEMU trains too will be constructed. The expansion of platforms, according to Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, is expected to address the difficulty experienced by the passengers in embarking or disembarking the rear coaches of many a long-distance train. Construction of a second entry to the railway station from the Goodshed side will be completed by April. Parking facilities for 150 cars will be provided on 2.5 acres of property adjacent to the station while the existing road that leads to the Goods shed will be retained. A multi-level facility with a capacity to park 400 two-wheelers has already been opened in the station premises. Pilgrim Centre The three-storey Pilgrim Centre, with a rest area for 450 pilgrims and toilet facilities for 60, will be opened by the end of November when the Sabarimala season begins. More booking counters will be opened during the Sabarimala season and better facilities will be provided to the pilgrims. The rest house currently used by the devotees will be air-conditioned and opened for general travellers. The re installation of an escalator at the station will be completed by January while works on the elevator connecting platform number one to platform number two will be completed next February. The access road to the parcel office will be expanded and opened to the differently abled persons as well. A new gate will be open from the bus stop near RMS office to the first platform. . The booking office, reservation counter and the main part of the platform will be beautified with sealing and paneling works. Considering a proposal by the Athirampuzha grama panchayat for setting up a ‘Take a Break’ centre in the Ettumanur station, the railway asked for a change in location. A decision on restoring the Athirampuzha-Kattahi road will be taken after discussion at the division level. Divisional railway manager (Southern Railway) Mukund Ramaswamy, senior Divisional Commercial Manager P A Dhanajayan, Divisional Engineer (Special Work) Sreekumar A V were among those attended the meeting. The delegation also reviewed the progress of the ongoing works through a site inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-railway-station-to-get-major-facelift/article37204354.ece
28 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Migrant labour camps under scanner for drug trafficking||The police and local vigilance committees, including residents’ associations and youth clubs, have intensified surveillance of migrant workers’ camps in Kozhikode district in the wake of a spurt in drug trafficking and substance abuse cases involving migrants. Over 30,000 migrant workers are temporarily staying in rented and other facilities in the district, and a few of them are reportedly involved in drug peddling to earn extra income. Police sources said some migrant workers were suspected to be selling cheap alcoholic drinks in branded soft drink bottles to evade checking. Some make their own booze by mixing liquor with cannabis or other tranquillizers for quick business, they added. In a recent seizure, the police identified such a toxic mix, which was prepared using liquor and ganja extract. Several migrant workers at Mankavu and nearby areas are customers of the hallucinogenic concoction, which is sold in huge quantities. “The Government Railway Police [GRP] and the Railway Protection Force are always alert, as instances of smuggling of ganja and banned pan masala products have been found to be increasing with the resumption of train services following a lull in the pandemic situation. In many cases, migrant labourers are suspected to be behind the discreet shipping,” said a GRP official. According to him, inter-State agents are keen on doing the business, as they have a permanent customer base mostly comprising migrant workers in Kerala. On the instructions of the police, residents’ forums have asked building owners to keep an eye on their tenants’ activities. In many cases, building owners are not so keen to check the premises, which helps peddlers safely hide their stuff. Patrol Excise personnel too are conducting patrol to net suspected labourers. Poovattuparamba village near Mavoor has a full-fledged team of local volunteers to take on the menace on an experimental basis. Similar local groups are under the consideration of both the police and Excise in other vulnerable areas.  Some migrant workers are suspected to be selling cheap alcoholic drinks in branded soft drink bottles to evade checking Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-labour-camps-under-scanner-for-drug-trafficking/article37204289.ece
28 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Proposed KSRTC services from mofussil stand draw flak||All Kerala Private Bus Operators’ Organisation has flayed the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation’s move to start inter-district and inter-State bus services from the mofussil bus stand, apart from operating usual services from its own exclusive terminal on Mavoor Road. Organisation leaders said the unrestricted entry of KSRTC buses to the congested mofussil bus stand created a chaotic situation affecting passengers’ safety. “We had already resisted such a move in the past citing the same reason. The KSRTC has many spacious low-floor buses, which will cause hurdles for the trouble-free operation of city and rural services,” said K. Radhakrishnan, district president of the organisation. He pointed out that such a service expansion could be considered only after developing the congested terminal. According to private bus operators, the KSRTC has two dedicated tracks at the mofussil bus stand to operate essential services, apart from the exclusive facility at the Mavoor Road terminal. This cannot be increased now considering the limited parking space for private buses, which are often using the wayside for parking, they argued. The organisation will submit a memorandum to the Kozhikode Corporation on Thursday. At the same time, private bus operators are planning to prevent the entry of KSRTC buses to the mofussil stand in case the corporation takes a decision in favour of the KSRTC. Meanwhile, KSRTC sources said they had not confirmed any new schedule from the mofussil bus stand in the wake of opposition from private bus operators. They added that the proposal was made mainly to address passengers’ concerns and improve connectivity between the city’s two prominent bus terminals.  KSRTC has two dedicated tracks at the mofussil bus stand, and they cannot be increased considering the limited parking space Private bus operators||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proposed-ksrtc-services-from-mofussil-stand-draw-flak/article37204286.ece
28 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||‘Znehazandram’ award presented||Cherupuzha native Elizabeth S. Mathew was presented with the maiden Znehazandram Excellence Award instituted by the Kozhikode-based Zmart Foundation for inspiring personalities. Ms. Mathew was chosen for the honour comprising a purse of Rs. 50,000 and memento considering her inspirational musical talent despite her continuing struggle to overcome the neurological disorder Tourette syndrome. Mayor Beena Philip presented the award to the winner recently. The event also witnessed the launch of Zmart Foundation’s cancer care membership for 35 selected beneficiaries for treatment aid. T. Siddique, MLA, handed over the memberships. MVR Cancer Centre and Calicut City Service Cooperative Bank teamed up with the initiative, which was realised with the sponsorship of Puthumana Veettil family from Puthuppally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/znehazandram-award-presented/article37204288.ece
28 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||KAT stays order on teachers’ promotion||The Ernakulam Additional Bench of the Kerala Administrative Tribunal (KAT), Thiruvananthapuram, on Wednesday stayed an order of the Principal Secretary, General Education, allowing promotion of unqualified persons “in public interest” as head teachers in Government primary schools in the State. The stay order is also applicable to a letter sent by the Principal Secretary to the Director General of Education (DGE) and a circular issued by the DGE to all educational officers calling for appointment of head teachers only on seniority basis. The Bench directed the Principal Secretary, the DGE, and the Deputy Director of Education, and District Education Officer, Kozhikode, to give “preferential appointment” to qualified teachers as head teachers where the post had become vacant after May 31, 2019, if there is any “extreme emergency” and “public interest”. The Principal Secretary had issued the order on October 21 in view of around 2,000 schools remaining headless following a court stay on promotions in a case filed by teachers who passed the mandatory department-level tests. The Government is reported to have issued the order to avoid a possible administrative logjam because of the shortage as the classes begin next month. The order cited Rule 31(a)(i) of the Kerala State & Subordinate Service Rules to enable the appointing authority to promote a person on a temporary basis if there is a delay in the promotion as per rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kat-stays-order-on-teachers-promotion/article37204314.ece
28 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Awareness event against attacks on health workers||The students’ union of the Government Medical College, Kozhikode, held an awareness drive on Wednesday night about the legal consequences of attacks on healthcare workers. It was in view of the physical assault on a postgraduate medical doctor by a patient’s father after he was informed about his son’s death. Deepak, 15, of Aikkarappadi in Malappuram had been in the intensive care unit for severe acute respiratory diseases since October 5. When Mohammed Masood Khan, the postgraduate doctor, informed C. Vinod, the boy’s father about his death on Monday, Mr. Vinod reportedly slapped him on his face. The awareness initiative was held in front of the casualty ward of the medical college hospital. The medical students described the legal provisions against attacks on healthcare workers. The police have registered a case against Mr. Vinod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awareness-event-against-attacks-on-health-workers/article37204277.ece
28 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Handloom expo opens in Kozhikode||A cotton and silk handloom garment fest with the participation of prominent artisans from the eastern part of the country is underway at the CSI Hall in Kozhikode. Handmade jewellery items and handicrafts from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, and West Bengal villages are also on display at the show. According to the organisers, the purpose of the exhibition is to promote the traditional handloom products and handicrafts in such a way as to suit the contemporary lifestyle designs. For more details, contact: 9602620310.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/handloom-expo-under-way/article37204284.ece
28 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Jumbo calf’s trunk gets caught in metal fence at Attappady||A mother elephant and its calf caused a scare at Mukkali in Attappady in Palakkad district on Wednesday after the two-year-old calf got its trunk entangled in an iron fence. The calf caught its trunk in the fence of the Chindakki Cooperative Farming Society. Local residents noticed the mother and the calf at the spot in the morning, which triggered panic. None could help the calf extricate its trunk as the mother elephant showed signs of belligerence. Mother elephant A team of Forest officials led by Silent Valley Wildlife Warden S. Vinod reached the spot and tried to move the mother elephant away from its calf. Attempts to extricate the calf’s trunk failed as the mother elephant continued to create fear. A team of forest veterinary surgeons led by Arun Zacharia was called in from Wayanad in order to tranquilise the elephants. However, the forest team could manage to cut the fence soon, helping the calf extricate itself from the fence and run across the river Bhavani and into the forest. The tranquiliser team, however, had to return midway. Forest officials said that they would observe the mother elephant in the next several days to ensure the safety of the calf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-calfs-trunk-caught-in-metal-fence/article37203854.ece
28 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sabarimala Ayyappa temple to open on November 2||The Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala will be opened for the Chithira Aattathirunal festival on November 2. The devotees will be permitted to the hilltop from November 3 morning. Devotees, who were unable to visit the hill shrine despite booking a slot in the virtual queue during the monthly poojas of Thulam due to the flood situation, too will be permitted entry on the day. In view of the COVID-19 situation, devotees who have booked slots in the queue system are required to carry the certificate of vaccination or RT-PCR test. The temple will be closed by 9 p.m after rendering Harivarasanam. The hill shrine will reopen for the two-months long Mandalam-Makaravilakku pilgrimage season beginning on November 15 . The newly selected melsanthis for the Ayyappa temple and the Malikappuram Devi temple –N. Parameswaran Namboothiri and Shambhu Namboothiri will take charge on the occasion. The devotees, who have booked for darsan through the virtual queue system, will be permitted entry to the hill shrine from November 16 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-to-open-on-november-2/article37204273.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||For safer, smarter adventure||The Government of Kerala has made registration mandatory for service providers in the adventure tourism sector for conducting a wide range of land, water, and air-related activities. The registration is to ensure the quality and safety aspect of the adventure activities. The procedures and protocols of Adventure Tourism Safety and Security Regulations for according registration for operators were drawn up by Kerala Adventure Tourism Promotion Society (KATPS), which functions under the Department of Tourism. KAPTS had set up an expert committee to prepare safety parameters for the adventure tourism sector. The panel, led by former KATPS Chief Executive Officer Manesh Bhaskar, had prepared a consolidated ‘Adventure Tourism Safety and Security Regulations’ by taking into account the popular 31 adventure tourism activities in the State. Tourism Director V.R. Krishna Teja said Kerala considered adventure tourism a highly promising segment, especially in the post-pandemic surge. “By introducing the registration system, foolproof safety and standard will be achieved in the sector, helping Kerala to attract more tourists,” a press note quoting him said. Criteria Registration would be provided solely based on the criteria stipulatedby the regulations. The Tourism Director would accord the registration,valid for two years, after inspection of the facilities and operational features of the service providers by a team of Tourism officials and experts. The Kovalam-based Bond Water Sports Pvt. Ltd. has become the first adventure tourism activity provider in the State to obtain the registration under the new system for scuba diving, kayaking, and parasailing. The regulations will be updated in accordance with the new adventure activities that crop up in the sector in future. Complete details of the registration system are available on https://www.kerala   adventure.org/ or https://www.kerala   tourism.org/business/   The Tourism Director will accord the registration,valid for two years, after inspection of the facilities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/registration-mandatory-for-adventure-tourism-activities/article37204344.ece
28 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Oppn. councillors end protest, say stir a success||Councillors of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) on Wednesday ended their separate protests going on for the past few weeks over the revenue fund misappropriation issue at the city Corporation. Both parties claimed the recent arrests of officials as the success of their protests. While the UDF called off their protest earlier in the day, the BJP ended the protest late in the evening, following a stormy special council meeting. The meeting was convened as per a demand made by the BJP to discuss the revenue fund fraud issue. As soon as the meeting began, Left Democratic Front (LDF) councillor D.R. Anil moved a resolution condemning Congress MP K. Muraleedharan over alleged misogynistic remarks that he had made against Mayor Arya Rajendran. This led to an uproar from the UDF benches, with all the UDF councillors trooping to the well. Amid the din, the resolution was passed with all the LDF councillors supporting it. BJP councillor Anilkumar said such a resolution, which was not related to the subject of the meeting, should not have been brought up. He accused that it was a planned move to scuttle the meeting. He said it took more than 18 days to catch the main suspect in the fund fraud case. “We should have a system to assess the revenues every six months and place it in the council. The Information Kerala Mission’s software for tax collection is outdated, leading to many payments becoming untraceable. It is hard to even pay taxes without bringing receipts of previous payments. We had spent Rs. 2 crore from our own fund to solve the issue, yet nothing has changed. The Corporation has also been unable to increase the tax demand in the past five years,” he said. LDF councillor Mr. Anil accused the BJP of trying to hide the fact that the whole issue of corruption was exposed only after the Mayor ordered an investigation in all the zonal offices. The BJP was needlessly demanding special council meetings and wasting time, he said. Suspension orders BJP councillor V.G. Girikumar said the suspension orders of the officials had not been ratified in the council. This could lead to them getting the full wages during this period by approaching courts. The Mayor questioned him as to why the BJP was spreading false rumours that the Corporation would carry out revenue recovery proceedings, when there was no history of the Corporation ever doing that. The Mayor said some of the positive suggestions from the opposition councillors could be considered. The finance standing committee should discuss these and bring such suggestions to the council. She admitted that the system of daily checks had come to a halt due to the COVID-19 situation. The finance standing committee would henceforth conduct monthly audits, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oppn-councillors-end-protest-say-stir-a-success/article37204492.ece
28 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protest mounts against SilverLine plan||The Government will not be allowed to go ahead with the K-Rail SilverLine project being pursued without considering the State’s precarious environmental and economic situation, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said. He was speaking at a protest organised by the Anti-K-Rail SilverLine Janakeeya Samiti in front of the Secretariat on Wednesday. “If the people come to know about the detailed plan of this project, Kerala will witness an unprecedented protest. But, this protest is not just about those who stand to lose their land. It is a protest to protect Kerala. Why is the State Government going ahead with a project for which no social or environmental impact analyses have been done and for which the Union Government has not given clearance,” said Mr.Satheesan. He said the initial claim was that the semi high-speed rail project from Kochuveli to Kasaragod would cost Rs. 65,000 crore, but the NITI Aayog said in 2018 that it would cost Rs. 1.24 lakh crore. It would go up further by the time the project was completed. No one who had even a basic idea of Kerala’s economic situation would come up with such a project. The construction of embankments for 55% of the rail line’s length would further worsen flooding. BJP State president K.Surendran said such a project was unthinkable in a State which faced unprecedented flooding in the past three years. Huge debt burden “The BJP is of the strong opinion that the project should not be approved under any circumstances. It will not benefit the majority of the people. How can the Government borrow such huge amounts for the project, when it is currently borrowing even to pay the salary of employees,” he said. Geevarghese Mor Coorilos, Metropolitan of the Niranam Diocese of Malankara Jacobite Syriac Orthodox Church, who inaugurated the protest, said it was unfortunate that the Government had not learnt any lessons from the floods in recent years. “The K-rail project will not benefit the majority of the people, but it will also lead to the eviction of thousands of families. This is being implemented only for a small, affluent minority of our population,” he said. Indian Union Muslim League leader P.K. Kunhalikutty said such an economically unviable project was being implemented at a time when the Kochi Metro was running on losses. Revolutionary Marxist Party of India MLA K.K. Rema said the protest was a warning to the Government against going ahead with the project. Congress MP Kodikunnil Suresh said the project would divide Kerala into two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-mounts-against-silverline-plan/article37204325.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Registration must for adventure tourism||The Government of Kerala has made registration mandatory for service providers in the adventure tourism sector for conducting a wide range of land, water, and air-related activities to ensure their quality and safety. The procedures and protocols of Adventure Tourism Safety and Security Regulations for according registration for operators were drawn up by Kerala Adventure Tourism Promotion Society (KATPS), which functions under the Department of Tourism. KAPTS had set up an expert committee to prepare safety parameters for the adventure tourism sector. The panel, led by former KATPS Chief Executive Officer Manesh Bhaskar, had prepared a consolidated ‘Adventure Tourism Safety and Security Regulations’ by taking into account the currently popular 31 adventure tourism activities in the State. Tourism Director V.R. Krishna Teja said Kerala considered adventure tourism a highly promising segment, especially in the post-pandemic surge. “By introducing the registration system, foolproof safety and standard will be achieved in the sector, helping Kerala to attract more tourists,” a press note quoting him said. Registration would be provided solely based on the criteria stipulatedby the regulations. The Tourism Director would accord the registration,valid for two years, after inspection of the facilities and operational features of the service providers by a team of Tourism officials and experts. The Kovalam-based Bond Water Sports Pvt. Ltd. has become the first adventure tourism activity provider in the State to obtain the registration under the new system for scuba diving, kayaking, and parasailing. The regulations will be updated in accordance with the new adventure activities that crop up in the sector in future. Details of the registration system are available on https://www.   keralaadventure.org/ or https://www.   keralatourism.org   /business/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/registration-must-for-adventure-tourism/article37204270.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||At 6, Kerala’s single-digit IMR a great achievement||Kerala’s achievement of consistently maintaining a single digit infant mortality rate (IMR) and bringing it down from 7 in 2018 to 6 (as per latest Sample Registration System bulletin for 2019) is a result of the State’s single-minded initiatives and investment in the area of neonatal care. Among bigger States, Kerala is the lone one with a single digit IMR (per 1,000 live births), far ahead of other States — the closest being Delhi with an IMR of 11 — and against the national average of 30. It is commendable that the State has managed to close the gap between the IMR in rural (9) and urban areas (5) in 2018 to 7 and 5 in 2019. It was in 2018 that the State first achieved the distinction of the single digit IMR of 7. “Single digit IMR” had been a project that the State’s Health Department and the State branch of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics had been determinedly pursuing since 2010, as for long, the State’s IMR had been stagnating at 12. About 4.7-5 lakh births take place in the State annually. A study conducted by the State IAP in 2013 found that 75% of the infant deaths occurred during the neonatal period and of this, 59% occurred during the first week. Prematurity accounted for 35% of the deaths while congenital anomalies, especially critical congenital heart diseases, accounted for 28%. The State began by strengthening infant death reporting and auditing; drawing up clinical guidelines and quality standards for improving antenatal, intrapartum and neonatal interventions; investing heavily on improving newborn care nurseries, ICUs and delivery points; and in training obstetricians and newborn nursery care personnel. Issues identified “Kerala’s success was in identifying the issues correctly and effectively implementing focussed interventions to improve neonatal care. The interventions were aimed at ensuring the survival of premature babies, even those with very low birth weight of 1,000-1,100 gm. Tribal mothers were given special attention. All our investments seem to have paid off,” P.K. Jameela, member, State Planning Board and former Director of Health Services, said. The Statelaunched a newborn screening programme. All newborns undergo screening for visible birth defects, congenital anomalies, hearing and vision screening and metabolic disorders. This was followed by the launch of Hridyam in 2017, wherein infants with critical congenital heart anomalies were identified early and treated without delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-6-keralas-single-digit-imr-a-great-achievement/article37204333.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM promises quick justice in Latvian tourist’s murder||A trial is underway in the suspected drug-rape-murder of a Latvian woman tourist in a secluded spot near Kovalam in 2018, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Replying to a submission moved by Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan, Mr. Vijayan said the government had appointed G. Mohanraj as special prosecutor in the case. A district court in Thiruvananthapuram heard the case on October 26, and it has posted the next sitting on February 18, 2022. ADGP Manoj Abraham had investigated the case. The police had relied on modern forensic techniques, circumstantial evidence and eyewitness accounts to arrest the suspects, both local history-sheeters. Local people had discovered the body in a highly decomposed state. The CM said the government felt no need to change the prosecutor in the case. Mr. Mohanraj had successfully prosecuted the Uthra murder case. However, it was of an open mind and would go by the advice of the State Police Chief and the Director-General of Prosecution, he said. Mr. Satheesan demanded justice for the victim’s family. Her sister has been in Kerala several times and moved to the High Court and other agencies for a free and quick trial. Delay He said the police had delayed the charge sheet, paving the way for the accused to get bail. Three and half years have elapsed since the crime occurred, and it shocked society. However, the trial was not moving forward as quickly as expected. He requested the government to expedite the trial.  A district court heard the case on October 26, and it has posted the next sitting on February 18, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/speed-up-latvian-murder-case-satheesan/article37204343.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Graft in Corporation echoes in Assembly||Corruption, nepotism, and incompetence have ruled the roost in the CPI(M) controlled Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation, Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) opposition has said. Congress legislator M. Vincent, who moved an adjournment motion for an emergency debate on the issue, said the large-scale misappropriation of home and land tax remittance was just the tip of the iceberg. Corrupt municipal officials, bolstered by CPI(M) patronage, had pocked public money by falsely claiming they had hired 21 dumpster trucks and 250 workers for cleaning after Attukal Pongala in 2021. “The Government had limited the festival to rituals inside the temple precincts. There was no Pongala in the city on the usual grand scale,” Mr. Vincent said. The Municipality exaggerated the number of persons attending literacy classes to steal stipends under fictitious names. It had 137 vehicles but drew insurance and service charge from public funds for maintaining 220. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the city’s cleanliness ranking had plummetted. The Municipality had become a milch cow for the CPI(M). The Mayor behaved autocratically. “The Mayor has emplaced a large screen television blaring out official propaganda to smother protest of opposition counsellors in the Municipal hall,” Mr. Satheesan said. He said the police shied away from arresting the “tax thieves” forthwith. The police had accepted their surrender after the HC denied the accused bail, he said. Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan said a local fund audit report had revealed embezzlement of tax remittance in five zonal offices. The police have effected the arrest of the accused. “Taxpayers need not be anxious,” he said. He defended the Mayor’s action and “she was not butter that would melt at the first sign of heat”. Congress and BJP had joined hands to berate the Corporation. “They are yet to reconcile to their defeat in the Municipal elections,” he said. Speaker M.B. Rajesh denied the adjournment motion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/graft-in-corporation-echoes-in-assembly/article37204489.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pegasus probe: Congress, CPI(M) hail SC decision||In Kerala, the Congress and the CPI(M) have welcomed the Supreme Court decision to institute an expert committee probe into the Pegasus mobile phone snooping scandal. KPCC president K. Sudhakaran, MP, said the verdict was a slap on the face of the Narendra Modi Government's bid to make India a surveillance State. The BJP had cited national security as a fig leaf to stall the Pegasus inquiry. It had used an intrusive software, sourced at high cost from an Israeli cyber surveillance firm of the same name, to secretly spy on journalists, Opposition leaders, influencers, liberal thinkers, intellectuals and writers. Mr. Sudhakaran said Union Home Minister Amit Shah was the architect of the electronic phone snooping. It was done under cover of forecasting national security threats and keeping a tab on entities wishing India harm. Mr. Shah had used the software for widespread political espionage.The Pegasus deal was struck in 2018. It was the fruit of a union between divisive Hindutva and Zionistic agenda. Mr. Modi had embraced Israel as a defence and trading partner. Earlier, India had dealt with Israel with wariness given its militarism and approach to the Palestine question. The NDA had fended of questions regarding Pegasus and illegal phone tapping in Parliament citing national security. It had used national security as a cover to target persons inimical to Hindutva politics. If the Prime Minister had any political decency left in him, he should throw Mr. Shah out of the Cabinet. Rights violation CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas said the Supreme Court had blown the lid of a State-sponsored attempt to intrude on citizens' privacy. The NDA Government had violated the fundamental right of citizens. It had used military-grade phone tapping software to bend people to the State's will. The Centre had overstepped its constitutional bounds. The government had lost the moral right to continue in office, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pegasus-congress-cpim-hail-sc-decision/article37204312.ece
28 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19 claimed lives of 41 pregnant women: Minister||The COVID-19 pandemic has claimed the lives of 41 pregnant women in the State, Health Minister Veena George has said. Replying to questions in the Assembly on Wednesday, Ms. George said 149 COVID-19 patients had committed suicide in the State. The Minister cited reports from various districts to inform the House that 41 pregnant women had succumbed to the infection after the first cases were reported in Kerala last year. To a related question, she said the findings of the sero surveillance study carried out by the State did not differ from that of studies by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). As per the study conducted by the State Government during August-September, the sero positivity in Kerala had increased to 82.61%, reflecting the changes due to the passage of time, lifestyle transformations and progress made in vaccination. Immunity This change reflected the intensive and efficient COVID-19 management measures launched by the State Government, the Minister said. “It indicates that a large percentage of the population has gained a certain amount of immunity against COVID-19. But the study makes it clear that 17% of the people are likely to get infected,” Ms. George said. Sero prevalence was highest in coastal communities (93.3%) amongst people who received both doses. This is followed by residents of urban slums (91.2%), general public aged above 18 (89.92%), pregnant women (86.4%) and tribal population (85.5%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-claimed-lives-of-41-pregnant-women-minister/article37204326.ece
28 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kazhakuttom-Muttathara sewerage project to be over by March||Efforts were being taken to complete the delayed Kazhakuttom-Muttathara sewerage project by March 2022, Minister for Water Resources Roshy Augustine informed the Assembly on Wednesday. The Water Resources Department intended to convene a meeting on November 2 to discuss the progress of work, the Minister said, replying to a submission moved by Kadakampally Surendran of the CPI(M). Mr. Augustine attributed the delay to the COVID-19 pandemic and the heavy rainfall. Contractors had been directed to fill the trenches promptly and make the roads fit for traffic once the pipelines were laid, Mr. Augustine said. The previous LDF Government had approved the Rs. 110.05 crore work under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). Construction of the pipeline and the sewage pump houses were being taken up in four different ‘blocks’. Mr. Surendran had drawn attention to the intense hardships faced by the public due to the delay in the completion of this project. Work was lagging behind schedule in many of the ‘blocks’. The Ulloor-Pulayanarkotta road stretch and smaller roads in the area were in a pathetic condition, Mr. Surendran said, seeking an urgent solution to the issue. Mr. Augustine said that once the pipeline was drawn from the Ulloor-Akkulam road to two of the side-roads, the Pulayanarkotta-Ulloor stretch could be handed over to the Public Works Department for restoration. In progress Construction of the pipeline and manholes along the Arassumoodu-Kuzhivila Road, Kuzhivila-Karimanal road and Ulloor-Akkulam road were in progress, he said. The Kerala Water Authority (KWA), which is implementing the sewerage project, had re-tendered the work for laying the transmission main from the stilling chamber at Arassumoodu to the pump house at Karimanal. An earlier contract, awarded to a north Indian firm, was cancelled due to lack of progress in the work. Steps had also been taken to fill the potholes and prevent waterlogging on the road stretch from Arassumoodu to Karimanal, Mr. Augustine said.  The Water Resources Department intendes to convene a meeting on November 2 to discuss the progress of work||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kazhakuttom-muttathara-sewerage-project-to-be-over-by-march/article37204493.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Public health Bill referred to select committee||The Assembly on Wednesday referred the Kerala Public Health Bill, 2021 to a 15-member select committee chaired by the Health and Family Welfare Minister. Two other Bills taken up for discussion, the Kerala State Medical Practitioners Bill, 2021 and the Kerala Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2021 were referred to the Health Subject Committee. Replying to the discussions on the Public Health Bill, Health Minister Veena George said the State needed a comprehensive Act for checking the spread of communicable diseases and for the department to make effective and coordinated interventions, including legal measures as necessary. For this, the department needed statutory powers. Objective It was in this context that the Government envisaged a new Public Health Act, by combining the provisions in the Madras Public Health Act, 1939 and the Travancore-Cochin Public Health Act, 1955. She said the Government was considering the implementation of various cadres – medical, public health, specialty and super-specialty – depending on the qualification and experience of doctors in service. Through the Kerala State Medical Practitioners Bill, 2021, the Government proposed to enact a legislation for the registration of practitioners in the field of Modern Medicine, Indian Systems of Medicine, and Homoeopathic Medicine in the State and regulate the qualifications required for such registration by unifying the Travancore-Cochin Medical Practitioners Act, 1953 and the Madras Medical Registration Act, 1914 applicable to the Malabar region. The Kerala Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2021 was being proposed so as to extend the validity of the provisional registration of clinical establishments from two years to three years from the date of issuance of the certificate of registration. Ms. George said the validity of the provisional registration period had to be extended as due to COVID-19 pandemic, many clinical establishments could not complete the registration processes. She added that the high prevalence of non-communicable diseases was one reason why COVID could turn out to be a serious disease. Hence, the State would soon launch a people’s campaign for tackling NCDs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-health-bill-referred-to-select-committee/article37204313.ece
28 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Liquor consumption in State dropped in 2020-21, Excise Minister tells House||Sales figures reveal that liquor consumption in Kerala dropped during 2020-21, a period marked by the lockdown following the COVID-19 outbreak, Minister for Excise M. V. Govindan said in a written reply to the Assembly on Wednesday. According to the Minister, 205.41 lakh cases of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and 150.13 lakh cases of beer were sold in the State during 2016-17. Sales dropped to 187.22 lakh cases of IMFL and 72.4 lakh cases of beer during 2020-21. The price of liquor as well as the tax imposed on it determine the Government's revenue from liquor sales. A hike in tax will bring in a higher revenue. A decrease in liquor consumption need not necessarily cause a drop in revenue if taxes have been increased, the Minister said. Cases registered During 2016-19, as many as 69,655 cases were registered under the Abkari Act and 23,603 cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. After the COVID-19 outbreak, 31,039 cases were registered under the Abkari Act and 6,540 cases under the NDPS Act. Government policy To a related question, Mr. Govindan said the State Government does not believe that the closure of liquor outlets will discourage consumption. The Government's policy is founded on promoting abstinence from alcoholic beverages rather than imposing an outright ban on liquor, he said. The present LDF Government has not given its approval for opening new outlets for the retail sale of liquor. However, hotels of three stars and above are being issued bar licences as part of promoting tourism, the Minister said.  M.V. Govindan says the Government does not believe that closure of liquor outlets will discourage consumption||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/liquor-consumption-dropped-in-2020-21-excise-minister/article37204417.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Academic guidelines for school reopening issued||Recreational activities for students and an analysis of learning outcomes of digital classes provided to students in the past academic year and this year will be the focus of activities in schools the first two weeks after reopening on November 1. Academic guidelines for school reopening after an extended closure owing to COVID-19 were released by Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty on Wednesday. The guidelines lay stress on understanding each child’s abilities and academic levels before planning classroom activities. Classroom experience Initially, stress should be on providing them a direct classroom experience. The lack of direct classroom learning the entire past academic year and its impact should be kept in mind while bringing children back to the mainstream of education. As declared earlier, the focus at the outset should be on forming friendly bonds with children and familiarising them with the school environment. Students should be provided with books to engage their minds. Social abilities and communication, which are likely to have been affected in the months spent at home, should be encouraged. If need be the services of school counsellors should be sought. Along with mental recreation, some physical recreation through light exercises should also be provided to children. There should be a project to identify and address learning gaps to ensure that educational pathways remain smooth for all learners. Teachers, for their part, should be able to link physical classes with online or digital classes effectively. Practicals Practicals, library activities, and group activities should be taken up. Schools can prepare timetable as per their requirements and conditions. While children need to come to school only with parental consent, the attempt should be to encourage maximum number to return to the school environment, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/academic-guidelines-for-school-reopening-issued/article37204323.ece
28 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Supplyco to extend online sales to 500 supermarkets||The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) is planning to extend online sales to 500 supermarkets by March 31, 2022, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G. R. Anil informed the Assembly on Wednesday. The government agency plans to hold workshops at Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Kozhikode and Thrissur before rolling out the service, the Minister said, replying to questions in the House. Aid from KSRTC Supplyco is also planning to expand its mobile Maveli store fleet with help from the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC). The plan is to convert KSRTC buses into mobile outlets, Mr. Anil said. Discussions between Supplyco and the KSRTC are progressing in this regard. At present, 21 mobile Maveli stores have been deployed in various parts of the State, primarily for servicing remote regions and tribal colonies which lack sales outlets. Rain havoc Supplyco had also deployed the outlets in regions that were devastated by heavy rainfall and landslips in mid-October. Nineteen ration shops in Kottayam district, eight Supplyco outlets and five Maveli stores were damaged in the rain havoc. In all these places, the department had provided mobile units, the Minister said.  The government agency plans to hold workshops at capital, Kochi, Kozhikode and Thrissur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplyco-to-extend-online-sales-to-500-supermarkets/article37204276.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Couple give statement||Anupama S. Chandran and Ajith Kumar, the couple who have alleged that their child was given up for adoption without the mother’s consent, appeared in front of the Women and Child Development (WCD) Department Director on Wednesday evening in connection with the departmental probe into the matter. The inquiry that stretched on for more than four hours saw Women and Child Development Director T.V. Anupama take statements of Anupama and Ajith together and separately. Anupama told mediapersons later that they had been asked detailed questions, but did not want to divulge anything more. She, however, reiterated that she believed that child welfare council general secretary Shiju Khan J.S. had a role in the adoption of her child. She said Shiju Khan had refused to provide any information to Ajith who had gone to the council to find out the whereabouts of the child. Anupama also said that her father’s statement that he had spoken to Shiju Khan in connection with the incorrect recording of the child’s sex as female indicated that Shiju Khan was aware of what had transpired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-give-statement/article37204490.ece
28 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District reports 1,284 cases||The district logged 1,284 COVID-19 cases and 476 recoveries on Wednesday. The number of active cases stood at 10,175, and the test positivity rate, 14.3%. In all, 45,494 people are in quarantine in the district, with 2006 people being added to the list on Wednesday. Vellanad town ward has been excluded from the list of containment zones with the infection rate brought under control, the district administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-reports-1284-cases/article37204495.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vayalar award presented to Benyamin||The 45th Vayalar Ramavarma Sahitya Award has been presented to writer Benyamin. The award was presented for Benyamin’s work Manthalirile 20 Communist Varshangal . Vayalar Ramavarma Memorial Trust president Perumbadavom Sreedharan gave away the award at a function at Nishagandhi auditorium in the capital on Wednesday. The award comprises a purse of Rs. 1 lakh, a sculpture by Kanayi Kunhiraman and a citation. A Vayalar music programme under the umbrella of the Devarajan Master Foundation was also organised. A yearly scholarship of Rs. 5,000 given by the trust to a student of Asan Memorial Higher Secondary School, Chennai, who studied Malayalam as an elective subject and passed Class X with highest marks was also presented on the occasion. The award jury comprised K.R. Meera, George Onakkoor, and C. Unnikrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vayalar-award-presented-to-benyamin/article37204275.ece
28 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kochi Metro reports Rs. 19-cr loss, says CM||The Kochi Metro has reported an operational loss of Rs. 19 crore during April-September this year due to a drop in the number of passengers, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan informed the Assembly on Wednesday. Steps are being taken to attract passengers to Kochi Metro by offering attractive concessions and benefits to 'Kochi-1' card users. Efforts are also being made to increase non-ticket revenue, the Chief Minister said in a written reply to the House. On an average, 35,000 people are travelling by Kochi Metro at present, he responded to a related question. On the light-metro project for Thiruvananthapuram, the Chief Minister said steps were being taken to appoint the Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) as the implementing agency for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-metro-reported-rs-19-crore-loss-in-april-sept-says-cm/article37204299.ece
28 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||VACB nabs PRD official||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) on Wednesday nabbed an official of the public relations department while he was allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs. 25,000 for clearing a pending bill. The accused has been identified as Vinod Kumar, audio-video officer at the department. A vigilance team led by DySP Ashok Kumar arrested him while the money was allegedly being handed over to him inside his car, parked near the Medical College junction. According to a press release from the VACB, the department had to pay pending bills of Rs. 21 lakh to a company called ‘M-mega media’ for various programmes that it had produced. Though the company owner Ratheesh had approached Vinod Kumar several times for clearing the bills, he was repeatedly sent back. Later, he demanded an amount of Rs. 3.75 lakh, 15% of the total bills pending, to clear the bills. Ratheesh informed this to the VACB and went to hand over the first instalment of Rs. 25,000 at around 3 p.m., when the Vigilance officials arrived on the scene and caught the official. The accused will be produced before the Vigilance Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacb-nabs-prd-official/article37204356.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vayalar award presented to Benyamin||The 45th Vayalar Ramavarma Sahitya Award has been presented to writer Benyamin. The award was presented for Benyamin’s work Manthalirile 20 Communist Varshangal . Vayalar Ramavarma Memorial Trust president Perumbadavom Sreedharan gave away the award at Nishagandhi auditorium on Wednesday. The award comprises a purse of Rs. 1 lakh, a sculpture by Kanayi Kunhiraman, and a citation. A music programme under the umbrella of the Devarajan Master Foundation was organised. A yearly scholarship of Rs. 5,000 given by the trust to a student of Asan Memorial Higher Secondary School, Chennai, who studied Malayalam as an elective subject and passed Class X with highest marks was also presented. The jury comprised K.R. Meera, George Onakkoor, and C. Unnikrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vayalar-award-presented-to-benyamin/article37204488.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Wage revision, reforms to be implemented in KSRTC||A meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the wake of the proposed strike by KSRTC employees decided to implement wage revision in the corporation on the condition that the utility trims excess expenditure and increases revenue. Chairman and managing director Biju Prabhakar was directed to thrash out an agreement after discussions with employees’ unions. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal informed the meeting that the Government would examine the possibility of acquiring 700 CNG buses for the KSRTC with funds from the KIIFB. It was also decided to offer employees the option of leave for two years with 50% salary and retaining pension and other benefits. The meeting also resolved to go ahead with the revised duty pattern and the reforms proposed by the Susil Khanna report. Besides, the State Government would release Rs. 225 crore to clear the payment due to the NPS pension scheme for KSRTC employees and the excess employees would be redeployed to the fuel dispensing outlets recently opened by the Corporation. A Finance and Accounts wing would be set up for the RTC, the meeting decided. Transport Minister Antony Raju and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wage-revision-reforms-to-be-implemented-in-ksrtc/article37204274.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||9,445 cases||The State posted 9,445 cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 82,689 samples were tested. The active case pool had 76,554 cases with 6,723 recoveries. The official case fatality stands at 29,977 with the State adding 622 deaths to the list. These include 93 recent deaths, 330 undeclared deaths of the period before June 2021, and 199 deaths as per the new guidelines. Among districts, Ernakulam reported 1,517 cases, Thiruvananthapuram 1,284, Kozhikode 961, Thrissur 952, Kottayam 840, Kollam 790, Idukki 562, Pathanamthitta 464, Malappuram 441, Kannur 422, Palakkad 393, Alappuzha 340, Wayanad 333, and Kasaragod 146 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/9445-cases/article37204328.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||All smiles||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-smiles/article37204269.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Play time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/play-time/article37204444.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Act of solidarity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/act-of-solidarity/article37204412.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Screen presence||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/screen-presence/article37204414.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Life lessons on stage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/life-lessons-on-stage/article37204487.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For more Plus One seats||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-more-plus-one-seats/article37204498.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Mirror to society||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mirror-to-society/article37204342.ece
28 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur DPO suspended||Anantapur in-charge District Panchayat Officer B. Parvathi has been placed under suspension for alleged misappropriation of Rs. 5.80 lakh funds of Banaganapalli Panchayat when she was the Special Officer there. District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan served the suspension orders on Wednesday, after it was communicated by PR Commissioner Kona Sasidhar. The order says she had deposited the demand draft given by Vindhya Telelinks Links Fibernet on August 21, 2018 and withdrew the Rs. 5.8 lakh in two instalments from the Panchayat SBI account without bringing it to the general funds. The Commissioner also pointed out that she had not accounted for that money and had not followed the procedure for spending it. Mr. Sasidhar had asked Ms. Parvathi not to leave Anantapur without permission while under suspension and this period would continue till disciplinary action was completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-dpo-suspended/article37203904.ece
28 October 2021||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||2,000 kg ganja worth Rs. 2 crore seized; 3 held||The Chintoor police have seized 2,000 kg of ganja allegedly being transporting it in a van near Sokumaamidi bridge under Mothugudem police limits in East Godavari district on Tuesday evening and arrested three persons. Worth Rs. 2 crore The total worth of ganja is estimated at Rs. 2 crore. The police led by Chintoor DSP G. Krishnakanth arrested the gang and produced them before the media on Wednesday. According to Mr. Krishnakanth, the accused have been identified as Kadiyam Guru Sagar and Pogidala Parvathaalu of Telangana and Nyni Rama Rao of Malkangiri district of Odisha. The trio was allegedly transporting the ganja by covering the ganja bags under coconut bags. One of the accused was found to guide the vehicle on a two-wheeler. The police registered a case and investigation is on. The police have produced the accused before a local court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2000-kg-ganja-seized-3-held/article37203907.ece
28 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP committed to development of Kuppam, says Mithun Reddy||Rajampeta MP P.V. Mithun Reddy on Wednesday said that the YSRCP government was committed to development of the ‘backward’ Kuppam Assembly constituency, with a focus on provision of drinking and irrigation water from the Handri-Neeva Sujala Sravanti branch canal. Participating in the second phase of the distribution of the ‘YSR Asara’ benefits at Kuppam, the MP said that during the last three decades, Kuppam MLA and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu had only helped only a few party cadres to prosper, while the common man were made to suffer with lack of infrastructure on all fronts. He said that a top priority would be given to lay drainage lines in Kuppam municipality at a cost of Rs. 22 crore. The Tirupati Gangamma Temple in Kuppam would be given a facelift at a cost of Rs. 3 crore. “Even as Mr. Naidu has been representing Kuppam constituency since 1989, and has remained the Chief Minister for 14 years, his government had made housing facilities only for 1,500 families in Kuppam. However, the YSRCP government, within two years of coming to power, has provided housing facilities to about 5,000 families,” said Mr. Mithun Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-committed-to-development-of-kuppam-says-mithun-reddy/article37203906.ece
28 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed in group clash during Urs in Adilabad||Clashes between two groups of the same faith during celebration of Urs festival resulted in the death of two persons and left several injured in Gundala village of Ichoda mandal in Adilabad district here on Wednesday. Speaking to The Hindu , District Superintendent of Police M Rajesh Chandra said that around noon people from a group of Multani community had an altercation with another group over the use of microphones and sound system during the celebration. Permission to use the sound system was denied by the local police. “As one group started using the microphone, people from another group of the same faith objected to it, had an altercation and they started pelting stones at each other,” he said. On seeing the police party who rushed to the village after getting information over Dial 100, the groups fled into their agricultural fields on the village outskirts and started assaulting each other with sticks, which resulted in the death of two persons -- Zahiruddin (35) and Sk. Jah (45). “Two women and a man who suffered injuries in the clashes were rushed to Government Hospital,” Mr Chandra said, adding that a few houses were also damaged in the incident. The officer said that over 300 police personnel from Adilabad and adjoining Nirmal and Kumaram-Bheem Asifabad district were deployed at Gundala and adjoining villages to control the situation. Mr. Chandra along with Nirmal SP Ch. Praveen Kumar reviewed the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-in-group-clash-during-urs-in-adilabad/article37203849.ece
28 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 companies of Central forces for Badvel bypoll||Fifteen companies of Central forces will be deployed for the ensuing by-election to the Badvel (SC) Assembly constituency. As campaign drew to a close on Wednesday evening, the official machinery, led by Returning Officer Ketan Garg, got down to finalise the arrangements at the 281 polling stations in the constituency and the security reinforcement required to ensure a free and fair election. As per the list released by the election officials, there are 2,15,292 voters in the constituency. The mandal-wise break-up is as follows: Kalasapadu (25,262), Porumamilla (48,021), S.A. Kasinayana (22,298), B. Kodur (15,070), Badvel (40,735), Atlur (19,413) and Gopavaram (44,493). Women voters form 50% in every mandal. COVID-19 testing camp As a preventive measure, the officials were making sure that all the staff members drafted for poll duty had been inoculated with two doses of COVID-19 vaccine. “Every polling station will have a COVID-19 testing camp along with a doctor, an ANM, an ASHA worker,” Mr. Garg told a preparatory meeting of the police, CRPF, CISF, and BSF officials and staff members. “Those who test positive will be given an opportunity to cast their vote between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m.,” he said SP’s warning Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan appealed to the voters to exercise their franchise without fear as the department had stepped up security. While appealing to non-locals to leave the constituency, he warned hotels, kalyana mandapams and convention centres not to provide accommodation to outsiders. “Anyone found transporting voters to the polling stations will also be arrested and such vehicles will be seized,” he said. Mr. Anburajan also hinted at the use of CCTV and body-worn cameras in the vicinity of polling stations, and warned anti-social elements not to vitiate the atmosphere by preventing the movement of or exerting pressure on voters, spreading rumours or resorting to violence. In the same vein, he also warned the candidates in the fray not to allure the voters by offering money, goodies or liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-companies-of-central-forces-for-badvel-bypoll/article37204403.ece
28 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aided schools’ takeover part of revamp, says Education Minister||Education Minister A. Suresh has clarified that the action taken by the government concerning some private grant-in-aid schools is part of the reforms in the education sector. Mr. Suresh said that the idea was to revamp the sector by addressing the core issues, and accused the opposition of creating confusion among the public. “The report submitted by the committee constituted to study the performance of schools brought surprising issues to light. Most schools lacked basic infrastructure,” he said. He reiterated that the government would take action against schools collecting fees higher than the amount fixed by the regulatory commission. Mr. Suresh said the government would only take over those schools that voluntarily come forward, which would be developed under ‘Nadu-Nedu’ scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aided-schools-takeover-part-of-revamp-says-education-minister/article37204404.ece
28 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||People fed up with lawlessness: Somu||Both YSRCP and BJP appear buoyed at the end of the hectic campaign for the ensuing by-election to the Badvel (SC) Assembly constituency, and exude confidence over victory. While the ruling party is sitting cool, the BJP leaders are confident of breaching the TDP vote bank, thus giving a tight fight to the former. In fact, BJP State president Somu Veerraju has hinted at a “surprise element” when the results are announced. “The people are fed up with the lawlessness and the spate of land grab incidents witnessed in Badvel. The voters have always voted for the YSR family in the past, but have thoroughly been let down,” he said during his campaign at Mamillapalle in Gopavaram mandal on Wednesday. The Badvel election would usher in a new era in State politics, he said. “The pent-up anger over anarchy and inept governance will reflect in the election,” he said. Rajya Sabha member C.M. Ramesh accused the Ministers of intimidating the people that their welfare schemes would be cancelled if they did not vote for the YSRCP. Reiterating that the state government was only affixing its label on the Central schemes, he appealed to the people to cast their vote for the BJP with confidence. Party vice-president C. Adinarayana Reddy accused Whip G. Srikanth Reddy of resorting to land grabbing and tacitly encouraging sand smuggling in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-fed-up-with-lawlessness-somu/article37204405.ece
28 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APGB achieves Rs. 37,546 crore business by September||Andhra Pragathi Grameena Bank (APGB) has achieved a total business of Rs. 37,546 crore and a net profit of Rs. 261.31 crore for the half-year ending September 30. The bank has also registered CRAR of 20.44% as against the statutory requirement of 9% and the net NPA is at zero per cent, said the bank’s chairman Rakesh Kashyap, while releasing the financial results to the media on Wednesday. The bank, having a wide network of eight regional offices and 552 branches in the five districts, witnessed a quantum jump of Rs. 3,271 crore over the previous year, registering YoY growth rate of 9.54%. At Rs. 18,192 crore, the deposits accepted this year was a whopping Rs. 463 crore over the previous year, with 34% of it comprising low cost deposits. On the advances front, the bank had lent Rs. 19,354 crore, which witnessed a quantum jump of Rs. 2,808 crore over the previous year, registering YoY growth rate of 16.97%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apgb-achieves-rs-37546-crore-business-by-september/article37203912.ece
28 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Open House a big draw in E.G.||Scores of students and public representatives turned up at the ‘Open House’, a two-day weapons exhibition organised by the Police Department for the public in Rajamahendravaram and Kakinada city in East Godavari district. The exhibition concluded on Wednesday. Rajamahendravaram Urban Superintendent of Police Aiswarya Rastogi and East Godavari District SP M. Ravindranath Babu gave details to the visitors about the various kinds of firearms used by the police and the basics of handling them. In Kakinada city, Kakinada MP Vanga Geetha and City MLA D. Chandrasekhar Reddy visited the exhibition at the District Police Office campus. Students got an opportunity to hold the firearms in the presence of police officials. Mr. Ravindranath Babu said that the opportunity to have a close-up look of the weapons during the demonstration was to ignite an interest among the youth to join the armed forces or the police department and serve the country. The AK-47, 9 MM Gass Pistol, 303 LMG, 7.62 SLR, grenades and bullets were put on display at the exhibition. Police explained the technologies used for the investigation of cases. Students were explained the functioning of dog squads, bomb disposal systems and fingerprint technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/open-house-a-big-draw-in-eg/article37204426.ece
28 October 2021||KOTHAPETA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||ONGC blamed for mass mortality of coconut trees||Groundwater pollution caused by an Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) rig is the main reason behind the mass mortality of coconut trees in the Konaseema region of East Godavari district, a ten-member expert team said on Wednesday. Over the past eight months, nearly a thousand coconut trees have perished in 16 acres of orchids at the Billakurru area in Konaseema region. The area is adjacent to the ONGC’s operational area, in which it had conducted a seismic survey and installed a rig, according to an official release issued by the Horticulture Department (East Godavari) on Wednesday. The expert team was led by Deputy Director (Horticulture-East Godavari) .S. Ram Mohan. The other experts are ONGC Environmental Engineer G.K. Santosh, G. Karuna Reka (AP Pollution Control Board), Groundwater Department Assistant Director P. Radha Krishna, AD Horticulture N. Mallikarjuna Rao and scientists from the Horticulture Research Station (HRS-Ambajipeta). The experts collected samples from the dead trees and soil in the region for further investigation. In an interaction with the farmers by experts, Kothapeta MLA Chirla Jaggireddy appealed to the experts to complete their scientific investigation early. “A request will be made to the State government to ensure that the expenditure is borne by the ONGC for the scientific investigation. The family members of the two coconut farmers who ended their lives in distress will be offered compensation,” said Mr. Jaggireddy, who accompanied the experts during the field visit. HRS-Ambajipeta Principal Scientist Dr. B.V.K. Bhagavan and scientists N.B.K. Chalapathi Rao and V. Govardhan are also members of the expert team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongc-blamed-for-mass-mortality-of-coconut-trees/article37203909.ece
28 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With YouTube help, minor delivers baby||A 17-year-old girl who was raped by her neighbour gave birth to a child secretly at her house in Kottakkal, near Malappuram in Kerala, a few days ago. The girl did not let even her mother know about her pregnancy and the childbirth. She cut the umbilical cord and disposed of the placenta by taking tips from a YouTube video. The incident came to light when the girl developed some infection during the post-partum period, and was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital at Manjeri on October 23. The Kottakkal police registered a case and a 21-year-old man was arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for raping the girl, after the medical college authorities informed the police. The police filed the case on a statement given by the girl’s mother, who is partially visually impaired. Sources said the girl, a higher secondary student, was abused by her neighbour who exploited the vulnerable circumstances of her house. The mother reportedly told the police that she was not aware of her daughter’s pregnancy, and that she learned about it a day after the delivery took place on October 20. The mother had taken the girl to two private hospitals at Kottakkal in the past eight months after she complained of gas trouble and stomach ache. But the hospitals had not detected her pregnancy. Refuses to give statement The authorities, including the police, were bewildered at the incident, which exposed the failure of the District Child Protection Unit in identifying the vulnerable family and preventing the abuse. According to the police, the girl refused to give a statement against the accused as she is in an affair with him. However, the authorities, including the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), have raised concerns at the gravity of the situation. “The rape apart, the fact that the childbirth took place within the confines of a poor home without any medical aid or elderly support is a matter of serious concern. The lives of both the girl and the newborn would have been in danger,” said CWC chairman Shajesh Bhaskar. The failure of the hospitals concerned in diagnosing the girl’s pregnancy and reporting it to the authorities has also raised concerns. The hospital sources said the baby boy was in good health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-youtube-help-minor-delivers-baby/article37203850.ece
28 October 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||44 new COVID-19 cases in South Coastal Andhra||The number of active coronavirus cases declined to a little over 900 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh even as one more person succumbed to the viral disease in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours. The toll reached 1,124 in Prakasam district, while it remained static at 1,051 in SPSR Nellore district, which recorded zero deaths in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday. The cumulative tally came closer to 2.85 lakh as 44 persons contracted the infection in the region, including 18 in Prakasam district, during the period. The number of recoveries outnumbered fresh cases by 31 as 75 persons recovered in the region during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/44-new-covid-19-cases-in-south-coastal-andhra/article37203910.ece
28 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco farmers upbeat as penalty slashed by half||Tobacco farmers in Prakasam and Nellore district are all smiles as the Union Government has cut the penalty on the excess crop by 50% and lifted the threshold limit, coinciding with the commencement of rabi season. The decision taken by the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry has come as a boon for the tobacco growers under the purview of Southern Light Soil (SLS) and Southern Black Soil (SBS) auction platforms in the two districts on the eve of the World Tobacco Growers’ Day. “The authorised growers have to pay only Rs. 1 per kg and 5% of the value of the excess production as penalty during the 2021-22 cropping season when compared to Rs. 2 per kg and 10% of the value of excess production as penalty collected during the last season,” said SLS Regional Manager D. Venugopal. However, the unregistered growers have to pay the old rates, he said while highlighting the ‘farmer-friendly’ decision announced by Union Commerce Secretary B.V.R. Subrahmanyam. “The Tobacco Board wants the farmers to produce quality crops with more of bright grade varieties,” said Tobacco Board Executive Director Addanki Sridhar Babu in a voice mail to farmers. The crop regulator has taken a timely decision following representation from the farmers that tobacco cultivation is increasingly becoming uncompetitive in the wake of intense competition in the global market, said a group of farmers under the purview of Ongole-II auction platform. “Henceforth, we need not take additional barn on lease to circumvent the decrease in per barn quota,” Vadela Varaprasad, a tobacco farmer from Chekurapadu village said. Another farmer, P. Venkateswara Rao said in the absence of rain, they had started the cultivation by watering the crops as further delay in cultivation would affect the quality. “Now, we need not shell out additional money up to Rs. 80,000 for taking additional barn, the primary curing unit of tobacco, on rent. We can confidently raise the crop without fearing the penalty to achieve the economies of scale,” said B. Ramaanjaneyulu, a farmer, adding that the crop output, however, fluctuates depending on the weather condition. Tobacco cultivation could be economically viable only if about 50 quintal per barn output was realised, added T. Ramanaiah. Penalty on excess crop augments the revenue of the Tobacco Board, a self-sufficient commodity regulator when other commodity boards are funded by the Centre on the one hand. The board also helps farmers take the advantage of the economies of scale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-farmers-upbeat-as-penalty-slashed-by-half/article37204398.ece
28 October 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Car hits man, carries him on bonnet for 2 km||A young man had a narrow escape when a car hit him and carried him on its bonnet for over two kilometers at Ottappalam in Palakkad on Wednesday. The incident took place at 19th Mile, Ottappalam, when Fasil Cholamughath (27) from Thazhekode near Perinthalmanna tried to stop a black Swift car driven by Usman Panikkaveettil (32). Money owed Instead of stopping the car, Usman hit Fasil and continued to drive. Fasil then fell on the bonnet and clung to the wiper blades even as the car zig-zagged threateningly. The four-wheeler then travelled over two kilometers carrying Fasil dangerously on its bonnet. Usman ended his cinema-style race by taking the car to the police station. The police arrested Usman for reckless driving and endangering the life of Fasil. The police said Usman owed Fasil Rs. 78,000 in connection with the latter’s wholesale belt business. The police said the car would be produced before a court. They would request the Motor Vehicle Department to cancel Usman’s driving licence.  The police said Usman owed Fasil Rs. 78,000 in connection with the latter’s belt business||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/car-hits-man-carries-him-on-the-bonnet-for-2-km/article37203852.ece
28 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adoption case: CPI(M) may act against member||Speculation was rife on Wednesday that the CPI(M) had asked the party member accused of illegally giving up his grandchild for adoption to stay from organisational activities until further notice. A party insider said the CPI(M)’s purported move could be the precursor of further disciplinary action against the party member. Criticism was rife in the CPI(M) that the influential local committee member from a storied Communist family had brought infamy to the party. His daughter, an SFI activist, had accused her father of giving up her child born out of wedlock for adoption without her consent. She later married the child’s biological father, a party member himself. Both parents had moved from pillar to post in the Government and CPI(M) to trace their “disappeared” infant. The couple had squarely blamed the woman’s father and his “facilitators” in the CWC, local police, and the CPI(M) for the crime. The Government and the party had no choice but to distance themselves from the party member in the face of the scandal. Conspiracy The State police have now registered a case of conspiracy, kidnapping, and violation of the provisions of the JJ Act against the woman’s parents and siblings. She had told the police that her family had spirited the child away from her when she was convalescing after a “forced” C-section in a private hospital in the suburbs. Honour The woman stated to law enforcers that her family wanted to protect its “honour”, given that she had conceived the baby out of wedlock and the child’s father was of a “lower” caste. The UDF had put the Government in the defence in the Assembly on Tuesday by highlighting what it described as a “CPI(M)-orchestrated honour crime”. Moral policing It said the CPI(M), CWC, police, and Government had abetted the crime. The agencies had acted as an extra-legal moral police force to save the “honour” of a party member. The Opposition pointed out that Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat’s intervention to restore the child to its biological parents had failed despite her appeal to the Chief Minister’s Office. They called it a capital crime against society. The CPI(M) State committee was likely to discuss the matter and decide on further action. Court moved For now, the CPI(M) has publicly rallied behind the mother. The Government has moved the court to nullify the adoption and return the child to the mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adoption-case-cpim-may-act-against-member/article37203888.ece
28 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mizoram Governor prays at Tirumala||Mizoram Governor K. Haribabu on Wednesday offered prayers at the temple of Lord Venkateswara. The officials accorded him a warm reception . TTD Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy presented him the ‘laddu prasadam’, a memento, a coffee-table book, and the New Year calendar and diaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mizoram-governor-prays-at-tirumala/article37204401.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||High-yielding seeds to be distributed to farmers||The Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) set up across the rural areas of the State will disburse seeds to the farmers to suit their local conditions, said Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University (ANGRAU) Board of Management member T.V. Muralinatha Reddy. Addressing farmers after distributing seed varieties to them on the ‘Seed Day’ observed at the Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS) here on Wednesday, he appealed to scientists to identify high-yielding seed varieties suitable for the local soil as well as climatic conditions and disburse them through the RBK network. “The newly-released seeds in every crop should be produced in large quantities and distributed to RBKs on time so as to reach the farmers well ahead of the sowing season,” he said, adding that the farmers should also produce their own seed varieties to overcome the shortage in the supply chain. Rural seed project RARS Associate Director of Research L. Prashanti said the institute was getting ready to provide certified seeds of groundnut, cereals, millets and sugarcane for the ensuing kharif 2022 as part of the rural seed project and urged the farmers to come up with their indent well in advance. Sri Venkateswara Agricultural College Associate Dean Ravindra Reddy recalled how the institute had grown in size and stature to supply high-quality seeds to not only the neighbouring States, but also to various countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-yielding-seeds-to-be-distributed-to-farmers/article37203914.ece
28 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vedic University convocation today||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, in his capacity as Chancellor of Sri Venkateswara Vedic University, will ‘virtually’ preside over its sixth convocation for the 2019-20 batch students at the ‘Yagashala’ located on the sprawling campus here on Thursday. Vice-Chancellor Sannidhanam Sudarshan Sharma will present the annual report and deliver the key-note address. The honorary title ‘Maha Mahopadhyaya’ will be conferred on retired Samaveda Pundit Ganessan Shruti on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vedic-university-convocation-today/article37203915.ece
28 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||35% seats in pvt. varsities through CET||The State government has set the ball rolling to make education affordable and accessible to merit students from poor and middle-class families in private universities that were charging exorbitant fees and had remained inaccessible to students who had talent but could not afford the fees. The government decision to reserve 35% of the seats in private universities under ‘convener’ quota and fix the fees collected by the universities will pave the way for meritorious candidates who clear the Common Entrance Test conducted at the State level, to occupy them. The policy, however, does not apply to the deemed-to-be-universities, as they are governed by the Central regulatory body, the University Grants Commission (UGC). But the officials of the Department of Higher Education have written to the UGC, seeking its permission to extend the fee regulation policy to deemed-to be varsities too in the larger interest of the student community and a response is awaited. The government will also pay the fees of the students who are eligible for fee reimbursement under ‘Jagananna Vidya Deevena’. “The vision of the Chief Minister is to ensure quality and affordable education to every single student in the State,” said Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) K. Hemachandra Reddy. Many merit students from economically backward sections could not afford a seat in private universities owing to exorbitant fees collected by them, said Prof. Reddy, informing that the fee regulated by the government would apply only to the 35% reserved seats. “The move will help thousands of parents realise their dreams for their children’s education,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/35-seats-in-pvt-varsities-through-cet/article37204407.ece
28 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC to give jobs to kin of COVID victims||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) will provide jobs to the dependents of employees who died of COVID-19 in the State, said APSRTC Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao. A total of 322 employees of the corporation succumbed to the virus. APSRTC suspended services immediately after the government announced lockdown in March last year in the State. However, the corporation’s employees extended their services during the pandemic. “We are making arrangements to hand over the appointment orders shortly. The RTC management will provide employment to them in the existing vacancies. In some cases, the APSRTC will ask the District Collectors to provide employment on compassionate grounds to the dependents, including wife, children and other family members, based on their educational qualifications and vacancies in the corporation,” Mr. Rao told The Hindu . The process is likely to be completed next month, he said. While thanking the government for providing jobs to the dependents of the COVID-19 victims, the APSRTC Employees Union submitted a representation to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy urging him to provide employment to the dependents in 1,800 other cases, pending for over three years. Representations have also been submitted to Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah, Principal Secretary (Transport and R&B) M.T. Krishna Babu and APSRTC MD Tirumala Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-to-give-jobs-to-dependents-of-covid-victims/article37203842.ece
28 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||550 ganja addicts identified in city||About 550 youth, including a few girls, are allegedly addicted to ganja (Cannabis) in Vijayawada. Majority of the consumers and peddlers reportedly are students. Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu revealed this during an anti-drug drive organised here on Wednesday. The police during raids took into custody many suspected ganja smugglers and consumers, and seized the contraband in huge quantity in the last one year, he said. “As part of the anti-drug drive, the police are conducting awareness programmes against consuming ganja and other drugs. We are also counselling the suspected drug addicts and their family members,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. During investigation, police enquired on how the contraband was being smuggled, details of the notorious peddlers, vulnerable institutions and places, how the smugglers were trapping the youth, availability of ganja, price and other details, the Police Commissioner said. “Police summoned the parents of many youth, who were consuming ganja and explained how their children were spoiling their life. Police officers also elucidated on the consequences, if a case under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropics Act (NDPS) Act 1985, is booked,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. Constant vigil However, police have not registered cases against the youngsters, keeping in view their future. But, police were maintaining a constant vigil on them, he said. Meanwhile, many parents feigned ignorance about the activities of their children and were shocked to know the criminal activities of their wards. “We could not believe when the police told that our child is consuming ganja and is having links with smugglers. Since then, we have kept a watch on the movement of our children,” said a woman, who attended for counselling. “Ganja smugglers are targeting youth, particularly students. They are selling the contraband in small packets at Rs. 100 and above. In some educational institutions, the alumni turned into smugglers,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/550-ganja-addicts-identified-in-city/article37204510.ece
28 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan for making State a popular tourist destination||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed officials of the Tourism Department to take steps that would transform the State into a popular tourist destination with due focus on developing a London-Eye-type project in Visakhapatnam. Addressing a meeting of the State Investment Promotion Board (SIPB) on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan said a concerted effort should be made to attract international tourists by providing state-of-the-art facilities. He instructed the officials to complete the projects on time and pointed out that the potential of the tourism sector to provide jobs should be fully tapped. Officials told the Chief Minister that investments in the tourism projects amounting to Rs. 2,868.60 crore were in the pipeline with a scope to create employment for 48,000 people. The number of rooms would go up by 1,564 on completion of these projects in about five years. The proposed projects include Oberoi resorts in Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, Gandikota, Horsley Hills and Pitchukalanka (East Godavari district) in the name of Oberoi Villas, a star hotel and convention centre at Shilparamam in Visakhapatnam by the Hyatt Group, a hotel and service apartment in Visakhapatnam by Taj Group, a tunnel aquarium and sky tower construction in the port city, a Hyatt Palace Hotel in Vijayawada, a spiritual tourism center under the auspices of ISKCON Charities at Gnanagiri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Penugonda in Anantapur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-for-making-state-a-popular-tourist-destination/article37204395.ece
28 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home Minister, DGP interact with COVID victims’ families||Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha and Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang recalled the sacrifices made by the police personnel who died while discharging their duties. Ms. Sucharita, the DGP, other police officers from the AP Police Headquarters and DIGs and Superintendents of Police interacted with the bereaved police families of Guntur, East Godavari, Krishna, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and other districts online, on Wednesday. In all, 23,157 police personnel contracted COVID-19 and 206 succumbed to the virus, the DGP said. A private pharma company, Mankind Pharma, gave Rs. 3 lakh to all the 206 police families, who lost their breadwinners due to coronavirus, said Ms. Sucharitha. “Many police officers stood on the roads round-the-clock during the pandemic and extended good services, leaving their families behind,” the Home Minister said. Mr. Sawang while paying homage to the police personnel who were killed in exchange of fire with Maoists, in road accidents, due to COVID-19 and in fighting against the anti-social elements, said the police department would support the bereaved families in all times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-minister-dgp-interact-with-covid-victims-families/article37204512.ece
28 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Accountability missing after elections: Jasti Chelameswar||Former Judge of the Supreme Court Jasti Chelameswar has said that the tendency to “celebrate elections once in five years and act as per one’s whims and fancies after coming to power” is growing in the country. “During a brief chat with former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao, former Chief Justice of India M.N. Venkatachaliah, at his swearing-in as CJI, had expressed the view that the Judiciary and the Executive should have a ‘proper relationship’ but not a ‘cordial relationship’ as such,” Mr. Chelameswar said on Wednesday. “The Legislature, the Executive, and the Judiciary should understand each other well. There should be effective scrutiny at all the levels,” Mr. Chelameswar observed while delivering a talk on ‘Judiciary V/s Executive: Division of powers and unwarranted interference’, organised by the Andhra Arts Academy (AAA) and the AP Editors’ Association (APEA) here. “Today, the ruling parties are blindly endorsing the decisions taken by the governments by exercising their brute majorities in Parliament and State Legislatures. The Opposition parties are finding fault with everything done by the governments. Democracy is thus jeopardised as its three wings are more often than not working at cross purposes,” Mr. Chelameswar asserted. In her address, A.P. Telugu and Sanskrit Akademi chairperson N. Lakshmi Parvathi said a few court orders were hindering development activity in the State. The government wanted to usher in reforms in the education sector and implement housing project for the poor, but the stay orders halted these programmes, Ms. Parvathi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/accountability-missing-after-elections-jasti-chelameswar/article37204392.ece
28 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. eyeing assets of aided institutions: TDP||Former Member of the Legislative Council (MLC) A.S. Ramakrishna of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has accused the State government of hatching a conspiracy to take over the properties and assets of aided educational institutions in the State. Mr. Ramakrishna said that over 1.96 lakh students were studying in 2,203 aided schools across the State. As many as 71,035 students were studying at 182 aided junior colleges. Over 2.50 lakh students were studying in 116 aided degree colleges. In one stroke, the future of lakhs of students was plunged into a crisis, he alleged. “The government should change its policy at least after seeing the massive protests in Visakhapatnam. The government should withdraw the GOs 42, 50 and 51 as they are solely aimed at destroying the aided education system,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-eyeing-assets-of-aided-institutions-tdp/article37204516.ece
28 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State has become a narcotics hub: Pawan||Even as the ruling and opposition parties continued to trade barbs over the large-scale cultivation of ganja in the State and smuggling of other drugs, Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan tweeted on Wednesday that Andhra Pradesh had become a narcotics hub due to the indulgence of many drug lords in the activity. He said the entire nation was getting affected by the “wilful inaction of the government.” Posting the video clips in which Delhi ACP Santosh Kumar Meena, Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar, Bangalore Police Commissioner Kamal Pant and Nalgonda SP A.V. Ranganath purportedly told the media that the origin of drugs seized by them was traced to A.P., Mr. Pawan Kalyan said it was a matter of serious concern, and urgent action was needed to stem the rot. He alleged that A.P. was supplying ganja to Delhi, Kerala, Pune, Mumbai and the rest of Maharashtra. He said the ganja crop in the Agency areas stretching from Visakhapatnam to Tuni in East Godavari district would be ready for harvest in November and December, when larger consignments would be going out to the markets where the substance commands a high price. Previously, the Excise Department used to destroy the crop, but now they were after ganja being smuggled out. As a result, the root cause of the problem remained, the JSP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-has-become-a-narcotics-hub-pawan/article37204393.ece
28 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boating to resume at Papikondalu from Nov. 7||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao on Wednesday said tourist boats would start operating in the Godavari at Papikondalu from November 7. Addressing a review meeting with boat operators, he said safety of the tourists was paramount. Mr. Rao said the tourism sector would be developed in the State on the lines of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala, where tourism was a major source of revenue. Plans were afoot to groom the Polavaram project area as a major tourism hub, he added. Referring to the boat tragedy near Kachaluru in East Godavari district, which claimed 61 lives onboard in 2019, the Minister called it “unfortunate” and said utmost care was being taken to avoid recurrence of such incidents. In immediate response to the tragedy, the government, through GO 10, constituted a high-level panel to put in place a safety net and avoid boat mishaps. As part of it, nine command control centres were set up to ensure smooth sail of the boats at tourist spots in the Godavari and the Krishna, he said. Informing that officials and staff of the Police, Revenue, Irrigation and Tourism departments were deployed at these centres, the Minister asked the officials to create facilities at these places for their effective functioning. Mr. Rao asked the officials to create a WhatsApp group for boat operators to be constant touch with them with regard to the operation of their vessels. Package The Minister said the rate of a tourism pacakage, including boat fares from Rajamahendravaram to Papikondalu, food and lodging had been fixed at Rs. 1,250 per head. Besides doing business, the boat operators should focus on environment protection also, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boating-to-resume-at-papikondalu-from-nov-7/article37204408.ece
28 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No truth in TS claims on NS Left Canal ayacut’||The Welfare Association of Water Users and Ayacautdars in Andhra Pradesh has strongly objected to the statement made by Telangana Engineer-in-Chief (EnC) C. Muralidhar that the ayacut under the Nagarjunasagar Left Canal was increased to 3.67 lakh acres from 1.30 lakh acres. Association State president Alla Gopalakrishna Rao, in a statement on Wednesday, said that the statement that Andhra Pradesh had increased the ayacut under the Nagarjunasagar Left Canal after the State bifurcation in 2014 lacked truth. “Nalgonda in Telangana comes under the zone-1 of Nagarjunasagar Left Canal while Khammam falls under the zone-2. As much as 6.62 lakh acre in these two districts forms part of the left canal. Also, another 1.57 lakh acre under the zone-2 and 2.10 lakh acre under the zone-3 in Andhra Pradesh come under the left canal. It takes the total ayacut to 10.29 lakh acre. Both States have availed of world bank funds for development of the ayacut. Mr. Muralidhar should be aware of these facts,” he said. Mr. Rao said further that the Telangana government had taken up projects to utilise 255 tmcft of water without any permissions from the Central Water Commission (CWC), Apex council, or the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB). As a result, 15 lakh acres under the left and right canals in A.P., 13 lakh acres in the Krishna delta, 2 lakh acres under the SRBC would be affected. “A total of 30 lakh acres would go dry due to the projects in Telangana,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-truth-in-ts-claims-on-ns-left-canal-ayacut/article37204406.ece
28 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI writes to Jagan on fair price shops||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna on Wednesday wrote to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, urging him to take necessary steps to resolve the problems faced by dealers of fair price shops in the State. He said that the dealers were forced to pay electricity charges, shop rent, and unloading expenses from the commission paid to them. Their incomes have come down drastically due to the door delivery system. They were unable to sell non-PDS commodities as the ration cardholders were not coming to the shops. The commission for selling red gram and whole bengal gram was not paid till date, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-writes-to-jagan-on-fair-price-shops/article37204514.ece
28 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lorry owners protest against fuel price hike||The lorry owners staged a protest in front of the Krishna District Lorry Owners Association hall here on Thursday against the hike in petrol and diesel prices. They demanded that the Central and State governments do away with the cess being collected on diesel and petrol. There was a need to regulate the toll fees, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lorry-owners-protest-against-fuel-price-hike/article37204517.ece
28 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight more succumb to virus in State||The State reported eight more deaths due to COVID-19 and 567 infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,364 and 20,64,854 respectively, while the recovery rate remains at 99.07%%. The total recoveries increased to 20,45,713 with 437 patients recovering in the past day. The number of active cases came down to 4,777. The daily test positivity rate of 39,545 samples tested in the past day was 1.43%, the highest in the past 15 days. Chittoor district reported three more deaths, while Guntur reported two and Krishna, Prakasam and West Godavari reported one death each. At 161, East Godavari district reported 28% of the total infections reported in the past day, while Kurnool reported no infection during the same period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-more-succumb-to-virus-in-state/article37204390.ece
28 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leaders confined to homes ahead of protest at Rushikonda||A number of senior Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders, including Visakhapatnam (East) MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu and State president of TNSF (Telugu Nadu Students Federation) Pranav Gopal, were detained at home by the police ahead of the scheduled protest near the erstwhile Haritha Resort of the APTDC at Rushikonda, here on Wednesday. The city police set up pickets in front of their houses, as early as 5 a.m., and did not allow the leaders to come out. However, TDP Visakhapatnam Parliamentary Constituency president Palla Srinivasa Rao and former Minister Bandaru Satyanaryana were able to reach the site with a some supporters. But they were not allowed inside and they staged a protest on the road. The TDP has been demanding clarity on why the State government had demolished the existing APTDC Haritha Resort, located on the Rushikonda Hill. “We want the government to put the Detailed Project Report (DPR) in the public domain. There is no clarity, whether a new resort is coming up or the CM’s camp office is coming up at the site,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Babu. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Palla Srinivasa Rao said that a part of the iconic Rushikonda Hill has been demolished and still there is no clarity. The site falls under Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) region and mining is prohibited in such region. But despite that extensive quarrying is taking place creating an environment hazard, he said. ‘No NGT clearance’ He also alleged that there was no National Green Tribunal (NGT) clearance and environment norms were being violated. The TDP leader also pointed out that the hill has geographical and historical significance and Vizagites identify it with pride. Such a spot cannot be vandalised in this fashion, in the name of development. If something has to be built, there is no dearth of land in Visakhapatnam, he said. A large number of police force was seen deployed at Rushikonda on Wednesday. Meanwhile, TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu has lashed out the YSR Congress Party government for razing the Haritha Tourism Resorts at Rushikonda and also quarrying off some porting of the hill in “violation of the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) guidelines.” In a recorded video clip on Wednesday, Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu said that the tourism resorts, constructed on the slopes of Rushikonda Hill, offered a splendid view of the Bay of Bengal and the green hills to tourists. ‘Project approved’ Earlier, the Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao had already clarified that the existing resort was demolished to facilitate the construction of a new resort and the project was approved by the The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) and CRZ clearance was accorded by the ministry. As per the project report submitted to the MoEFCC by the State government, the project is coming up on a land measuring about 9.8 acres with a built up area of 19,968 sq mts, at a cost of Rs. 240 crore. Two phases It will come up in two phases with Rs. 92 crore being spent for site preparation and road connectivity and Rs. 148 crore for building construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leaders-confined-to-homes-ahead-of-protest-at-rushikonda/article37204528.ece
28 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals start clearing bushes||The death of a pregnant young woman at Yedurumilli village of Annavaram panchayat of Chintapalli mandal on Monday night has once again brought to the fore the travails of the tribal people due to lack of road connectivity. Divya, a 27-year-old victim, gave birth to a healthy baby at her home, but died due to heavy bleeding a little while later, leaving her child without a mother. The absence of a road to her village came in the way of the ‘108 Emergency Ambulance’ from shifting her to a hospital, which could have saved her life. The tribal people of Losingi Pedapurugu, Pitragedda and Kotha Losingi tribal villages, which are on the borders of Rolugunta and Ravikamatham mandals, had been demanding construction of a road connecting their villages with Chalisingi, CK Padu and Kothakota of Cheemalapadu panchayat of Ravikamatham mandal, for the past several years. In the last three years alone, four tribal people of the above villages had died while being carried in ‘dholis’ to a hospital. The tribals decided not to wait till the government sanctioned funds for construction of the road but pool up their resources and start the work with ‘shram daan’ while continuing to exert pressure on the government for release of the funds for construction of the road. The farmers of the plain areas, leading to the Agency, had been objecting to the road thinking that they would lose their lands. But, the fact is that they would lose barely a few metres and but would also stand to benefit as their produce could be loaded onto tractors right near their fields, says Girijana Sangham leader K. Govinda Rao. “About 1,000 habitations of the 3,678 notified villages, of the 11 mandals in the Agency area of the district, do not have road connectivity. Measures are being taken to provide roads in a phased manner,” Paderu MLA K. Bhagyalakshmi told The Hindu , when the issue was brought to her notice. On the directions of the Collector, the RDO visited the village on Tuesday sand interacted with the farmers of the plain areas and assured them that alternative land would be given, if they lost a substantial portion of their land, and they finally agreed, says the Girijana Sangham leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-start-clearing-bushes/article37204520.ece
28 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||36,667 students to write APSET on October 31||Andhra Pradesh State Eligibility Test (APSET) member secretary K. Srinivasa Rao has said that arrangements are being made for the examination scheduled to be held from 9.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. on October 31. The examination is conducted for recruitment and promotions of lecturers and assistant professors in degree colleges. In a release on Wednesday, Prof. Srinivasa Rao said that 78 examination centres across the eight regional centres in the State had been set up. “As many as 36,667 candidates are appearing for the test in 30 subjects. Candidates will be allowed to the centres an hour before the examinations. The latecomers will not be allowed if they are late by a minute,” he said. Prof. Srinivasa Rao said that all COVID-19 protocols would be followed at the examination centres. Differently-abled candidates, seeking an assistant, have been advised to contact the Chief Superintendent of Examination cell a day in advance. The candidates can download their hall tickets from the APSET website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/36667-students-to-write-apset-on-october-31/article37203916.ece
28 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Death toll rises to two in firecracker blast||The death toll in the blast at an illegal firecracker unit at Medivada village under Ravikamatham police station limits increased to two, after the injured woman who was being treated at King George Hospital (KGH) succumbed to her injuries on Tuesday night. An explosion took place in a house where the inmates were allegedly manufacturing firecrackers at Medivada. A 65-year-old woman P. Nookaratnam died on the spot, while Devudamma (66), who was injured was shifted to KGH. Devudamma received severe injuries to legs, after a wall collapsed on her, said police. On Monday, the police arrested P. Sambasiva Rao, son of Nookaratnam, for allegedly manufacturing firecrackers without any permissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/death-toll-rises-to-two-in-firecracker-blast/article37204523.ece
28 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 40 new COVID-19 infections||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 40 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,58,107. During the same time period, 34 persons recovered from the virus. This has increased the number of recoveries to 1,56,266. The death toll stands at 1,096 as no COVID-19 death was reported from the district during the last 48 hours. The number of active cases stand at 745.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-40-new-covid-19-infections/article37204524.ece
28 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women take out rally against VSP privatisation||A huge rally was taken out by women, under the auspices of the Women’s Wing of the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee, at Ukkunagaram on Wednesday demanding continuation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) in the public sector. Gajuwaka MLA T. Nagi Reddy flagged off the rally at the Telugu Thalli statue in the steel plant. The participants raised slogans against the Centre. The rally concluded in a public meeting near the administration building. The women representatives described the privatisation policies of the Union government as ‘detrimental’ to the progress of the nation. The privatisation of the VSP would mean the future of one lakh people, dependent on it, would be at stake. They said that during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent tour of the USA, the journalists there had questioned him on the farmers’ agitation and the VSP agitation. They called upon the women to wage united struggles against the lopsided policies of the Union government. Women leader Palla China Thalli, AIDWA State president B. Prabhavathi, corporator Jhansi Lakshmi, former corporators K. Vimala, Peela Uma Rani, Y. Varalakshmi, Busi Parameswari, K. Venu, Y. Satyavathi, A. Deepthi, Y. Aruna Kumari, K. Satyavathi, Suma, Usha, Suseela, Latha and Vani were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/women-take-out-rally-against-vsp-privatisation/article37204522.ece
28 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Skating: Pranavi, Narayana win 2 gold medals, one silver||M. Pranavi and N. Mokghagnya Narayana put up a creditable show in the Visakhapatnam district-level artistic skating championship by winning two gold and a silver medal in the 7-9 years age group category and made it to the State meet where the Andhra Pradesh team will be picked, based on the performances for the forthcoming 59th Nationals. Pranavi and Mokshagnya, coached by Chitti Babu and P. Satyanarayana of Club Shivaji Park Skating Association, won gold each in pair dance and show group events and a silver in the pair skating event. District level Artistic skating competition was held At Shivaji Park, MVP Colony, Visakhapatnam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/skating-pranavi-narayana-win-2-gold-medals-one-silver/article37204529.ece
28 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awareness meet on anti-ragging laws held at AMC||An awareness programme on ‘anti ragging laws’ was jointly conducted by the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) and Andhra Medical College (AMC) on Wednesday. K.K.V. Buli Krishna, Senior Civil Judge-cum-Secretary, DLSA, Visakhapatnam, explained students about the consequences of indulging in crimes like ragging. AMC Principal P.V. Sudhkar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/awareness-meet-on-anti-ragging-laws-held-at-amc/article37204521.ece
28 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP urges youth to stay away from ganja cultivation and smuggling||Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao on Wednesday said that the district police are taking all steps to contain ganja cultivation as well as smuggling in the Agency areas. He was speaking during the inaugural of Open House programme at Chintapalle as part of the Police Commemoration Week .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-urges-youth-to-stay-away-from-ganja-cultivation-and-smuggling/article37204525.ece
28 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clean India programme organised||As part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav,’ Nehru Yuva Kendra organised a Clean India programme near Kursura Submarine museum at Beach Road here on Wednesday. Regional Director - South Zone, Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan, Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Govt. of India, Bengaluru, S.P. Pattnaik, attended the programme as the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clean-india-programme-organised/article37204526.ece
28 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BC communities seek caste-wise census in State||The Joint Action Committee (JAC) for Backward Classes Association on Wednesday urged the Andhra Pradesh Backward Classes Commission Chairman Justice A. Shankar Narayana to recommend the government to take up census of BCs. Vizianagaram BC Samskshema Sangham president Chalumuri Venkata Rao and BC JAC-North Andhra Association convener Golgani Ramesh and other leaders submitted a memorandum to Justice Shankar Narayana who conducted a public hearing at the Collector’s office here over the grievances of various communities. Mr. Venkata Rao pointed out that even as more than 60% of the population in the State belonged to BCs, the reservation facility was confined to below 30%. “A caste-wise census will help the BCs get more facilities from the government. Reservation should also be provided to the BCs in legislative bodies with the exclusive constituencies,” he said. Income limit A.P. Koppula Velama Welfare and Development Corporation chairman Nekkala Naidubabu, A.P. Koppala Velama Association president Gottapu Chinnam Naidu, former MLC Gade Srinivasula Naidu and other leaders urged Jstice Shankar Narayana for inclusion of the community listed in BC-D list now in the BC-A category. They sought enhancement of the creamy layer income limit up to Rs. 15 lakh . Vizianagaram Zilla Nagarala Sangham president Sanmuneti Srinivasa Raourged the commission to accord BC-A status to the community, saying that the current BC-D status was not helping them to get any benefit from the government. “More than 95% of the population of the community fall in the BPL category,” he said. A.P. Sondikula Samskshema Sangham leader R.B.K. Chowdary also sought BC-A status for the community. Dalitha Kandra Fishermen Union leader Mandal Mohan Beharaalso sought BC-A status, saying that other fishermen communities were already in the BC-A list. He demanded that the benefits of the ‘Matyakara Bharosa’ scheme be extended to the community. A.P. State Chattada Sri Vyshnava BC Welfare Corporation director Dasyam Vamanachari sought inclusion of the community in most backward classes’ category. Justice Shankar Narayana, commission’s member secretary D. Chandrasekhar Raju, members Avvaru Musalayya, Marakkagiri Krishnappa, Gowtri Venkata Satya Diwakar Pakki took note of the grievances of the delegations of different communities. Earlier, Collector A. Suryakumari reviewed arrangements for the public hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bc-communities-seek-caste-wise-census-in-state/article37203911.ece
28 October 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Bus services partially hit by Maoist bandh||The TSRTC bus services were partially disrupted in Bhadrachalam Agency on Wednesday during the bandh observed by the CPI (Maoist) State committee in protest against the Monday’s “encounter” in Tekulagudem forest area near Telangana’s border with Chhattisgarh, in which three Maoist rebels were killed. The inter-district bus services between Bhadrachalam and Venkatapuram in Mulugu district were hit as the authorities suspended three buses on this route on Wednesday as a precautionary measure, sources said. Barring a few, all other bus services remained unaffected. Police sources claimed that the bandh failed to evoke any response in the entire district. However, the police continued their synergised anti-Maoist operations along the inter-State border with Chhattisgarh in coordination with their counterparts of the neighbouring State, sources said. Police maintained a hawk-eyed vigil on forest routes and ferry points along the Godavari River course in Bhadrachalam and Manuguru police sub-divisions as part of the stepped up vigil in the aftermath of the Tekulagudem incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bus-services-partially-hit-by-maoist-bandh/article37203855.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Delays plague two elevated corridors of SRDP||Infrastructural development works taken up in the city under the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) may face inordinate delays due to gaps in fund release. While several works are under way at different locations in the city as part of the SRDP, especially to be affected by the fund crunch are the two elevated corridors coming up respectively between Indira Park and VST Junction, and between Nalgonda Crossroads and Owaisi Junction. Both the flyovers were designed as steel bridges, with steel being used instead of RCC for casting major part of the structure. Steel was chosen for speedy completion of the works, but as irony would have it, the steel component in the design is proving to be a hurdle in terms of funding. “Steel parts have to be ordered to design from SAIL (Steel Authority of India Limited), and unless full payment is made, they will not send the consignment. Fund releases have been paltry so far, hence it could easily take two more years for the bridges to take final shape,” an official shared under the condition of anonymity. Though getting government sanction way back in 2018, the flyovers had been delayed due to various reasons. Tenders were finalised only last year, and the projects were launched in July, 2020. The 2.61-kilometre four-lane bidirectional elevated corridor between Indira Park and VST has been designed with an estimated cost of Rs. 350 crore. It will help commuters to avoid four junctions namely at NTR Stadium, Ashoknagar, RTC Crossroads and Baghlingampally junction. The four-lane bidirectional corridor between Nalgonda crossroads and Owaisi Junction will be of 3.382 kilometres length, and an estimated cost of Rs. 523.37 crore. It will pass via Saidabad, IS Sadan, Chanchalguda and Dhobighat junctions, thereby reducing traffic delays. Delay in completion of the flyovers could cause enormous traffic inconvenience, as roads have been dug up at both locations for laying of foundations. Already, commuters are facing severe hardships negotiating their way through the narrow strip of road on the VST-Indira Park stretch. “Each of these projects needs release of about Rs. 30 crore per month for completion before the deadline next year. As of now, the releases do not cross Rs. 4 crore to Rs. 5 crore per month,” informed the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/delays-plague-two-elevated-corridors-of-srdp/article37204213.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Intense campaign comes to a close in Huzurabad||As loudspeakers fell silent and political parties scurried to woo the voters in the last minute, tension is palpable among the key contestants in the byelection to Huzurabad Assembly constituency which goes to poll on October 30. In what is billed as a contest of prestige for Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao as well as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate and former minister Eatala Rajender, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and the BJP are locked in another tight fight. The two parties waged a do or die battle in Dubbaka bypoll where the BJP had the last laugh. The bypoll to Huzurabad constituency was the result of the resignation of Mr. Rajender after he fell out with the TRS leadership subsequent to his ouster from the Cabinet. Mr. Rajender’s entry into BJP made the contest more interesting and stakes for both the ruling TRS and the saffron party soared. While Mr. Rajender, a seasoned politician and a key person in the TRS since its inception in 2000, shifted his political allegiance, the TRS scouted for a suitable candidate and picked up student leader Gellu Srinivas Yadav. Not to be left behind, the Congress shortlisted its NSUI State chief Balmuri Venkat Narsing Rao, a medico, to contest on its behalf. The TRS had a head start in the run up to the bypoll after it specifically targetted Mr. Rajender’s decision to quit the TRS which gave him political life and how he ditched the party for selfish interests. The party drafted its crisis man T. Harish Rao as the campaign in-charge for Huzurabad constituency. For the last 45 days, Mr. Harish Rao spearheaded the campaign for the party roping in ministers and senior leaders. While individually hitting out at the opportunistic politics of Mr. Rajender, the TRS focussed its energy to ‘expose’ the BJP by alleging how the Centre had denied Telangana its due right from the State’s formation. Not to lag behind, the BJP pressed into service several senior leaders, including close to a dozen Union ministers, who minced no words in criticising Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his government’s policies. They just stopped short of calling Pragati Bhavan a ‘palace’ from where the CM does not venture out. Congress too tried to make its presence felt with the visit of its seasoned leaders. The visit of TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy for a road show was impressive but the delay in the candidate’s announcement for start of electioneering saw to it that the party lagged behind. Charges and counter charges flew thick and fast as the TRS and the BJP were engaged in a war of words over the abrupt halt to the implementation of the Dalit Bandhu scheme aimed at financially empowering the SC community. The TRS leaders said it was a conspiracy of the BJP to deny the poor dalits their due. The BJP countered saying it was a decision of the Election Commission and the party had no role in stopping it. For the record, 30 candidates are in fray for the election to be held on October 30. On the last day on Wednesday, Mr. Harish Rao, his cabinet colleagues — V. Srinivas Goud, Koppula Eashwar, Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Gangula Kamalakar — made last ditch effort to woo the voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/intense-campaign-comes-to-a-close-in-huzurabad/article37204241.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS, AP record low birth rates, infant mortality rates improve||The two Telugu States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh had recorded birth rates much lower than the national average in both urban and rural areas, whereas the death rates are slightly more. Also, the infant mortality rate has improved indicating better healthcare facilities over the years. This is as per the latest yearly ‘Sample Registration System (SRS)’ brought out by the Office of Registrar General of India for all States and Union Territories. The SRS provides reliable annual estimates of Infant Mortality Rate (IMR), birth rate, death rate and other fertility and mortality indicators at the national and sub-national levels. It is a large-scale demographic survey conducted every year and the latest bulletin released on Tuesday is for 2019, which means the COVID years’ (20-21) figures are not yet available. If the national birth rate per thousand population is 19.7 with 16.4 in urban areas and 21.4 in rural areas, it is 16.7 in TS with 16.1 in urban areas and 17 in rural areas; whereas in neighbouring AP the figures are: 15.9 in total with 15.2 in urban areas and 16.2 in rural areas. Birth rate is a crude measure of fertility of a population and is a crucial determinant of population growth. It has declined drastically over the last four decades from 36.9 in 1971 to 19.7 in 2019. The rural-urban difference too, has narrowed over these years even if rural areas have a high rate. In 2018, the national birth rate has been 20, TS 16.9 and AP 16. With IMR, national figure is 30 infant deaths per thousand live births with 20 deaths per thousand in urban areas and 34 deaths per thousand in rural areas. In TS, total deaths per thousand have been 23 with 18 deaths in urban areas and 26 in rural areas. In AP, it has been 25 in total with 19 deaths in urban areas and 28 in rural areas. In 2018, national IMR has been 32, TS 27 and AP 29. If we take the death rates into account, it has declined to 6 in 2019 from 6.2 in 2018. This reduces to 5 in urban areas and goes up to 6.5 in rural areas. In TS, it is a wee bit higher with 6.1 and goes more high in rural areas at 7.2 and in urban areas death rate is at 4.3 deaths per thousand. For AP, death rate in total is higher comparatively at 6.4 which rises further to 7.1 in rural areas but comes down to 4.8 in urban areas. In 2018, TS had 6.3 and AP 6.7. Natural growth rate or the replacement population rate has been 13.8 in total nationally with 11.4 in urban areas and 14.9 in rural areas. For TS, it has been 10.6 in total with 11.8 in urban areas and 9.8 in rural areas. In AP, the total is 9.5 with 10.4 in urban areas and 9.1 rural areas. In 2018, it was 13.8 nationally, 9.7 in TS and 9.4 in AP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-ap-record-low-birth-rates-infant-mortality-rates-improve/article37204198.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor asks students to focus on innovation||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan exhorted students and scholars to focus on innovation. “Innovation is the key to the country’s transformation and all-round progress. We must give top priority to promote innovation at all levels to realise the goal of a self-reliant India,” she added. Dr. Tamilisai, who is also the chancellor of State universities, was delivering the Chancellor’s Address at the 81st Convocation of Osmania University at the Tagore auditorium in the campus on Wednesday. Motivating students to be ready to face challenges, the Governor stated that facing challenges will help them get stronger. “A caterpillar when it metamorphoses into a butterfly, repeatedly knocks on the cocoon to break it and come out of it. By facing the challenges it gets its wings as strong. Similarly, you all (the students) do not shy away from facing tough challenges and emerge as the tough one,” she added. “One must have big dreams. As, Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam pointed out that the dreams are not those that which you get in your sleep, instead they (big dreams) should make you sleepless,” she added. Delivering the convocation address, Chairman, Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) Dr. G. Satheesh Reddy said: “Any nation’s strength lies in the strength of its academic, economic, scientific and technological sectors. World over, developments in science and technology are taking place at a very rapid pace. We are all witness to the path breaking developments in electronics, computer science and information technology in the past decade. Never in the past has mankind been empowered by technology in such a powerful and unprecedented manner.” The nation is focusing hard on the development of advanced systems for our armed forces, he said added that appreciable efforts had been put in the field of basic and applied research for indigenisation of technologies. “The outstanding achievements of our nation in missile and space technologies reflect our inherent S&T strengths. The success of Geo-Synchronous Launch Vehicles, Agni Series of Missiles, LCA Tejas, fighter aircraft and the Chandrayaan and Mangalyaan missions have propelled us into an elite club of nations possessing ‘niche’ technologies,” he pointed out. Many technologies such as robotics, artificial intelligence, stem cell research, renewable energy generation and storage, augmented reality, space travel, space tourism and space mining, nanotechnology, high speed communication, 4G/5G/6G, to name a few, are influencing the way we lead our lives in this 21st century. The need of the hour is to identify the gaps in technology and develop crucial and advanced defence systems, by plugging in the gaps. Through the Technology Development Fund Scheme, DRDO funds industry to develop systems that would be inducted into service. Vice-Chancellor of Osmania University D. Ravinder and a host of officials and senior academics were present at the convocation ceremony. Thirty candidates received 45 gold medals while others were given away their doctoral degrees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-asks-students-to-focus-on-innovation/article37204194.ece
28 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Amateur historians identify Chalukyan period temple||A small temple under a tree about 500 metres from Siddipet-Sircilla in Tangellapally village has been identified as belonging to Chalukyan period by a group of amateur historians. “It is a trikuta temple with all three deities under one roof. The style was prevalent in the later part of the Kalyani Chalukya rule,” said S. Haragopal, who was instrumental in identifying the temple. “We were visiting the village when we were told about the temple in the farmland where people used to pray during Shivaratri. When we visited it, we discovered its importance,” said A. Ramesh, who was responsible for discovering this old temple. Though the temple is in a state of disrepair, the sculptures show the skill and knowledge of the craftsmen. The temple known as trikuta in local parlance houses the idols of Aditya, Shiva and Kesava. While the villagers make a beeline for prayers and offerings on Shivaratri, the temple is doesn’t see devotees for the rest of the year. The idol of Kesava is partially damaged as is the idol of Aditya. The Shiva lingam is on a raised platform. There are other idols including Mahishasuramardini and Ganapati in the complex. “It is a temple that can be dated to 10-11th century based on the style and location. The Telangana government should step in to protect this valuable piece of our history,” said Mr. Haragopal.  It is a trikuta temple with all three deities under one roof. The style was prevalent in the later part of the Kalyani Chalukya rule. It is a temple that can be dated to 10-11th century. S. Haragopal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/amateur-historians-identify-chalukyan-period-temple/article37204203.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pamphlet cautioning public on online frauds released||There has been a massive jump in the number of cases registered under cyber crime and Telangana contributed to over 10% of cybercrimes reported across the country. Almost 50 % of our population are using Internet and India is second to China for online business, said deputy director general (administration), Department of Telecom, J.V. Raja Reddy on Wednesday. He was speaking after releasing a pamphlet on mobile related security for general awareness and safety of the public for Telangana and AP as part of the vigilance awareness week. The pamphlet enumerates most commonly observed frauds such as OTP frauds, KYC frauds, QR code frauds, smartphone smishing, mobile tower frauds, fake call centre frauds, sextortion crimes, loan/gift/job frauds etc., along with precautionary measures, complaint reporting mechanism and important do’s & don’ts. Importance of the awareness creation among the general public about mobile related security aspects was stressed as various financial frauds are on the rise now a days duping innocent public of their hard earned money by deputy director general (telecom security) G. Gouri Sankar, DDG (complianc) G V Ramana Rao and others were present, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pamphlet-cautioning-public-on-online-frauds-released/article37204210.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||32 more basti dawakhanas||In view of the popular response to basti dawakhanas or neighbourhood clinics, the government has decided to establish 32 more such clinics across the city in addition to the 226 existing ones. A target of 300 such clinics has been set for the city, towards which the latest lot of the clinics are being set up in community halls and other government buildings, a press communication from GHMC informed. GHMC is identifying more buildings at various locations to set up the clinics, even while organising amenities wherever the buildings are identified. Once set up, management will be handed over to the Medical & Health department. The new clinics are being set up at Lalitabagh, Riyasat Nagar, Kanchanbagh, Nawabsaheb Kunta, Tolichowki, Puranapul, Rein Bazar, Khairatabad, Shaikpet, Jubilee Hills, Goshamahal, Mallepaly, Golnaka, Yusufguda, Bansilalpet, Nacharam, Chilukanagar, Habsiguda, Old Bowenpally, Balanagar, Chintal, Subhashnagar, Venkatapuram, Gautam Nagar, Hydernagar, Serilingampally, and Chandanagar wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/32-more-basti-dawakhanas/article37204211.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||186 more test positive in Telangana||Telangana yet again recorded less than 200 cases on Wednesday, with the Health department’s bulletin stating that 186 new COVID-19 cases were detected and one person has died. With this, the cumulative positive cases touched 6,70,829. According to the bulletin, 122 patients had recovered taking the cumulative number of recovered patients to 6,62,714. GHMC limits continued to register the highest number of cases with 65, followed by Karimnagar (16), Khammam (11), Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy (10 each). The total number of active cases stood at 4,164 with the number of samples tested standing at 41,392. The samples tested per million population were 7,36,972. The case fatality and recovery rates were at 0.58% and 98.79% compared to the national average of 1.3% and 98.17%, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/186-more-test-positive-in-telangana/article37204196.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Emphasis on ‘waste to energy’||Land being a non-renewable resource, there is a need to manage the waste generated and ‘waste to energy’ is a better technique compared to landfill methods. Thermal and anaerobic digestion of solid waste are the two methods of converting waste into power. The Jawahar Nagar plant here is the first in the country to convert landfill gas into compressed gas, said Ramky Group vice-president, solid waste management division DBSSR Sastry. He was participating in a seminar on “Sustainable Technological Innovations in Engineering, Science and Management” organised by CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT) on Tuesday. The seminar was held to highlight the importance of science and its applications in engineering, including waste management, and encouraging entrepreneurship. Director General (in-charge) Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) Nirmalya Bagchi said that the focus of the industry must shift to science driven innovation. Large firms are tending towards new ideation and are looking for technologies based on these concepts, he said. IICT Director S. Chandrasekhar said that the institute is encouraging and supporting various incubators situated at the campus who are working on translating innovations into successful technologies. Chief scientist N.V. Satyanarayana stressed the need for integrating science, engineering and management as the new model for sustainable industrial development. Dr. Satyanarayana was also felicitated on the occasion of his superannuation this month, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stress-on-waste-to-energy/article37204199.ece
28 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Major fire breaks out at IMFL depot in Adilabad||A major fire broke out at the godown of an outlet of Telangana State Beverages Corporation Limited at Nagapoor village of Utnoor mandal in Adilabad district on Wednesday morning, destroying Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) estimated at Rs. 2 crore. According to the District Superintendent of Police M Rajesh Chandra, the fire broke around 8.30 a.m. and no casualties were reported. Disaster Response and Fire Services personnel battled for over 10 hours to contain the fire that broke out in all three godowns. “As many as 28 firefighters from Utnoor, Jannaram, Adilabad and Ichoda have rushed to the spot with four fire tenders, one each, to douse off the flames,” Ichoda’s in-charge fire officer Durgam Rajalingam said. He said that at 9.12 a.m. they got an emergency call and soon the firefighters were pressed into service. Short circuit suspected “Initially, we controlled the flames from outside and later managed to enter the smoke-filled godowns,” he said, adding that electric short circuit could be the reason for the fire accident. As a precautionary measure, the power supply in the village was disconnected and the officials of the Electricity department are likely to inspect the depot to identify the cause of the fire., sources said It is the only IMFL depot supplying liquor for Adilabad and Nirmal districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/major-fire-at-imfl-depot-in-adilabad/article37204223.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CII’s Lighthouse mentorship project to set sail in TS soon||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) will soon be launching Lighthouse, its project to nurture current and future business leaders in south India, as a pilot programme in Telangana. It will be a learning platform on business strategies as part of which eminent corporate leaders and mentors will focus on helping micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) gain insights on various aspects. Lighthouse will provide an opportunity to deliberate and discuss on the future of business, CII-SR chairman C.K.Ranganathan said during a virtual media interaction on Wednesday. On the other engagement of CII with Telangana government, Mr. Ranganathan said the industry body and the State government were working closely to empower IPR ecosystem. CII is also working on the registration of GI (Geographical Indication) for horticulture products of Telangana and also a State IP policy. Hailing the policy measures of Telangana government, aimed at industrial development and attracting more investments, he said innovation ecosystem in the State is one of the best in the country. A release on the interaction said CII strongly advocates for Rural-Urban balance — through a continued engagement with select districts to promote industrial growth and job creation in tier II towns like Warangal and Nizamabad. CII is working with State government and industry on a four-pronged strategy towards boosting demand, facilitating private and public investment, job creation and increasing demand for exports. CII has launched a Centre of Excellence for Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Start-ups at T-Hub here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ciis-lighthouse-mentorship-project-to-set-sail-in-ts-soon/article37204247.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Village-level committees on podu land claims||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the officials concerned to constitute forest rights committees with sarpanches, panchayat secretaries, local people’s representatives and others at the village-level. These committee would create awareness among the people and receive claims from tribals and others for podu cultivation starting November 8. The villagers should however agree that there would be no further encroachment into forest lands. Similar committees Similar committees should be constituted at division and district levels and the district administrations on their part should prepare and submit action plans in this direction. The Chief Secretary made this remarks during a meeting with Revenue and Forest departments officials convened to resolve podu lands issues in line with the instructions given by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. He discussed about the procedure that should be followed for accepting the claims and the way the scrutiny of these applications should be conducted. He suggested that special officers be appointed in the districts where there were large number of cases pertaining to podu lands. Senior Forest officials should be appointed in the districts where there was large extent of podu lands. The entire process should be done in a transparent manner without giving scope for any controversies, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/village-level-committees-on-podu-land-claims/article37204249.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS victory is confirmed: Harish||Senior TRS leader and Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao has asserted that the victory of the ruling party was confirmed with the surveys being conducted by agencies engaged by different political parties and the Opposition leaders were indulging in false propaganda against the TRS as they were desperate. The welfare and developmental schemes launched by the TRS government would ensure the victory of the party candidate and the opposition parties were trying to hoodwink the people unable to digest the fact that the TRS candidate was set to win the bypoll. Mr. Harish Rao addressed the media after the conclusion of the electioneering in Huzurabad constituency that is set to go for polling on October 30. He said the TRS’ march had been continuing since 2001 and the government had introduced several innovative schemes like Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima, Kalyana Lakshmi and others for the welfare of different sections, especially farmers. The BJP which was ruling at the Centre had no clue about the innovative schemes launched by the Telangana government and the BJP leaders were not able to clarify when asked about their government’s failure to launch such schemes. It was condemnable that the cess on diesel was increased to Rs. 31 a litre as compared to Rs. 4 a litre during the previous UPA government, he said asking the BJP leaders to respond. In addition, the BJP had tried to stall Dalit Bandhu and had never bothered about the public issues other than their efforts to spread communal hatred. The BJP government was trying to ensure that laws enacted in the interest of farmers were diluted while the TRS government accorded top priority to farmers’ welfare. “The BJP government did not initiate any action against the son of th Union Minister who was involved in ghastly accident killing farmers. This indicates the concern of the BJP towards to the common man,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-victory-is-confirmed-harish/article37204252.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Uttam flays govt. on paddy cultivation ban||Member of Parliament from Nalgonda and former president of the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) N. Uttam Kumar Reddy on Wednesday flayed what he termed ‘lopsided’ and ‘ill-conceived’ idea of the Telangana government to restrict the farmers from cultivating paddy this season. At a press conference along with Congress Kisan Kheth Cell national chairman M. Kodanda Reddy, the Nalgonda MP said the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao himself has once claimed that he would make Telangana rice bowl of the country. He said a majority of the farmers under Nagarjunasagar ayacut were paddy growers and the decision would hit them badly. He said the tone and tenor of the language used by Siddipet Collector was objectionable and warned that the Congress party would stand by the farmers and support them in any agitation. He reasoned that if the government was keen on farmers to shift to other alternative crops, it should have an concrete action plan. Mr. Kodanda Reddy questioned the restrictions on paddy cultivation and alleged that the farmers were not getting MSP for the produce. Senior Congress leader A. Maheshwara Reddy said the farmers would not be cowed by the threats of the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uttam-flays-govt-on-paddy-cultivation-ban/article37204242.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Rising fuel prices a concern’||CII Southern Region chairman C.K. Ranganathan on Wednesday said rising petrol and diesel prices were a concern and the Centre and State governments should rationalise tax on the fuels to reduce the burden on the common man. “The fuel prices are definitely impacting,” he said, pointing out the continuous increase is a matter of concern. Seeking to highlight the cascading effect, he said freight costs calculations have gone awry and there is bound to be stress on the economy and GDP growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governments-urged-to-check-rising-fuel-prices/article37204244.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP deeksha against government ‘paddy ban’||Telangana BJP president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar is to take up protest fast at the State party office from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Thursday to highlight the government’s bid to “force the farmers to give up paddy cultivation”. General secretary G. Premender Reddy announced in a statement on Wednesday that the party president has decided to take up the ‘deeksha’ to convey a message to the farming community that the party will stand by them and put pressure on the government to take a step back. He took strong objection to the government ‘browbeating’ the farmers to prevent them from raising paddy. Earlier, addressing a press conference at Huzurabad, Mr. Sanjay Kumar accused the TRS of spending Rs. 20,000 per vote but claimed that the people have decided to give a clear victory to former minister E. Rajender. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is worried about this bypoll outcome so he has been trying every means to win but he will not succeed. He has no face to show here and has been blaming the Election Commission (EC) for not holding a public meeting,” he charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-deeksha-against-government-paddy-ban/article37204248.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress committed to people’s cause’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president A. Revanth Reddy has exhorted the people of Huzurabad to vote for the Congress as party candidate Balmuri Venkat was committed to fight for their cause for the next few decades. Addressing a public meeting to mark the conclusion of the party’s campaign in Huzurabad on Wednesday, he said the byelection was thrust upon the people owing to differences between former TRS minister and BJP candidate Eatala Rajender and TRS president K. Chandradekhar Rao over “sharing of the proceeds”. “Mr. Rajender was a close aide of Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao till the other day,” he said. He launched a trenchant attack on the BJP candidate for seeking votes from the people. “Did Mr. Rajender speak about fee reimbursement? Did he speak about unemployment any time before leaving the TRS?” he asked. The TRS president on his part advised the farmers against opting for paddy claiming that it was suicidal. He criticized the TRS for trying to lure voters spending Rs. 120 crore for the Huzurabad bypoll distributing at least Rs. 6,000 to each voter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-committed-to-peoples-cause-revanth/article37204250.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Credit outreach camps held in 3 districts||Credit outreach programmes, being conducted by banks across the State this month as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’, were held in the three districts of Hyderabad, Yadadri and Nalgonda on Wednesday. Additional Collector of Hyderabad N. Venkateswarlu inaugurated the programme in the presence of SBI Hyderabad Circle CGM Amit Jhingran and senior executives from various banks. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Venkateswarlu urged banks to improve credit flow in the district. Mr. Jhingran said the credit deposit ratio of 111% of Hyderabad district was good and urged bankers to maintain the tempo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/credit-outreach-camps-held-in-3-districts/article37204208.ece
28 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two Inter-State ganja suppliers arrested||Two inter-State drug peddlers were apprehended by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) team here on Wednesday. The team led by inspector K Nageswar Rao along with Jubilee Hills police raided a house at Yadagiri Nagar and seized 26 kg of ganja worth Rs. 2.6 lakh and two mobile phones from the possession of the accused, Vakada Madhan (30), a private employee and Basanaboyina Yugandhar (23), lighting and decoration technician, both natives of Anakapalli mandal in Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh. Police said that Vakada Madhan was the main supplier of ganja and six months ago he along with his friends came to Hyderabad rented a house at Yadagiri Nagar. “To make a quick buck, they developed contacts with local ganja sellers at Dhoolpet and started procuring good quality ganja from Vizag for them,” Officer on Special Duty (Task Force) P. Radhakishan Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-inter-state-ganja-suppliers-arrested/article37204435.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor apprised of readiness of Indian Navy||Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Eastern Naval Command Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh AVSM, VSM, and Mrs. Charu Singh called on Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday, where she was apprised of the current state of readiness of the Navy, forthcoming multilateral naval exercises and the President’s Fleet Review scheduled in early 2022. He informed the Governor about the Herculean efforts of the Indian Navy in sourcing oxygen from across the globe and later supplying it to friendly foreign nations during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic. He also spoke about the future capital naval platform acquisitions, in keeping with the highly ambitious Maritime Capability Perspective Plan to emerge as the Net Security Provider in the Indian Ocean Region and beyond. Mrs. Singh. also president of the Navy Wives Welfare Association (NWWA) Eastern Region, apprised Dr. Soundararajan about the various innovative social initiatives towards empowering wives of naval warriors, a cause that has been very dear to the latter since her formative years in social service. The Flag Officer took over the reigns of Eastern Naval Command, Visakhapatnam, in March this year. He is an alumnus of UP Sainik School, Lucknow, National Defence Academy and a specialist in navigation and direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-apprised-of-readiness-of-indian-navy/article37204201.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Zonal Commissioners transferred||Municipal Administration & Urban Development department effected transfers of zonal commissioners in GHMC. Selection grade municipal commissioner R.Upender Reddy serving as zonal commissioner of L.B.Nagar zone, has been transferred and posted as Commissioner, Nalgonda Municipality. Another Selection Grade Municipal Commissioner S.Pankaja, serving as Additional Commissioner in GHMC headquarters, has been posted as Zonal Commissioner, L.B.Nagar in place of Mr.Upender Reddy. Zonal Commissioner, Serilingampally, N.Ravi Kiran has been transferred and posted as Zonal Commissioner of Khairatabad, a post he had held the additional charge of hitherto. Additional Commissioner (Revenue) Priyanka Ala has been transferred as Zonal Commissioner, Serilingampally in his place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/zonal-commissioners-transferred/article37204214.ece
28 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Unique honour for cancer specialist||Director of KIMS-Ushalakshmi Centre for Breast Diseases in Hyderabad Dr. Raghu Ram became the first surgeon from South Asia to have delivered the “Distinguished Lecture” of the United States Chapter of International Society of Surgery on “Disrupting Breast Healthcare in India” on Wednesday. Dr. Raghu Ram spoke at the 107th annual Congress of the American College of Surgeons (ACS). ‘Named Lecture’ Dr. Raghu Ram is the only surgeon from outside USA to be chosen alongside Dr. Anthony Fauci, Chief Medical Advisor to the President of the United States, and nine other world renowned surgeons from the US to deliver the prestigious “Named Lecture” at the annual scientific Congress this year, which is being held on a virtual platform over five days from October 23-27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rare-honour-for-dr-raghu-ram/article37204192.ece
28 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||40 students fall sick after taking midday meal in Birkur||At least 40 students took ill after taking the midday meal served at the primary school in Birkur mandal headquarters of Kamareddy district. According to reports reaching here, soon after partaking their meal, students began to vomit and complained of stomach upset. Teachers and parents immediately alerted 108 emergency service and shifted the ill students in ambulances to Banswada Area Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/40-students-fall-sick-after-taking-midday-meal-in-birkur/article37204243.ece
28 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR leaves for Paris||A delegation from Telangana led by IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao and comprising senior officials left for Paris on Wednesday to participate in various officials programmes there from October 28. Mr. Rao will deliver keynote address at the ‘Ambition India 2021’ business forum that will be held on October 29 at the French Senate in Paris. He will also hold meetings with CEOs and investors in France, a release from the Minister’s office said. IT and Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan and other senior officials are a part of the delegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-leaves-for-paris/article37204246.ece
28 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IAF Training Command chief visits AFA||Indian Air Force (IAF) Air Officer Commanding in Chief (AOC-in-C), Training Command Air Marshal Manavendra Singh visited the Air Force Academy here on Wednesday and the different training faculties. Accompanied by AFA Commandant Sanjeev Kapoor, he interacted with the staff, instructors and cadets, besides witnessing the activities being conducted, said a press release on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iaf-training-command-chief-visits-afa/article37204200.ece
28 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Model legal services camp to be held on Oct. 30||A model legal services camp will be organised in the mandal headquarters town of Thallada on October 30 as part of the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA)’s ongoing pan-India outreach campaign to spread awareness about free legal aid and the new legal services schemes, said Y Renuka, Member Secretary, Telangana State Legal Services Authority (TSLSA). The 43-day pan-India awareness campaign is being organised as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ celebrations from October 2 to November 14. The campaign is aimed at creating greater awareness on free legal services and legal rights among all sections of people by organising field visits involving panel lawyers and para-legal volunteers to all the 12,726 Gram Panchayats across the State, covering each village thrice during the 43-day massive outreach programme. Active partners Speaking at a meeting organised by the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) at the Collectorate here on Wednesday, Ms Renuka said all the stakeholders including the mandal and district-level officials of the government departments should become active partners in raising awareness about the free legal services being offered by the legal services institutions. It should be a collective endeavour to ensure that every eligible needy person accesses the free legal services and also make people living in rural, tribal and interior areas aware of their rights and entitlements under the law. Information on the free legal aid services and the NALSA schemes should be prominently disseminated for the benefit of the weaker and marginalised sections of the society, she added. Senior civil judge and the District Legal Services Authority secretary Mohammed Abdul Javeed Pasha and others spoke. The meeting was attended by a host of senior officials of various government departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/model-legal-services-camp-to-be-held-on-oct-30/article37204440.ece
28 October 2021||MAMIDIPALLY (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Development and destruction go side by side at Mamidipally||New constructions are coming up on both sides of the road. While some are reconstructing houses lost in road widening, some others are planning for multi-storied buildings so that they can get rental income in future. This is the prevailing situation at the new road being laid connecting National Highway 65 (Hyderabad – Mumbai road) with Akola- Nanded road near Tilottama Gardens chowrasta. Hardly a couple of kilometres away from the NH- 65, is located an agriculture engineering college. Since the past few years the road work is on and the first phase work from Mamidipally to Pampalgam in Maharasthra commenced on January 3, 2020 and was scheduled to get completed by October 2022. While the work of laying road and constructing bridges is fast progressing, few kilometres from this place is a tank from which gravel is being dug to lay roads. Several earth movers and heavy machinery are working almost round the clock, digging gravel and black soil and they are being transported to the road-laying area on lorries. Interestingly, more than Rs. 1 crore was spent under the first phase of Mission Kakatiya for desilting the tank. According to sources, the officials have accorded permission to dig 2.7 lakh cubic metres of gravel/ black soil from the tank and so far about 1.5 lakh cubic metres of gravel was dug and tippers made around 15,000 rounds to transport it for laying the roads. “Permissions accorded to dug gravel from three tanks — Mamidipally tank at Kandi, Lingavani kunta at Ismailkhanpet and Mallamcheruvu at Fasalwadi. Black cotton soil will be filled again and one layer of the tank is not useful for laying road and it would also be filled,” Irrigation Engineer Balaganesh told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/development-and-destruction-go-side-by-side-at-mamidipally/article37204437.ece
28 October 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Call to keep environment clean for future||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Principal Secretary Sandeep Kumar Sultania said that it is our responsibility to hand over a clean environment to the next generations and the change in public attitude is possible only through consistent efforts by the authorities. Participating in a review meeting and visiting Konapur village in Sadashivapet mandal along with Additional Collector Rajarshi Shah and others on Wednesday, Mr. Sultania said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has devised Palle Pragati programme to bring a complete change in villages and officials have to understand the concept and work in this direction. “The government has been creating all facilities like Vaikunta Dhamams, dump yards, Palle Prakruti Vanams, safe drinking water, tractors and tankers in villages. It is the responsibility of local public representatives and officials to get use of them and see that one or other activity takes place in the village,” he said . Collector M. Hanumantha Rao explained about the activities in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-to-keep-environment-clean-for-future/article37204438.ece
28 October 2021||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||Councillors call for change in draft of master plan||Councillors of Sadashivapet Municipality urged authorities to modify the draft plan of the town and present it again in the municipality. Majority of the members raised objections to the proposal at the recently general body meeting of the Municipal Council. Councillors of Sadashivapet Municipality submitted a memorandum in this regard at the Collectorate on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/councillors-call-for-change-in-draft-of-master-plan/article37204253.ece
28 October 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||QR code for Yadagirigutta gold plating works||Executive Officer of the Yadagirigutta Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam N. Geetha Reddy on Wednesday released the quick response code of the temple’s bank account, inviting donations for the gold-plating works on the redeveloped temple’s vimana gopuram. The account with Indian Bank, Yadagirigutta branch, was opened exclusively for the purpose. The QR code can be scanned or identified by UPI ID: yadadrilakshminarasimha@indianbk across various UPI applications to make a contribution. Donations, in cash and gold, have been pouring in ever since Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced the ‘public participation programme’ last week. Temple officials soon had also installed a prominently-painted separate hundi for devotees at Balalayam, for donations, to reach the 125-kg mark for the gold-plating exercise. So far, official estimates say that money equivalent to about 40 kg gold, most of which are big-ticket donations by industrialists, businesses and elected representatives, has been pooled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/qr-code-for-yadagirigutta-gold-plating-works/article37204236.ece
28 October 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||10 Dalit Bandhu units distributed at Vasalamarri||Minster for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy on Wednesday distributed 10 units under Dalit Bandhu to beneficiaries at Vasalamarri of Turkapally mandal in the district. Of the total 76 Dalit households in the village adopted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, 10 beneficiaries were selected in the first phase of distribution on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/10-dalit-bandhu-units-distributed-at-vasalamarri/article37204237.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||For festival of lights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lighting-up-lives/article37204205.ece
28 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab to scrap 40,000 pending VAT cases||The Punjab government said on Wednesday that it would scrap 40,000 pending cases on outstanding Value-Added Tax (VAT), out of the 48,000 cases related to financial years 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17 against traders and industrialists. At the Progressive Punjab Investors Summit in Ludhiana, CM Charanjit Singh Channi said the remainingcases would be settled by asking the traders to deposit just 30% of the tax liability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-to-scrap-40000-pending-vat-cases/article37204079.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Schools in Delhi to reopen from Nov. 1||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday issued orders permitting schools to reopen, after a gap of 19 months, for students from nursery to Class XII from November 1. Schools will function with a maximum capacity of 50% of students with classes continuing in a blended mode. The Government further said that no management can force the children to come to school without the approval of the parents and attending physical classes will be optional. The DDMA had earlier allowed the reopening of schools for Classes IX to XII, colleges, and coaching institutions from September 1 and had issued guidelines for following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said due to the closure of schools, student’s education has severely been affected. “Children will not be compelled to attend school without parental approval. All the academic activities will continue to run offline as well as online. Schools will call 50% of the children of its maximum capacity to the classes,” Mr. Sisodia said, announcing the DDMA order. The standard operating procedure related to the reopening of these schools will soon be issued by the Government, he said. All schools have been asked to ensure that their teaching and non-teaching staff are fully vaccinated. Mr. Sisodia said that about 98% of the teachers in Delhi schools have received at least the first dose of the vaccine. “If there is a sudden increase in the number of COVID-19 cases and the situation turns bad, schools will go back to the online mode of education,” the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/schools-in-delhi-to-reopen-from-nov-1/article37204066.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Ayodhya added to Delhi Govt.’s pilgrimage scheme||The Delhi Cabinet has decided to add Ayodhya to the list of pilgrimage sites under the ‘Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojna’, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced here on Wednesday. The scheme, which facilitates free pilgrimage for senior citizens residing in the Capital, had been halted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It would recommence within a month, he said. The announcement comes ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, likely to be held early next year. The Delhi Government is also preparing to organise live telecast of Deepavali celebrations, led by Mr. Kejriwal and his Cabinet colleagues. Advertisements for the event, in which Mr. Kejriwal invites citizens to join him remotely from their homes, have been playing out on various media, including radio and TV news channels. “Hearty congratulations on the occasion of Diwali. We will welcome Lord Ram together – but we will not burst firecrackers, we will not cause pollution,” Mr. Kejriwal says in the ‘Dilli Ki Diwali’ ad. “All 2 crore of us Delhiites will perform Diwali Puja together at 7 p.m. Please join me in the puja from your homes... May our Delhi forever enjoy Lord Ram’s benevolence. Jai Shri Ram,” the Chief Minister concludes. ‘Shravan Kumar’ pledge Following a meeting of the Cabinet, Mr. Kejriwal said in a digital briefing that he had pledged to follow the footsteps of ‘Shravan Kumar’, a mythological figure from Ramayana who took his parents on a pilgrimage. “It gives me immense pleasure to inform the people of Delhi that we have approved a proposal, adding Ayodhya as one of the destinations under the Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojna,” he said. Under the Yojna, the Delhi Government bears the entire expense of the pilgrimage, including travel by air-conditioned trains, AC hotel stays, meals, local travel and more. There is also a provision to take someone young as an attendant to help the elderly in their journey. The expenses of the attendant are also borne by the Delhi Government. Currently, there are 12 Yatra routes. The four-day-long Delhi-Ayodhya-Delhi trip will be the 13th route in the list. “Till now, 35,000 people have made pilgrimages under the scheme. Today, I am beyond happy as I myself had the privilege of visiting Shri Ram Lalla in Ayodhya yesterday (Tuesday),” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ayodhya-added-to-delhi-govts-pilgrimage-scheme/article37204081.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Govt. allows Chhath Puja celebrations at designated ghats||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has permitted Chhath Puja celebrations at notified ghats following persistent efforts by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, who chaired a meeting of the DDMA, said on Twitter that following detailed deliberations, it was decided to continue with the ‘Test, Track & Treat strategy’ along with strict enforcement of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour to prevent any resurgence of infection, particularly in view of the festive season. “It was decided to permit celebration of Chhath Pooja at ‘Designated Sites’ subject to strict compliance of the Orders of Hon’ble NGT and SOPs laid down by the Revenue Dept in this regard (sic.)” Mr. Baijal tweeted. Mr. Sisodia said the Delhi Government has for the last one month been trying to seek approval from the L-G and the Centre to allow Chhath Puja in the city. “The Chief Minister had in a letter urged the L-G to allow public celebration of Chhath Puja, while the Deputy Chief Minister had written to the Union Health Minister seeking permission for the festival,” an official statement said. Mr. Sisodia said Chhath will be organised at designated ghats where COVID-19 protocols will strictly be followed and a standard operating procedure (SOP) will soon be issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-allows-chhath-puja-celebrations-at-designated-ghats/article37204068.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Open to trial court to consider Devangana’s fresh plea: HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said the earlier order of rejection would not come in the way of the trial court in considering the fresh plea of Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita seeking copies of certain videos of anti-CAA protests concerning a pending Delhi riots case against her. The High Court said it will be open to the trial court concerned to consider the same afresh. Rejection order Disposing of Ms. Kalita’s petition challenging the rejection order passed last year, Justice Subramonium Prasad said that the order was passed by the trial court considering that the investigation against other accused in the case, at that stage, was still ongoing. The judge noted that now the case was at the stage of cognisance of the chargesheet filed in the case. Special public prosecutor Amit Mahajan clarified that the investigation was not “complete” and a supplementary chargesheet has to be filed in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/open-to-trial-court-to-consider-devanganas-fresh-plea-hc/article37204071.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks presence of U.P. police officer over arrests from Capital||The Delhi High Court has ordered the Station House Officer of Shamli police station in Uttar Pradesh to appear in person before it on October 28 after taking into account a case where two persons — father and brother of a man who got married to a woman against her family’s wishes — were arrested and taken away without informing Delhi Police. Justice Mukta Gupta, while hearing a petition by the couple, said: “It is trite law that the father and brother of the petitioner No. 2 (husband) could not be apprehended by U.P. Police and taken from Delhi without informing Delhi Police.” Justice Gupta termed it “unfortunate” that even without finding whether the woman was an adult or a minor, arrests were made by U.P. Police. “One fails to understand when petitioner No. 1 (wife) is major and has left her parental home of her own free will and married petitioner No. 2, how an offence under Section 366 (abduction) and consequential offence under Section 368 (wrongful confinement) of IPC is made out.” The couple told the court that for more than one month now, the whereabouts of the father and brother were not known. Delhi Police, in its status report, said it was not intimated about the arrival of the police team from Shamli. An enquiry was made from the officers of Shamli police station who admitted that the father and son had been arrested, stated the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-presence-of-up-police-officer-over-arrests-from-capital/article37204064.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Firefighter succumbs to injuries||A 31-year-old firefighter, who had sustained burn  injuries during a rescue operation at Bhorgarh in Narela, died on Wednesday, the Delhi Fire Service (DFS) said. A resident of Rohtak in Haryana, Praveen Kumar joined the service in 2019 and was posted at DSIIDC Narela fire station. On October 9, three firemen, including Kumar, were injured during the rescue operation after an industrial building collapsed following a blast at Bhorgarh. All of them were taken to a hospital, DFS chief Atul Garg said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/firefighter-succumbs-to-injuries/article37204065.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘How will you verify the age of liquor purchaser?’||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the city Government as to how it will ensure that liquor is not provided to underage persons on home delivery under the new excise policy. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh additionally sought answers from the Delhi Government on the process of verifying the age of the person who is ordering for home delivery of liquor. “How will you verify the age of a purchaser? You must answer this query. You cannot say you will not answer this,” the court asked Delhi Government’s senior counsel Rahul Mehra. Mr. Mehra responded that there would be provisions like giving the Aadhaar number or any other age proof whenever it comes into existence. He said this was only an amendment to the existing rule and it is yet to come into existence. The court’s query came while hearing BJP MP Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma’s plea challenging the provision of home delivery of liquor under the new excise policy of the Delhi Government. Mr. Verma said that the new policy was introduced at a time when the Capital was “still grappling with the second COVID-19 wave and acute shortage of medicines and vaccinations”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/how-will-you-verify-the-age-of-liquor-purchaser/article37204070.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Participants ‘unhappy’ with MPD-2041 online hearing||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Wednesday conducted its fourth online public hearing on the ‘Draft Master Plan for Delhi-2041 (MPD-2041)’ that touched upon subjects such as public spaces, spatial development framework, heritage and culture. Some participants complained that “it was held in a very hasty manner” and there was “confusion and ambiguity” regarding the time to speak. “I have sent suggestions that go up to 500 pages and it will take a while for me to convey the same. All we want is for them (DDA) to explain the time limit given for us to speak. Are they going to decide the future for the next 20 years in five minutes? We need a physical hearing and we have given a letter for the same to every person on the board of enquiry,” said Vishal Ohri, general secretary, LSC Federation of Delhi, a traders’ body. The DDA has divided the online hearings into nine parts — between October 18 and November 10. Over 1,400 participants were invited to Wednesday’s hearing to submit their suggestions before the board. ‘Not invited’ Some members of residents welfare associations (RWAs) said they were not invited to the hearing “despite multiple requests”. B.S. Vohra, president of East Delhi RWA, said while he had “managed to attend” the previous hearing on October 25, he received no communication for Wednesday’s meeting. “I had also reached out to the DDA on Twitter in order to attend the meeting, and I was assured that it will be resolved soon, but nothing happened. They (DDA) know that we have good points to raise and may- be they don’t want to discuss the issues with us,” he said. Rajiv Kakria, convener of Save Our City campaign, said he was not invited to the hea-rings despite several requests and objected to the process being conducted online. A DDA official said participants who had applied to attend the hearing were invited according to the schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/participants-unhappy-with-mpd-2041-online-hearing/article37204072.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Elderly couple found dead at home||A 74-year-old man and his 69-year-old wife were found dead at their Govindpuri house on Wednesday. The victims worked as professors at Delhi University. DCP (South-East) Esha Pandey said the victims’ daughter said that the caretaker visited the house and rang the bell several times but no one responded. Two notes were found in which both of them allegedly stated that they were fed up of their bedridden lives due to multiple fractures after an accident.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/elderly-couple-found-dead-at-home/article37204069.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Capital’s AQI turns ‘poor’||Tge air quality in the city deteriorated to the “poor” category on Wednesday and is expected to further worsen to “very poor” on Thursday, according to official data. The effect of stubble burning has increased and is likely to go up. Meanwhile, the Government on Wednesday launched the ‘Patake Nahi, Diye Jalao’ campaign to motivate people to embrace tradition and eliminate pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capitals-aqi-turns-poor/article37204073.ece
28 October 2021||Tehran,||Adopt cordial approach, Iran tells Taliban||Iran’s Foreign Minister called on the Taliban to adopt a “friendly” approach as Afghanistan’s six neighbouring countries met on Wednesday to determine a “roadmap” following the Islamists’ takeover of Kabul. The meeting, two months since the Taliban swept to power in Kabul, brought the Foreign Ministers of Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan to Tehran, while their Chinese and Russian counterparts joined via video-link. ‘Take necessary steps’ “It is essential that the Taliban adopt a friendly approach towards its neighbours and take the necessary measures to assure them that there is no threat to their neighbours from Afghanistan,” Iran’s Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian said. “I hope that we can paint a clearer picture of the realities of Afghanistan, and the expectations of the neighbouring countries most affected by the developments in that country, and develop a roadmap.” Afghanistan is on the cusp of a humanitarian crisis, with UN agencies warning on Monday that more than half the country could face “acute” food shortages this winter. Iran’s First Vice-President Mohammad Mokhber warned of the impact surrounding nations faced from the situation in Afghanistan. Economic crisis “If no solution is found as soon as possible to control and manage the economic crisis in Afghanistan, the crisis will certainly move beyond the borders of Afghanistan and affect its neighbours and the world,” he said. Iran, which shares a 900 km border with Afghanistan, did not recognise the Taliban during their 1996 to 2001 stint in power. But Tehran has appeared to soften its tough stance in recent times in the name of pragmatism. “The Islamic Republic of Iran insists on the establishment of an inclusive government with the presence and effective participation of all ethnic and religious groups in Afghanistan, based on inter-Afghan dialogue without the intervention of foreign actors,” Mr. Amir-Abdollahian said. The Taliban recently formed an all-male Cabinet made up entirely of members of the group, and almost exclusively of ethnic Pashtuns. It has severely restricted women’s rights to work and study, prompting international condemnation. “The Taliban must play an undeniable role in assuring security, countering terrorism and respecting the rights of diverse groups, including women,” Mr. Amir-Abdollahian said. He also said the Taliban must work on “providing the basic needs of Afghan citizens, putting an end to abuse of minorities, eradicating the causes that led to the displacement of part of the population and respecting international law”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/adopt-cordial-approach-iran-tells-taliban/article37203780.ece
28 October 2021||Washington,||U.S. Senate holds confirmation hearing for Rashad Hussain||The Senate Foreign Relations Committee held a virtual confirmation hearing forIndian American Rashad Hussainfor the post of Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom (IRF) on Tuesday. Several other Biden administration nominees were being heard during the same session. If confirmed, Mr. Hussain, whose parents are from Bihar, would be the first Indian American and Muslim to head the State Department’s office of IRF. During the hearing, Mr. Hussain, a 42-year-old attorney, spoke of his background in working to protect minorities, especially in Muslim majority countries, and committed to increase efforts to hold China accountable for its oppression of Uighurs, saying the country was one of the “worst abusers of religious freedom” globally. “China is one of the worst abusers of religious freedom in the world. I’ve visited Xinjiang province and I’ve seen firsthand China’s blatant disregard for the Uighur community, their oppression via the genocide that’s occurring there, and for their disregard of human rights toward a number of religious communities, including the Tibetan Buddhist Protestants, Catholics and Falun Gong,” Mr. Hussain said. The Trump administration had made a determination that China was committing “genocide” against the Uighurs, a determination that the State Department under the Biden administration has upheld. “I will also leverage my existing relationships with Muslim majority countries to protect the rights of religious minorities there,” Mr. Hussain said during his opening remarks. He had served as the U.S.’s Special Envoy to the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) during the Obama administration. In response to a question from Maryland Senator Chris Van Hollen (Democrat) on how the State Department’s IRF office would factor in recommendations for classifying countries according to religious freedom based on the recommendations of the U.S Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), Mr. Hussain suggested he would make those inputs part of the policy process in the department. Mr. Van Hollen noted that there had been discrepancies between the USCIRF categorisation and the Sate Department’s own list. “We will look at all of the data they provide and combine it with our research and our assessments, and will advocate vigourously within the Department of State to use every tool at our disposal, including, when appropriate, designations as ‘Countries of Particular Concern’ by making those recommendations as part of the policy process within the State Department,” Mr. Hussain said. The USCIRF is an independent bipartisan committee that advises the executive branch of government on the state of religious freedom in different countries. They make recommendations to classify countries accordingly, including as ‘Countries of Particular Concern’ , the lowest grade for religious freedom. The USCIRF had recommended that India be downgraded to CPC status in its April 2020 and April 2021 reports, but the State Department under the Trump administration had not put India on its CPC list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-senate-holds-confirmation-hearing-for-rashad-hussain/article37203595.ece
28 October 2021||Kabul,||Mullah Omar’s son appears on TV||The son of Taliban founder Mullah Omar appeared in public for the first time on Wednesday, as Afghanistan’s hardline rulers try to polish their media image. The televised event saw Mohammad Yaqoob, Afghanistan’s new Defence Minister, appealing to local businessmen to invest in hospitals and clinics, signalling that the Taliban are emerging from the shadows. As supreme leader of the movement during their first reign of power, Yaqoob’s father Mullah Omar rarely appeared in public, and photos of him were banned. Even when the one-eyed cleric died in 2013, the news was not made public for more than two years. But since the Taliban returned to power in mid-August after a 20-year war against a U.S.-backed government, its Ministers have been taking a more open public and political role. “Let’s spend some money here, businessmen brothers have to come here to build hospitals, clinics, doctors have to come here too,” Yaqoob said, at the Sardar Mohammad Dawood Khan military hospital in Kabul. Crippling health sector Afghanistan’s health sector has been shattered by war and Afghanistan’s economy has ground to a halt since the return of the Taliban, who remain under international sanctions. Thousands are seeking treatment abroad, adding to chaos at the borders as others flee Taliban rule. Yaqoob was once head of the powerful military commission and benefited from the aura of his late father’s cult-like status in the movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mullah-omars-son-appears-on-tv/article37203782.ece
28 October 2021||COLOMBO,||Hardline monk to head legal reforms panel in Sri Lanka||A controversial Buddhist monk in Sri Lanka, who is accused of hate speech targeting Muslims, has been appointed head of a panel on legal reforms. According to a gazette notification issued on Tuesday, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has set up a 13-member ‘Presidential Task Force for One Country, One Law’, chaired by Galagodaatte Gnanasara of the Bodu Bala Sena (Buddhist Power Force). 2018 conviction Apart from being accused of provoking anti-Muslim violence in the past, the monk made news in 2018 when he was convicted — on four charges — for contempt of court. He was given a six-year jail term, of which he served only nine months until former President Maithripala Sirisena pardoned him in a move widely criticised. The appointment of the Presidential task force comes months after a Cabinet decision to amend the country’s Muslim personal laws. Sri Lanka also has the Kandyan Law and Thesawalamai Law, pertaining respectively to the Sinhalese and Tamil community. The panel does not have representatives from the Tamil minority or women. It includes four Muslims. Commenting on the task force Ambika Satkunanathan, an activist and former Commissioner at Sri Lanka’s the Human Rights Commission, called it, in a tweet, a “farce masquerading as governance/government” Opposition parliamentarian Shanakiyan Rasamanickam from the Tamil National Alliance said: “This committee itself is the definition of irony. What is the purpose of establishing a committee if the existing law can’t be implemented correctly? The appointment of a criminal to lead this committee is almost a joke in itself.” The task force, according to the gazette, is to “make a study of the implementation of the concept; One Country, One Law” within Sri Lanka and prepare a draft Act for the purpose and submit a report by February 28, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hardline-monk-to-head-legal-reforms-panel-in-sri-lanka/article37203593.ece
28 October 2021||Washington,||China’s hypersonic test close to Sputnik moment: U.S. General||The Pentagon’s top general said on Wednesday that China’s recent test of an earth-circling hypersonic missile was akin to the Soviet Union’s stunning launch of the world’s first satellite Sputnik in 1957, which sparked off the superpowers’ space race. Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, confirmed for the first time the Chinese test of a nuclear-capable missile that would be very difficult to defend against. “What we saw was a very significant event of a test of a hypersonic weapon system. And it is very concerning,” Gen. Milley told Bloomberg TV. “I don’t know if it’s quite a Sputnik moment but I think it’s very close to that,” he said. “It’s a very significant technological event that occurred... and it has all of our attention.” The Pentagon had previously declined to confirm the test, first reported by the Financial Times on October 16. The newspaper said the August test launch caught the U.S. by surprise. The missile circled the Earth at a low altitude and a velocity of more than five times the speed of sound, although it missed its target by more than 30 km, according to the Financial Times . China denied the report, saying it was a routine test of a reusable space vehicle. Hypersonic systems are the new frontier because they fly lower and so are harder to detect, can reach targets more quickly, and are maneuverable. The U.S., Russia, China and North Korea have all tested hypersonics, and several others are developing the technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-hypersonic-test-close-to-sputnik-moment-us-general/article37203878.ece
28 October 2021||London,||Assange could go to Australian prison if convicted: U.S.||U.S. authorities launched a new battle on Wednesday to make Julian Assange face American justice, telling British judges that if they agree to extradite the WikiLeaks founder on espionage charges, he could serve any U.S. prison sentence he receives in his native Australia. In January, a lower U.K. court refused a U.S. request to extradite Mr. Assange over WikiLeaks’ publication of secret American military documents a decade ago. District Judge Vanessa Baraitser ruled that Mr. Assange, who has spent years in hiding and in British prisons as he fights extradition, was likely to kill himself if held under harsh U.S. prison conditions. Appealing against the January decision, an attorney for the U.S. government denied that Mr. Assange’s mental health was too fragile to withstand the U.S. judicial system. Lawyer James Lewis said Mr. Assange “has no history of serious and enduring mental illness” and does not meet the threshold of being so ill that he cannot resist harming himself. No ‘Supermax’ prison U.S. prosecutors have indicted Mr. Assange on 17 espionage charges and one charge of computer misuse over WikiLeaks’ publication of thousands of leaked military and diplomatic documents. The charges carry a maximum sentence of 175 years in prison, although Mr. Lewis said “the longest sentence ever imposed for this offence is 63 months.” Mr. Lewis said American authorities had promised that Mr. Assange would not be held before trial in a top-security “Supermax” prison or subjected to strict isolation conditions.Mr. Lewis said the assurances “are binding on the U.S.” “Once there is an assurance of appropriate medical care, once it is clear he will be repatriated to Australia to serve any sentence, then we can safely say the district judge would not have decided the relevant question in the way that she did," he said. The U.S. also says a key defence witness, neuropsychiatrist Michael Kopelman, misled the previous judge by omitting to mention that Stella Moris, a member of WikiLeaks’ legal team, was also Mr. Assange’s partner and had two children with him. Mr. Lewis said that information was “a highly relevant to the question of likelihood to suicide.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/assange-could-go-to-australian-prison-if-convicted-us/article37203786.ece
28 October 2021||Hong Kong,||New Hong Kong law to censor old movies for security breaches||Hong Kong passed a toughened film censorship law on Wednesday empowering authorities to ban past films for “national security” threats and impose stiffer penalties for any breaches in the latest blow to the city’s artistic freedoms. Authorities have embarked on a sweeping crackdown to root out Beijing’s critics after pro-democracy protests convulsed the city two years ago. A new China-imposed security law and an official campaign dubbed “Patriots rule Hong Kong” has since criminalised much dissent and strangled the democracy movement. Films and documentaries have become one of many cultural areas authorities have sought to purge. In June the city announced censors would check any future films for content that breached the security law. But the law passed on Wednesday by the city’s legislature — a body now devoid of any opposition — allows scrutiny of any titles that had previously been given a green light. It empowers Hong Kong’s chief secretary to revoke the screening license of past and current films that are deemed “contrary to the interests of national security”. Maximum penalties for screening an unlicensed movie have been raised to up to three years in jail and a HK$1 million ($130,000) fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-hong-kong-law-to-censor-old-movies-for-security-breaches/article37203783.ece
28 October 2021||Nairobi,||African Union snaps ties until civilian rule returns||The African Union said on Wednesday that it had suspended Sudan until civilian rule in the country is restored, saying it rejected the military takeover as an “unconstitutional” seizure of power. The continent-wide bloc said it “strongly condemns the seizure of power” and was suspending Sudan from all AU activities “until the effective restoration of the civilian-led transitional authority”. Sudanese General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan on Monday ordered the dissolution of the government. The AU suspended Sudan in June 2019 after pro-democracy protesters demanding civilian rule were gunned down outside Army headquarters in Khartoum. The membership was reinstated three months later after PM Abdalla Hamdok announced the appointment of the country’s first Cabinet since the ousting of veteran leader Omar al-Bashir. It was only last December that Sudan freed itself of U.S.’s state sponsor of terrorism designation, opening the way this year to over $50 billion in debt relief and renewed largesse from the IMF and World Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/african-union-snaps-ties-until-civilian-rule-returns/article37203596.ece
28 October 2021||Washington,||World Bank suspends aid to Sudan||The World Bank said on Wednesday that it has suspended aid to Sudan following the military coup. “I am greatly concerned by recent events in Sudan, and I fear the dramatic impact this can have on the country’s social and economic recovery and development,” World Bank president David Malpass said. The World Bank “paused disbursements in all of its operations in Sudan and it has stopped processing any new operations as we closely monitor the situation,” Mr. Malpass said. The U.S. also suspended aid to the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/world-bank-suspends-aid-to-sudan/article37203787.ece
28 October 2021||Islamabad,||; PM Khan thanks Crown Prince Salman||Saudi Arabia has agreed to provide $4.2 billion worth of assistance to Pakistan to support its economy, it emerged on Wednesday after Prime Minister Imran Khan held talks with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman in Riyadh this week. Mr. Khan thanked Crown Prince for the generous aid when Pakistan’s economy was facing difficulties. “Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has always been there for Pak in our difficult times incl now when world confronts rising commodity prices (sic),” he said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pm-khan-thanks-crown-prince-salman/article37203785.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The need to move away from clientelism||A neoliberal economy encourages private capital and the market, while forcing the state to withdraw from welfare. The state is limited in taking concrete and constructive efforts to fulfil the aspirations of the people. Even as the poor perceive the state as an arbitrator of their well-being and a facilitator for their mobility in all spheres of life, today’s political parties resort to unsolicited freebies to attract them. The line between welfarism and populism has blurred. Welfare initiatives include a targeted Public Distribution System, providing social security for labourers, quality education, fair employment, affordable healthcare, decent housing, and protection from exploitation and violence. Freebies, on the other hand, are provided to attract voters to cast their vote in a particular election. They create limited private benefit for the receiver and do not contribute towards strengthening public goods/facilities. A freebie culture The culture of freebies in Tamil Nadu was started during the 1967 Assembly elections. The then Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief C.N. Annadurai offered three measures of rice for Rs. 1. The practice of providing freebies was followed by subsequent Chief Ministers of both the DMK and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), who promised free TV sets, free laptops to students, free rides for women in buses, free gas cylinders and stoves, a goat and a cow for poor farmers, and so on. Initially, the government attempted to strengthen the redistribution of resources for all. After the 1990s, Dravidian parties moved towards clientelism, narrowly focussing on electoral gains. A study by Shroff, Kumar and Reich (2015) on the DMK’s health insurance scheme demonstrated that the main beneficiaries were the party’s core supporters and swing voters who could be influenced easily. Worse, after 2009, fewer people accessed public health care centres. In 2021, however, there was a qualitative difference in the manifesto of the DMK, which avoided most of the freebies except tablet devices to students studying in higher secondary schools and colleges. The manifesto reflected more of a programmatic policy intervention towards better public services than narrow private benefits in the form of freebies. But both the DMK and the AIADMK were silent on land distribution and enhancing budgetary allocation for maintenance of public infrastructure like schools, colleges, hostels and hospitals. The GSDP share for health was better under AIADMK rule compared to DMK rule, but both were below 1.5%. Tamil Nadu’s 2021-22 Budget shows that it has allocated around 13.3% of its total expenditure for education, which is lower than average allocation for education by all States, which is 15.8%. Depoliticising the poor When Senior Counsel Arvind P. Datar submitted his arguments in S. Subramaniam Balaji v. Govt. of Tamil Nadu (2013), which challenged the freebies of both the DMK government in 2006 and AIADMK government in 2011, he emphasised that freebies violate the constitutional mandate of extending benefits for public purpose and instead create private benefits. He asserted that the literacy rate in Tamil Nadu was around 73% and there were 234 habitations across the State with no school access whatsoever, and distribution of free consumer goods to the people having ration cards cannot be justified as “public purpose”. Further, distributing laptops does not serve the purpose of increasing the quality of education. According to a report by ‘Anaivarukkum Kalvi Iyakkam’ (Sarva Siksha Abhiyan) in 2019, there were 3,003 government schools attended by less than 15 students. Due to lack of proper infrastructure facilities and specialised teachers, parents prefer to move their students to private schools. According to a report in this newspaper in 2019, more than 1,500 hostels for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) were in a dilapidated condition. Hence, freebies will not only depoliticise the poor and marginalised communities but also indirectly deny them their due share of state resources. Freebies drastically widen the gap between the rich and the poor. Populism encourages mediocre political critics and erases critical and rational thinking, which are important to raise pertinent questions to people in power. Compared to other States, Tamil Nadu has made impressive strides in many development indicators such as education, healthcare (mortality rate and life expectancy) and infrastructure facilities. However, it lags behind in other aspects. According to the Tamil Nadu State Agricultural Department’s publication, ‘Salient Statistics on Agriculture, 2019’, SCs, who constitute nearly 20% of Tamil Nadu’s population, accounted for 10% of agricultural landowners and possessed 7.8% of the farmland in the State. Even though the literacy rate is high in Tamil Nadu, according to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-4 (2015-16), only 32% of women aged 15-49 had completed 12 or more years of schooling, compared with 38% of men. The NFHS-4 showed sharp differences between SCs and Other Backward Classes in Tamil Nadu. The neonatal mortality was 12.3% for OBCs, but 17.4% for SCs. Infant mortality was 18.4% for OBCs but 23.6% for SCs. And under-five mortality was 24.8% for OBCs and 31% for SCs. The data reflect inequal access to public health infrastructure. According to a paper by the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations, ‘Explaining the contractualisation of India’s workforce’ (2019), the share of contract workers in Tamil Nadu increased sharply from 8.3% in 2000-01 to 20.17% in 2013-14, which shows the withdrawal of the state in providing social security, and leaving the workforce at the mercy of neoliberal market forces. A dichotomy Theoretically, there is a qualitative distinction between being subjects in an authoritarian regime and being citizens in a democratic polity. Unsolicited freebies cultivate a patron-client syndrome and encourage personality cults in a democratic polity. Besides, they affect the critical faculties of citizens, particularly the poor and the marginalised. Providing freebies is to treat people like subjects, whereas citizens are entitled to constitutional guarantees. Welfare initiatives are an embodiment of civil rights, whereas unsolicited freebies show benevolence at best and apathy at worst towards the poor by the ruling parties. There was a positive indication that the DMK is reconsidering unsolicited freebies/populism when it tabled a White Paper on the State’s Finances in the Assembly recently. Thereafter, there has been a lot of public discussion on this issue, which may lead to a reorientation of public policy in a healthy direction. Political parties and civil society should consider quality aspects in education, healthcare and employment and ensure fair distribution and redistribution of resources for the marginalised communities. We draw the public’s attention and debate to the dichotomy between welfare and unsolicited freebies or populism, so that the constitutional ideal of a secular, egalitarian and democratic India can be realised. C. Lakshmanan is Associate Professor at the Madras Institute of Development Studies, Chennai, and Convenor, Dalit Intellectual Collective, and Venkatanarayanan S. teaches at Christ University, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-need-to-move-away-from-clientelism/article37203589.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The ground beneath the President’s feet||What has Gotabaya Rajapaksa achieved when he enters his third year in office as Sri Lanka’s President on November 18? A not-so-attractive record of failures in governance. President Rajapaksa ( picture ) has also been losing much of the public support, popularity and trust that brought him into power in November 2019. The present crisis which President Rajapaksa and his regime are facing has four interconnected dimensions — economic, social, governance, and legitimacy. Sri Lanka’s worsening economic crisis is not Mr. Rajapaksa’s creation. Yet, he and his team of policy advisers seem to be at a loss even to comprehend its gravity and its disastrous consequences which the people are forced to bear. While the impact of the protracted public health crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic on Sri Lanka’s economy may take a few years to manage, its social impact has been devastating. The absence of any effective government interventions to alleviate economic hardships faced by the poor, the new poor produced by the pandemic, the working people and all strata of the middle class, both urban and rural, have a fresh social crisis too. A strong leader Mr. Gotabaya Rajapaksa began his tenure as President in November 2019 by promising the Sri Lankan people a fresh beginning for a future of stability, security, development, and prosperity. He was also open about his ideological project that gave primacy to the aspirations of Sri Lanka’s majority ethnic community, the Sinhalese Buddhists. He did not have any democratic pretensions either. Mr. Rajapaksa’s promise was for a ‘strong government’ under a ‘strong leader’ to ensure national security, law and order, political stability, and victor’s peace with the ethnic minorities. Soon after assuming office, he launched a programme of restoring Sri Lanka’s personalised model of executive authoritarianism, that had been suspended by the previous government under the 19th Amendment to the Constitution. For this objective, Mr. Rajapaksa made use of the public health emergency caused by the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020. Bypassing the then Opposition-dominated Parliament, Mr. Rajapaksa concentrated a great deal of financial and administrative power into his hands, thereby re-establishing the presidential executive as the central institution of state power. In October 2020, Mr. Rajapaksa used the newly gained two-thirds parliamentary majority to abolish the 19th Amendment. Under the 20th Amendment, Sri Lanka was thus brought back to executive presidentialism, which has been the mainstay of Sri Lanka’s democratic decay for decades. Civil-military ties Mr. Rajapaksa also initiated a new trend in civil-military relations in Sri Lanka’s structures of governance. Appointing the army commander to head a new presidential task force to manage the public health crisis and placing the military over the politicians as well as medical and civilian professionals were its first signs. In the new political and administrative order, serving and retired senior military officers are given key roles. As critics insist, militarisation of public administration is a key component of Mr. Rajapaksa’s project of de-democratisation. Continuing failures and confusion in policy making and implementation are at the heart of an on-going governance crisis since the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, mid last year. Having been persuaded by nativist ideologues and local conspiracy theorists, President Rajapaksa initially de-emphasised the urgency of launching a rapid vaccination programme throughout the country. His encouragement of magic and sorcery to combat the pandemic put the public health policy into disarray. It is only after the pandemic had reached crisis proportions by middle of this year that President Rajapaksa turned to science, expert advice and vaccination. Meanwhile, the current controversy caused by the President’s ideologically-inspired decision to ban chemical fertilizers and inputs in all spheres of agriculture epitomises the Rajapaksa regime’s record of inept and autocratic approach to initiating economic and social transformation. This inexplicably rash and inappropriate policy intervention has already caused much social unrest and discontent among very wide sections of the peasantry. Similarly, the recent mishandling of Sri Lanka’s chronic foreign exchange crisis, leading to further destabilisation of the country’s currency and economy, has caused a fear among citizens that continuing economic policy failures might even trigger an economic collapse. Moreover, the government’s repeated failures to intervene to bring the prices of essential consumer items down and manage the runaway cost of living, amidst uncertainties and confusion in policy decisions and their implementation, have further dented the President’s much advertised claim to an efficient, result-oriented, professionalised, technocratic, and no-nonsense style of leadership and governance. Core issues Thus, the Sri Lankan government’s apathy towards the suffering of the people amidst rapidly declining income levels and an erosion of living standards and economic insecurity caused by a rampant economic and financial crisis is just one among many instances of a serious failure in governance. Moreover, the severity of the economic crisis has also made it impossible for President Rajapaksa to initiate a state-sponsored social support programme for the poor, the new poor and vulnerable segments of the people. This, obviously, is at the mainstay of Sri Lanka’s growing social crisis at present. Amidst all this, what baffles the critics and the supporters alike of President Rajapaksa is the degree of insensitivity he and his government display to the consequences of his policy failures and crisis of governance for people’s lives and their survival. It is the accumulation of such failures at multiple levels of policy, governance, and leadership that has seriously eroded the popular support that Mr. Rajapaksa enjoyed just two years ago. It also constitutes the core of the legitimacy crisis he has to deal with at the personal level as well. The Rajapaksa administration is now facing open defiance and protests by three large segments of citizens who may have overwhelmingly voted for him in November 2019: rural farmers, small producers engaged in export agriculture, and public sector schoolteachers. As many of them are reported to have been saying at their protest rallies, defying police threats and the ridicule by ruling party politicians, they now regret that they have voted such a band of rulers into power. It is this open expression of a generalised feeling of loss of political trust and public disillusionment with President Rajapaksa’s leadership that symbolises the acuteness of the legitimacy crisis he has to deal with in the weeks and months to come. International relations One area where the President has managed to secure some success is foreign relations. He seems to have taken note of the bad press he got locally, regionally and internationally for his regime’s close proximity to China at the expense of Sri Lanka’s traditional allies and friends. Mending relations with India, Europe and America appears to be a recent policy shift he has engineered. However, the President seems to be quite determined to stay in power till the end of his current term and beyond. If Charles de Gaulle and Lee Kuan Yew were the role models of former Sri Lankan leader J.R. Jayewardene, Lee Kuan Yew and Chinese President Xi Jinping are Mr. Rajapaksa’s idols. One crucial lesson that he seems to have learnt from all those leaders is that one term of office is hardly adequate for a ruler who thinks of himself as personifying the nation’s destiny. Meanwhile, a weakened and politically unassertive parliamentary Opposition seems to be President Rajapaksa’s only credible political asset at the moment. Jayadeva Uyangoda is Former Professor of Political Science, Department of Political Science and Public Policy, University of Colombo, Colombo, Sri Lanka. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-ground-beneath-the-presidents-feet/article37203581.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Energy cooperation as the backbone of India-Russia ties||India has been at the forefront of the transformation of global energy and striving to diversify its trade relations. With its abundant energy sources and appetite for trade diversification, Russia could be an ultimate long-term partner. But the bilateral ties require more support from both government and corporate leaders to grasp its potential in this field. In September, at the 6th Eastern Economic Forum (EEF) in Russia’s Vladivostok, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a virtual address said, “India-Russia energy partnership can help bring stability to the global energy market.” Indian and Russian Energy Ministers announced that the countries’ companies have been pushing for greater cooperation in the oil and gas sector beyond the U.S.$32 billion already invested in joint projects. India’s Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Hardeep Singh Puri referred to Russia as the largest investor in India’s energy sector. Going green too The novel coronavirus pandemic is still far from over but an economic recovery has been underway. India, Asia’s third-largest economy, has expanded by more than 20% in the June quarter on a year-to-year basis and is expected to grow by around 9% by the end of 2021. The rate is expected to be higher than China’s 8.5%, assuming the effective suppression of COVID-19. The distinctive feature of this recovery is that it is advanced by the quest for energy transformation and environmental concerns. India has been increasingly leaning toward green transition since the recovery started, and its appetite has been growing. One of the examples of cooperation between the two countries in energy transformation is the joint venture between India’s Reliance Industries Ltd. and Russia’s Sibur, the country’s largest petrochemicals producer. Set up in Jamnagar, Gujarat, the venture now leads the first butyl and halogenated butyl rubber production facility in South Asia. The facility became operational in 2019 and achieved a total throughput within the first year, establishing itself as a significant supplier of butyl rubber in the Indian market previously wholly dependent on imports. A joint venture will produce up to 120 ktpa of butyl rubber, 60 ktpa of which could be further converted to halogenated butyl rubber to meet the growing demand from domestic tyre manufacturers. Overcoming supply chain risk In an interview, Alexander Petrov, Sibur member of management board heading the Plastics, Elastomers and Organic Synthesis Division, said in an interview, “Reliance Sibur Elastomers is not only supplying most of the butyl rubber consumed in the country but is also exporting its products.” He added, “Sibur is bringing to India unique technology, which is not commercially available in the market and the most advanced in terms of [an] ecological footprint. The project will tremendously support the growth of India’s auto industry by securing uninterrupted critical raw material supply. This is of particular importance in the current pandemic, multiplying the risks of global supply chains disturbance.” Apart from accounting for most of the Indian butyl rubber market, Reliance Sibur Elastomers exports its products to Asia, Europe, the United States, Brazil and other countries. The venture is also promoting halogenated butyl rubber, which is a more premium product. The project is a clear manifestation of the “Make in India” and “Atmanirbhar Bharat” initiatives, representing a practical example of technology transfer from Russia to India. Key factors India is one of the fastest-growing markets for butyl rubber and halogenated butyl rubber due to its rapidly expanding car manufacturing industry pushing for electric vehicles. Further to this, India is emerging as a critical refining hub in Asia to boost its petrochemical capacity. Currently, the country has an installed capacity of more than 249.36 mtpa, with local companies planning to significantly expand the capacity by investing more than U.S.$27 billion by 2021. Over the past years, India’s refineries have been expanding towards petrochemicals to capture additional value, the International Energy Agency wrote in the India Energy Outlook 2021 report in February. The agency estimates that the country’s ethylene production is set to grow by two-thirds over the period to 2030. Russia’s Gazprom and India’s ONGC Videsh Ltd. (OVL) and the Indian Oil Corporation signed separate memorandums of understanding at Vladivostok. Mr. Puri also met with Sibur’s Management Board Chairman Dmitry Konov at the event. Renewable, nuclear energy In efforts to transition to green energy, India has recently achieved a significant milestone of completing the countrywide installation of 100 gigawatts of total installed renewable energy capacity, excluding large hydro. It now aims to hit 175 GW of renewable energy target by December 2022. If achieved, that would be close to half of India’s current total installed power capacity. Furthermore, according to the survey of the government in New Delhi, “additional investments in renewables up to the year 2022 would be about $80 billion”. Commitment to net zero emissions could positively impact the country’s growth trajectory. A recent Deloitte report has forecasted that India could gain U.S.$11 trillion in economic value over the next 50 years by limiting rising global temperatures and realising its potential to ‘export decarbonization’. However, unknowns of climate change and threats of a new pandemic suggest that the country should accelerate its energy transition. Russia, one of the key global players across the energy market, could emerge as an indispensable partner for such a transition. Notably, both countries have an extensive record of bilateral cooperation in the energy domain. Russian companies have been involved in the construction of six nuclear reactors in the Kudankulam nuclear power project at Tamil Nadu. Of these, unit 1 and unit 2 have been operating at total capacity. Unit 3 is still under construction. Previously, Russian President Vladimir Putin claimed that Russia is ready to build a dozen reactors in India over the next 20 years. Furthermore, India and Russia secure the potential of designing a nuclear reactor specifically for developing countries, which is a promising area of cooperation. India’s nuclear power generation capacity of 6,780 MW may increase to 22,480 MW by 2031, contributing to the country’s efforts to turn to green energy. A few years ago, Rosneft invested U.S.$12.9 billion in India’s second-largest private oil refiner, Essar Oil, renamed Nayara Energy, marking it one of the most significant foreign investments in years. In September, almost all of Russia’s major energy companies were interested in projects in India, Russia’s Energy Minister Nikolai Shulginov said at the Vladivostok forum in September, adding that he sees prospects for energy cooperation in all areas. However, the current bilateral exchange rate needs to accelerate for India to grasp its potential from energy transformation. Still coal-centric Despite significant progress, coal remains India’s most important source of electricity production, and it does not spell good news for the environment. To meet its growing energy demand and succeed in green transformation, India needs approximately U.S.$500 billion of investments in wind and solar infrastructure, grid expansion, and storage to reach the 450 GW capacity target by 2030. Therefore, more efforts are needed to expand cooperation with such partners as Russia. Dmitriy Frolovskiy is a political analyst and consultant on policy and strategy in the Middle East and Central Asia, and has written about Russia’s foreign policy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/energy-cooperation-as-the-backbone-of-india-russia-ties/article37203583.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Strengthening healthcare||COVID-19 exposed several weaknesses in India’s underfunded health system. Rural primary care is underfunded and has shortages of staff, equipment, drugs and infrastructure in many parts of the country. Urban primary healthcare has still not emerged as an active programme in many States. District and medical college hospitals suffer shortages of specialist doctors and support staff. The private sector ranges from advanced tertiary care hospitals in big cities to informal and often unqualified care providers in villages. During the pandemic, it could not assuredly provide affordable care or deliver vaccines in large parts of India. There was a disconnect between the various levels of care within the public system, and the private system operated in a separate universe. Most government-funded healthcare insurance programmes did not cover outpatient care. This patchwork quilt of a mixed healthcare system frayed fast when challenged by the surging second wave of the virus. New scheme Alerted by the experience of the first wave of 2020, the government proposed in the Budget greater investment in the health system. The Fifteenth Finance Commission too recommended strengthening of urban and rural primary care, stronger surveillance systems and laboratory capacity as well as creation of critical care capacity at different levels of the health system. The Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission (ABHIM), announced recently, links these elements. It will support infrastructure development of 17,788 rural health and wellness centres (HWCs) in seven high-focus States and three north-eastern States. In addition, 11,044 urban HWCs will be established in close collaboration with Urban Local Bodies. The various measures of this scheme will extend primary healthcare services across India. Areas like hypertension, diabetes and mental health will be covered, in addition to existing services. Concomitantly, the network of centres will build a trained public health workforce that can perform routine public health functions while responding to a public health emergency. Support for 3,382 block public health units (BPHUs) in 11 high-focus States and establishment of integrated district public health laboratories in all 730 districts will strengthen capacity for information technology-enabled disease surveillance. To enhance the capabilities for microbial surveillance, a National Platform for One Health will be established. Four Regional National Institutes of Virology will be established. Laboratory capacity under the National Centre for Disease Control, the Indian Council of Medical Research and national research institutions will be strengthened. Fifteen bio-safety level III labs will augment the capacity for infectious disease control and bio-security. Many non-COVID-19 patients were denied treatment during the pandemic, as hospitals were crowded. Critical care hospital blocks, with 50-100 beds, will be established in 602 districts, to enable care for those with serious infectious diseases without disrupting other services. In non-pandemic situations, this capacity will be utilised for providing critical care for other disease conditions. For enhancing the level of disaster response readiness, 15 health emergency operation centres and two container-based mobile hospitals will be created. Training public health professionals There is a need to train and deploy a larger and better skilled health workforce. Upgraded district hospitals offer the best opportunity for creating new training centres. Public health expertise will be needed for programme design, delivery, implementation and monitoring in many sectors that impact health. We must scale up institutional capacity for training public health professionals. To provide a continuum of care at different levels, HWCs will be linked with the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, for all entitled beneficiaries. The hub-and-spoke model of block, district, regional and national public health laboratories will enable effective microbial surveillance. Private sector participation in service delivery may be invited by States, as per need and availability. ABHIM, if financed and implemented efficiently, can strengthen India’s health system by augmenting capacity in several areas and creating a framework for coordinated functioning at district, state and national levels. It can enable data-driven decentralised decision-making and people-partnered primary care at the block level while strengthening national connectivity for delivering universal healthcare. Many independently functioning programmes will have to work with a common purpose by leaping across boundaries of separate budget lines and reporting structures. That calls for a change of bureaucratic mindsets and a cultural shift in Centre-State relations. Perhaps the platforms for active citizen engagement can catalyse both. K. Srinath Reddy, a cardiologist and epidemiologist, is President, Public Health Foundation of India. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/strengthening-healthcare/article37203591.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Pegasus before the security cart||The Supreme Court’s recent record on civil liberties has not been inspiring, especially where the cryptic phrase ‘national security’ is uttered. The rationale has been that the government is best placed to assess the impact on national security as it is the one overseeing all intelligence agencies and enforcement efforts. Hence, courts must allow considerable deference rather than coerce the government into sharing details that may compromise national security. Any critique of the court’s rationale for deferring to national security is hampered by the recent judgments marked by what they omit rather than what they state: the reasons. Hence, the Court’s order on October 27 forming a committee to probe the use of military grade spyware in India on Indian citizens was refreshing. It is telling that the order begins with a quote from George Orwell’s 1984 . The allegations against the government were indeed Orwellian: at considerable expense, the government infringed the right to privacy of several leading journalists and politicians by deploying spyware on their phones to monitor all communications. There are even graver allegations that Pegasus was used to implant false documents and evidences on the devices of persons under surveillance. The government supposedly did so through a software named Pegasus whose developer, the NSO Group, purportedly sells it only to certain undisclosed governments and the end user of its products are “exclusively government intelligence and law enforcement agencies”. No filing of an affidavit The Constitution mandates that any restriction on the right to privacy must be through a valid law, be necessary to meet a legitimate purpose and be proportionate, i.e., there is a proper balance to be achieved between that purpose and the harm caused by limiting the right. It is likely that the snooping, if any, through Pegasus may not be sanctioned by any law to begin with, else the government would have filed an affidavit to that effect as nudged by the apex court. Instead, the government has repeatedly relied on a Minister’s statement in Parliament denying the snooping allegations. Representations made in Parliament are generally protected by parliamentary privilege and consequences for false or misleading statements are rare. This is unlike an affidavit in court proceedings where such communication is punishable with imprisonment. The Supreme Court observed that there is a broad consensus between the government and the aggrieved petitioners that unauthorised surveillance/accessing of stored data from the devices of citizens for reasons other than nation’s security would be illegal, objectionable and a matter of concern. The only question that remained was whether such unauthorised surveillance and access of data had taken place in this case. To the surprise of no one, in the face of evidence of snooping produced by the writ petitioners themselves, the government resorted to ritualistic incantation of ‘national security’ to avoid providing answers in affidavit. Thankfully, the Supreme Court did not buy these omnibus assertions to desist from interference. It said national security cannot be the bugbear that the judiciary shies away from, by virtue of its mere mentioning. Rightly, the Court observed that in a democracy governed by the rule of law, indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed except with sufficient statutory safeguards grounded in legality, necessity and proportionality. Hence, where the government refuses to divulge the information sought, it is incumbent on the government to not only specifically plead the constitutional concern or statutory immunity but also justify the same in Court on affidavit. The Court’s acknowledgement that the allegations of snooping have some weight go a long way. Yet, the Committee’s conduct in investigating these allegations must go further. The investigation must be swift and its finding must be made public. Ramesh Kalpathy Vaidyanathan is Managing Partner & Suyash Sarvankar is Associate, Advaya Legal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pegasus-before-the-security-cart/article37203585.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A credible probe||The Supreme Court order instituting an independent probe into the possible use of Israeli spyware Pegasus is an effective intervention to protect citizens from unlawful surveillance, as well as a stern rebuff to the Government’s attempt to cover up the issue by using the bogey of ‘national security’. It was clear from day one, following the revelations that nearly 300 of some 50,000 phone numbers allegedly identified for surveillance belonged to Indians, that the Government would choose to brazen it out rather than hold or facilitate a credible inquiry. Ultimately, its tactic of sticking to a blanket denial of any wrongdoing, without acknowledging whether or not the spyware was available to government agencies, failed. The 46-page order by a Bench headed by the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, stands out for the enunciation of two clear principles: that surveillance, or even the knowledge that one could be spied upon, affects the way individuals exercise their rights, warranting the Court’s intervention; and that there is no omnibus prohibition on judicial review merely because the spectre of national security is being raised. The Court deemed unacceptable the Government’s refusal to shed any light on a controversy that involves possible violation of citizens’ rights and made it clear that national security considerations cannot be used by the state “to get a free pass”. The Court has approached the issue as one that raises an “Orwellian concern”, recognising that intrusive surveillance not only violates the right to privacy but also has a chilling effect on the freedom of the press. When damning revelations emerged that many phones of journalists, activists and even doctors and court staff were targets of military-grade spyware designed not only to grab data but also take control of devices, the Government ought to have responded, as some nations did, with alarm and alacrity. Instead, it resorted to a bald claim that illegal surveillance is not possible in India, and that the disclosure of whether or not a particular software suite was used by its agencies would compromise national security. The Court is right in making it plain that any such concern or claim of immunity ought to have been substantiated on affidavit. What is quite appalling is that the Government was unwilling even to disclose what action had been taken after it admitted in Parliament in 2019 that it was aware of some WhatsApp users being targeted by Pegasus. Its offer of ordering an inquiry on its own has been rightly rejected by the Court — it would command little credibility. The Court-supervised panel appears to have the required expertise and independence, but its success in unravelling the truth may depend on how much information it can extract from the Government and its surveillance agencies. For its part, the Government would do well to depart from its record of obfuscation and stonewalling and cooperate with the inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-credible-probe/article37203576.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A world minus ads||In a land of matchless diversity, where 138 crore people live, it is perhaps not surprising that social conflicts run along several lines including caste, class, gender, language and religion. Deepening fault lines touch every part of life, and advertising, which at a basic level nudges a consumer to make a purchasing decision but also does social messaging, is learning it the hard way. With the start of the festival season, at least two companies, Fabindia and Dabur, have had to pull out ads days after the launch for “offending sentiments” and huge social media outrage. In the case of Fabindia, people protested against the use of the words “Jashn-e-riwaaz” for a new collection of clothes ahead of Deepavali. The brand later clarified that all its products in “Jashn-e-riwaaz” are “a celebration of Indian traditions” and that its Deepavali collection was yet to be launched. Yet it chose to withdraw the ad. BJP MP Tejasvi Surya led the campaign against Fabindia calling for an economic boycott; a hashtag #NoBindiNoBusiness also did the rounds, in protest against the models in the ad without bindis . Dabur’s Fem brand had to pull out a Karwa Chauth ad which showed a same-sex couple observing the rituals. A Ceat ad featuring Aamir Khan asking people not to burst crackers on the roads too upset the right wing which said it should have also addressed the “problem of blocking roads” for namaz . While advertisements which do not stick to the script can be a breath of fresh air, there are some which miss the mark completely with the messaging. So, if Shah Rukh Khan’s latest Cadbury ad urging people to buy from small kirana shops this Deepavali is making the right noises, Kent RO’s atta and bread maker ad last year and its tone-deaf portrayal of house-helps was decried. Tanishq, a jewellery brand co-owned by the Tatas, had to withdraw an ad last year that showed a Muslim family organising Hindu baby shower rituals for their Hindu daughter-in-law. It got vitriolic comments with some accusing the Tatas of promoting “Love Jihad”. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and others were aghast that a symbol of Hindu-Muslim unity could irk a section of people. They cried foul that nuance was getting lost in the cacophony of perceived hurt sentiments. If advertising is about selling a product, no company will willingly put out a campaign that may hurt its brand. The messaging must be sensitive, and that comes when a marketing team has its ear to the ground. It is nothing unusual for some ad campaigns to fail. But, worryingly, many brands have had to withdraw their campaign material after manufactured social media outrage that was fed by intolerance of progressive values and religious bigotry of the worst order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-world-minus-ads/article37203577.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||UNSC presidency may go to China||The U.N. Secretary-General U Thant to-day [United Nations, Oct. 27] urged Peking to hurry up its appointment of a U.N. representative amid speculation that China could take over leadership of the Security Council on Sunday night. In his second cable to the Chinese Foreign Ministry since Monday night when the General Assembly decided to seat the People’s Republic of China and expel Taiwan, U Thant asked for a swift appointment so that the work of the Security Council might not be interrupted. He observed that a Council member’s delegate must present his credentials not less than 24 hours before taking his seat. The presidency of the Council changes at midnight on Sunday and if the Chinese decided to be known in the U.N. as the People’s Republic of China, it would go to them. Otherwise, Poland will succeed Nicaragua under the system of alphabetical rotation. “I would be grateful if you would inform me at your earlier convenience of the name of your representative on the Security Council, U Thant said in his message to the acting Foreign Minister, Mr. Chi Peng-Fei. “I may add that a meeting of the Security Council might be called any moment by the President.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/unsc-presidency-may-go-to-china/article37203584.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maruti Q2 profit slumps 66% as input costs, chip shortage bite||Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. on Wednesday reported a 66% fall in second-quarter profit at Rs. 487 crore, due to an “unprecedented” increase in commodity prices and a semiconductor shortage. The country’s largest carmaker said the quarter saw it suffer an estimated production shortfall of 1.16 lakh vehicles — normal monthly output is about 1.5 lakh units — owing to the electronic components shortage, while material costs soared to a record 80.4% of net sales at the end of the quarter. Chairman R. C. Bhargava said the company had more than 2 lakh pending orders at the end of September, a majority of them for CNG vehicles due to the rising prices of petrol and diesel. “The COVID situation, in the second quarter particularly, was not too bad,” Mr. Bhargava said at a virtual press conference. “But the shortage of electronic components and increase in the prices of commodities like steel, aluminium and precious metals on a pretty unprecedented scale has upset all the earlier estimates and expectations.” The component shortage had a bigger impact on MSIL than on other OEMs as one particular component was from a single German vendor whose factory in Malaysia had suffered a big hit from COVID, he said. “Both of these factors have had a major impact on our results in terms of volumes, in terms of profits,” he added. Consolidated revenue from operations rose to Rs. 20,551 crore, from Rs. 18,756 crore a year earlier. Total vehicle sales, however, slid 3% to over 3.79 lakh units. “We will not have double-digit growth,” Mr. Bhargava said, giving his outlook for sales growth this fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-q2-profit-slumps-66-as-input-costs-chip-shortage-bite/article37203563.ece
28 October 2021||MUMBAI,||L&T net falls 67% to Rs. 1,819 cr.||Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (L&T) reported second-quarter consolidated net profit plunged 67% to Rs. 1,819.45 crore, from Rs. 5,520 crore in the year-earlier period when it had a one-time gain from the sale of its electrical & automation business. “The profit after tax for the quarter at Rs. 1,819 crore includes Rs. 144 crore gain on divestment of stake in hydel power plant in Uttarakhand and tax expense of Rs. 47 crore arising on transfer of the NxT Digital Business from the parent to Mindtree Ltd.,” the company said in a filing. Consolidated profit after tax (excluding exceptional items and discontinued operations) at Rs. 1,723 crore, however, surged 56%. “The growth is mainly driven by higher profits in the IT&TS portfolio and improved margins from the projects & manufacturing portfolio as the pandemic induced stress in previous periods progressively wanes,” CFO R. Shankar Raman said on a conference call. Revenue rose 12% year-on-year to Rs. 34,773 crore, with international sales contributing 35% at Rs. 12,318 crore. L&T bagged orders worth Rs. 42,140 crore during the quarter, a 50% jump over the year-earlier period. Orders covered segments including oil & gas, metros, rural water supply, minerals and metal and power transmission and distribution. International orders at Rs. 22,116 crore accounted for 52%. The group’s consolidated order book at Rs. 3,30,541 crore was near record levels, with international orders having a share of 23%. Infrastructure segment secured orders of Rs. 12,108 crore, a decline of 17% over the year-earlier period. Defence engineering segment recorded order inflow of Rs. 441 crore, a decline of 67% year-on-year on account of deferral of ‘awards’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lt-net-falls-67-to-rs-1819-cr/article37203556.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||A tenth of coal-fired plants still at risk for outages, says Crisil||An immediate power crisis may have been averted for now, but about a tenth of India’s coal-fired thermal power plants remain in danger of shutdowns and outages due to erratic coal supplies and high prices for imported coal, rating agency Crisil said on Wednesday. Domestic coal supplies have been erratic due to rains hampering mining operations, while non-coking coal imports have slid more than 20%. As a result, coal stocks at power plants have depleted to an average of five days’ worth of supplies. Ankit Hakhu, Crisil Ratings director, expects global coal prices and domestic e-auction premiums to remain elevated over the next few months, rendering about 20 GW of private power generation capacity out of a total 209 GW of coal-based capacity to be ‘most vulnerable’. “Most of these plants don’t have fuel supply agreements and depend heavily on the open market or imports for coal, with committed tariffs for the power sold to utilities. Therefore, if these gencos continue operations at these elevated current coal prices, it may lead to operating losses and thus these capacities may prefer to shut down till coal prices cool,” Mr. Hakhu said. Power demand grew about 9% in the July to September quarter compared with the corresponding period in the pre-pandemic 2019-20, but reliance on thermal energy sources rose disproportionately as hydel and nuclear power generation were lower this year. Even at units with fuel supply pacts, coal supply may be ‘just about adequate for their current generation’, noted Crisil’s associate director Rohan Kulshreshtha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/a-tenth-of-coal-fired-plants-still-at-risk-for-outages-says-crisil/article37203559.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aluminium sector takes coal supply issue to PMO||The Aluminium Association of India has reached out to the Prime Minister’s Office to help address the “precarious situation” the industry is in due to limited coal supply, warning of more than one million job losses. In a letter dated October 26, the association said: “The current shortage due to stoppage/curtailment of coal supplies and rakes has threatened the very survival of the domestic aluminium industry with risk of loss of over one million livelihood and [about] 5,000 SMEs in the downstream sector”. Since August 21, the industry has been getting only 50% of required coal supplies, which has declined to 10% currently. The industry has coal stocks of only 1.5-3 days and is on the verge of a stockout, it said. “If coal shortage is not immediately addressed, it may lead to collapse of the aluminium industry and associated SMEs,” the representative entity said, adding that this would also lead to additional national foreign exchange loss of Rs. 90,000 crore due to higher imports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/aluminium-sector-takes-coal-supply-issue-to-pmo/article37203565.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘MFIs must stop chasing profit at clients’ expense’||Micro-finance lenders must refrain from chasing profits and introspect on the ‘negative consequences’ of pushing their borrowers into a debt trap, using harsh recovery practices and harassing customers as this could undo the sector’s progress, a top central banker said. Arguing that there is no longer a level-playing field in the sector as specialised micro-finance institutions (MFIs) governed by the central bank’s regulatory framework now account for just 30% of gross loans, Reserve Bank of India Deputy Governor M. Rajeshwar Rao said this is posing ‘difficulties for customers’ and divergence in practices. Addressing the national conference of MFIs’ self-regulatory organisation Sa-Dhan, Mr. Rao also stressed that lenders partnering fintech firms to deliver services and onboarding customers must ensure that customer- protection needs are not compromised in the process. Urging MFIs to turn their immediate focus towards revamping their risk management systems, improving the skills of the field-level staff and institutionalising an effective grievance redressal system, Mr. Rao emphasised that lenders should not throw caution to the winds to chase higher asset growth and returns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mfis-must-stop-chasing-profit-at-clients-expense/article37203569.ece
28 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Indian Overseas Bank net more than doubles||Indian Overseas Bank’s (IOB) standalone net profit for the quarter ended September rose 154% to Rs. 376 crore due to ‘strong performance’. “The bank has made a fresh start after six years,” said Partha Pratim Sengupta, MD & CEO. “It will grow much stronger in coming quarters.” Emphasisingk that the RBI had removed IOB from its Prompt Corrective Action framework due to strong performance, he said curbs such as on branch opening and fresh recruitment had been removed. “We will be looking at expanding [number of] branches or restructuring some of them and recruiting more people.” He also said the bank would be raising between Rs. 500 crore and Rs. 1,000 crore in the fourth quarter to meet tier-II capital norms. In FY23, the bank hopes to raise funds to meet capital growth either through tier-I capital or via equity, he said. In the second quarter, interest income fell to Rs. 4,254 crore (Rs. 4,363 crore); net interest margin dipped to 2.43% (2.57%); and net NPAs declined to 2.77% (4.3%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-overseas-bank-net-more-than-doubles/article37203572.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Auto dealers seek law to protect against OEM exits||The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) on Wednesday has urged the government to introduce a law to protect the interests of automobile dealers. This comes in the backdrop of many foreign vehicle makers, such as General Motors and Ford, exiting India over the last four years. “Most dealerships in India are MSMEs and their contractual arrangements with OEMs that are large corporations have historically been tilted in favour of OEMs due to dealers’ lack of bargaining power. What is surprising is that the same OEMs offer much better contracts to their dealers in many international jurisdictions,” FADA president Vinkesh Gulati told reporters. Compared to Indian agreements, pacts abroad often have more balanced and comprehensive clauses on termination, indemnification and repurchase obligations, while affording more flexibility to dealers. “The existing legal regime in India is inadequate to address these specific concerns of dealers. While OEM-Dealer agreements are governed under the Indian Contract Act, the law does not contain any clear solutions for us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-dealers-seek-law-to-protect-against-oem-exits/article37203561.ece
28 October 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Adanis to exit from Myanmar investments||Gujarat-based Adani Group said it has decided to exit from its investments in Myanmar by next year. Group company Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) made the announcement in its quarterly results. “The board has decided to actively work on a plan on exiting company’s investment in Myanmar, including divestment opportunities (expected to be concluded by March - June 2022),” the firm said. No specific reason has been cited by the firm for the decision. The APSEZ has till now invested $151 million in International Container Terminal at Ahlone Port in Yanon region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adanis-to-exit-from-myanmar-investments/article37203557.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||ITC Q2 profit rises 10% to Rs. 3,763.7 crore||ITC Ltd. reported a 10% increase in its consolidated net profit to Rs. 3,763.7 crore for the second quarter ended in September. The company had posted a net profit of Rs. 3,418.69 crore during the July-September quarter of the previous fiscal, ITC said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from operations was up 12.1% to Rs. 14,662.6 crore during the quarter under review as against Rs. 13,075.1 crore in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. Total expenses were at Rs. 10,258.3 crore, up 11.9% in Q2/FY 2021-22 as against Rs. 9,164.7 core in the year-earlier period. Shares of ITC Ltd. on Wednesday settled at Rs. 238.40 on BSE, up 0.68% from the previous close.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/itc-q2-profit-rises-10-to-rs-37637-crore/article37203566.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Policybazaar parent firm’s IPO to open on Nov 1; price band set at Rs 940-980/share||PB Fintech, that operates online insurance platform Policybazaar and credit comparison portal Paisabazaar, on Wednesday fixed a price band of Rs. 940-Rs. 980 a share for its Rs. 5,710-crore initial share sale, which will open on November 1. The three-day initial public offering (IPO) will conclude on November 3, the company announced at a virtual press conference.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/policybazaar-parent-firms-ipo-to-open-on-nov-1-price-band-set-at-rs-940-980share/article37203554.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Airtel CEO warns users about cyber-fraud cases becoming 'alarmingly frequent'||Bharti Airtel's CEO has warned customers about rising cases of cyber-frauds, citing a recent instance of a fraudster who posed as a executive and under the guise of updating KYC form, tricked a user into revealing bank details to transfer a large amount from the bank account. In an email to subscribers, Gopal Vittal urged users to be vigilant as such cases are becoming ‘alarmingly frequent.’PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/airtel-ceo-warns-users-about-cyber-fraud-cases-becoming-alarmingly-frequent/article37203568.ece
28 October 2021||Chennai,||TII Q2 profit surges 27% to Rs. 121.42 cr.||Tube Investments of India Ltd (TII) standalone net profit for the second quarter rose almost 27% to Rs. 121.42 crore. Revenue increased to Rs. 1,667 crore (Rs. 1,087 crore). “The results are a testimony to the resilience shown by us in bouncing back with a healthy performance with most businesses reaching or surpassing pre-COVID levels,” chairman M.A.M. Arunachalam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tii-q2-profit-surges-27-to-rs-12142-cr/article37203573.ece
28 October 2021||ABU DHABI,||Roy turns on the heat as England demolishes Bangladesh||England cruised to a second successive victory at the ICC Twenty20 World Cup, defeating Bangladesh by eight wickets on Wednesday. It was the first meeting between the two in T20s. Opener Jason Roy smashed 61 off 38 balls as England reached its target of 125 in 14.1 overs. Roy’s partner Jos Buttler made a run-a-ball 18 before losing his wicket to left-arm spinner Nasum Ahmed. Roy, playing in his 50th T20, reached his seventh T20 half-century with a six. He smashed five fours and three sixes, taking the sting out of the Bangladesh attack. Roy added 73 with Dawid Malan (28 n.o., 25b, 3x4) for the second wicket. Earlier, Bangladesh lost regular wickets after electing to bat and finished at 124 for nine. Left-arm quick Tymal Mills (three for 27), Woakes (4-0-12-1), Moeen (two for 18) and Livingstone (two for 15) kept the Bangladesh batters on a leash. After giving away 10 in his opening over — the first of the innings — off-spinner Moeen Ali was on a hat-trick in his second, but was denied by Mushfiqur Rahim. Moeen had Liton Das caught at deep square-leg and immediately sent back Mohammad Naim. Bangladesh slipped to 26 for three as Shakib Al Hasan fell to Chris Woakes, with Adil Rashid taking a superb catch running back from short fine-leg. Mushfiqur and skipper Mahmudullah repaired the damage with a 37-run partnership before leg-spinner Liam Livingstone broke through. He trapped Mushfiqur in front as England’s review was successful after the on-field umpire had ruled it not out. No. 9 Nasum hit leggie Rashid for two sixes and a four in the 19th over and remained unbeaten 19 off nine balls to give the Bangladesh total some respect. However, it proved inadequate once Roy got going.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/roy-turns-on-the-heat-as-england-demolishes-bangladesh/article37203871.ece
28 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Shoan Ganguly blazes away to 200m medley glory||Karnataka’s Shoan Ganguly won his first-ever senior Nationals gold with a blistering freestyle leg in the 200m medley, at the Basavanagudi Aquatic Centre here on Wednesday. In what was the most thrilling race of the evening, 16-year-old Shoan’s closest competitor, S. Siva, was almost a body-length ahead through the butterfly and backstroke legs. Shoan started clawing his way back during the breaststroke leg before finding the finishing kick in the homestretch to go past his fellow Karnataka swimmer and finish in 2:07.37, 0.42 seconds faster. “Going into the race, I wasn’t expecting the gold,” said Shoan, after the race. “I just wanted to get my personal best. “In the fly and backstrokes, he was well in front. Breaststroke, I tried to get back, but couldn’t. But in the freestyle leg, I was confident I could catch him,” added Shoan, who trains under S. Pradeep Kumar at Aqua Nation Sports Academy in Dubai. Elsewhere, Srihari Nataraj and Kushagra Rawat continued their record-breaking spree, setting new best marks in 100m freestyle and 800m freestyle respectively. Srihari, in fact, clocked 50.17 in the morning heats to erase Virdhawal Khade’s 50.53 from 2012, and went on to lower it further to 49.94 in the final. Such was his dominance that he finished nearly a full body length ahead of second-placed A.S. Anand (51.68s). A second faster Kushagra clocked 8:08.32, over a second faster than his previous best timing set in 2019, to set his second record in as many days. “For the 800m, I was expecting much better timing,” Kushagra said after the win. “I did not have the pacing as I was swimming all by myself. I was aiming for sub-eight. But yes, I am happy with the overall show, as it was a new record also.” The third National record of the day was Chahat Arora’s in 50m breaststroke (33.62), with the Punjab swimmer rewriting A.V. Jayaveena’ mark of 33:81 from 2018 in the heats and going to win the final with a much slower timing of 33.86. Maharashtra’s Apeksha Fernandes, who was outstanding in last week’s junior Nationals, continued her form, winning a gold and silver in 200m medley and 50m breaststroke respectively, to add to Tuesday’s gold medal in 200m breaststroke.  The results (winners only): Men: 100m freestyle: Srihari Nataraj (Kar), 49:94 (NMR; OR: 50.17, Srihari Nataraj, 2021); 800m freestyle: Kushagra Rawat (Del), 8:08.32 (NMR; OR: 8:09.47, Kushagra Rawat, 2019); 50m breaststroke: S. Danush (TN), 29:27; 200m medley: Shoan Ganguly (Kar), 2:07.37.   Women: 100m freestyle: Shivangi Sarma (Asm), 59.07; 1500m freestyle: Prachi Tokas (Del), 17:47.28; 50m breaststroke: Chahat Arora (Pun), 33.86; 200m medley: Apeksha Fernandes (Mah), 2:26.28.   Mixed 4x50m freestyle: Karnataka (Srihari, Ridhima Veerendra Kumar, Nina Venkatesh, R. Sambhavv), 1:41.73.   Diving (3m springboard): Men: Siddharth Pardeshi (SSCB), 338.00; Women: Palak Sharma (MP), 176.20 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shoan-ganguly-blazes-away-to-200m-medley-glory/article37203970.ece
28 October 2021||DUBAI,||Dew has proved to be a deciding factor||As noticed during the last week of the IPL, all three venues in the UAE (Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah) witnessed dew having an impact in the latter half of every game. No wonder then that of the first seven Super 12 matches in the T20 World Cup, six have seen teams that batted first walking away with full points. The trend is similar to Indian conditions, where the appearance of dew effectively makes a captain winning the toss having no qualms in electing to field. “Yes, toss definitely is going to be a factor in this tournament. If the dew keeps creeping in in the latter half the game, you need those extra runs in the first half,” India captain Virat Kohli said after the loss to Pakistan last Sunday. Various factors The last thing that a World Cup requires is the toss dictating results of games. But a combination of sticky surfaces, the dew making an impact only in the second innings, and the match timings adjusted primarily to suit television viewership in the Indian sub-continent, has resulted in teams being forced to plan strategies around the dew and toss. “A bit of dew is something we saw at the back-end of the IPL, as also a number of different factors that come with the conditions. We were aware of that going into it,” Williamson said after the Black Caps went down to Pakistan in Sharjah on Tuesday. New Zealand, in fact, came closest to defending a target after Afghanistan’s crushing win against Scotland earlier in the week. However, Pakistan’s big-hitters saw the team through. South Africa, on the other hand, restricted the West Indies power-hitters in Dubai on Tuesday and then chased down the target comfortably in a day game, when the dew wasn’t a factor at all. “The wickets are not particularly flat. They offer something for the bowlers,” pacer Kagiso Rabada had said ahead of the game. It seems that all teams will have to adapt to the dew factor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dew-has-proved-to-be-a-deciding-factor/article37203859.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||TTFI’s evidence could lead to suspensions||Manika Batra’s allegations against table tennis coach Soumyadeep Roy that he put pressure on her to lose to Sutirtha Mukherjee in the Olympic qualification match in Doha in March could backfire after her coach Sanmay Paranjape’s text message, contradicting the player’s claim, has surfaced. Manika, whose serious allegations against Soumyadeep led to a legal battle with the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) and a High Court-ordered inquiry by the Sports Ministry, could face the heat from the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) Integrity Unit, known for its zero-tolerance policy in unethical matters. It may be recalled that on March 18, Sutirtha defeated Manika and gained the South Asian Olympic quota and Manika made the grade on the basis of her higher ranking. Had Manika won, Sutirtha’s qualification on ranking was doubtful. As part of the documents submitted by the TTFI to the ITTF, a text message from Sanmay sent to a former player on March 19 at 11.14 a.m. has the potential to blow the lid off Manika’s claims. It reads: “My respect for Manika has doubled now. What she did for Sutirtha, that too, after facing so much in life! She reached a position where she could help or not help! She chose to help! This is real strength, good heart and real positive mind! Real big hearted lady she is. Country matters.” Another document presented to the ITTF is from a ITTF-certified Blue Badge Umpire, officiating during the qualifying tournament in Doha. His statement reads: “I am testifying what I witnessed on March 18, 2021, and reconfirming the talks I had with Mr. Sanmay Paranjape on the morning of the match between Ms. Manika Batra and Ms. Sutirtha Mukherjee. “We were all euphoric about two Indians qualifying for the Olympics because it was already in the air. It could have happened only one way and that was if Ms. Sutirtha Mukherjee won against Manika, because the latter would automatically qualify on her world rankings. When Mr. Paranjape came and exchanged pleasantries with me, I asked if both Indians were going to Tokyo. He smilingly replied that “you guessed it right”. “In fact, when he came for the match in the evening, I asked why he came to the venue, instead of resting at the hotel since we knew the result (Sutirtha’s victory), he laughed it off saying he came to watch the match.” Though the principal office-bearers of the TTFI remained tight-lipped, a source in the know of the proceedings mentioned the likelihood of ITTF suspending Manika, Sutirtha, Soumyadeep and Sanmay for their apparent roles in producing the contrived result in Doha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ttfis-evidence-could-lead-to-suspensions/article37203869.ece
28 October 2021||ABU DHABI,||Plucky Namibia scripts historic win||Ruben Trumpelmann led a lethal bowling show by taking three wickets in the first over as Namibia restricted Scotland to 109 for eight in its ICC T20 World Cup on Wednesday. In reply, JJ Smit’s unbeaten 32 (23b, 2x4, 2x6) took the team to a four-wicket win in its first-ever appearance in the Super 12s. Scotland suffered its second straight loss. Smit and David Wiese (16) were involved in a crucial 35-run stand for the fifth wicket to swing the contest Namibia’s way. Earlier, left-arm quick Trumpelmann justified his team’s decision to bowl first as he struck with the first ball and then got two off successive balls, including Richie Berrington for nought. Berrington, who was standing in as captain with regular skipper Kyle Coetzer out nursing a finger injury, reviewed the call but replays suggested the ball would have hit the leg stump. Trumpelmann returned his best T20 figures of three for 17 in his sixth match in the shortest format. Wiese trapped Craig Wallace lbw as the Scots were reduced to 18 for four. Opener and wicketkeeper Matthew Cross attempted to stem the rot in the company of Michael Leask when left-arm seamer Jan Frylinck bowled him for 19. Leask played a lone hand, scoring 44 off 27 deliveries, before being bowled by Smit. Frylinck returned figures of two for 10 in four overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/namibia-scripts-historic-win/article37203873.ece
28 October 2021||HISAR,||Nitu proves too good for Manju Rani||Two-time World youth champion Nitu recorded a shock win over World championships silver medallist Manju Rani to claim her maiden gold medal in the National women’s boxing championships here on Wednesday. Nitu, who had bagged World Youth titles in 2017 and 2018, outsmarted Manju 5-0 in a well-controlled 48kg final bout to prove herself at the elite stage. Accurate jabs It was a fine performance from southpaw Nitu who relied on her fluid footwork, accurate jabs and follow-up shots to steal points. Railways’ Manju could not land enough punches to stop her Haryana rival. “I had my plan ready and I was confident of winning the final,” said Nitu, who won all her bouts with an identical 5-0 margin. “I used the lockdown well to hone my skills and improve my game with my coach Jagdish Singh at the Bhiwani Boxing Club. It has given results. I have got small targets and the next one is the World championships,” said Nitu. Reigning World youth champion Arundhati Choudhary showed her mettle as she defeated Railways boxer Pooja 5-0 to take the 70kg crown. The gritty and alert boxer from Kota displayed her good ring sense and a fine right jab as she dominated the contest against an experienced rival. Nikhat Zareen, who bagged her first National title, was named the Best Boxer.  The results (finals):   48kg: Nitu (Har) bt Manju Rani (RSPB) 5-0; 50kg: Anamika (RSPB) bt Komal (Pun) 5-0, 52kg: Nikhat Zareen (Tel) bt Minakshi (Har) 4-1; 54kg: Shiksha (RSPB) bt Renu (Har) 3-2; 57kg: Sonia Lather (RSPB) bt Manisha Moun (AIP) 5-0; 60kg: Meena Rani (RSPB) bt Jaismine Lamboria (Har) 3-2; 63kg: Parveen (Har) bt Monika (RSPB) 5-0; 66kg: Anjali Tushir (Del) bt Jyoti (RSPB) 4-1; 70kg: Arundhati Choudhary (Raj) bt Pooja (RSPB) 5-0; 75kg: Saweety Boora (Har) bt Bhagyabati Kachari (RSPB) 5-0; 81kg: Pooja Rani (Har) bt Nupur (RSPB) 5-0; 81+: Nandini (RSPB) bt Neha (Har) 5-0.   Team championship: Winner: Railways, Runner-up: Haryana .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nitu-proves-too-good-for-manju-rani/article37203956.ece
28 October 2021||HISAR,||Hard work pays off for Nikhat Zareen||Backed by self-belief and positive attitude, Nikhat Zareen has reaped the rewards of her hard work at the National women’s boxing championships here. The former World junior champion and Asian championships bronze medallist rose from a minor dip in her career to win her maiden National title (in 52kg) and claim the ‘Best Boxer’ award on Wednesday. Unfortunately, Nikhat had grabbed headlines in the past because of reasons other than performances. When she tried to raise her performance, the pandemic affected her training last year. The Hyderabad girl made a successful comeback in the Bosphorus tournament in Turkey in May and beat two World champions on her way to a 51kg bronze medal. But the second wave of the pandemic again derailed her training. “It was difficult as I could not do proper training at home. But I had faith in the almighty. I thought if I am going through all this then there must be something good for me in future,” Nikhat told The Hindu . Nikhat, sponsored by Welspun, paid to train at the Inspire Institute of Sports for about three months to get ready for the Nationals. The training helped her give some clinical performances, including the referee stopping the contests twice, before staging an impressive come-from-behind 4-1 win in the final against the young talent Minakshi. Dominant “The work I put in produced results. I am happy with my performance here as I dominated all the bouts.” The 25-year-old is keen on proving herself at the World championships. “I wanted to win the National title desperately and compete in the World championships. Now I will work hard to get a Worlds medal,” said Nikhat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hard-work-pays-off-for-nikhat-zareen/article37203958.ece
28 October 2021||ISMANING (GERMANY),||Ramkumar-Cornea duo in last eight||Ramkumar Ramanathan and Romania’s Victor Vlad Cornea beat Germany’s Tim Sandakaulen and Henri Squire 6-3, 3-6, [10-7] in the doubles pre-quarterfinals of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament in Ismaning (Germany).  Other results: €44,820 Challenger, Ismaning, Germany: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Szymon Walkow & Jan Zielinski (Pol) bt Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Purav Raja 7-5, 7-6(10).   €66,640 Challenger, Brest, France: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Denys Molchanov (Ukr) & Aleksandr Nedovyesov (Kaz) bt Sriram Balaji & Divij Sharan 6-3, 7-5.   $52,080 Challenger, Las Vegas, US: Singles (first round): Stefan Kozlov (US) bt Sasikumar Mukund 6-2, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF men, Madrid, Spain: Singles (first round): Stefan Micov (Mkd) bt Manish Sureshkumar 6-3, 4-6, 7-6(3).   $15,000 ITF men, Tallahassee, US: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Dusty Boyer & Toby Boyer 9US) bt Suraj Prabodh & Dhruv Sunish 6-2, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (first round): Sidharth Rawat bt Ajeet Rai (Nzl) 7-5, 6-4.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Egor Tsarapkin (Rus) & Matas Vasiliauskas (Ltu) bt Serinho Wijdenbosch (Ned) & Ajay Pruthvi Nemakal 6-2, 6-3.   $80,000 ITF women, Poitiers, France: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Estelle Cascino (Fra) & Camilla Rosatello (Ita) bt Sowjanya Bavisetti & Karman Kaur Thandi 7-5, 5-0, retd.   $25,000 ITF women, Austin, US: Singles (first round): Kayla Day (US) bt Pranjala Yadlapalli 6-3, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (first round): Giulia Crescenzi (Ita) bt Niditra Rajmohan 6-3, 6-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-cornea-duo-in-last-eight/article37203959.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nitin Kumar Sinha has the measure of Vishnu Vardhan||Nitin Kumar Sinha played a robust all-court game to beat former champion Vishnu Vardhan 6-4, 6-1 in the men’s pre-quarterfinals of the Fenesta National tennis championship at the DLTA Complex on Wednesday. Ready for the challenge The 22-year-old Nitin, seeded third and having played a lot over the past few weeks in the international circuit in Egypt, was ready for the challenge against the 34-year-old Olympian who has not played the circuit since April. Vishnu did serve and stroke with intensity but Nitin was able to turn the flow in his favour with a better fare. Nitin will play S.D. Prajwal Dev who beat another former champion V.M. Ranjeet for the loss of four games. Paras Dahiya, who had to fight it out in three sets against Fardeen Qamar, will take on Rishi Reddy, who beat fifth seed Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam. Digvijay Pratap Singh beat former champion Dalwinder Singh to set up a quarterfinal against another former champion Siddharth Vishwakarma. In the women’s section, top seed Zeel Desai had to step up her game to beat Shreya Tatavarthy 2-6, 6-3, 6-1, and will play reigning champion Shrivalli Bhamidipaty. Reshma Maruri beat National junior champion Shruti Ahlawat 5-7, 6-4, 6-1. Reshma had lost to Shruti rather tamely in the semifinals of the National juniors a fortnight earlier. Reshma will face Sharmada Balu who overcame her doubles partner Sravya Shivani when the latter retired early in the third set.  The results (pre-quarterfinals):   Men: Niki Poonacha bt Faisal Qamar 6-4, 6-3; Prithvi Sekhar bt Jatin Dahiya 4-6, 6-2, 6-4; Paras Dahiya bt Fardeen Qamar 6-1, 2-6, 6-2; Rishi Reddy bt Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 6-3, 7-6(3); S.D. Prajwal Dev bt V.M. Ranjeet 6-0, 6-4; Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Vishnu Vardhan 6-4, 6-1; Digivjay Pratap Singh bt Dalwinder Singh 7-6(4), 6-4; Siddharth Vishwakarma bt Kaza Vinayak Sharma 6-4, 7-6(2).   Women: Zeel Desai bt Shreya Tatavarthy 2-6, 6-3, 6-1; Shrivalli Bhamidipaty bt Nidhi Chilumula 6-2, 6-2; Sai Samhitha bt Sudipta Kumar 6-2, 6-3; Vanshita Pathania bt Jagmeet Kaur 6-4, 6-3; Reshma Maruri bt Shruti Ahlawat 5-7, 6-4, 6-1.   Sharmada Balu bt Sravya Shivani 5-7, 6-1, 2-0 (retd.); Akanksha Nitture bt Smriti Bhasin 6-4, 6-1; Vaidehi Chaudhari bt Farhat Aleen Qamar 6-4, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nitin-kumar-sinha-has-the-measure-of-vishnu-vardhan/article37203961.ece
28 October 2021||Belgrade,||Nishant moves up||Nishant Dev (71kg) sailed into the second round while Govind Sahani (48kg) made the pre-quarters with a superb come-from-behind effort in his opening bout as Indian boxers continued to impress in the AIBA men’s boxing World Championships here on Wednesday. While Nishant notched up a dominating 5-0 triumph over Hungary’s Laszlo Kozak, Sahani rallied from a round down to beat Ecuador’s Billy Arias Ortiz 3-2 in an edge of seat showdown. Nishant’s win was a perfect start to the day for the country after Sumit (75kg) and Narender Berwal (+92kg) advanced to the second round of their respective categories with fine victories on Tuesday night. Sumit defeated Jamaican Damon O’Neill 5-0 while Narender downed Poland’s Oskar Safaryan 4-1. Another debutant Lakshya Chahar (86kg) lost to Korea’s Kim Hyeongkyu after the bout had to be stopped in the second round. The action came to an unexpectedly early end when the Indian sustained a forehead cut that opened up despite medical attention. Chahar won the opening round 4-1, but the judges ruled in favour of Kim after the bout was stopped. India High Performance Director Santiago Nieva was seen expressing his displeasure with the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nishant-moves-up/article37203963.ece
28 October 2021||Milan,||Giroud delivers for Milan in dreary clash||Olivier Giroud scored the only goal in AC Milan’s 1-0 win over Torino on Tuesday to move his side to the summit of Serie A despite an underwhelming performance at the San Siro. France forward Giroud tapped home his fourth league goal since arriving from Chelsea in the summer in the 14th minute of a largely dreary contest to move Milan three points clear in first place. It was a sixth straight Serie A win for Stefano Pioli’s side but a far from vintage performance against a Torino team which played its part and could have earned at least a point with some sharper finishing. Arnaut Danjuma scored five minutes into stoppage time as Villarreal salvaged a 3-3 draw against Cadiz in the Spanish league.   The results:   Serie A: AC Milan 1 (Giroud 14) bt Torino 0; Spezia 1 (Sirigu 66-og) drew with Genoa 1 (Criscito 85).   Venezia 1 (Aramu 14) lost to Salernitana 2 (Bonazzoli 61, Schiavone 90+5).   La Liga: Alaves 1 (Ndiaye 47) bt Elche 0; Espanyol 1 (De Tomas 33-pen) drew with Athletic Bilbao 1 (Williams 52).   Villarreal 3 (Torres 43, Dia 80, Danjuma 90+5) drew with Cadiz 3 (Lozano 14, 45+1, 52).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/giroud-does-it-for-milan/article37203954.ece
28 October 2021||Dubai,||Wade backs Finch and Warner to come good||Australia will face Sri Lanka in Dubai on Thursday in a bid to firm up its position in the points table as the scramble for the semifinal spots picks up pace in the ICC Twenty20 World Cup. Both teams won their respective last matches albeit in contrasting fashion. While Australia scraped through after an outstanding bowling performance, Sri Lanka rode on Charith Asalanka’s unbeaten 80 and Bhanuka Rajapaksa’s 53 off 31 balls to win after being 79/4, chasing 172. For Australia, Aaron Finch and David Warner will continue opening despite struggling for runs. Matthew Wade has backed them to come good. “I don’t see a lack of form at all. They’re terrific players. They’re just short of runs. To be honest, guys that are world-class players for as long as they have been in this format are never out of form. They’re just short of runs at the moment,” Wade said on Wednesday. Marcus Stoinis and Wade played crucial cameos in the lower order in the first Super 12 encounter and are likely to retain their batting positions. But if the top three fire in unison, Glenn Maxwell and either Stoinis or Wade could be sent ahead of Steve Smith, who batted at No. 4 against South Africa. Meanwhile, Australia will be pleased with the way Josh Hazlewood bowled in the PowerPlay. Maxwell’s four overs are a bonus. On the other hand, Sri Lanka head coach Mickey Arthur has confirmed that spinner Maheesh Theekshana will play if fit. “He’s improved tremendously. So we’ll warm him up tomorrow; and if everything goes well, he’ll be playing,” Arthur said. Lahiru Kumara might ask probing questions of a wobbly Australian top-order with his pace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wade-backs-finch-warner-to-come-good/article37203862.ece
28 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||11 athletes recommended for Khel Ratna||Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, who became the second Indian to win an individual Olympic gold at the Tokyo Games, and silver medal-winning wrestler Ravi Dahiya were recommended along with nine others for the Major Dhyanchand Khel Ratna, the country’s highest sporting honour, on Wednesday. Boxer Lovlina Borgohain, who won a bronze in Tokyo Olympics, hockey goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh and woman cricket Test skipper Mithali Raj were also recommended for the Major Dhyanchand Khel Ratna. Sunil Chhetri became the first footballer to be selected for the honour. Shooters Avani Lekhara and Manish Narwal, javelin thrower Sumit Antil, and shuttlers Pramod Bhagat and Krishna Nagar, who all won Paralympics gold medals, complete the list of those recommended for the Khel Ratna. The committee also picked 35 athletes for the Arjuna Award, eight more than last year’s number. Cricketer Shikhar Dhawan, para TT player Bhavina Patel, para shuttler Suhas Yathiraj and high jumper Nishad Kumar are among those selected. All members of the Tokyo Olympics bronze medal winning men’s hockey team have also been recommended. Women’s hockey team members Vandana Katariya and Monika, fencer Bhavani Devi, boxer Simranjit Kaur, wrestler Deepak Punia, shooter Abhishek Verma, kabaddi player Sandeep Narwal, and women’s tennis player Ankita Raina are among others to get recommendation. The Dronacharya award has been accorded to athletics coaches Radhakrishna Nair and T.P. Ouseph and hockey coach Sandeep Sangwan among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/11-athletes-recommended-for-khel-ratna/article37203867.ece
28 October 2021||Kolkata,||A township for three renowned academies||A sports themed residential township announced tie-ups with three academies run by international sports icons for the project that will be coming up on the northern fringes of the city. “Merlin RISE — The Sports Republic project will be housing a state-of-the-art football academy of the former Brazilian World Cup winner Ronaldinho called the R10 Football Academy, the swimming academy of Olympic star Michael Phelps, and the cricket academy of Yuvraj Singh (Yuvraj Singh Centre of Excellence),” said Merlin Group managing director Saket Mohta. The academies, which will be coming up in the next six months, will follow the training curriculum, techniques, learning module and overall infrastructural facilities outlined in the guidelines of the agreement. Apart from identifying talent from the proposed township the academies will also scout for young talent from the districts and provide them residential training, it was announced.  Merlin RISE — The Sports Republic project will have academies of Ronaldinho, Phelps and Yuvraj Singh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-township-for-three-renowned-academies/article37204376.ece
28 October 2021||KOLLAM:,||Mohd. Ali prevails over Bijesh||Kottayam’s Mohammed Ali defeated Kozhikode’s Bijesh 2-1 in a thriller and entered the pre-quarterfinals of the Kerala State senior billiards championship at Club Yolo here on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Ernakulam’s Abraham B. Joseph and V.A. Anoob came up straight-frame wins in billiards which began today in the 100-up best-of-three format.  The results (100-up format, best of 3 frames): Abraham B. Joseph (Ekm) bt S. Anilan (Tvm) 2-0 (101-23, 103-32); V.A. Anoob (Ekm) bt Biju Antony (Ekm) 2-0 (101-27, 102-91); Mohammed Ali (Ktm) bt Bijesh (Koz) 2-1 (102-97, 98-103, 101-91) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohd-ali-prevails-over-bijesh/article37204357.ece
28 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Advani looks to continue winning streak||Multiple times world champion Pankaj Advani, who has remained unbeaten in 41 matches since March 2020, is keen to continue his winning streak when he takes part in the World snooker championships in Doha next year. “It is always an honour to represent India. I love competing and I love playing for my country and always trying to keep India on top of the world in cue sports,” Pankaj said here on Wednesday. He said it was always nice to get into a tournament as the India No. 1.  I would love to inspire future generations of cueists to take up the sport||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/advani-looks-to-continue-winning-streak/article37204235.ece
28 October 2021||JOHANNESBURG,||De Kock’s refusal to take knee mystifies South Africa||Quinton de Kock’s refusal to take the knee at the ICC T20 World Cup, despite the potential cost to his career, divided opinion in South Africa and highlighted persistent concerns about racism in sport. “De Kock divides opinion” read a banner on news channel eNCA, where commentators debated his right to self-expression against his responsibility to support his team and his nation. A hashtag #IStandwithQuinton started appearing, defending his right to dissent. However, many agreed that there will probably be huge implications for de Kock. “This is probably the end of his participation in the World Cup and maybe even his international career as a cricketer,” wrote analyst Max du Preez in a column on an Afrikaans news site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-kocks-refusal-to-take-knee-mystifies-south-africa/article37203864.ece
28 October 2021||TUNIS,||Sathiyan advances||G. Sathiyan defeated Alvaro Robles of Spain 11-9, 11-9, 11-9 to progress to the singles second round of the WTT Contender Tunis here on Wednesday.  The results: Men (round-of-32): G. Sathiyan bt Alvaro Robles (Esp) 11-9, 11-9, 11-9; Vitor Ishiy (Bra) bt Sharath Kamal 5-11, 11-5, 9-11, 11-8, 12-10. Women (round-of-32): Nina Mittelham (Ger) bt Manika Batra 11-6, 10-12, 11-8, 11-3; Dina Meshref (Egy) bt Selena Selvakumar 11-8, 11-3, 11-4.   Doubles (round-of-16): Sathiyan & Harmeet Desai bt Kilian Ort & Tobias Hippler (Ger) 15-13, 6-11, 11-9, 5-11, 12-10; Sharath & Manav Thakkar bt Alexander Chen & David Serdaroglu (Aut) 12-10, 5-11, 11-5, 11-5.   Mixed doubles (round of 16): Sathiyan & Manika Batra bt Horacio Cifuentes & Camila Arguelles (Arg) 9-11, 11-9, 11-8, 11-9 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-and-manika-lose/article37203876.ece
28 October 2021||KOLKATA,||Ganguly to step down from Bagan role||BCCI president Sourav Ganguly will step down from the board of ATK-Mohun Bagan after RPSG Ventures won the bid for the Lucknow franchise in the Indian Premier League (IPL). RPSG vice-chairman Sanjiv Goenka, the owner of Mohun Bagan as well as the IPL franchise, had said on Monday that Ganguly was on the verge of stepping down. If Ganguly carried on occupying the positions both at the BCCI and Mohun Bagan, he would fall foul of the ‘direct or indirect interest’ conflict rule under the BCCI constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ganguly-to-step-down-from-bagan-role/article37204375.ece
28 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Four Mumbai players test positive||Four Mumbai players in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy squad tested COVID-19 positive and their replacements have been picked. “Four players from the senior team (Shams Mulani, Sairaj Patil, Prashant Solanki and Sarfaraz Khan) have tested positive,” a source said. t is also learnt MCA has decided on the replacements and their names will be announced soon. “We are conducting the Rapid RT-PCR (for replacement players) and their reports will come out soon. Accordingly, they will join the team,” the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/four-mumbai-players-test-positive/article37204483.ece
28 October 2021||Dubai,||Kohli slips a slot to fifth||Virat Kohli dropped one place to fifth despite his half-century against Pakistan in the ongoing T20 World Cup while K.L. Rahul slipped two slots to eighth in the ICC men’s T20I player rankings issued on Wednesday. Kohli (725 rating points) had hit 57 off 49 balls, while Rahul (684) scored three in the match against Pakistan here on Sunday. Pakistan opener Mohammad Rizwan is up three places to fourth. South Africa batter Aiden Markram gained eight slots to reach third, only behind Dawid Malan (831) of England and Pakistan captain Babar Azam (820). Bangladesh’s Shakib Al Hasan regained the top spot among all-rounders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-slips-a-slot-to-fifth/article37204110.ece
28 October 2021||Paris,||Sindhu and Lakshya win, Srikanth and Kashyap exit||Lakshya Sen advanced while P. Kashyap and K. Srikanth tumbled out of the first round of the French Open Super 750 badminton tournament here on Wednesday. Lakshya beat Vietnam’s Nhat Nguyen 21-10, 21-16, while Srikanth lost to top seed Kento Momota and Kashyap came up short against Brice Leverdez of France, losing 17-21, 21-17, 11-21. Srikanth played his heart out against the Japanese and also held a two-point lead towards the end of the decider but ended up losing 18-21, 22-20, 19-21 in 79 minutes.  Other results (first round):   Men: Chou Tien-chen (Tpe) bt H.S. Prannoy 21-11, 21-14; Sourabh Verma bt Ygor Coelho (Bra) 22-20, 21-19.   Doubles: M.R. Arjun & Dhruv Kapila bt Joshua Magee & Paul Reynolds (Ire) 21-13, 21-7.   Women: Sayaka Takahashi (Jpn) bt Saina Nehwal 21-11, 9-2 retd.   Doubles: Alyssa Tirtosentono & Imke Van Der Aar (Ned) bt J. Meghana & Poorvisha S. Ram 11-4, retd; Lee Sohee & Shin Seungchan (Kor) bt Ashwini Ponnappa & N. Sikki Reddy 21-16, 21-17.   Mixed doubles: Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Ashwini bt Mathias Thyrri & Mai Surrow (Den) 21-19, 21-15 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakshya-wins-srikanth-and-kashyap-exit/article37203877.ece
28 October 2021||MYSURU,||Abhay Rangan, Vineeth excel||A. Abhay Rangan’s 110 (8x4) and medium pacer Vineeth Manjunath’s (3/13 and 5/29) helped Vidyaranya CC register an innings and 53-run win over MUCSC in the KSCA Mysore zone first division two-day league at the PET grounds, Mandya, recently.  The scores: MUCSC 107 in 39 overs (M. Umesh 40, Vineeth Manjunath 5/29) & 114 in 57 overs (Harsha Kumar Naidu 49, N. Bharath 5/9, Vineeth Manjunath 3/13) lost to Vidyaranya CC 274/9 decl in 69.4 overs (A. Abhay Rangan 110, R.S. Yogesh 43, Vineeth Manjunath 31, Aditya Mani 32, Rakshith Shetty 3/71, Harsha Kumar Naidu 3/70). Vidyaranya, 5 points, MUCSC minus 1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhay-rangan-vineeth-excel/article37204373.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Anirudha does the star turn for Modern CC||Anirudha Athreya (182 n.o.) took Modern CC past Wilson Garden CC in the KSCA under-16 inter-club tournament here.  The scores: Engrades 309/6 in 50 overs (K.R. Chandrabose 46, Bhuvan Gowda 103, K.P. Nandeesh 45, H. Vishwa 34 n.o., Shankar Beerakabbi 40) bt Visweswarapuram (1) 250 in 47 overs (Aadithya Biju 47, M. Pranav 48, B. Krithin 78).   Modern 366/2 in 50 overs (Anirudha Athreya 182 n.o., Nitesh Gowda 79, R. Shiv 38) bt Wilson Garden 196/7 in 50 overs (Rishabh Agarwal 93, B.R. Jitendra 30).   Jolly Cricketers 165 in 40 overs (K.S. Kaustubh 72, P.B. Jeevan 3/22, Ayaan Kumar 4/34) bt Visweswarapuram (2) 71/8 in 24.3 overs (P.B. Jeevan 28, Faizan Ahmed 3/4, Aarya Muddu 3/16).   Mount Joy 72 in 41.5 overs (Amogh Shetty 31, Siddhant Pathak 3/19, Mohammed Amaan 3/5) lost to Coles 73/2 in 14.4 overs.   South End 143 in 40.5 overs (Yashash Rao 52, K. Gagan 35) lost to Bangalore SC 147/3 in 24.2 overs (R.V. Rohit 68 n.o.).   Jawans 174/7 in 50 overs (Krishav Somasundar 31, Rehan Mohammed 44 n.o., Shashank Kiran 3/30) bt Rajajinagar Cricketers 112 in 37.2 overs (Nitish Arya 32, Yeshan Gowda 25, Rishit Negi 5/25).      Achintya’s 31 points helped Beagles BC defeat SAI (Dharwad) 64-44 in the quarterfinals of the State under-18 boys’ basketball championship at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium courts here on Wednesday.  The results (quarterfinals): Boys: Beagles BC 64 (Achintya 31, Gaurav 15) bt SAI (Dharwad) 44 (Pratham 19); DYES (Bangalore) 66 (Manoj 29) bt Viveks SC 30 (Jonathan 13).   Girls: JSC 76 (Aditi Nagarajan 23, Aadya Nagalinga 19) bt Rajmahal BC 75 (Aishwarya 19, Brinda Kumar 19); Beagles BC 70 (Trisha 14, Harshita 12) bt Pattabhiramnagar BC 30 (Sama Naveed 10) .    Bengaluru FC (BFC) was held to a 1-1 draw by Bangalore Dream United FC on the opening day of the BDFA Super Division football league at Bangalore Football Stadium here on Wednesday. In another outing, Ankith’s hat-trick powered Kickstart FC past Young Challengers FC 5-0.  The results: Thancos Students Union FC 2 (Aditya Mohan 26, Taiki Yoshida 53) drew with Kodagu FC 2 (Songay Chopal 23, Shashi Kumar 47); Kickstart FC 5 (Ankith 17, 32, 72, Princewill Olariche 29, S. Siju 56) bt Young Challengers FC 0; Bengaluru FC 1 (Jayadeep Singh 4) drew with Bangalore Dream United FC 1 (L. Nima 60) .       Gurleen Khanuja upset top seed Sanskriti Lal 6-4, 7-6(2) in the girls’ quarterfinal of the KSLTA-AITA TS 7 under-14 tennis tournament, an event on the Tattvam Junior Tour, at the KSLTA Stadium here on Wednesday.  The results (quarterfinals):   Boys: Abhradeep Bhattacharyya bt Aditya Narayanan 6-7(6), 6-4, 6-2; Arihant Kaul bt Aahil Ayaz 6-1, 6-3.   Yash Panchaxari bt Kristo Babu 1-6, 6-4, 6-1; Dhakshish Basavaraju bt Ananth Krishnan 6-2, 7-5.   Girls: Gurleen Khanuja bt Sanskriti Lal 6-4, 7-6(2); Disha Kumar bt Indusha Nimakayala 6-3, 6-3. Avval Vivekanandan bt Pooja Nagaraj 5-7, 6-4, 6-0; Arzan Khorakiwala bt Adya Chaurasia 6-2, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anirudha-does-the-star-turn-for-modern-cc/article37203964.ece
28 October 2021||MOHALI,||Preyesh and Suhana clinch titles||Tamil Nadu’s Preyesh Suresh Raj and Suhana Saini (Haryana) clinched the youth boys’ and girls’ u-17 titles respectively in the UTT National ranking North Zone table tennis here.  The results (finals): Youth: Boys: Preyesh Suresh Raj (TNTTA) bt Shankhadip Das (Ben) 11-6, 11-8, 11-8, 11-5; Girls: Suhana Saini (Har) bt Kavyashree Baskar (TTTA) 6-11, 11-9, 10-12, 11-9, 11-9, 12-10 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/preyesh-and-suhana-clinch-titles/article37203967.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 07:54 IST,||Sudoku — October 28, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-28-2021/article37204562.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Law and behold||There seems to be a new-found motive in Suriya’s decision making. As a star hailing from one of Tamil cinema’s major film families, the actor is on a mission: to support small-scale projects that may not otherwise get attention. And, like in the case of his upcoming Amazon Prime release Jai Bhim , even star in them. “ Vidhai podalaina, marama valarndhu enna prayojanam ?” (What is the point of a tree that does not spread its seeds?”) Suriya explains, citing one of his favourite sayings in a telephonic chat. He is striving to do that, both in the capacity of an actor and as founder of 2D Entertainment, poring over scripts every day, in pursuit of the next big-something. It was one such script — that of screenwriter-filmmaker TJ Gnanavel’s Jai Bhim — which caught Suriya’s eye in late 2019. “He is someone I have been associated with for 20 years, from when I met him as a student journalist decades ago. Even back then, his writing instantly captivated me, and our friendship and professional relationship have only grown with time.” The duo constantly spends time discussing things, and also set up the Agaram Foundation, the actor’s educational initiative. But now, the two friends join hands for what is, unequivocally, their first love: cinema. Based on true events that happened in 1990s Tamil Nadu, Jai Bhim follows the harrowing circumstances a tribal couple faces when the husband is arrested on false charges, and later goes missing from police custody. Against the odds, his wife turns to a senior advocate named Chandru who takes it upon himself to fight for their cause. Films meet social justice The role of the advocate that Suriya essays is inspired from real-life Justice K Chandru, a judge of the Madras High Court, who delivered several judgments that had a social impact, before his retirement in 2013. “The script immediately fascinated me, and I was sold once I heard the narration. Gnanavel spent several weeks interacting with Chandru sir, making him relive his memories of this particular case, the controversy it caused, and figuring out how to adapt it into a feature. He really did change history, you know? We watch films and wonder if such events could transpire in reality, but Jai Bhim is the other way round. The actual incident is so intense… so dramatic, that we couldn’t do justice to it in the film,” recalls Suriya.  Jai Bhim also joins a burgeoning list of star-fronted courtroom dramas, a genre that has seen a welcome revival in Tamil cinema in recent years, with the likes of Nerkonda Paarvai and 2D’s own production Ponmagal Vandhal , which starred Jyotika. It is also Suriya’s first stab at playing a lawyer after 25 years in the industry, something he terms an “overwhelming experience”. “We have had such wonderful depictions of courtroom dramas over the years. However, for Jai Bhim , I honestly needed no such reference from movies; that is how unpredictable and riveting Chandru sir’s life is. His story of how an activist became a lawyer lends itself to not just a film, but even a television series,” he muses, thoughtfully. Though the 46-year-old has actively raised his voice over social issues in the past, Jai Bhim is a marked departure from the actor’s recent on-screen commercial offerings. With his upcoming project — director Vetri Maaran’s Vaadivaasal — based on a novel centred on jallikattu, the star seems to be taking movies that help him serve a larger purpose. “I mean, why not? I have been a goodwill ambassador for several causes I believe in,” says Suriya. He adds, “Such associations have sensitised me largely and made me empathise with everything happening around us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/law-and-behold/article37203775.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A beginner’s guide to birding||Two weeks ago, Umesh Mani and his friend Srinivas Daripineni drove to the backwaters of Muttukadu, hoping to catch sight of some of the usual birds that migrate there each winter. What they saw instead was a broad-billed sandpiper, a bird that hardly ever visits this particular coastline. “Ours must have been the third or fourth sighting in 30 years,” says Mani, adding, “We got to see it for only about 15 seconds before it took off.” There is no doubt about the sighting though, since the duo managed to take some record shots within those few seconds. And though those photos are not sharp enough to be shown off on social media, they are distinct enough to document, for posterity, the bird’s unusual visit. Chance observations — and even common sightings — by birders like these go a long way in our understanding of the natural world, if uploaded to citizen science platforms diligently. Because, as naturalist M Yuvan points out, field researchers and experts cannot possibly be at all points of the planet at all times. He gives an example: “The black kite has a very complex migration pattern and flight path, across many countries. It was fully understood only because of multiple sightings reported on the online birding platform eBird, from different places at different times.” No one person could have traced it. So if you, dear reader, are planning to pick up your binoculars and give birdwatching a try, you might just be contributing to a greater process. The activity can be fun, insightful and educational, provided it is done right. For starters, one has to know where to go. Says Yuvan, “There are three kinds of habitats, each of which attracts different kinds of birds. The first is shrubs and grasslands, which is where you can find a lot of harriers and larks. The second is wetlands — these can be freshwater or coastal. Freshwater wetlands, like Pallikarnai and Perumbakkam, are where you get large flocks of grey-headed lapwing and other such birds. Coastal wetlands are where you can find waders, like the sand plover. And then you have forest birds — that go for spaces with good tree cover, even children’s parks — like the pied crested cuckoo and orange-headed thrush. The latter is a resident bird, proof of the fact that one does not need to wait for winter migrants to enjoy birding (though the extra guests do make it exciting). A small bird with vibrant colouring, it is being increasingly spotted now at Semmozhi Poonga and Anna Nagar Tower Park, informs Yuvan. “The Tower Park is also where cuckoos and forest wagtails are being sighted. Pittas are also being spotted at Semmozhi Poonga and Anna Nagar Tower Park,” Yuvan adds. Pittas, particularly, are migratory birds that cross long distances and are prone to exhaustion. Reports of them crash-landing in Chennai balconies abound already, and the best thing to do is leave them be in peace so they have time to revive. Interestingly, Pitta habitats include something most gardens used to have in plenty, before the era of manicured lawns. “They like undergrowth and leaf litter. Piles of leaves used to be common in parks and gardens. But now, everyone sweeps them away to look tidy,” muses Yuvan. When and how Knowing where to go and what to look for is not enough. As birder Sriram Chatty states, if you plan to have a comfortable breakfast and then head out birding on a sunny Sunday, you are not likely to see much. “Golden hour of the morning [the first hour after sunrise, birders’ favourite time of day] is the best time to see birds; so are the last 20 minutes before sunset,” he says. Keep safety in mind: birding often involves uneven terrain and remote spaces. “Go in groups of three or four, and wear covered clothing,” advises Mani. He continues, for the birds’ sake, “Make sure your clothes are earthy colours, not bright. And remember that birds are alert and jittery, especially when on the edge of water and land. Don’t take more than a few short, quiet steps at a time and don’t startle them. It is best if you stay still where you are for a while, so that the birds get used to your presence and go about their business.” All in a day’s drive Sriram points out that there are a number of wooded areas a few hours’ drive from Chennai, near Siruseri that have good scope for birdwatching. “If you head from Vandalur towards Thiruporur, there are reserved forests in a 19-kilometre stretch, between Thiruporur junction and Chengalpattu. They have plenty of peafowl. To see them fly is quite fantastic.”  Top of the list Pallikarnai marshlands Perumbakkam marshlands Muttukadu backwaters Kelambakkam backwaters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-beginners-guide-to-birding/article37203723.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The empire writes back||In the vast tree-dotted campus of St Andrew’s Church (the Kirk), where for nearly 150 years many Scotsmen who made up the rank and file of the East India Company worshipped, stands an old hall now in ruins. Under its shadow, where 30-year-old journalist-writer Thomas Manuel is being photographed, two worlds mingle — the long-forgotten glory days of the British Raj and a book on how a drug built the empire on which the sun never set. Thomas’ first book Opium Inc. – How A Global Drug Trade Funded The British Empire , published by Harper Collins, was written over the course of the pandemic. “For nearly 100 years, the British knew that the drug was dangerous but continued to trade in it. The story of opium trade is not just about narcotics that were stored in chests and shipped. It is about how that trade shaped the world we live in. Its legacy in India, whether the poverty of Bihar or the wealth of Bombay, is still not acknowledged; the story is one of immense pain for many and huge privileges for a few,” says Thomas, who, in 2016, was the winner of The Hindu Playwright Award for his script Hamlet and Angad . A glut of literature has been written on how infuriated merchants in London founded the East India Company (EIC) when the Dutch who controlled the spice trade increased by five shillings the price of a pound of pepper. By the 19th Century, when opium made its appearance on the global stage as a commodity, Britain had moved from commerce to conquest, its scarlet stains spreading across the world map, marking the extent of its empire. While the empire is no longer a hallmark of British identity, the world still moves to the tidal shifts of its colonial policy. Global saga It is this — how the EIC took opium from India to China, tea from China to Britain and brought colonial rule from Britain to India — that Thomas examines in his book, traversing continents and time frames in a matter of 250-odd pages. Thomas embarks on a historian’s journey, without maps, piecing together a jigsaw from reading and reconstruction. “I was raised in Chennai in a family of chartered accountants. I joined the family firm after school and graduated in Commerce via correspondence. Three years later, I decided to become a freelance journalist.” As a journalist, most of his incisive articles are on history, science, art and education, written without being weighed down by a formal degree. His article on Jamsetjee Jeejeebhoy, the opium trader from Bombay who became one of India’s richest men and founded iconic institutions such as the JJ School of Art and JJ Hospital, set him on the road to Opium Inc . But before that, came India Ink, a public history forum that Thomas runs along with Viswak P, a journalist, and Shireen Azam who ran the Economic & Political Weekly ’s digital initiative. “We do two things — take an academic paper, simplify it and retell it for a larger audience with a focus on political issues, and write on how history can educate the political debates we are having today. We also make animated whiteboard-style videos with narration for YouTube on social history, caste, class and gender,” says Thomas, adding, “We rectify misinformation that may spread through WhatsApp and communicate, especially to a younger audience, what is widely agreed on by academicians across the world. There may be disagreement among them, but there is also a very clear majority opinion.” “I prefer to tell stories peopled with various characters, multiple locations and interesting angles,” says Thomas who is keen on writing a book on ancient Indian scientific discoveries next. Thomas writes the story of opium with a capacious sweep of history, beginning with the Greeks, travelling with the Safavids of Iran and the Mughals; the contention for dominion of trade by the European colonial powers with Asia as their battleground; the forays into Canton and the Malwa plateau and the tragedy of child labour. Opium Wars; the anti-crusaders in both China and India and their place in our Freedom Struggle; slavery; opium’s influence on the Romantic poets; the war on drugs today; India’s own struggle with addiction in states such as Punjab, and the need to examine the drug’s place in our folk medicine, medical and justice systems are also explored.   Built on a foundation of academic articles, books and a 500 words-a-day schedule, Opium Inc is a reminder of how even as imperial nostalgia is dying, its impact still resonates around the globe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-empire-writes-back/article37203739.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Strategy, skill and precision||The court is silent as Sachin Chamaria eyes a singular white ball — the jack — resting in front of him. The 30-year-old wheelchair-bound paraplegic athlete studies the distance from the ball and the angle it is at, before sliding his red ball on a ramp. It rolls over and stops right next to the jack. This is the game of boccia (pronounced baw-cha), a paralympic sport slowly gaining popularity in India since 2017. Played specifically by wheelchair-bound athletes, the target of the sport is to get your balls as close as possible to the jack. Along with goalball, boccia is one of the only two sports to not have an equivalent in the Olympics. None of this Sachin knew until March 2021, when his physical therapist introduced him to Jaspreet Singh Dhaliwal, founder of Para Boccia Sports Welfare Society, India’s governing body for boccia. It was barely a week later that Sachin contested at the fifth boccia national championship in Visakhapatnam. And still, to his pleasant surprise, he ended up winning the gold medal in the BC3 category, defeating 15 other players, some of them seasoned. Seven months into the sport, he has taken to it and how — he will now be representing India at the Fazza Dubai 2021 World Boccia Asia-Oceania Regional Championships, in November. “Boccia is a game of strategy as much as skill,” says Sachin, who also enjoys playing chess. “You have to choose a strategy for each shot. You have to choose what kind of ball to play, what height and angle to throw it from — there are hard balls and soft balls; and if you land a soft ball close to the jack, it won’t be displaced easily by another ball as it absorbs pressure and won’t roll down too far, for example. All this, you have to strategise and do within six minutes,” he says. Before a road accident left Sachin a quadraplegic at the age of 17, he was a National-level taekwondo champion, representing India at international events. He now trades stocks under his company Growealth Capital, but his dream of being an international athlete is still alive. In 2015 and 2016, he played sports such as club throw and discus throw. “But after a year and a half of practice, I realised that I wouldn’t be able to make it to the Paralympics this way,” he admits. Now with boccia, he stands a good chance; a win at the Dubai championship will open doors for the World Boccia Open Tournament in Brazil, which will lead the way to the Para Asian Games in China, which will help him qualify for Paralympics 2024. Accompanying him in Dubai will be three other players, including athlete Ajeya Raj from Jharkhand for whom it will be familiar ground. The contingent was selected at a seven-day national camp in Solan, Himachal Pradesh ,where they practised at a special court made at the Indian Association of Muscular Dystrophy Centre. There are currently about 60 to 70 boccia players, but Sachin reckons there could have been over a 100 if the pandemic hadn’t slowed things down. “Still,” he says, “in India there are hardly any dedicated boccia courts, there is one in Solan and the other in Bengaluru.” A plea for support To train for Dubai, Sachin had help from a Delhi school in Punjabi Bagh, which opened up its premises for the construction of a boccia court. Equipment such as ramps, balls, hand pointers, head pointers (tools for holding the ball, needed by people with disabilities) are also quite expensive and not easily available, he says. The ramp alone costs up to three lakh rupees. “I am able to play the game because I was lucky enough to be born into a family that can afford the cost of the sport. What about people from lower income groups, will they pay for their medical bills or for buying equipment?” he asks, emphasising the need for Government infrastructure and support. India currently takes part in nine of the 22 Paralympic sports, and yet it had a good run this year, earning 19 medals in total. “Given that boccia has four categories in individual or teams, training boccia players gives us the chance to bring 48 medals home,” he points out. For now, Sachin’s dream is singular: to represent India at the Paralympics, and Dubai is his first step in that journey.  Know the sport   Boccia athletes are divided in four groups – BC 1 to BC 4 – depending on their disability.  BC 1 players throw with their hand or foot and can also compete with an assistant.  BC 2 players throw with their hand but are not allowed to have an assistant.  BC 3 players are the ones with the most severe impairments because they are unable to use their hands or feet to throw the ball. They use a pointer and a ramp.  BC 4 athletes are those with impairments of non-cerebral origin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/strategy-skill-and-precision/article37203759.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The art of translation||During a trip to her parents’ home in Thiruvananthapuram, Ministhy S read VJ James’ debut novel Purappadinte Pusthakam and was bowled over by its gentle and insightful narrative. Noticing the author’s email address in the book, Ministhy, an IAS officer in Uttar Pradesh, reached out to him to seek permission to translate it into English. “That was his first book I translated in 2018. But it stayed on my computer. In 2019, I picked up more of his books in Kerala and ended up translating Dathapaharam, Nireeshwaran and Anti-Clock ,” she says. Now, her translation of Anti-Clock, as well as Fathima EV’s and Nandakumar K’s translation of M Mukundan’s Delhi: A Soliloquy are on the shortlist of the JCB Prize for Literature 2021. In the case of Delhi: A Soliloquy , Mukundan had suggested that Fathima translate his novel into English. Explaining why, he says: “We write in isolation; we are not part of mainstream Indian literature. Although I have been writing since the Seventies, readers who don’t read Malayalam would have never heard of me.” Brilliant writers in regional languages are often circumscribed by the language they chose to write in. But leading publishers’ interest in translations might change that, asserts Mukundan. “It will give many writers a wide exposure and readership,” he says. Instituted in 2018, the annual JCB literary award celebrates distinguished works of fiction or translated fiction by an Indian writer. In 2019, Malayalam author Benyamin won it for Jasmine Days, and in 2020 S Hareesh for Moustache . This, says Benyamin, gave him access to an international readership and invitations to prestigious literary festivals in India and abroad.  Translators get their due Historian, academic and translator J Devika says there is a huge readership for translations of Malayalam books as there is a large expatriate crowd who may not be able to read the language but are eager to read books by authors from their home state. “As a historian and translator, I want to capture that literary moment in history for my readers. I became a translator because I believe works in Malayalam needed to be read and appreciated by a large audience. Many authors today write about regional stories in Kerala in a dialect that is unique to that place,” says Devika, who has translated the novels of KR Meera and Unni R. She adds, “A good translator has to identify that place and dialect for a reader. The translator should not flatten the language into standard English, she should let the author’s voice be heard.” Ministhy says that translating a dialect or a nuanced word is not easy. She elaborates: “For instance, there are different kinds of sadness and when an author means despondent or distraught the translator has to find the precise word to do justice to the original work. Then there are certain words in Malayalam that do not have an equivalent in English. To ensure that I have communicated what the writer intended, I have a constant conversation with the writer.” Taking cognisance of the translators’ work, Mukundan explains that what is done now is transcreation and not mere translation. “Many years ago, there was a lot of attention on the language, grammar and syntax. In the process, the mood and structure of the novel often got lost. But now, translators are able to recreate the ambience, narrative and architecture of a novel,” he says. There is an active and symbiotic interaction between author and translator that ensures that the novel is not lost in translation. Readers beyond borders Celebrity authors like Meera, Benyamin, Mukundan, James, Hareesh and Unni have gone on to win readers beyond Malayalam with fine translations of their works. “Malayalam books have a pan-India appeal as a result of such translations. My stories and characters are rooted in Kerala but their predicaments, emotions and challenges are universal,” says Hareesh, many of whose works are already being translated. Mini Krishnan, who has worked as Translations Editor with Oxford University Press, had given a boost to translations from Malayalam like never before. Looking at the trend from the angle of a publisher, she explains, “With great inventiveness and energy, Malayalam writers have seen patterns in linking the personal, political and the universal in their stories. That has caught the imagination of the readers.” Mini adds, “The writers are articulate and able to connect with the reading public at literary festivals, YouTube talks and discussions. They have more visibility and the subjects they take up strike a chord with readers. They have highly individualised styles. It is also true that the translators are now bolder and willing to take risks.” Fathima maintains that present-day writers are aware of the politics of translation. “We stand on the shoulders of translators like Gita Krishnankutty, Prema Jayakumar and Catherine Thankamma,” she says, adding “They have shown us the path.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-art-of-translation/article37203771.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Sound of the soil||Music composerD Immanis facing his biggest test yet. This Deepavali, he will know the result. After almost two decades in the industry and a career that has seen many ups and downs, the composer has done something that he always craved for: scoring for a Rajinikanth film. Annaatthe , releasing in theatres next week, puts the Superstar in a rural backdrop, a milieu very familiar to Imman. For Imman, it is a setting he is most comfortable with, having worked on several superhit rural dramas in the last decade. “I have been typecast that way,” he admits candidly in a telephonic chat, “However, I choose to look at its positive side: whenever a script has a rural setting, the makers approach me for music. They believe that I have it in me to pull it off. It is the reason I got Ajith’s Viswasam . It is why Annaatthe happened.” Expectations are sky high on this Siva-directed film that boasts a stellar cast including Rajinikanth, Nayanthara, Keerthy Suresh,Khushbuand Meena, but Imman plays down the pressure. “In my work order, this is just another film; it is not that I put in more effort than I normally would. I have worked keeping in mind the requirements of the film. Having said that, the fact that it presented an opportunity to work with Rajinikanth, an actor I have adored only from afar till now, gives me immense happiness.” He cannot elaborate on the film, but Imman promises that it will bring back the Rajinikanth fans grew up whistling for. “It has been a long while since Rajini played a villager; this film will re-create the magic that films like Padayappa and Arunachalam had. It will be high on emotions as well. We have made Rajini a style icon, but he is an outstanding actor as well, and Annattthe will tap into that, while retaining the style elements.” There is excitement in his voice as he speaks about the musical journey of the film, which kickstarted in 2019 when the team sat down to conceptualise the “intro song”, one of the most popular aspects of any Rajinikanth-starrer. Music for all With SP Balasubrahmanyam roped in to deliver the number, Imman had to bring his A-game to the table. So, what inspired him to bring the energy to such a number? “His earlier intro songs,” Imman says candidly, “We might be film technicians, but we have all been fans. I have grown up watching Rajini introduction songs, and wanted to do something like that. The only challenge was to create something that appeals to all age groups. The point of Annaatthe is to not show Rajini in a new way, but rather, to show him in a manner we all loved during the Nineties.” The intro song and the Sid Sriram-Shreya Ghoshalmelody might be big-ticket numbers, but there is another special number, ‘Vaa Saamy’, sung by Mukesh Mohamed and visually-impaired musicians Nochipatti Thirumoorthi and Keezhakarai Samsutheen. Imman is one of the few composers who gives opportunities to many talents, especially those from the less privileged sections of society. “I strongly believe in spreading positivity with my work. There are so many outstanding musical talents in rural Tamil Nadu who just go about their lives without marketing themselves. I try to seek them out. I believe that their lives will change due to that one song; they will gain respect in society.” Despite working in similar musical territory, Imman tries to differentiate himself. Unlike other composers who draw Western references, Imman’s references are his own work. “When we made ‘Kannana Kanne…’ ( Viswasam ), ‘Kannama…’ ( Rekka ) was the reference. Once ‘Kannana Kanne…’ was a hit, director Pandiraj came along and said he wanted a brother-sister song on similar lines, and so ‘Un Koodave Porakanum…’ ( Namma Veetu Pillai ) happened. The underlying emotion behind all these songs is the same, but I try working out with different ragas and coming up with new tunes.” The many rural-based scripts he gets does not bother him. Imman points out to the rural backdrop that dominated Tamil cinema in the ‘80s, when Ilaiyaraaja ruled the roost. “He was the biggest composer then, but he still showcased variety in that. I am trying to do that too.” Fans tell him that his songs have manvasanai (scent of the soil) . “ And that, for me, is enough gratification….”  The point of Annaatthe is to not show Rajini in a new way, but rather, to show him in a manner we all loved during the Nineties||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sound-of-the-soil/article37203778.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Sethu Foundation (T Nagar)||Sethu Foundation, a Chennai-based not-for-profit organisation, has come together with GRT Grand this year, to fundraise via Deepavali hampers. The hampers they offer come with a choice of sweets and savouries, and a part of the proceeds from their sale will be contributed towards various developmental programmes — such as its Chetna programme, under which the foundation teaches 500 children creative arts and crafts, spoken English, handwriting, and more. There are two different hampers, premium and traditional. The premium one costs Rs. 2,500 and comes with one kilogram of assorted baklava sweets such as kunafa and rose burfi as well as French macroons and a kilogram of South Indian savouries such as mixture, butter murukku and ribbon pakoda. The traditional hamper costs Rs. 1,750 for a one-kilogram assortment of Mysorepak, ladoo, badusha and cashew cake, and one kilogram of traditional savouries. While Sethu Foundation has curated the savouries and sweets, GRT has put together the baklava hamper. At GRT Grand, T Nagar. 9884307150.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sethu-foundation-t-nagar/article37203750.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A voice for the world||On December 12 last year, when Superstar Rajinikanth wanted to tweet about his political entry, he was unsure about how to phrase it. From the sets of Annaatthe , which he was shooting for at that time, he sent a voice note to his daughter, Soundarya Rajinikanth. She heard the recording with interest. It was a voice she had heard since childhood, but that particular recording sparked a business idea: of a voice-based social media platform. Subsequently, she discussed the concept with a friend (Sunny Pokala of Amptech Technologies) to set up the technological background for it. Today, the duo’s brainchild, called Hoote, is available in 15 native Indian languages and 10 international languages. Users can post 60-second live voice recordings or upload a recorded voice on the app. Rajinikanth posted the first audio message on the platform from Delhi, where he recently received the Dadasaheb Phalke Award. “I am convinced that voice is the future of communication,” said Soundarya, during the recent launch event, “With voice notes, one can deliver critical messages and communicate clearly.” Adds Sunny, who has earlier worked on mobile citizen safety application Kavalan, “Hoote will make all voices, from celebrities to common people, heard. It is relevant in today’s times when people want to be connected all the time, and yet want to reduce screen time.” Soundarya, who entered the film industry as a graphic designer, went on to direct two Tamil films: the 2014 animated film Kochadaiyaan , starring Rajinikanth, and the 2017 film Vellailla Pattadhari 2 , starring Dhanush and Kajol. With Hoote, she hopes to explores new pastures. The team also hopes to partner with music labels to bring out audio teasers for films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-voice-for-the-world/article37203763.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A pinch of history||Two years, around hundred villages and over 250 photographs. This is all it took photographer Anuj Ambalal to retrace the steps of Mahatma Gandhi on his march to the coastal town Dandi, 90 years later. Be it the spot where Gandhi wrote his famous letter to the Viceroy Lord Irwin where now stands his framed photograph on a charpoy; or the hallowed halls of the room he stayed in, when he passed by Boriavi, that now looks desolate — vignettes of the pit stops and how they look today form the core of the photobook, 23 Grams of Salt . Last week, at Amethyst’s quaint exhibition space, The Folly, a tightly-knit group were in conversation over the same photographs projected on screen. In 23 Grams of Salt , Anuj takes us through the sites of the Dandi March to create a visual narrative, peppered with historical anecdotes, along with his own experiences and observations on the trail. “The whole objective of the book is to take a viewer on the trail of this march. The text also tells us what Gandhi was actually trying to do. The march was not exactly about gaining independence, but has layers to it. It was also about bringing a social revolution, and demonstrating what a free India of his dreams could be,” says Anuj. The idea of Gandhi Its inception essentially started from a stray word written in Anuj’s journal: Gandhi. His search for the reason behind this ‘note’ led him to the personality. “Having been born and raised in Ahmedabad, I have heard about Gandhi from many. And, even in my own family, stories of Gandhi were discussed in our living room; our grandparents used to tell us tales,” he says, adding that the fact that every generation takes aspects of Gandhi that are relatable to them, piqued his interest. “Still this man doesn’t lose his relevance.” Gandhi’s refined sense of aesthetics further drew the artist in Anuj to his persona. He was a minimalist, and the Sabarmati Ashram and its architecture, is testament to the same. “The more I researched to locate and identify the spots, the more intrigued I got. I kept coming across interesting historical anecdotes including leaders meeting Gandhi along the way to discuss issues of national importance. I was very curious about where these meets happened, how they look now and how the people of that place are like, today,” says Anuj, who, during the course of his research, had also reached out to Thomas Weber, who wrote On the Salt March and many other books on Gandhian philosophy. His journey was not devoid of eye opening incidents and people. One of the anecdotes that stayed with him comes from Kapletha in Surat. “The marchers were supposed to cross the river on foot. However, on that fateful day, the currents were strong and they couldn’t walk past it. To avoid delays, the villagers rode their carts into the river, arranged them in a line, and created a cart bridge. The marchers including Gandhi hopped from one cart to another and crossed the river. When I read about this, I had the visual of this 61-year-old man hopping from one cart to the other in my mind, and it was quite something.” Inspiring thought Over the years, the idea of Gandhi and the way we look at this personality have evolved over time. How does 23 Grams of Salt contribute to such conversations? “It is important for people of all generations to initiate dialogues. And this is what this book is essentially going to do. There has to be debates about what Gandhi means today, and one doesn’t need to agree to everything. But these debates have to happen. And Gandhi as an idea itself is so strong that it will continue to provoke artists, academicians, and thinkers in different ways.”  In the book , Anuj Ambalal takes us through the sites of the Dandi March to create a visual narrative, peppered with historical anecdotes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-pinch-of-history/article37203731.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A safe Deepavali for your pets||Ensure your pets are indoor in a familiar space, or in a restricted space away from loud noises. Pets have a heightened sense of hearing, so be sure to close all doors and windows when it gets very noisy outside. You may also try using pillows and blankets to help reduce the impact of loud sounds and vibrations, or switching on calming music or the television to provide a distraction. Several pets usually go missing during Deepavali. Ensure that your pets are wearing collars and identification tags around their necks with important information such as a family member’s contact number, in the event that they go missing. If you have stray animals around, let them hide under cars, makeshift shelters or in other covered spaces. Never burst crackers near or in front of an animal. Ensure that your pet has access to adequate food and water to make them feel comfortable. You may also do this for stray animals you feed, or those that take shelter in your homes or spaces. Avoid taking dogs out for walks during Deepavali, especially in the evening and in crowded areas. If you are choosing to burst crackers, use crackers that are within permissible decibel limits. Ensure that burnt crackers are not lying on the ground or on the streets. Animals and birds may step on them or ingest them, which will be injurious to their health. Check on your pets from time to time to ensure that they do not feel deserted. Be around to comfort them and let them know you are with them. Consult a qualified veterinarian prior to Deepavali in case your pet needs anti-anxiety medication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-safe-deepavali-for-your-pets/article37203736.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||My kolam goes with my sari||Colour fills the residence of Mumbai-based Usha Kunisetty, especially during Navaratri season. This year, Usha’s pictures created a flutter on social media and WhatsApp groups; for, her kolam designs during the nine days of the festival season exactly matched the sarees she wore. So much so you could not tell them apart. The idea hit the 46-year-old one day during the preparation to the festive season. “In Bombay, there’s a tradition of wearing nine colours for each of the nine days of Navratri. I always do that. This year, I was mulling about something else that would stand out, which is when I came up with this concept: of matching my saree with the kolam.” Usha was convinced about the novelty in the concept, but what she was not expecting was the response it has received. “I shared it with a few friends, who in turn shared it on social media. I didn’t realise it going viral till I received the photos myself, from someone in Dubai!” Her connection with the art form of decorating the floor started when she was a child; back then, she would indulge in ‘muku’, as the art was called back in her hometown (Vijayawada) in Andhra Pradesh. “In our native place, it was mandatory for all households to decorate their entrances with a ‘muku’. My sister and I used to make festive kolams, especially during the month of dhanur , and competed with the rest of the teens in our street.” Usha’s childhood memories are of a time when she created art on mud flooring. Once she relocated to Mumbai, her connection with the artform was put on pause. A chance visit to a workshop held by artist Hema Kannan re-ignited her love for kolams. “It was only after that did I realise the uniqueness of an artform that I had originally thought of as just an everyday ritual.” Since then, she has kept her connection intact and experiments with design, especially during festivals. She also tries her hand at special designs for occasions such as Mothers’ Day and Doctors’ Day. “I love explaining the stories behind my designs to children,” she says. Currently elated with the response to her latest concept, Usha is planning more unique projects with the art form. According to her, the biggest learning has been ‘patience’. “Even a single error means that I have to start all over again. The process is meditative,” she says. Then adds, “Any other art form can be preserved but I know that however grand a kolam I draw one day, I’ll have to erase it the next morning.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/my-kolam-goes-with-my-sari/article37203761.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The art of translation||During a trip to her parents’ home in Thiruvananthapuram, Ministhy S. read V.J. James’ debut novel Purappadinte Pusthakam and was bowled over by its gentle and insightful narrative. Noticing the author’s email address in the book, Ministhy, an IAS officer in Uttar Pradesh, reached out to him to seek permission to translate it into English. “That was his first book I translated in 2018. But it stayed on my computer. In 2019, I picked up more of his books in Kerala and ended up translating Dathapaharam, Nireeshwaran and Anti-Clock ,” she says. Now, her translation of Anti-Clock, as well as Fathima E.V.’s and Nandakumar K.’s translation of M. Mukundan’s Delhi: A Soliloquy are on the shortlist of the JCB Prize for Literature 2021. In the case of Delhi: A Soliloquy , Mukundan had suggested that Fathima translate his novel into English. Explaining why, he says: “We write in isolation; we are not part of mainstream Indian literature. Although I have been writing since the Seventies, readers who don’t read Malayalam would have never heard of me.” Brilliant writers in regional languages are often circumscribed by the language they chose to write in. But leading publishers’ interest in translations might change that, asserts Mukundan. “It will give many writers a wide exposure and readership,” he says. Instituted in 2018, the annual JCB literary award celebrates distinguished works of fiction or translated fiction by an Indian writer. In 2019, Malayalam author Benyamin won it for Jasmine Days, and in 2020 S. Hareesh for Moustache . This, says Benyamin, gave him access to an international readership and invitations to prestigious literary festivals in India and abroad. Translators get their due Historian, academic and translator J. Devika says there is a huge readership for translations of Malayalam books as there is a large expatriate crowd who may not be able to read the language but are eager to read books by authors from their home State. “As a historian and translator, I want to capture that literary moment in history for my readers. I became a translator because I believe works in Malayalam needed to be read and appreciated by a large audience. Many authors today write about regional stories in Kerala in a dialect that is unique to that place,” says Devika, who has translated the novels of K.R. Meera and Unni R. She adds, “A good translator has to identify that place and dialect for a reader. The translator should not flatten the language into standard English, she should let the author’s voice be heard.” Ministhy says that translating a dialect or a nuanced word is not easy. She elaborates: “For instance, there are different kinds of sadness and when an author means despondent or distraught the translator has to find the precise word to do justice to the original work. Then there are certain words in Malayalam that do not have an equivalent in English. To ensure that I have communicated what the writer intended, I have a constant conversation with the writer.” Taking cognisance of the translators’ work, Mukundan explains that what is done now is transcreation and not mere translation. “Many years ago, there was a lot of attention on the language, grammar and syntax. In the process, the mood and structure of the novel often got lost. But now, translators are able to recreate the ambience, narrative and architecture of a novel,” he says. There is an active and symbiotic interaction between author and translator that ensures that the novel is not lost in translation. Readers beyond borders Celebrity authors like Meera, Benyamin, Mukundan, James, Hareesh and Unni have gone on to win readers beyond Malayalam with fine translations of their works. “Malayalam books have a pan-India appeal as a result of such translations. My stories and characters are rooted in Kerala but their predicaments, emotions and challenges are universal,” says Hareesh, many of whose works are already being translated. Mini Krishnan, who has worked as Translations Editor with Oxford University Press, had given a boost to translations from Malayalam like never before. Looking at the trend from the angle of a publisher, she explains, “With great inventiveness and energy, Malayalam writers have seen patterns in linking the personal, political and the universal in their stories. That has caught the imagination of the readers.” Mini adds, “The writers are articulate and able to connect with the reading public at literary festivals, YouTube talks and discussions. They have more visibility and the subjects they take up strike a chord with readers. They have highly individualised styles. It is also true that the translators are now bolder and willing to take risks.” Fathima maintains that present-day writers are aware of the politics of translation. “We stand on the shoulders of translators like Gita Krishnankutty, Prema Jayakumar and Catherine Thankamma,” she says, adding “They have shown us the path.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-art-of-translation/article37204335.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A voice for the world||On December 12 last year, when actor Rajinikanth wanted to tweet about his political entry, he was unsure about how to phrase it. From the sets of Annaatthe , which he was shooting for at that time, he sent a voice note to his daughter, Soundarya Rajinikanth. She heard the recording with interest. It was a voice she had heard since childhood, but that particular recording sparked a business idea: of a voice-based social media platform. Subsequently, she discussed the concept with a friend (Sunny Pokala of Amptech Technologies) to set up the technological background for it. Today, the duo’s brainchild, Hoote, is available in 15 native Indian languages and 10 international languages. Users can post 60-second live voice recordings or upload a recorded voice on the app. Rajinikanth posted the first audio message on the platform from Delhi, where he recently received the Dadasaheb Phalke Award. “I am convinced that voice is the future of communication,” said Soundarya, during the recent launch event, “with voice notes, one can deliver critical messages and communicate clearly.” “Hoot is the sound an owl makes,” explained Soundarya, when she was questioned on the origin of the name, “and the white owl symbolises wisdom so there we had it.” Elaborating on why an audio based platform was necessary, Soundarya expressed how she was from an arts background and had grown up listening to one of the most powerful voices onscreen and offscreen. “Everybody deserves to be heard, in every language,” she says.  Sunny says, “India was called the golden bird and today, we are the technology bird of the world, so I believe that with this app, we are pretty close to being on the top again.” Sunny, who has earlier worked on mobile citizen safety application Kavalan, adds, “Hoote will make all voices, from celebrities to common people, heard. It is relevant in today’s times when people want to be connected all the time, and yet want to reduce screen time.” Soundarya, who entered the film industry as a graphic designer, went on to direct two Tamil films: the 2014 animated film Kochadaiyaan , starring Rajinikanth, and the 2017 film Vellailla Pattadhari 2 , starring Dhanush and Kajol. With Hoote, she hopes to explores new pastures. The team also hopes to partner with music labels to bring out audio teasers for films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-voice-for-the-world/article37204379.ece
28 October 2021||October 28 2021 00:00 IST,||My kolam goes with my sari||Colour fills the residence of Mumbai-based Usha Kunisetty, especially during Navratri season. This year, Usha’s pictures created a flutter on social media and WhatsApp groups; for, her kolam designs during the nine days of the festival season exactly matched the sarees she wore. So much so you could not tell them apart. The idea hit the 46-year-old one day during the preparation for the festive season. “In Bombay, there’s a tradition of wearing nine colours for each of the nine days of Navratri. I always do that. This year, I was mulling about something else that would stand out, which is when I came up with this concept: of matching my saree with the kolam.” Usha was convinced about the novelty of the concept, but what she was not expecting was the response it has received. “I shared it with a few friends, who in turn shared it on social media. I didn’t realise it going viral till I received the photos myself, from someone in Dubai!” Her connection with the art form of decorating the floor started when she was a child; back then, she would indulge in ‘muku’, as the art was called back in her hometown Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh. “In our native place, it was mandatory for all households to decorate their entrances with a ‘muku’. My sister and I used to make festive kolams, especially during the month of dhanur , and competed with the rest of the teens in our street.” Usha’s childhood memories are of a time when she created art on mud flooring. Once she relocated to Mumbai, her connection with the art form was put on pause. A chance visit to a workshop held by artist Hema Kannan reignited her love for kolams. “It was only after that did I realise the uniqueness of an art form that I had originally thought of as just an everyday ritual.” Since then, she has kept her connection intact and experiments with design, especially during festivals. She also tries her hand at special designs for occasions such as Mothers’ Day and Doctors’ Day. “I love explaining the stories behind my designs to children,” she says. Currently elated with the response to her latest concept, Usha is planning more unique projects with the art form. According to her, the biggest learning has been ‘patience’. “Even a single error means that I have to start all over again. The process is meditative,” she says. Usha adds, “Any other art form can be preserved, but I know that however grand a kolam I draw one day, I’ll have to erase it the next morning.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/my-kolam-goes-with-my-sari/article37204334.ece
28 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Tikait hints at support to Abhay for Ellenabad Assembly bypoll||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday exhorted the electorate in Ellenabad to ensure the victory of Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) nominee Abhay Singh Chautala in the upcoming bypoll with an even bigger margin than the previous election. Refraining from naming anyone, Mr. Tikait, through an analogy, suggested that someone had left his belongings with them and they must now return it to him with some addition. In an obvious reference to Mr. Chautala, who had resigned as Ellenabad MLA in January this year in support of farmers’ agitation, Mr. Tikait, speaking at a SKM rally in Sirsa’s Nathursari Chopta, said, “someone had left his “papers” and other belongings with us six months ago and is now seeking them back. They should return it to him with an addition. Did you get my point on not?,” His query was greeted with loud cheers from the crowd. Modi govt. flayed Mr. Tikait further alleged that the Modi government was being run by big corporates, adding that its leaders were “conspirators” and wanted to buy the sarpanches. “Now these media persons will say that I have supported someone. I have not extended support to anyone. I have only said that the BJP leaders are thugs, and return the belongings to one who left it with them. It will help keep the prestige of SKM, the Khaps and the gurudwaras intact,” said Mr. Tikait. Mr. Chautala is locked in a triangular contest with Pawan Beniwal (Congress) and Bharatiya Janta Party-Jannayak Janata Party coalition nominee Gobind Kanda in the predominantly rural Assembly constituency with three farm laws being one of the more important election issues. The voting is scheduled for October 30 and the counting of votes will be taken up on November 2. ‘Double the margin’ Later, INLD, in a press note, claimed that Mr. Tikait had made an appeal to vote for Mr. Chautala. “Actually, Mr. Tikait has made an appeal to vote in favour of INLD nominee Abhay Chautala. He made it clear that Mr. Chautala had resigned as MLA in protest against the farm laws and the time had now come to double the margin of his victory. All those present in the rally strongly supported what Mr. Tikait said,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tikait-hints-at-support-to-abhay-for-ellenabad-assembly-bypoll/article37204077.ece
28 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Rajbhar vows to make Akhilesh U.P. Chief Minister once again||OBC leader and former Minister Om Prakash Rajbhar put up a show of strength in Mau on Wednesday, where he vowed to unite voters from the OBC, Dalit and minority communities and make Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh once again. With the huge rally — Vanchit, Pichda, Dalit, Alpsankhyak Bhagidhari Mahapanchayat — the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party of Mr. Rajbhar and the SP formalised their alliance for the 2022 Assembly election. “Now no conspiracy of those who lie will work among Dalit and OBC people,” said Mr. Yadav, targeting the BJP. He was the chief guest at the event held on the 19th foundation day of the SBSP. If there was a khela hobe in West Bengal, in U.P. there would be khadeda hobe (suggesting that BJP will be chased away), both the leaders said. An alliance with the SBSP is significant for the SP as it not only helps the party bridge the gap between its core vote base of Yadav and the non-Yadav OBCs in Purvanchal, but also because Mr. Rajbhar, a former BJP ally, is vocal on issues related to the Backward Castes. On stage, both the leaders donned red topis and yellow scarves to show their coming together. By joining hands with the SP, Mr. Rajbhar had “shut the door” through which the BJP rose to power in U.P., Mr. Yadav said, referring to the BJP’s support among the most-backward castes in the last election when it allied with the SBSP. Mr. Yadav, who arrived at the rally site in Haldarpur in a helicopter, just as Mr. Rajbhar did moments before him, told voters, especially the Dalits and OBCs, it was time to “snatch back the honour” they lost under the BJP government. The SP-SBSP alliance would restore them that lost honour, he said, even as he warned people to beware of “conspiracies” that the BJP might hatch before the election to divert their attention. Speaking first at the well-attended rally, Mr. Rajbhar, an MLA from Zahoorabad in neighbouring Ghazipur, tried to woo the voters with a number of promises, including waiver of domestic power bills and implementation of the sub-categorisation of the OBC quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajbhar-vows-to-make-akhilesh-up-chief-minister-once-again/article37204075.ece
28 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi schools to open from Nov. 1||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday issued orders permitting schools to re-open for students from nursery to Class VIII after a gap of 19 months from November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-schools-to-open-from-nov-1/article37204339.ece
